

=== FILE: Having Foresight Through Genetic Testing Webinar 2024 [9ENkSMiqb-0].txt ===

 subjected to subjected to grateful. A couple of points. Although the webinar is free, if you can donate, that would be great because it will really help us continue working and continue campaigning. There will be a link at the end of this webinar. You can go straight to our website and go to the donate button at the top of the page, or you can use the link at the end of the presentation. I would be really grateful. However small the donation, it really helps us continue. About us, these are some of the things that we have that go out. We have an information pack people can purchase that has lots of information about thyroid. Our Health Unlocked Online Community is really, really helpful for a lot of people. You can get lots of questions answered. And if you're already experienced in thyroid health, you can help other people. And it's really good that we all help each other. We have social media where we put on various things to help you and some things where you can help us like buying things online and that we might get a little donation from for the company. We have a membership that allows you to have four magazines a year which has articles from various writers, including Melissa. We have an e-news that goes out when there's new things to tell you about. We work with private testing companies so that if your GP can't do particular testing for you, then if you can afford it, you can purchase your own. Melissa is a registered and degree qualified nutritional therapist and registered with the British Association of Nutritional Therapists. She's also a graduate of the Institute of Functional Medicine and a senior clinical supervisor at the College of Naturopathic Medicine where she is currently completing a diploma on naturopathic medicine. She's been practicing for over 15 years which is a really long time and integrates with a medical team that enables her to give a fully integrative approach for all her clients including prescriptive, medical, functional and nutritional medicine. Melissa has a keen interest in hormonal and mental well-being and attends numerous postgraduate courses to keep up to date with the latest scientific findings. She practices in Marilabone and St John'swood as well as over Zoom. She has a wealth of experience providing consulting services to well-being clinics and top health spas looking to set up a nutritional and functional medicine offerings in their packages as well as providing services to their clients. Melissa is able to provide testing for genetics, hormonal and mental well-being along with comprehensive stool testing for microbiome and gut health support. I really believe that the future for thyroid health is genetics and microbiome and nutrition. I always suggest people to test their vitamins and minerals because the thyroid really needs these to be able to work properly and if your gut isn't working properly that can cause issues for your thyroid as well. So I'm really pleased that Melissa is speaking for us today and she has a lot of experience in this and I'm sure it will be helpful for a lot of people. So over to you Melissa. I'm really looking forward to this. Lovely to be here and Lynn thank you for inviting me. So a little bit about me, I have contributed to Thyroid UK for quite a few years now writing different articles and I think Lynn introduced me very well. Thank you very much and more and more I'm seeing lots of clients with thyroid disorders and they're getting very fixated on their thyroid levels and iodine levels and the bigger picture as Lynn explained is not just the thyroid but it's the vitamins and the minerals and the gut and how you live your life and how you respond to stress. Blood tests are very limited so we can't test for everything. So I'm going to discuss genetics today. I believe it's a huge part of a jigsaw and it understands what makes you thrive. So we all want to thrive, we don't want to survive, we want to enjoy life and we want to be able to have the best quality life as possible. So hope you can see this slide just shout out if you can. So this is like a balancing act and it's all about making sure you know everything in moderation was what I was brought up to be told but I actually think you know if you know what to indulge in and enjoy that's better than moderating everything. So one part of the C-sauce especially for thyroid patients is consider other health markers besides the thyroid balance. Yes get your thyroid levels checked regularly but also understand what else is going on as well so it can empower you to make life changing decisions. So swapping foresight for hindsight by studying your genes. Hindsight's a wonderful thing only if we knew that at the time but with genetics now we can. I like to see the analogy is if you're driving in a car and it's all very well looking in your rear view mirror to see what you do differently but let's say for example you're driving in your car and you want to avoid the crashes in life knowing your genetics you can divert them. So that's what I'm going to explain today. So it's not just about genetics it's how you eat, how you live, how you think, how you move, how you exercise, how you sleep. So an example of that would be you could be expert, you could be genetically predisposed inflammation. Knowing that means that you can put yourself on an anti-inflammatory diet, consume certain protocols that will lower your inflammatory response. That's just a quick example but today I'm going to be looking at neurotransmitters so a lot of the time with thyroid it can impact on mood, it can impact our energy, make us feel quite low. So now we have the power to look at what our nervous system is doing. So in other words dopamine is our, we'll talk about that is our reward system, adrenaline, serotonin, garba, sleep, vitamin A and methylation are all essential for vitality, enjoyment, reward from life. So this is what I'm going to be talking through. So there's a newspaper article here from the New York Times and I loved it because it almost looks old-fashioned, it actually looks older than, it looks like say 50 years ago. So genetic code of human life is cracked by scientists and this was just under 20 years ago, just over 20 years ago. The human genome was understood so what makes us, and based on those last 20 years the scientists have been really working out okay, what makes you have blue eyes, what makes you predispose to depression, what makes you predispose to thyroid issues, what makes you predispose to low mood etc. And this is a really fascinating way to look at yourself and understand what makes you different than everybody else which is really important to be celebrated. I think years ago we all wanted to be in the same box but now we understand that there's no such thing really as in the box, maybe for a few people but the variety of differences in personality, in metabolism, in the way we think, in the way we have to thrive is so different and it's just worth celebrating. From my experience when I first started to look at genetics which was about 10 years ago, I really recognized myself and my genetics when I looked at my results and it's really enabled me to make some good lifestyle changes and nutritional changes and really made me understand me much more effectively. So the genomics is the study of DNA which is a really horrible word which means deoxyribonucleic acid. So what happens is in every DNA is your book of life. So in every cell we have chromosomes and they produce DNA and DNA code. They are basically writing our story. They code for genes and genes code for reactions in the body such as creating thyroid hormones, absorbing vitamin A, creating digestive enzymes to help us absorb dairy, to help us get vitamin D into the cell, to help us speed up detoxification. Yet sometimes our genes might be coded differently so rather than incorrectly, differently from everybody else's. So for example if my gene is coded that I'm slow at detoxifying maybe I can't get away with drinking caffeine or alcohol or possibly living in the city. If I can't move out of the city maybe I need to supplement and support my liver much more effectively. How would I know I can't detoxify effectively? Well I might be getting headaches a lot or I might be getting dry skin or dark circles under my eyes or I might get easily stimulated by eating certain foods. It's just one example. So the last 20 years, nutrigenomics has become much of a buzzword and it's all about how genes interact with the environment. What does that mean? The environment could mean nutrition, alcohol, caffeine, drugs, pharmaceutical drugs, recreational drugs, it could mean exercise, so it could mean sugar, it could mean carbohydrates, it could mean fats in our diet. So you could say why can you eat that and look like this and why can I not get away with eating what you eat and look like how I am. And that will unravel all of those factors. So the old fashioned view was I've got a slow metabolism and I'm not disputing that but knowing these facts of what you can do about it is really empowering. So we have two copies of genes which make sense because we come from mum and we come from dad. And if we have two copies of genes that are predisposing us to let's say for example elevated cholesterol we have more of a chance of getting elevated cholesterol versus one copy or we might have a normal gene, normal, I don't like to use the word, let's say a non variant gene, that means that we are not predisposed to elevated cholesterol. And 99.9% of us are the same. It's that 0, 1% difference than each other. That's what makes us unique. And I like to say that's what makes us fly, that's what gives us superpowers. We don't want to be the same. We're all in this world to achieve different mechanisms and that's what creates community. So I think it's really important to embrace our differences rather than see them as a weakness, see how we can optimize them. So I'm going to be talking now about neurotransmitters which is fascinating. So I really enjoy looking at this because sometimes we are a consequence of our neurotransmitters which are basically electric in the body and they fire into these gaps in the brain that creates reward and clarity, drive, motivation, energy and neurotransmitters are essential for influencing mood, memory, relaxation, etc. So I'm going to go through this. So the orange circle, the red circle, the dopamine is really important for reward in life. So that could be a walk in nature and seeing a butterfly and feeling completely unuttered bewilderment and happiness to somebody that just walks through nature and doesn't see the little things or doesn't get the reward from producing a really good project at work or doesn't get as much reward as they need from a loving relationship, for example. So that possibly could mean low dopamine or the opposite of that could be high dopamine where you cannot relax and almost creates a psychotic way of being. So we all need a balance of these three hormones. So I'd like to talk about adrenaline, that's the yellow in the yellow circle. Adrenaline is our fight or flight. It gets us going. So before this presentation, there was a little bit of adrenaline, there's some now because I couldn't get my presentation working. And so utilizing that adrenaline to put into my presentation for my energy, with I had very little adrenaline, I probably would be very low in resilience to stress and might not be able to perform as well due to the technical hitches that I experienced earlier. So adrenaline is really essential. As you can see on that slide, it's good for endurance, but too much adrenaline can lead to anxiety and obsession and inability to sleep. Adrenaline increases cortisol, which is our stress hormone. So if you see on the slides, I'm just going to circle here, you can see long term adrenaline equals cortisol, that equals inflammation, autoimmune and thyroid disorders. And I've done a little research on this. So cortisol can impact hyperthyroidism or hypothyroidism by different mechanisms. And then cortisol is our natural steroid in the body. And if we actually decrease our cortisol through too much activation, so too much worry, too much stress, not being able to cope with stress, this creates a fire in the body. Cortisol is an anti inflammatory modulator. So when stress goes up, when cortisol comes up, immune inflammation comes down. So what I tend to see is autoimmune disorders and very low cortisol. So really important, we can't choose our stress in life, absolutely not, but we can choose how we respond to it and we can fuel it through really good sound nutrition. Lastly, in the blue circle, we have serotonin. Serotonin is our happy hormone. It's our relaxing hormone. It helps with sleep, it helps with pleasure. And that's where a lot of the allopathic medicine comes in and antidepressants, SSRIs, serotonin reuptake inhibitors help get that serotonin into the synapse, which is a space in the brain that creates electricity, keeps electric pulsation of serotonin that keeps it in an area to keep us feeling happy. Is it as simple as that? Let's have a look. So this is a confusing pathway, admittedly, but just focus on these blue stepping stones here. These blue stepping stones get you, so this is tryptophan and tryptophan comes from turkey, chicken, banana, oats, avocado, and we need tryptophan to get us to this happy hormone, serotonin. So just focus on the blue for now and interestingly, serotonin breaks down to melatonin. Melatonin you might have heard of too. It's essential for sleep. So if we're not getting enough serotonin, we're not getting enough sleep, which makes sense. So if we're not happy, then usually we haven't disturbed sleep. So here we have a pathway moving away from all of those lovely neurotransmitters to something called chai-eronic acid. And this means this is a real-life client example and this means that you're more predisposed to not getting the serotonin and just moving away from all those lovely hormones. So that's a genetic predisposition. So in this case, this lady was on antidepressants and this is to increase the serotonin. She was on serotonin reuptake inhibitors and she has got, this is a gene here, HTR1A and this means that she's desensitized to serotonin. So it means that she's on this serotonin and it's getting into the circulatory system, but it's not getting into the cell. It's not firing because she's got the predisposition of not being sensitive towards that. So I wanted to share with you some research. So I went off and thought, well, let's look at this gene and let's look at the scientific research which is dated back to 2014. And the reason I'm sharing this with you is how powerful genetics is. Rather than relying on, this is my blood test, this is what I've been recommended, this is what I'm going to do. Sometimes the missing part is the genetics. So 2014, the scientific research concluded people with the exact same genetic variant that I've just shown you on that HTR1 gene next to serotonin are more inclined to have the following side effects when taking antidepressants, specifically serotonin reuptake inhibitors. A greater dry mouth, decreased sexual desire, more instances of diarrhea, increased duration of sleep, which you might think is a good thing, but I'm talking about huge amounts of sleep and exhaustion. And if you can imagine what that would impact, like going to bed for like 15 hours and waking up exhausted, you're going to be craving all the wrong foods and the signaling in the body would be all back to front and addictive tendencies. So this was quite empowering for my client. She took this to the doctors and they had a discussion and she's now on different medication. And interestingly, she is also hypothyroid. Okay, so moving on from that, vitamin A deficiency, is it genetic? Hugely, people who have a genetic variant, this is the gene, so don't worry too much about it, they all have funny little letters and numbers, might have up to a 70% reduction. So if you notice, if you go into the shops later, if you look in your cupboard, if you've got any multivitamins to support thyroid well-being, the highest nutrient usually is vitamin A. Why? Because vitamin A is needed for DNA replication to produce thyroid hormone, to produce the thyroid protein, thyroid globulin in your hormone. And vitamin A deficiency affects up to 30% of us worldwide. Research has found that vitamin A deficiency increases goiter, reduces iodine uptake, reduces conversion from T4 to T3, and increases inflammation such as Hashimoto's. So it's just as important as iodine. So don't be fixated on the iodine gene, not being able to iodine eyes, and don't be fixated on have I got enough iodine. Is my medication working effectively? Maybe look outside of that and look at vitamin deficiencies that actually are needed to build the thyroid, which means that you might be able to reduce your medication or let your medication work more effectively for you. And interestingly, sorry about the typos here, vitamin A is required to absorb vitamin D, magnesium, I can change these slides and send them over, is actually required to absorb vitamin D. So you need vitamin A and magnesium. So here are some of the plant-based vitamin A foods. So what does this mean practically? So the BCO1 gene means that it can't activate these beta carotene, which are almost preformed vitamin A. So what is fully formed vitamin A? Fully formed vitamin A is what the body can utilize and activate. And this is from animals. So this is from found in liver and oily fish mainly. So vitamin A is huge in the liver and huge in oily fish, little bit in nuts and seeds, but mainly you're talking about organ, meats, and oily fish. So if you're a vegetarian and a vegan, and have thyroid issues, then you may want to consider this genetic test. And I'm not saying go and eat a whole load of organ meats, but you might want to supplement with vitamin A rather than beta carotene, which is your plant-based beta carotene. And these beta carotene foods have lots of good properties, which I'm not going to discuss today, but carrots, you all know that old sort of saying carrots improve eye health. That's because of the beta carotene, but if you have this genetic variant, you have up to 70% reduction of producing that vitamin A factor. If you look at eye care products and eye supplements, they all have vitamin A, but the active vitamin A, the retinal. So you've got carrots, cantaloupe melon, apricots. If you think of oranges and yellows, you can't go wrong in topping up your beta carotene or vitamin A. If you eat meat and fish, get some organ meat once a week, some liver, and some oily fish two to three times a week. I want to just introduce you to methylation. It is quite a complicated subject, and a lot of people are more aware of methylation. Methylation for anyone scientific out there is a carbon in three hydrogens. If anybody remembers chemistry or anyone's in the scientific industry, methylation, we all methylate. If we didn't, we wouldn't be here, we wouldn't be living. But if you can imagine, it's a superhighway, that's what I like to think about, that runs through all our body systems, including hormones, the nervous system, detoxification, and cardiovascular. So to put it into context, for thyroid health, sometimes that can switch genes on and off, that makes a difference between converting to T4 to T3, clearing out hormones, producing thyroid hormones, and methylation is essential for protecting us against disease, for example. So because there's so many variables and so many genes, it really helps to understand what pathways need to support us. So this consists of the MTH of Rg, and so this is to do with folate absorption that you get from dark, green leafy vegetables. That's essential for energy, essential to prevent anemia, essential for detoxification, essential for lowering the symptoms of the diagnosis of gout, for so many mental health, and also for thyroid. So methylation is a huge genetic test run across lots of symptoms, and they're linked to Hashimoto's, low vitamin D, low energy, increased allergies, sensitivity, so I know that's me, I sneeze a lot. If I'm in the pollen, I'm in the summer, the pollen and the grass, I'm sensitive to. If I have a lot of high histamine foods, I can get headaches, I can get rashes, so knowing this, I know what to supplement myself with and what foods to increase and what foods to decrease. Also methylation can be linked to inability to clear out cholesterol, inability to absorb magnesium, and much, much, much, much more. So to wrap up, I have discussed the genes that are essential for mood and wellness, and if we're not controlling adrenaline very well, we're going to be increasing cortisol, and that's when it can impact our hormonal health. We have looked at vitamin A and how essential that is for thyroid. People with a vitamin A genetic variant have up to 70% less vitamin A, and that happens to 30% of the population, which is quite a big statistic. And then lastly, methylation, which is our superhighway that switches on and off genes and through nutrition and supplements. Really personalized supplementation where we can check the dosage will help to change the way these genes are expressed, which is really important to state. We can't change the genetics, but it's the environment. That's where you're empowered to change your environment. So breathing exercises, yoga, walking in nature, reducing that stress, changing your diet, taking some key supplements. This can be so life changing. So genetics is just a two minute cheek swab. You get the results in weeks and a couple of weeks, and what you get from myself and my team are precision nutritional support. Coaching is essential. Coaching is everything. We all know what to eat on the whole. And if I provide a report, it's crystal clear, but it's pushing ourselves out of our comfort zones to implement all these fantastic changes. So my contact details, you can find me on my website here at Melissa Cohen.com. I practice mainly in Marily Bone and St. John's Wood. You're welcome to email me and you can find me on Instagram. And I'm offering a 15% discount for all Thyroid UK members for genetic packages for the month of March. Thank you so much for listening. I can't see any of you. All I can see is my presentation. I'm happy to take some time to answer any questions. And thank you, Lynn, for inviting me. Yeah. Okay. That's an excellent question and a very appropriate question. So the deficiencies sometimes, by the time we check them, we're really deficient. So sometimes bloods especially. So the bloods manage homeostasis balance really well. So if you can imagine, for example, magnesium, most of us are women in here today and I'm assuming most of us use magnesium at some point in our lives. Magnesium is one of these minerals that are needed for hundreds of functions every second of the day. Magnesium stored in tissues and bones for bone health helps the muscles, the relaxation, the contraction, the heart. So by the time the magnesium is really low in the blood, we could be osteoporosis, losing magnesium out of the bone. We could be low in energy. So we're really in a bad state. So what genetics gives us is the foresight. So why wait for the deficiency? Let's check in on our symptoms and the symptoms are really important. So let's just say, for example, I'm living in a farm in the Mediterranean, away from pollution, and I've got some genetic variants that means that I can't detoxify very well, but my diet's really clean. Then there's no point testing for that. But let's say I have the genetic variant and I'm getting lots of headaches, which I explained before.  or, and, um, I've got gut issues and, um, I've got cognitive issues, let's say. Then I might want to check that because there's no test really that's that accurate for detoxification. Or let's say I've got low energy and low mood, the classic example that I gave you earlier, you can't really check for neurotransmitters very well. The reason being is because when you, the main check for them is through the urine. So anything through the urine looks at metabolites, which is breakdowns of nutrients. And that's just a snapshot of what's coming out of the system. You don't really know what's active, i.e. what's got into the cell or what's not. Whereas genetics gives you that broader picture of, right, this is what you're predisposed to. So for me, it's inflammation very much. I'm predisposed to inflammation. So I know that if I eat certain foods, I'll get eczema, I might get joint pain. And I don't particularly want to avoid that route or my liver needs support generally. So does that explain it? It's a very precise protocol where don't waste deficiencies. Let's work on ourselves right now. And we can't test everything. I do. And you can get a discount, I think, through Thyroid, UK, Genova. Do that. So what you would want to do, I do do that testing. But you can go through. I don't think that's the be all and end all though, if I'm honest with you. I think don't look at the IO2 Thyroid label. Look at the bigger picture. Look at what your symptoms are rather than your diagnosis. It's so important. Because that's one factor. Just to focus on T4 to T3, you know, is not everything. You want, you know, mood, energy, metabolism, skin, hair, bowel movements. Because the body works in synergy. So DIO2, I'm happily able to help you with, get the test and assess it. But you're only knowing a tiny part, T4 to T3. So yes, you have the genetic variant that you can't get the, you can't access, access the iodine to create that conversion. Also, that gene will say that you can't get T4 to convert to T3, or you might get elevated thyroid hormones in the blood. So your thyroid hormones would look good, but it won't be activated into the cell. So that's what that genetic test is telling you. So based on those results, you, what do you do? You take some T3, or you get off your medication, speak to your doctor and do an iodine test to see if your gene's expressing low iodine and supplement with iodine to see if that normalizes your thyroid. I'm generally, I think, endos don't do the DIO2, but I had somebody come to me last, this week, yesterday, to say that her endocrinologist, her NHS endocrinologist had asked her to do the test, because he felt that she needed some T3. So it seems that possibly some will do that. You need to make sure that you find an endocrinologist that will actually test the DIO2. If that's the answer to your question, is that right? Yes, yes, it does get, yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, thank you very much. Would you be so kind to provide the list? I purchased the pack a while ago with the private endocrinologist. You provided that. And I couldn't find any of these contacts to get back or to make the connection. No, we don't put that list in the information pack, because we don't actually deal with the endocrinologists themselves. No, no, no, sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry. I've said the endocrinologist, GP's. The private GP list I thought was perhaps not. If you can send an email to infoatthyroiduk.org and ask for the list, then Carol will send it to you. Yeah, lovely. Thank you for your time. Much appreciated. Thank you. I will certainly come for the test, Melissa. I will come for the test. Pleasure. Pleasure. Thank you. 100%. Yeah. So this seems to be very much located. Dopamine is our reward center. So people with low dopamine are more inclined to be addicts. And people with elevated dopamine are more inclined to be psychotic. People that have imbalanced very high, very low dopamine tend to be bipolar. So the genetic test that I did an overview of is definitely worth looking at, because it's not only serotonin, but it's dopamine as well. So sometimes it's not just the production of these neurotransmitters, but just how effectively the body is it clearing them out, because we don't want too much. So yeah, that would be a big eye opener, I think for you or any members of your family that would be able for them to understand, well, how can I support the clearance of these neurotransmitters, because I've got so much of them, I'm feeling psychotic or I'm on psychotic medication. It would certainly help. Okay. Charyoenic pathway and thyroid issues possibly because that can be linked to inflammation, which is linked to Hashimoto's. Charyoenic pathway and low mood, definitely, definitely. That's exacerbated by stress. I have a client, a few clients that have long COVID and we look at methylation. So why is it that somebody has long COVID and somebody doesn't? You know, why have you got that? So rather than look at COVID as a respiratory virus, but just look at your, how you're methylating across all the different systems. And that really helps. So rather than try and understand, well, what is the reason for that? Well, just accept that you are different. We're all different. Methylation is really important to be able to help turn genes on and off to support your immune system. The impact of long COVID is trying to do very little to get through the day and trying to make your life more full of vitality. So very much supporting your energy, your mitochondria, if that means anything to you, which is your powerhouse in your cell. And being able to support the metabolism, basically, if that happens to convert micronutrients into energy and all the cofactors that you require, methylation is essential for all of that. So the answer is, yes, the chyrenic pathway 100%. Very much if you're prone to that, stress will exacerbate that long COVID is stress. And why have you got long COVID methylation might unravel and help you get to your get to your healing much more quicker, much more quickly. I'm just going now to the chat, I think, so we can have a look at any questions within the chat. If that's okay, Melissa, we just see how many we can get through. Yeah, lots. Yeah, I'm just trying to. Are you able to insert? Yeah, sure, I'll let you speak. So Valerie is saying, I have already done a 23 and me genetic test. Are you able to interpret it for me regards nutrition advice based on those results? The answer is yes. Quick yes. Okay. The next one is which genetic test company do you recommend or use. I use life code GX. So would we, Andrea says so would we use any genetic tests and Melissa interprets them. So would you would you interpret tests from other companies I think that's what she made. Yes, of course. Of course, yeah. So LH says I agree on the DIO2. I don't have that genetic issue, but I know from a mother who died at 56 from levo and my vastly improved health from being T3 only. DIO2 is not the only issue. Annoyed me that the researchers were all ready to dive down that route as being the answer to the 15% who don't respond to T4. Couldn't agree more. LH I could not agree more. DIO2 is just part of the picture and it's such a bigger picture to do with T4 and T3. We can't just focus on thyroid. Thyroid is important, but it's the bigger picture of what makes us what makes us unique or genetics. DIO2 is just one asset. I think when we when we first saw that research we were thinking, oh, good, this is going to be great. You know, this will help a lot of people. But as time has gone on, I've realized, you know, as I said before genetics, nutrition, microbiome is actually the starting point to look at. I think we are actually going to be working with a generous on a different test and they're going to be doing all of the genetic tests. I think there's about 100 of them. They're doing something like that rather than just the DI. I think they're doing all the DIOs. So, okay, the next one. This as a vegan supplement retinal palmitate. Yes, I find it very confusing on how much is the correct amount. Currently I take 673 micrograms per day, just below the RDA of 700, because I know too much can be toxic, but it's hard to know if this is actually enough or not. What are your thoughts on this, please? My thoughts are you need a test to know for sure. I would say get a genetic profile because if you're not converting, then you might need more than the average person because you might be 70% reduced. But an optimal dose, you've got to be careful with vitamin A. But I would say you're looking at more than 700 micrograms a day. Some people are on 10,000 micrograms a day. So it all depends rather than suggest that I would say definitely get your genetics tested. Don't again just go down the BC01 route, which is the vitamin A conversion route, just like the DI02. Maybe if you can, if budget allows, do a whole genetic test of nutrition and what you need to support your thyroid being a vegan. I think that's really important. Thanks. The answer to that is you're well within range in the fact of you're well below toxicity. I mean, you could get up to 1000 micrograms quite easily and not be too concerned. Okay. So I think that's all there are no hands up. So thank you. That was really, really interesting. And as I say, I'm looking more and more into this. So we may well be doing more articles for our magazine and helping people that way. So thank you so much, Melissa. I'm really good to see you again. It's been a long time. We're hoping to do a conference possibly next year with any luck. Hopefully. You'll be one of the first people I'll be contacting. That'd be fabulous. Love to support you. Okay. People are saying thank you now, which is really nice. Because it was interesting and I think it's going to be helping a lot of people. So thank you very much. And look forward to seeing you again soon. My pleasure. Thank you, everybody. Take care. Bye. Bye. So hopefully everybody found that really useful. Have a good rest of the afternoon. And I look forward to perhaps seeing you again. We're doing another webinar for World Thyroid Day in May. So perhaps we'll see you there. Okay. Thank you very much, everyone. Bye. Thank you.

=== FILE: International Thyroid Awareness Week 25th May to 31st May [EFCEaNEe3ZY].txt ===

 hallo, I'm Lin Meinot and I'm the founder and CEO of Thyroid UK. I want to tell you about some of the activities that we hope you're going to join in with for International Thyroid Awareness Week. We want to spread the word about how thyroid disease affects people's mental health. And we thought that it would be a good idea to run an activity that children could help with, either your own children because I know in some areas they're off school or grandchildren. So what I thought we could do is to make some cakes or biscuits and these could be low sugar, gluten-free, vegan, whatever it is that you prefer and give them to friends and family with a little note either saying that viral disease affects me in this way or just to give them our website page so they can go and have a look and learn about viral disease because it's quite possible especially if they're family that it may affect their children at some point in their lives and it would be really helpful if they already knew what some of the symptoms were. So do take photos this is what we want photos on social media that you can tag either us and friends and family in and perhaps put a little fact about thyroid disease so saying that a symptom of thyroid disease causes weight gain or something like that and Heidi our finance administrator who's quite new to Thyroid UK she's going to be making some lovely cupcakes and we'll be taking photos of us in the office so they'll be myself, Heidi and Louise having a bit of fun and hopefully eating the cakes as well. You can also raise awareness as we did last year by purchasing some tattoos or pin badges or ribbons, putting them on social media and just spreading awareness to everybody that you know. You can order these online so if you go to our website you'll see very quickly that you can be able to order there's an order form on there and don't forget the World Thyroid Day survey that we're doing to raise awareness about how mental health is affected by thyroid disease. So I look forward to seeing your photos and to tagging them and sharing them and happy World Thyroid Day.

=== FILE: Interview with Aggie McCabe, Your Thyroid Nutritionist [6aE8czBHge4].txt ===

 subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected When I was first diagnosed, I think it was 12 or 13 years ago, I was very lost and confused. I didn't even know that I had Hashimoto's and I came across lovely Lynn and the Thyroid UK website and the forum and it has just changed everything for me. I got all the information I needed to properly, you know, take charge of my health and work out my next steps in my own healing journey and none of that obviously led me to what I do now. So Lynn, thank you for that. I'm very excited to have you here today. Thank you very much. If you can perhaps I've done a little bit of an intro but maybe you can start by telling us a little bit more about yourself and Thyroid UK. Well, Thyroid UK started really because I was so poorly. I was really ill for 15 years. I was diagnosed with fibromyalgia at the time and I had a lot of pain, painful back, painful legs, painful hips, painful everything and I also had a lot of vertigo which was really, really horrible, horrible, horrible and I didn't know what was wrong. The doctors didn't know what was wrong. I was sent to all different kinds of specialists who said there was nothing wrong. So one morning I woke up and there was a lump in my neck and I thought, oh, that doesn't look good. So rushed to the doctors and they then sent me to the hospital and it turned out it was a lump in my thyroid and at that point they didn't know whether it was cancer or not. And even the test I had pre-the operation was inconclusive. So I didn't know until after the operation that it wasn't cancer so that was good. They then put me onto 200 micrograms of Levoxeroxine. Well, by that point I started reading and sort of understanding that I felt I've had this all this time. I've had an underactive thyroid for 15 years and I thought I don't want to take 200 because I think that's going to be too much for me. So I didn't take 200, I took 100. But then when the nurse came she made me take the other 100. Oh my god. After three days I went thyrotoxic. I was so ill. And it was at that point I think I thought, okay, not sure they know what they're doing with my thyroid. I'm going to take control and that's what I did. I cut it right back and slowly, slowly my symptoms went away, not completely because I think too much damage was done. But I've always said I was about 95% better than the things I can't do because of my back. But it was amazing. And I started writing letters to people and then I found some people to help me and I went on to BBC Health Watch programme and they came to my house and filmed me here. And when that went out I was absolutely inundated with people who were having the same issues. And then it just snowballed from there on and it became, we had a committee first and then we became a charity and then somebody donated money for the office at the bottom of my garden. And it just went from there really and it's just been so busy. Word of mouth, you know, we did a website obviously and people found us. I'm still surprised though some people have never heard of us before because we've been around a long time. And that's how it started really. So I'm really glad I did because I think we've helped a lot of people, you know, they've got self-included. And it's really, I love the fact that, you know, people find us and actually get, if only partial health because of the things I'm going to talk about later, they do, you know, they do improve somewhat and in some cases completely. So yeah. Right now you are doing, you have been doing an absolutely invaluable job and I think so many people have been helped because really what we all need as a start is knowledge, right? When you to know what we can do. Yes, perhaps a little bit more would be good, but then knowing the awareness of what could be done and what potentially could be behind your diagnosis is key. So yes, thank you again on my behalf and everyone else because it's just an amazing and important work that you're doing and you're right. It's interesting that people are still struggling sometimes to find you because I do speak to all my clients about, you know, resources available and what's out there and your charity comes up quite often and some of them, yes, have heard of you, but some of them just know, but I think that might be due to the overall information overwhelm. There is just so much out there. There is and not all of it is really good quality information. You have to be careful when you go and some organisations, I mean, I remember at the time, the Bish Syroid Foundation had very basic information. They didn't dig down into nutrition or other treatments and things like that. So whereas we do, we have a lot of information that we usually tell people to take one article at a time, you know, because you get brain fog in the beginning. We have an information pack that has separate articles and I say just with one, get that first understanding first and then read the next one. So how do you, if you can just give us an idea of how you help people, what sort of, when someone finds you, what sort of help they can expect? Well, as I say, we have the information pack that has a lot of information in it. They can purchase that and that has sort of things in there that you can make notes with as well. And people like to have paper to, you know, tangible to look at and make notes on. We also have our website, but we're in the process of redesigning that to make it a bit easier for people. Every day I go on to social media and I answer all the questions that are on there either directly to me or I read the comments just to make sure there are no queries in the comments. So that's how we help people like that. But we also do, we have, have some lot forum, which is our online community. There are hundreds of thousands of people on there. Yeah, this is where I first kind of started. Before even I read any articles, I was just reading various posts and the threads were like so long and so much invaluable information about like, and obviously like NDT, so the natural thyroid options and supplementation options and like all sorts of else, just like my mind, just, just, it can, it can, there's a lot of information on there. So again, you have to take it easy. Yeah. We also help people by letting them access private testing and private doctors and practitioners because the next test is so strapped. And I know not everybody can afford these things, but for those that can, it's been a lifesaver because they get better quite quickly then. Private doctors tend to look more open-minded at thyroid disease and understand how she motos more and understand that different treatments work for different people. And obviously the practitioners that we have on our list look at the nutritional side of things because people don't understand that we really do have to eat properly to, for your thyroid. It's really, really important. Yeah, I was about to ask you one of my questions was about your insights and because obviously that's what I specialize exclusively now and I'm very, very proud to be on your recommended practitioner's list as well. And I just deal with women really with thyroid issues at this point. And obviously I can see they end out what, how lives get changed like literally. And but from your experience, would you think lifestyle, do you think nutrition or do you think medication is more important? What are you? I think first of all, nutrition is really important because if you don't eat properly that can then go on to autoimmune diseases and not care for them. Hatchimoto's is about 90% of the cause of an underactive thyroid. And people obviously there's a lot of vegetarians that come to me on vegans and they think they're eating properly. But in fact they need iron more than they think. The thyroid needs iron and lots of other things as well. Yeah, protein. Yeah. Yeah. So that's really, really important to make sure that you eat properly. And I know a lot of people, it's cheaper to buy the processed foods, but they don't help your digestive system, they don't help your thyroid because there's so many chemicals in a lot of them. Yeah. So it's better to eat fresh fruit and vegetables if you can and more than probably you're eating. Yeah. Yes. Not for a five a day is enough to be honest. That is very true. I always go on about green leafy vegetables. And to be honest, naturally we wouldn't be eating those because even when we follow recipes we know it's not there. But I always say just check it in. Whatever you're eating just add a handful of greens and that all you know. Yeah. Yeah. I make sure you get good quality as well if you can. I know the supermarkets, we don't know how long they store these things in fridges. You know, I don't know about you, but I can buy some fruit and it's rock solid and you think it's going to ripen and it just doesn't and it goes off while it's still rock solid. Yeah. Especially, no, I agree. And I think that it's a very valid point that you raised with vegans and vegetarians is and obviously if someone is eating like that for ethical reasons, then you know, that's a completely different story. But so many people come to me saying they switch to veganism to fix their thyroid. And that is like, you know, the opposite of what you should be doing. I'm not saying eating meat three times a day, but you need to really have a balanced diet because that is the starting point of anything. Yeah. A lot of people don't realise that soy, the thyroid doesn't like it. It's not good too much soy. So if you're eating all soy products a day one, that's not going to be very helpful. Yeah. Soy milk as well. You know, they do have to be careful. So, well, there's that and there's, you know, you need to be aware if it's in your family. The older generation didn't tend to talk about their thyroid condition. So families don't know that their grandmothers have it. It's never been a big deal, right? It's always, you know, kind of, there's nothing really wrong with you. Just take it. In those days as well, they were given natural thyroid hormone. So they weren't ill with it. But nowadays, you know, liver, thoraxin doesn't suit everybody. People particularly who've had a thyroid accident, you like myself, you need the addition of the other thyroid hormone in my family. So there's that kind of thing. I deal with a lot of people who don't feel well on liver, thoraxin. So I have to explain all about the other hormone that might be useful. Well, perhaps it's a good time now to maybe chat about that. And I wanted to ask you about NDT in particular, and your views on that and also T3. And I know that you have a little campaign that you're quite, quite excited about at the moment than I am also. So if you can, if you can tell us more about that. Yeah, I mean, years ago, when I first started out, one of the things that I found out was that private doctors were prescribing T3 or some private doctors. And it was really helping and NDT too. And the NDT was originally given. And so I worked hard to get GPs to prescribe it and they were. And then the manufacturers put the price way up. So it went up by 6,000%. And then like Jesse England stopped it. Yeah, they stopped prescribing, allowing prescriptions of it. Even though the guidance did say for some people, it's useful. The CCGs then ignored that part and put a ban on it. So everybody, including myself, I was on NDT and T3, I was taken off just like that. And so were a lot of other people. And so we've been campaigning even harder. We've been working with other charities as well. We've had meetings with NHS England. But it still didn't work. CCGs were still stopping or they were reducing the amount people were allowed to have. So this is ongoing. And we've just had more meetings because they're going to refresh the guidance. And we are hoping that this will make it plainer that it's not CCGs anymore. I don't know if people are aware, they've changed to what's called integrated care boards now. And they're going to take over the same roles. So we're hoping that they will allow prescribing of T3 because it does really, really help a lot of people. There's a gene that stops people's bodies being able to transfer it over into thoraxine. So there needs to be more research done on that. There is one in the background, they're trying to get funding for it. So good way. But NDT works for an awful lot of people, but it's very, very difficult to get it on the NHS now. Because NDT has T4, T3 and other things we've been in as well. And that comes from pig slimes. And that, so maybe we can just, maybe you can just repeat that for everyone, just what exactly it stands for and what it does as opposed to. Yeah. And NDT stands for natural desiccated thyroid. And it comes from pig slimes, although you can also get them from cows. And it's all processed into a tablet. So it has all the things that go into a thyroid, everything that's needed. And that comes in what's called grains. And one grain is roughly the equivalent to 100 micrograms of ligothoraxine. Some people do really well on it. Some people don't. It's all trial and error, I'm afraid. Yeah, I was about to say that although for some it might be a life changing switch to switch to NDT, but for some it's not that holy grail of the medicine. I tried, interestingly, I tried NDT myself and I felt the same. But then when I tried it, I was already at the point when I felt okay, I managed my own symptoms more via diet and other means lifestyle change. So I just felt exactly the same. And I just thought I was buying it privately and I was like, well, there is no point in spending all this money. But I know that for some people, especially for the energy levels, it's just such a game changer. Like it literally changes. Yeah, but you can't get it on the NHS at the moment. And that will be our next campaign. Yeah, we're only a small group here. We can't take on too much. Definitely. But so where are you now with the 3T3? Is it something that you think is likely to happen We hope so. I mean, we've put in with some other groups, we've put in feedback to this guidance. And we've actually explained to them that it's costing them more money now. Because the price has come down, what they did was they made it so that GPs can't prescribe it initially. You have to go and see an endocrinologist. Okay. And so then the endocrinologist can either prescribe it or pass it over to the GP. The CCGs aren't allowing it to be passed to the GPs mostly. And an appointment with an endocrinologist is far more expensive than an appointment with a GP. So now that the price of T3 has come way, way down, that's cheaper, but it's costing the NHS more money because they're sending everybody to an endocrinologist. And sometimes patients have to see them four times a year to get an epistepistons. So that's what we're now feeding back. GPs were happening prescribing it before all this happened. And so I think they should be allowed to prescribe it again. And if they don't want to, then pass the patient to an endocrinologist. And also, were they also saving money? You know, people when they don't get their answers, they don't feel better, they keep coming back, they keep trying something else. So there are referrals to other specialists potentially, right? Because there is just a similar variable. Like there is, you know, it could be literally anything when we think about it. So fortunately, there's no data. We tried to find some data on how much it costs the patient who's been taken off of T3, but is now ill going back to the doctor more often, but they don't collect that data, unfortunately. Yeah, of course, they don't. So yeah, that is very frustrating. But you know, well done for getting that far. And I think it sounds like definitely there is hope and hopefully the same for the entity, because at the moment, the only way to buy it is on a private prescription, isn't it? And they're very expensive. Still potentially for those for whom there is obviously in the budget and available worth trying. But would you agree that that would be like a second stage in the journey? So first, so tell your nutrition, find out food intolerances, work on all of that. And if you don't feel better, then consider private treatment. Yeah, yeah. You know, in that order. Because that's what I think. From what stage you're at, really, I mean, if you've not been diagnosed, then definitely check your nutrition. Yeah. If you've already been diagnosed and you're on leave like the Roxin, check your nutrition, but also get tested for your T3, which the NHS can't do. So you would have to pay for private testing and a test for iron ferritin, all those other things that make a difference. Yeah. For me, the models misdiagnosed, not not not not diagnosing Hashimoto's or not even some GPS recognizing that as a as a thing. It just mind just blows my mind. I would say most people that I see have hypothyroidism and a lot of them just statistic confirms itself. I would say up to 90% of them do have Hashimoto's. But they have no clue. And if they do, it's because obviously they've done private testing or they've done it for me. That's right. You know, sometimes they take it to the GP and then GP is very dismissive. And some of them, I have to give credit where it's due. Some of them are excellent. And I've even had GPS testing for antibodies and T3. Funny enough. So, you know, some of them. That is good. Yeah, which I'm always impressed. But that's always an exception. Most unfortunately, even some specialists are just like, well, you know, I was never tested. But I think I did because my sister had gravesties. So I think there's probably a connection, an autoimmune connection there within the family. Yeah, yeah. But even if like, say, patients go to their GPs, say, well, I've got Hashimoto's and I'm still poorly, can I just go? So yeah, I know. It's just like someone at one point, I don't know if it was a specialist or a GP, but said to one of my clients that is the same. Hypothyroidism is literally Hashimoto's. So it's you can use it interchangeably. It doesn't change anything. And I know that on some level that it's true because they don't have a cure. There is you need to know what you're dealing with. You need to know what is happening in your body. Yeah, it's absolutely crazy. But then, you know, I mean, stress is quite a big thing for kicking off the bone you see. So try and calm stress down if you can. Yeah, that is something I've been recently talking about a lot. The nerves, the impact and past traumas and stresses that our body still holds. That can be a trigger, but also can just drive the whole unfortunately going through this condition in the UK can be stressful in itself in terms of frustration. And you know, and also the areas that literally some areas will allow prescribing of T3. It's a real postcode lottery. And that's what we're pushing with NHS England, because there's not supposed to be a postcode lottery in any condition. Yeah, any treatments, but there is. So we're pushing for that. Fingers crossed fingers crossed. I really hope to, you know, we'll see it soon because that is definitely definitely needed. So if you want to tell us what sort of in terms of like, who you help obviously we've talked about Hashimoto's hyper, but also hypotry, but also hyperthyroidism, right? So people with disease would find some helpful information on your website. That's right. Yeah, we have some information on hyperthyroidism. People ask me why there's not so much information, but that's because most people who have hyperthyroidism eventually end up with hypo. And that's when a lot of the issues start, you know, you need to T3, you need to make sure is that your nutrition is right. So we do help initially, we have information about people that have hyperthyroidism. And some other, there are other conditions. Yeah, people to Choro vanes thyroiditis, there's other thyroiditis is that's on our website, you know, if they want to look at that. And we help basically, we don't really help children, but we have information about congenital hypo thyroid. But we help the age range that we help is right from 18 to 80, really. It can affect anybody, any age, any gender, yeah, and any people from any country, you know, but treated better in some countries than others on a stone. I think so in Europe, generally speaking, I find that it's just a little bit better. It's more the information is there and the awareness is not necessarily, you know, ideal, but not everyone is treated and diagnosed as they should be, but it's definitely more common than in the US, I think the awareness seems to be better, but still people struggle so much. So it's a bit of a rumbling. And what sort of topics if someone wants to go on to your website, what sort of topics do you talk about? Is it examples of issues that people can find answers to? Well, our website, especially the new one, it comes under different topics. So there's an area for people who haven't been diagnosed yet. There's an area for people with hypothyroidism, one for hyperthyroidism, and there's one called related conditions, and that includes the other kind of thyroid diseases, nutritional, especially B12 deficiency. Yeah, no, so. Because the link there is autoimmune disease, because when you've got one, you're likely to get another one. So there's quite a lot of information about B12 deficiency and commission's synemia. Iron. Yeah, yeah. There's information about iron and ferritin, and what they are, because iron is one thing. Ferritin is your iron store. And you think if you've got some ferritin, it's fine, but you know, there is a level that you really need to have as a backup. So people have never heard of ferritin before they come to our website often. And there's things like that. There's odd articles about things like ADHD, and there's a possible link with that. It's very interesting. I've got a, not like a very developed one, but I definitely have a mild version of ADV. And I was, again, mind blown when I read about thyroids and ADHD link. It's pretty, yeah. There's information on there about Candida. There's not an awful lot of information about Candida out there anyway. Yeah. They used to be in the 70s and 80s. There was quite a lot of information, but there's not so much now. So we couldn't write very much about that. Things like that, just odd bits of information. I've seen quite a lot as well on ADHD and pregnancy. That's right. We have an area in the new website. There's a whole area about fertility and pregnancy. And I mean, it's really, really, really important. As soon as you, if you're hypothyroid, as soon as you think you're going to become pregnant, there's a possibility that you're just a couple of weeks, you need to get your levels tested because you need, baby needs more, so you need more. Otherwise, there could be repercussions for the fetus or the baby when it's born. So that's super important to read that if you're thinking about becoming pregnant. Yeah. Thank you for sharing that. A lot of doctors aren't aware, unfortunately. I know. And they definitely, there is now not enough information out there. So, very important. Okay. So I was wondering if you could maybe give some advice to lovely people watching on how to speak to their GP about perhaps, I don't know, adjusting their dosage, for example, because you know how we talk about TSH, for example, when it's in the norm, but actually it's like four and a half or something, or like three and a half. How, because obviously you deal with a lot of GP's, you campaign on all of this amazing stuff. How a person that's been, you know, they've been still feeling not great, that the blood results are not ideal. What can they do? Well, that wasn't an endocrinologist. He's retired now. He's not working now. Dr. Toft, he wrote something in a little booklet that's really old now, but he maintained that most people don't feel better until their TSH is down at one or even below one. So that's what we tell most people. The thing is, when you don't have thyroid disease, nobody knows what your TSH level was or your FT4 level, it's quite possible that it was down at one. Then when it goes up, you're diagnosed, you're put on treatment, and a lot of doctors will only make you go to the middle of the range, and therefore that is not your normal. That is very true. That's a great way. Nice state in their guidance that GP's can treat patients anywhere within the range to resolve their symptoms. So usually what I have is I've highlighted particular areas in the nice guidance and there's another set of guidance for T3, highlighted areas that people can print off and take to their GP and have a discussion. But whatever you do, be firm, but don't be aggressive because that doesn't get you anywhere with GP's. Sometimes it helps to take another person with you, like your partner, who knows you all the time and can say, well, she's still not back to normal. What can we do about this? Is it possible that an increase would help? Be very diplomatic about it, and in most cases they'll try with an increased dosage of T4. And that's in the actual nice guidelines because if it is...  to the point that resolves the symptoms, that means that people can use that as an actual leverage there. And there is also something that's worth noting on the same subject of something being as a nice guideline, as a recommendation, and that is testing for Celiac. If people have been diagnosed with Hashimonos, GPs, they should be testing for Celiac as a standard, so we shouldn't have to do it privately. That's fine. We shouldn't, but I think with Celiac you have to not have eaten anything for so many weeks before you test, so be aware of that. If you're going to go to your GP and ask for the test, it's quite difficult to get a GP appointment anyway at the moment, isn't it? So try not to make it so that you've got to go back again. That is very true, but it's just amazing how much stuff is out there that is actually in the guidelines anyway, but because we're aware of it, we're not asking for it. I'm sure that's not the case anymore, but T3 was available on something that was called patient-named basis, and they could prescribe it, but is that not, do you know, if that is not the case anymore? It's not really the case anymore because CCGs are there to make the decisions, well, it would be ICBs now. So technically you are supposed to, but it would be a long, long fight to do it. It's better to try a different way if you can. Well, hopefully that will soon change. Okay, so just dropping up slowly, but we've covered a lot, but if you were to give one final piece of advice for someone, let's say someone who's just been diagnosed. So let's say they just went for the regular blood test and the T4 came up as elevated, let's say around five, what obviously got put on you with the ROC saying immediately, what advice would you give them? I think definitely research, don't accept that this pill will change everything because it may not for you. So, and then if people think that and then they're still not well, it causes depression and then it's a whole thing going on. I always tell people, get a notebook, write down what your previous test results were for your thyroid that caused you to be diagnosed, and then what they'll do is when they put you on medication, then ask you to go back in sometimes six weeks, sometimes eight weeks, sometimes a bit longer, and then to do another test. Write down every single test, they can go onto our website and print off, there's a massive list of symptoms. That symptom list isn't to say everybody's going to get those, but you might get some of them, tick them off, and I always say, mark it, rate it as 0 to 10. And then when you have your next test, do the same, mark it again, you can see which ones have disappeared, which ones have got better. So it's like a diary of your thyroid symptoms. That's a really good idea, especially with the brain fog. Yeah, yeah. It's easy to forget. Yeah, and then you can go back to your GP each time and say, well, these ones have improved. These ones haven't. If they continue not to improve, then you need to start looking at T3. Yeah, yeah. Have a chat with your GP first and ask for a referral because that's the only way at the moment you can get T3. So we're going to take in those guidance on our website and it's called Remox. So it's RMOC guidance for lyothyramine. And you can come to me and I'll send you the highlighted ones. Take that and have a discussion with your GP might help to take someone with you. Yeah, depending on how helpful your GP is. So that's, you know, just make a note of everything so that you can see at some point where you feel best in your levels. Yeah. And then because some things can come along, you know, you may be put onto a different type of medication that interferes with your thyroid medication and your TSH might go up. And then you might need an increase in dosage to go back to where you felt best. And if you know where that is, then it's a fairly simple thing to do. Yeah, it's very true. Thank you. That's an excellent, it's like an excellent plan really step by step. So yes, sharing that in comments we might put that resource that you've mentioned. Yeah, people can easily easily find it. Amazing. Thank you so much for that. So if people wanted to support your charity, how can they, how can they do that? Well, they can support us by donating. That's how we really need funds because people don't realize we look very big out there. There's just three of us in the office. I thought you were going to close the whole, you know, huge office someone. Yeah, we have someone doing the finances. Then there's me that does everything, all the writing and everything. And then there's my PA that does everything that I can, if I can manage to pass it on to her. And that's the social media as well. So we do need funds. And you can just simply go to our website, which is www.fyroiduk.org. And on the top right, there's a donate button. Okay, just simply need to push the button. And then it will come up with different amounts that you can donate from very small, and then you can choose another amount. So that would be really helpful. We're trying to raise funds to move to a proper office because the office at the moment is the bottom of my garden. And I need to retire at some point. I'm 68 now. Sorry, it's just not. Unfortunately, no. I don't plan. I'd like to retire or cut back at 70 really. So we need a proper office that I can travel to to work rather than have people. Obviously, I've got people in my house all the time because they have to use my facilities here. So that would be good and, you know, donating to us would really help that. And it would help us to help other people, you know, at some point in your life. There may be someone that's really close to you that gets thyroid disease. A friend, a relative daughter, do you know. So helping us will eventually help them. It's very, very important message. And you have a magazine as well, right, that people can. Sorry, I forgot about that. We have a membership. Yes. And if you join our membership is classed as a donation. So for those people that are working, we can also add gift aid to that. You can take a box of gift aid and you get four magazines a year. All different kinds of things in especially about nutrition. I think some articles for you. Definitely nutrition advisor. Yeah. We keep you updated about the T3 campaign. And lots of other things as well. Is that is that something that's. There is 22 pounds, 22 pounds a year. It's not very much if you spread it over. Or there's if you're not working. I can't remember. I think it's 17 if you're not working. Yes, affordable for people. Yeah. And also you get first tips if you like for when we do a conference so you get the first opportunity to join a conference. Oh, lovely. That's that's amazing. And tell us finally how, lastly, how, how, how people can find your visit there is a website. So go to the website. And there's a contact us page on the website. And there's different areas for depending on what you want to ask, you know, if there's queries, it's one thing. You want to join it's something else and various things like that. Or you can send an email to enquiries at thyroid UK.org. Okay, yeah, we're going to put that in comments as well. There's a telephone number but because we're so small and so busy at the moment. Unfortunately, it gets put on a pile for me to bring back so it's much quicker to get answers by email. Okay, that's good to know. And there is also Instagram page where people can. Yeah, we have Instagram, we have Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and obviously our forum. It's on health and locked isn't it? So yeah, yeah, so that's quite a long so it's. Health and locked up com slash. Yeah, I would you. But I think it pretty much comes up when you Google if you just Google thyroid UK forum. Yeah, brings it up. I find it highly recommend the forum. Just to get a little bit of the community feel because this is what I obviously aim to create as well of my programs and the mailing list and my Instagram page, the sense of, you know, you're not on your own. There are other people going. Same exact same thing as you. And I think that's for just serves to wonderful, wonderful role in just. We also have an emus, but again, I mean it's regular but it's not all the time because I don't have time but we will be sending one out as soon as we know what NHS England are doing about the T3 thing. And again that's on the contact us page on our website to join the news. All right, well thank you so much. Thank you so much for having me all information that you provide and everything that you do. Thank you for joining me today it's been an absolute pleasure and an honor to have you here. Thank you so much for having me. Thank you so much help you survive the rest of the day in this crazy. Okay, thank you. Bye.

=== FILE: TUK Thyroid Awareness Week 2021 final final [u8z2nOxVH74].txt ===

 as I said before, I haven't done a webinar for a while, actually, since last thyroid awareness week, so I apologise now if anything goes wrong, because I had to try and remind myself of how to do various things. So, first of all, for those that don't know, my name is Lynne Minott and I'm CEO of Thyroid UK, and I'm also the founder, I founded it as a different name about 20 years ago, because I was really upset about how I'd been treated. I've been ill for 15 years without anyone knowing what was wrong with me, you know, I was told it's in my mind, I was told I'd got fibromyalgia, told do you need some antidepressants, do you need to see a psychiatrist, and then it actually turned out that it was thyroid, and I only found that out because a lump came up in my thyroid, and I went to the doctors, they immediately sent me to hospital to do a test on it, it was inconclusive, so they took my right lobe away and put me on 200 micrograms of levosoroxin, which actually made me really, really ill with overactivity, and it was at that point that I thought, hang on a minute, they don't really know what they're doing with me, so I looked into it a little bit more and found someone else who'd had similar problems, and we started campaigning, and now we are here, and I think that we managed to help a lot of people, although there are still a lot of problems in thyroid diagnosis and treatment. So I'm really glad that everybody could come, and the talks this year are short and sweet, the speakers will be speaking for around 15 minutes, and then there will be a 15 minute question and answer session, so hopefully you'll be able to get all your questions in. So first of all, there's some housekeeping, and if for anybody else who's joined since the last time I said this, the webinar is being filmed, and we will be placing it onto our website once it's edited. All attendees will be notified of the link so that they can watch it again, and I will also be putting it, I think, onto our YouTube channel. There will be a page put up at the end of the webinar with various links to documents that I've talked about, but if you missed that for any reason you can always contact me, and we'll be able to send you this whole presentation, so you'll have all the links that are on there. If question times runs out, please send an email to me at enquiriesatthyroiduk.org. With your question and the name of the relevant speaker, and we will contact you. Those of you that don't know much about what we do, our main thing that we do is we provide information and resources to promote effective diagnosis and appropriate treatment for people with diagnosed and those with undiagnosed thyroid disorders in the UK. As we know, a lot of people aren't diagnosed because they have borderline hypothyroidism or borderline overactive, and we need the appropriate treatment for us, whether that be levocyrotsin, because a lot of people do feel better on levo, but for a lot of people we need T3, and for some people they need natural thyroid hormone like armothyroid or earthythyroid. And we will be campaigning after the T3 campaign is hopefully finished. We will be doing different campaigning, one of which we hope to do about NDT. We have an online community, Health Unlocked. We have lots of members on there, and both members and our admin team are really, really helpful. If you have any queries, somebody on there will answer your question for you. We also have social media, Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and LinkedIn. Again, if you do ask questions on there, it's usually me that goes on in the morning. I check if there's any questions from people and I answer them. We have a paid membership, which is either £17 or £22 from January. And for that you get four magazines, but you're also supporting us because it's classed as a donation and we get gift aid on membership fees. So do please join if you can. We're hoping to do a telephone helpline in the very near future. We're trying to fund those for that now. And I know we have the forum, which is nice for people to chat online, but there are some people who don't want to chat online. They want to actually speak to someone with very specific questions and a helpline hopefully will be run by people that we've trained, not doctors. They will be people that we've trained from experiences of other patients. We work with testing companies, such as MediChex, who are really helping us a lot in this thyroid awareness week. And we've now started working with an ultrasound scan clinic because in Europe, doctors automatically do thyroid scans as part of the diagnostic workup. But in the UK, they only do a scan if there's a lump there, which we think it would be good to have scans, especially if you have Hashimoto's, to be able to see how good or bad your thyroid is working. You can find links to lots of things on the top of our homepage. We have an eNews that goes out whenever I have time to do it, to be honest. And we also have an information pack that has lots of information about thyroid issues. This year, we've done lots of things to raise awareness this year, and we've had a lot of help from MediChex. So I'd like to give MediChex a great big thank you, not only for doing some of the activities for us, but also they're going to be donating two pounds for each thyroid test sold during thyroid awareness week. So if you are planning to have a test done by MediChex or if you're thinking about it, do get it done during thyroid awareness week because it's then supporting us as well. Butterfly days on Fridays at 22nd of October, and we're hoping that people will put tattoos of butterflies on themselves somewhere like mine. I don't know, I've got a tiny little one there because I don't have a thyroid. And also face paints, if you want to face your paint with butterflies, that would be good. We have the Winginit campaign, which is we want people to put colored eyeliner on to show that we are Winginit with our medication, which we are. A lot of people are Winginit myself included. I had my T3 and NDT stopped about three years ago, and I'm having to get hold of my own thyroid medication, which I know a lot of people are. So I do feel like I'm Winginit because I have no doctors monitoring me, because if you're not on treatment, they won't do thyroid testing. So I do my own thyroid testing. Medi-checks have done a little how-to video showing you how to do eyeliner. I've never used eyeliner in my entire life, but I will be putting some on Monday and taking some photos and putting it on our social media pages. And Louise, my PA, will be doing the same, and Dion, who's the financial manager, will be doing the same. We'll all be here Monday morning, making our faces up. Medi-checks have also designed an amazing butterfly filter that you can use on Facebook and Instagram, so that we can spread awareness. If men don't want to do the eyeliner, they can put the filter on, because they won't have to do anything except fiddle with your phone. I must admit, I've never done a filter in my life, but I've been shown how to do it, so hopefully I'll be able to do that on Monday as well. We're asking employees and the public, including friends and family, to donate just £1 to Thyroge UK to help us raise awareness and do some of our other campaigns. All you have to do is text TAW to 70085. And £1, I think a lot of people would be able to manage to do that. And the more people that can donate it, the more work we can get done. Alice Godfrey, nutritionist, has made some lovely little videos for us that will be on our YouTube channel. We're going to be launching one per day, as from Monday, so do watch out for those. We're also launching our partnership with the Wren Project, and Alice will be talking to you about that in a moment. It's a listening service, which I think is going to be really, really important for people with thyroid disease to help with how they feel about just generally how they feel about the thyroid, how they feel about how they're being treated. We're also launching a new support group that at the beginning will be on Zoom, so that might be of interest to people. Lord Hunt is going to be putting some parliamentary questions for us to Her Majesty's Government during Thyroid Awareness Week about Lyocyrinine, and I'm really pleased about that. The first one I think he's going to put up is to ask Her Majesty's Government whether NHS clinical commissioners have now written to all local health authorities authorities to emphasise to them that they are expected to follow national guidance for prescribing lyothyrinine, including allowing it to be prescribed when recommended by a specialist when treatment with Lidoxeroxin alone has failed. I'm really pleased about that one, and it'd be interesting to see what the answer is. Another one that I think is going to be really important is that he's going to ask Her Majesty's Government if lyothyrinine should now be declassified as a high-cost medicine given the competitions and market authority recent ruling and fine of £100 million issued to the drug company Avans for artificially inflating the price between 2007 and 2016. We are really hoping that this can happen and then get back to how we were before when T3 was able to be prescribed for anyone that needed it. This is Alice Peck who is Director of Communications at the REN project. I'm really pleased to tell you that we've started partnering with the REN project and we'll be launching the partnership tomorrow. Alice is here to tell you all about them. Off you go, Alice. Thanks, Lynn, and thanks so much for having me. I think just hearing your introduction and realising that I know a little about my own thyroid condition and how important it is that organisations like you exist to help people navigate it. As Lynn mentioned, my name is Alice. I am a Director at the REN project and I'm a co-founder. I want to tell you a little bit about the REN project today. Not just what we do but also how we might partner with organisations like Thyroid UK and why we believe in what we're doing. I have a thyroid condition. I have Hashimoto's Thyroiditis. I also have Alopecia, as you can see, some actively auto-mew. I think some of the things we're seeing is how many people who have one condition also have multiple autoimmune diseases. I also didn't quite expect to be speaking to over 100 people so I'm a little bit nervous. So if I ramble a little bit, please forgive me. So the REN project, we came into being at the beginning of, the sort of the idea came to being at the beginning of the lockdown in March 2020 when I got a phone call from Kate and I had met Kate when we were both volunteers in the refugee crisis in Northern Greece. At that point, neither of us knew that the other had an autoimmune disease. My Alopecia was still invisible. Obviously my Hashimoto's, you can tell, and Kate, who has lupus, also didn't tell me what she was going through. And so when we reconnected last year, we began to share the impact of our illnesses and what we really noticed was despite hugely different medical conditions, we had such a huge, a similar experience in the kind of emotional and social impact of getting a diagnosis. And we could really relate to the sense of confusion, of powerlessness, of loneliness, and of mental illness of getting an autoimmune disease and we were really struck by the similarities in this. And Kate had this idea of offering support to people when they're diagnosed at a time when it can be very isolating, it can be very scary, you don't really know what's happening. We go to the doctor for support, they give you some medication, it might not help, as Lynn said, it might make you feel worse. You might speak to friends and family and they give you their advice and their opinion and it's kind of overwhelming and confusing and suddenly your life has changed and you're forced to accept a new identity and also grieve the person who you were and it can be really hard. I'm sure I'm speaking to many people who can understand that. And so Kate had this idea to support people at this point and we looked at what existed already and did a bit of research and realised we were not alone in this experience. Some NHS statistics that 66% of people of auto immune disease have mental health problems and those are just the people who've come forward and disclosed and that 61% are struggling to cope with their condition. And there's a huge toll on relationships, on your ability to sustain regular employment and all of this impacts at an individual level and affects who you are and how you feel. I'm looking at the kind of support that existed that NHS offers, medical support and it's invaluable and it's crucial and I think I lived in the US for six years and I cannot tell you how grateful I am every day that we have a national health service but we all know how hard it is to get an appointment with the doctor and to form a consistent ongoing relationship, not to mention the impact of COVID. And then charities like Thyroid UK, like Alopecia UK, like Lupus UK, like Diabetes UK are also invaluable in the kind of research and information and communities that they provide. And I think just listening to Lynne talking about what Thyroid UK does in terms of the information and resources, the campaigns, the online communities and the helpline, for a specific question about and sort of need about a diagnosis, I think there's nothing better than charities but they don't have capacity at the moment to provide one-to-one ongoing listening support and I think what we've realised is the importance of having a space where you can talk about what you're going through when it can be so uprooting and life-changing. And to get that kind of support you either have to be on a six-month-plus help wait list for psychological services or you have to pay for it and that's incredibly expensive. So we saw a gap and a need and we founded the REN project and what we hope to do and what we are doing is looking beyond the specific diagnosis to what connects us despite the differences in our diseases and what we've seen is just a huge the confusion and the powerlessness and the hope and helplessness of a new diagnosis. And we decided to create the space where people who've just been diagnosed can come and have support and to feel they're being heard and understood as they navigate this hugely unsettling and changing time. And we think that listening can be a really powerful tool. So that's what we do we provide one-to-one ongoing free listening support for people who've been diagnosed. And we do this by training volunteers who've been interviewed and screened and then we do quite a rigorous volunteer training program and we're training volunteers in really empathy and active listening. And we have the support of experienced medical and mental health professionals who are kind of a safety net around us so there's various checks and support for volunteers and to make sure that the RENs, the people who come to our program and have the adequate level of support. And the focus of these sessions is really about the impact of autoimmune on life, on the person's relationships, on their work, on their sense of self-confidence and their sense of self. And so what we don't do is provide therapy or counselling. We know in limitations we're not trained therapists but we provide a space that's free from advice and free from judgment just to hear and to understand what someone is going through. And to be a volunteer for the REN project you don't need to be, you don't need to have an autoimmune disease, you don't need to be experienced in what autoimmune is but you need to be able to be empathic, to be neutral and non-judgmental and to be able to offer this space of judgment-free kind of emotional support. And what we've seen so far is just the remarkable power of active listening. Okay so let's see I've got about five or ten minutes left. So we became registered about this time last year. We've been supporting RENs which is our word for participants since April. We anticipate offering support for about nine months but some people benefit from just three months of support, some from 12. We do reviews every three months to gauge the benefit and to tailor and adjust our programme accordingly. So it's a very flexible person-centred programme. And because of that flexibility and the model which works we're able to scale it up and down. And this month we actually began to support people with long COVID as well because increasing research shows the really strong autoimmune component of long COVID and very similar medical symptoms of fatigue, aches, loss of taste and smell. I mean you know that you can read about the symptoms of long COVID but medically similar but also emotionally what we've really been struck with is the experience of grief, of loneliness, of isolation, of uncertainty, of fear and the helplessness that the doctor's not knowing what's going on. Beginning to support what people have long COVID we've been so struck by the capacity of a disease to utterly change a person's life and seeing people who have such a fear of not knowing how long it's going to last for, how bad it will get and will they ever go back to who they were before. And that really speaks to the experience of a lot of the RENs we have with autoimmune disease as well and it's such a lonely and scary time that we're so glad we can offer the support during it. So we started in April so we've just done some of our six months reviews of people, of our RENs and kind of taking a bit of it, it's almost our one year one year anniversary of being registered by the Charity Commission so we're growing and we're snowballing and it's very exciting and it's very fast suddenly and just kind of reflecting back on this time we're so thrilled to be partnered with FIRODK and other disease specific charities as well as mental health charities and also quite a few university disability departments who will then refer on to us because it's really important to us that we're not competing but we're complimenting the existing work that's going on and also in collaborating with FIRODK and organizations that provide this specific support. We're able to then signpost in a really informed and kind of safe way when RENs come to us and say look I'm not sure about my medications, is it making me worse? We don't offer medical advice because we're not trained in that but we can say look there's these charities that exist to help you and here's their phone number and know that they're going to get the right kind of advice. So that's one exciting thing, we're also getting more and more referrals from from GPs and consultants which is really good as well as other partner organizations and word of mouth and also through social media and we're now supporting people across the UK because we do our sessions on video it really allows us a lot of flexibility in who we can support so it's really widespread geographically. Most of our RENs are women which is representative of auto immunities at large but it's very diverse in terms of the ethnicity and the backgrounds of the people we support and it really shows that auto immune disease is quite indiscriminatory, it doesn't, it does just affect anyone regardless of their background and in age as well so most RENs do tend to be in their 30s because a lot of auto immune diseases are diagnosed around 18 to 30 but we're also noticing a lot of people in their 40s 50s and 60s and 70s as well and we support people really across every decade of life and at the moment we support about 35 people right now but that's about to be 40 so we're just starting to meet people next week and there's over 61 different auto immune conditions some of whom some people have ones and people have multiple and doing the reviews after the six months the first six months the feedback we've received is humbling and really really encouraging and we're seeing a change from the initial session to the first review session that reflecting that the REN project is helping in all areas in particular RENs have reported feeling less lonely more connected and more empowered in advocating their own health care needs and we think that this is going to have a secondary benefit as well helping people to feel that they can sustain employment that they're able to navigate relationships better and also it would reduce the cost we think to the NHS in terms of missed appointments or medication not taken or A&E visits so we think that we're packed with the individual and the personal but we think there is broader sort of social benefits as well. Okay so I spoke faster than intended which is classic for me but that's really what we do in a nutshell I'm really happy to take questions and also if you think this would be some benefit you do get in touch directly or if you're interested in volunteering but we're going to be doing another training for volunteers in January I'm not always looking for more volunteers so yes I will hand back to Lynn thank you so much for having me it's really great to speak. I was just wondering Alice if you could explain how people self refer? Yeah absolutely so on our website is a really simple form that just you just fill out it's just your name and your condition and then Kate who's the founder and my colleague she will give you a call and talk about what we do and how it might help. Okay brilliant can you see the tracks? Liz Knowles has said she was diagnosed in Germany nine years ago. Yeah so we have when we first started and we were speaking with doctors and specialist nurses they were saying what is the kind of requirements and we did say five years but it's really really flexible and it's very much persons entered so if you haven't had support before and this would be something that would benefit we don't have a cut off point. I think the question is if you're living in Germany still I think we can support people who are not living in the UK but the majority of people have to be in the UK because of our charity kind of registration but there is flexibility for location as well. Let's see the next question. Long COVID symptoms actually have these patients in check for water immune conditions. Yeah so I think that's a really interesting point Emma and in fact one of the persons with long COVID it's actually triggered diabetes and thyroid condition so I think not only does long COVID manifest with autoimmune symptoms but it's also sparking people with to actually get diagnosed with autoimmune disease and maybe they had a predisposition for it and this kind of shock and trauma has triggered it but I think there's so much crossover and I think as more research comes out we're really going to see long COVID increasingly classified as autoimmune. That's not my non-scientific opinion there. We are partnered with this new charity called COVID Aid which is doing a lot of work in building community amongst people with long COVID and also sort of dispersing research so that's been really really exciting. Maureen, years and years of absolutely no support from GPs and sorry to see endocrinitis. I'm really sorry to hear that Maureen. I think that's the experience that we see so much of and it's really sad that and Lynn spoke of it as well just getting waiting years before you get a diagnosis and I think the average time for a diagnosis of autoimmune disease is over six years. I feel I was quite lucky obviously and the piece is quite visible and it's very visible is very obvious so it's quite easy for a doctor to diagnose but I'm constantly struck by how hard it is to people to get a diagnosis and I can only think of that uncertainty and like the waiting while you're trying to figure out what's going on and I think one of our ambassadors she's just written this book called Unwell Women. She's called Ellen at Clekhorn and she has loopless and she spoke about the medical gas lighting as well and it's something that Lynn spoke of as being told it's in your mind or you're just kind of making it up or sort of misdiagnosing you. I think that can also be really hard to live with. So yes we do our training online so it's via Zoom and it's once a week for about seven weeks but it's quite flexible in terms of location. Liz you're in the UK it's great. Thanks Karen yes and I think the Wren website will probably be listed on the event page. Yes the page is going to go up tomorrow morning because that's the official date that we're launching so there'll be some information on there that will take you to the Wren project website as well. Cool I can also pop that in the chat to you. Okay well I think that takes me to time up quite nicely. More or less. It's another question people wishing it had been around before. Yeah yeah please do spread the word though I wish we'd been around before as well. Okay well I think that's everything now so I'll see if I can share this. Okay so our next speaker is Melissa Cohen a very experienced nutritional therapist. You may know Melissa from our previous webinar and our last conference. She's going to be talking about balancing hormones through the menopause which I know has been difficult for a lot of people with thyroid disease. Hello nice to see you again. Lovely to see you. Lovely to see you. I speak to Lynn a lot but it's lovely to see you. I think we've seen each other properly for a couple of years. So thank you so much for inviting me to this well. It's a really good cause and Alice is really wonderful to hear your Wren project too. I couldn't agree more about autoimmune coming in three's or four's because unfortunately that's the nature of the route of the imbalance. So a little bit about me before we begin I'll just keep my eye on the time. So I'm a nutritional therapist I've got a degree in nutrition I've been practicing for about 15 years and I've worked with Thyroid UK as Lynn explained and you might see my articles on nutrition and thyroid.  thyroid that are written every three months. And I always try and include recipes and practical advice. And I really hope this is going to be some practical advice as well. I'm not sharing any slides today, because I just wanted to sort of spend the time kind of really thinking about the links between menopause and nutrition. Before we begin, I actually had my own thyroid issues funnily enough, or not funnily enough, but ironically enough, after having so many thyroid clients. So I do sympathize with you. I suddenly felt like my clients about three years ago of cognitive issues. And my energy levels were very low. And the physical and the sort of mental were disconnecting. It's really hard to explain how I was speaking and how I was thinking wasn't in line. And that was due to a very slight subclinical imbalance in my thyroid, which I tapped into so quickly. So the problem with hormones, they're such a swing, whether it's sex hormones or thyroid hormones. So with menopause, there's estrogen decline, progesterone decline. And just the slight dip can impact you hugely. So the situation now is menopause is really highlighted. I think a few celebrities have got behind menopause and fantastic women and said, if you're suffering menopause, please go to the doctor. Interestingly, the symptoms of low thyroid are very similar. So hypothyroidism can mimic menopause. And also menopause can trigger hypothyroidism. So I'll be discussing the reasons behind that and what you can do nutritionally and supplement-wise to help you. So what are the symptoms? So with menopause and hypothyroidism, low mood. So it's as if you're PMT, but every day for a lot of women, low mood, tearful, low energy, weight gain, thinning hair, eyebrows, foggy head, forgetfulness, concentration difficulties. And like Alice said, you can speak to the doctor. And the doctor, if your markers are within range or blood tests, then you're absolutely fine. But sometimes menopause and just like hypothyroidism is a burner. It's a slow burner of dipping in that direction that you don't want. So it's really important to check in with your symptoms as well. It's really important to anybody on this webinar that has not been diagnosed with hypothyroidism. But if you do get tested by the NHS, always get access to your test results. Because whilst they might say your results are negative, they're within range, they might not be in the optimal range. And whilst it doesn't mean it's not important to have a diagnosis, it's important to know where your levels are and where you thrive on those right levels of the blood tests. So it's always important you can talk to a professional, talk to a nutritionist, talk to a doctor, but make sure that you get heard and your symptoms get heard and whether your blood tests are within range or not that they get seen. So estrogen enhances thyroid function. Estrogen is one of these anabolic, which means it builds everything up. Estrogen builds up bone, it builds up cognition, and it really helps fire up the thyroid. Now, some clinical hypothyroidism increases in women. It's a very female imbalance. And obviously menopause is only a female imbalance. And it all happens within similar ages, 40 plus. So if you go to the NHS and you're over 45, the NHS won't test your sexual bones at all. They'll just put you on HRT. HRT might work, but if your thyroid is not functioning properly, you will still carry on with those symptoms. So there's other areas to look for as well. So if you are feeling the symptoms that you're feeling, and even if your thyroid is within range, have a think about iron and B12 and vitamin D3. The thyroid really relies on these three main nutrients to function. Now, the NHS should easily be able to administer these tests. Now, as there's a huge fat log with the NHS, there's a lot of fingerprint blood tests that I know Thyroid UK partner with as well, that you are able to access these fairly economically and get results quite quickly. So I want to sort of talk about iron and B12 in relation to the gut. So as we get older, I don't know whether this is familiar to anybody over the age of 40 that's listening. It's certainly familiar to me and I'm in the health sector, but it was almost like you can't eat the foods that you used to eat, and you're kind of wanting to eat the foods that work for you. You don't want to be bloated. You don't want constipation. You don't want diarrhea. It's like this irritable bowel syndrome. And the situation is as we get older, our hydrochloric acid in our guts is lower. So a lot of people then take a meprosol. I don't know whether you've heard of a meprosol, but it basically inhibits the acid to the symptoms of gastric reflux and heartburn stop. But then what you might get is excessive bloating and anemia because we need a little bit of hydrochloric acid to help absorb vitamin B12, which is essential for energy. So I'm going to concentrate on the gut for now. So if you can imagine you've got low hydrochloric acid, we're getting older. You might be diagnosed with hypothyroidism or Hashimoto's or you might not be. The symptoms are very, very similar. So what you can do is really focus on food, first of all, and rather than medication to mask your symptoms. The issue is when we have a lot of bloating and gas and flatulence and food sensitivities and constipation, et cetera, which is really common in hypothyroidism, what that's doing is it's driving our iron levels low because what we're doing is we're creating quite a sterile environment in the gut when there's low hydrochloric acid, which means it's a breeding ground for unwanted bacteria. So you might have had a microbiome, you might have heard of yackels and yogurts, good to feed the gut, and these are beneficial bacteria that we all need. But when we do have a lot of the unwanted bacteria, it can actually drive our iron levels down because it feeds off our iron instead of the iron feeding us or transporting oxygen around the body. So it's really, really important to look after gut health. And how do you do that? Well, it's really, really simple, lots of vegetables because that feeds the beneficial bacteria. So if you think of all the dark wing leafy vegetables, the broccoli, the Brussels sprouts, probably all the things that make you gassy in the first place. So build them up slowly, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, cabbage, kale, beetroot, peppers, sweet potato, carrots, not all at once, but start aiming for about three cups a day and slowly build up to about six. And that eventually will really help you build a nice beneficial bacteria, increase your iron and increase your B12, and that will really help with energy levels. So how do you know if you've got this low hydrochloric acid? Well, as I said, the symptoms are a lot of bloating, a lot of burping when you've eaten food, possibly bleeding in the gums, a lot of gingivitis because the gut and the mouth and the ears and it's all the same mucosal areas. So sometimes if we've got halitosis or gingivitis, it usually means the gut isn't bearing too well. So looking after the gut can certainly help oral hygiene as well. Another very well-known tip is lemon and water on rising. So you can drink lemon and water on rising to stimulate the acid, kill off the unwanted bacteria and trigger some good digestion. And fermented foods as well, such as organic yogurts, homemade coleslaw, there's a really lovely fermented tea called Convulture and that's a really delicious form of probiotic as well. Another tip is a little bit like the French is just before you're having a big meal, you can have some bitter foods to stimulate your digestion and that could be rocket, radishes, spring onions with a squeeze of lemon juice. So that's talking about gut health, that will help increase iron levels and B12. So please don't mask the symptoms with a meprosal and gaviscon and reddies, do get help, do get advice. I'll pop in my email at the end of the session on the chat group. Additionally, vitamin D levels are associated with autoimmune disorders. So Hashimoto's, Graves' disease, all autoimmune disorders have the same root. It's where your antibodies aren't recognizing your own tissues as self, it's recognizing them as pathogens as a foreign entity. So IE, it starts attacking your thyroid. So vitamin D levels are lowered. Now, if this is a consequence of elevated antibodies or the antibodies elevated as a consequence of low vitamin D, don't really know, but most people with autoimmune disorders have very low vitamin D. And as soon as your vitamin D levels rise, cognitively, you should start feeling better. So if any of you have not had your vitamin D levels checked, there is a finger prick, there's a finger, a blood spot. So you just prick your finger and squeeze it. It's so much easier than a finger prick test and it's about 30 pounds. And it's from, if you Google vitamin D3 Birmingham, there's a hospital in Birmingham that sends out the kits for about 30 pounds. And do remember, if you do supplement with vitamin D, take K2 along with it. So vitamin D and K2, K2 helps prevent that calcification in the arteries. So it's a safe way of supplementing. So I also want to talk very quickly, because I'm running out of time, about iodine. Iodine's really important. It's also important for breast health. So we're still on the subject of menopause. So iodine helps support thyroid hormones and also it helps prevent fibrocystic breasts, which appear in that menopausal, perimenopausal age and breast cancer as well. Incidents of breast cancer increase rapidly between the ages of 40 and 54. Iodine helps slow down or inhibit the proliferation of cells in the breast tissue. So if you have a deficiency in iodine, it's really important to supplement it because the breast tissues need that. So how can you test for it? You can do a urine test for iodine, or you can just start supplementing iodine on a very low dosage, which I'll list at the end, or eat seaweed and seafood kelp, nori sheets. Think of some sushi salmon and prawns, miso soup. That's really important for your daily food regime. Just as like you've probably heard of selenium that helps convert T4 to T3 with Brazil nuts. So a urine tests are available through MediCheck and lots of labs. You can contact me, speak to Lynn, if you want to know which laboratories are available. Also, phytoestrogens have been shown to help balance estrogen. Phytoestrogens basically are plant-based estrogens, plant-based diet, chickpeas, legumes, lentils. They all help to modulate, increase the estrogen in a safe way and also help modulate immune function as well. So to wrap up, I'm just gonna give you a list of supplements not to take, but to look at, because I don't know your levels of medication, but you might want to look at a dosage of iodine at 150 micrograms, and that would be quite a nice minimal dosage, a vitamin D starting up at about 3,000 international units with K2. For anybody going through perimenopause, Agnes Castus, 650 milligrams a day, Selenium, you could have three Brazil nuts a day, or you could have 650 micrograms, sorry, Selenium 200 micrograms, and then Magnesium 300 milligrams a day. So the main point is, is if you're eating well with the foods that I suggested, the seafood, the plant-based nutrition, the lentils, the chickpeas, the four cups of vegetables a day, two cups of bright colored vegetables, hydrating the lemon and water in the morning, and checking in with your symptoms as well as your tests. So if your test results are within range, but you're feeling not so good, then that's really important too, to see what you can do about that. So I'm available for nutritional advice, recipes, personalized supplements, testing, and I'll put my details in the chat, but I hope that's just given you a little taster today that the metaphors and the thyroid are so closely related, especially when we get to 40 plus. Thank you. So any questions? We have a look. I'm just gonna read through. I'm just gonna read through quite a lot of questions. I thought it was Parimenopause for years. He was told, I'm too young, I'm 44. No, you're not too young. Parimenopause, the Easter levels swing rapidly. I always think it's good to get your hormones checked anyway, even though the NHS say it's not necessary. I know you've got a few months to go, Karen, but I think you could get a blood test done online and just check your Easter journey, your progesterone, your DHEA, and you can maybe help that through herbs right now and nutrients. So how much are cups? So how many? So just think of cups as two handfuls, if that helps to visualize the amounts. I paid for blood tests privately in France. I have a severe vitamin D deficiency. My GP was not pleased that I got these tests done, ended up by my own vitamin D entry to myself. They were not, GP wasn't convinced. That's, I'm sad to hear that. They were not convinced by my blood tests, were done by, well, each laboratory has their own reference range. Each laboratory's slightly different, but a deficiency, if you're below 30 nanograms per milliliter, you're deficient in vitamin D. In my mind, an optimal level is about 75 nanograms per milliliter. So even if you're 50, I still think you're slightly deficient. So especially now we're coming into the winter. Acid reflux definitely, acid reflux can indicate low iron levels, but what may indicate them even more would be black spots, black floaters, gasping for breath, palpitations, low energy, dizziness. You could get a multi-vitamin with about 10, 15 milligrams of iron, which may help you if you caught access in iron tests. Had all these symptoms and have low iron, and eat all the things you have said, I'm currently waiting for an endoscopy to confirm celiac disease. So after having high levels on my celiac blood tests, so you've probably got anti-glyat, you've probably got gliadin, anti-glyadin antibodies. So yes, sadly, low iron is very much linked to celiac. And now you've had your celiac test, you can be gluten free, and hopefully your symptoms will ease as soon as you get your blood test results. Hopefully you will be in a better position to know what nutrients to take. Can you test for vitamin D when taking supplements? Absolutely, because some people need more vitamin D than the average person. So some people need 5,000 international units of vitamin D3 just to keep their levels within range. So especially with autoimmune disorders, such as Hashimoto's, any advice about calcium, hypoparathyroidism, hypocalcemia, followed thyroid surgery, yes. If you've got low calcium, you really need calcium, magnesium, and potassium. So to help absorb calcium, you need magnesium as well. So you're looking probably for the amount of calcium divided by two to get the amount of magnesium. That's key, and then you probably want a supplement with boron, B-O-R-O-N. I'm quite happy to advise you with a bonus supplement, so please email me, I will do that complimentary. Regarding selenium and zinc, are they often low as well with hypoparathyroidism? Not necessarily, not if your gut is functioning fine and you're having selenium foods. So it's like anything in life, if we're exposed to toxins and selenium and zinc are gonna work really hard at trying to get rid of those toxins. Zinc is really important, hydrochloric acid. So zinc is one of those minerals that the body needs for about 400 reactions in the body. So zinc is very common to be low. So there's no harm in supplementing, but you could start off supplementing with a multi with a zinc, but you could start off with 30 milligrams of zinc. It's great for the immunity. So now we're coming into the winter, probably would be good to get 30 milligrams of zinc as a supplement. Is it safe to take supplements with iron without knowing levels? It is really, you can have a multi-vitamin with an iron. That should be absolutely fine unless you've got a history of pneumochromatosis, but you've got too much iron. But if you've got 10 milligrams of iron in a multi-vitamin, that would be absolutely fine. What was the menopause supplement you just recommended? I don't think I did recommend them. Oh, it was agnus casters. It helps produce progesterone. It's quite reasonable when you're looking at about 600 milligrams a day. Gluten, absolutely. Anything with autoimmune, avoid gluten. Calcitonin, the same as calcium as this needed for Hashimoto's. So calcium works with, the paraphiroid is literally on top of the thyroid. And yes, sometimes the paraphiroid can get implicated with thyroiditis. So, but don't just start supplementing with calcium, get them checked. This is in balance with all your electrolytes, calcium, potassium, sodium, and you can get that done at the doctors quite easily. And also you can get that done on a blood fingerprint test as well. Gosh, there's so many questions. How much K2 do we need? Probably off the top of my head, I think it's about two micrograms, very, very little. But you can find most vitamin D comes with a K2 supplement. Any suggestions for private companies who can test their hormones by doing the home test? Medi-Check, who work with Fyroid UK, I think offer, work with Lin, they certainly do fingerprint hormone tests. Or you can take it to your local phlebotomist for an extra 30 pounds and get all your hormones done. And it's really reasonable. I think sometimes it's around 60 pounds. What about B12 levels, Carrie? I have B12 injections. B12 is really important, as I said. Low B12, we need hydrochloric acid to absorb B12. When we're in our forties, hydrochloric acid declines. Estrogen is declining as well. So yes, get your B12 levels, but get your red cell B12 levels checked. And the reason I'm saying that is because serum, which is not in the cell, could be elevated. Doctors would say you're fine. But if you get the red blood cell B12, it's the B12 getting into the cell, then you know it's activated. Another cheap way of doing a whole kind of nutritional profile is urine. And you can look at all your B vitamins, magnesium, zinc. It's not as expensive as blood tests. And we're just checking for breakdown that the body's demand on nutrients. So that's a really good overall test to do. Can we safely supplement iodine if on thyroid-prescriptive meds? Told generally not to supplement iodine as well, but I feel best when I'm all too good at iodine in it. I would say get an iodine urine test first if you're on natural glandulars, natural-desiccated thyroid, levopyroxy, T3. If you're on medication for thyroid, just be safe, get a urine test. And what some people do is they do a urine test to get a baseline of the iodine, and then they take some iodine supplements and they do a 24-hour urine test, a little bit laborious. You have all this urine in a big container. You get a little pipette. You shake it at the end of the day, 24 hours later, so the following morning, a little pipette, squeeze it into a test tube and send it off to the lab. And the lab will say, if you've excreted lots of iodine out, then there's not a need for iodine. But if you've taken all this iodine and there's not much iodine that's come out in your urine, then your body's got a demand for it. And there's your answer. You need to supplement with iodine. I have Hashimoto's back high ferritin. No one can explain why. Denise, have you checked for hemochromatosis in the family? A way to lower ferritin is to, they take, not give blood, but you can bleed blood, basically. They take blood from you and that will lower your ferritin levels. Started having skin flush burning on my face. Is it related to Hashimoto's? Yes, it could well be. There's a name called Urticaria. U-R-T-I-C-A-R-A. And that's very much linked to Hashimoto's. So you might want to go back and have a look at your antibodies and have a look at your levels and see if your medication's managing it. Managing Hashimoto's effectively. Acid reflux. Flem is a problem with me after eating. Any advice? Yes. Maybe take some lemon water because lemon water's alkaline once it hits the stomach, Susan, before you have a meal. So just take some lemon water before you have a meal and don't drink too much water while you're eating so you can keep that acidity to break down the nutrients. Struggling with gut health, had a bad experience with HLT. Now I've been switched to HLT patches, looking to sort my meals to ensure I keep healthy. Yes, I mean, I think if you're checking your thyroid and your HLT's working, again, it's focusing on that gut health. So you could use a digestive enzyme, you could use some apple cider vinegar with your dressing that can stimulate digestion as well. So just keep working on that. I'm not sure what your menopause symptoms are, but hopefully your HLT will kick in. But remember all those underlying factors that I discussed, the gut, the magnesium, the B12, the vitamin D, that's also very important to check out for. I'm waiting, you're waiting for a catheter, waiting for an endoscopy, don't cut gluten out yet. No, absolutely. So don't cut gluten out if you're waiting for an endoscopy. But chances are that they look at the V-Li, which is where you absorb the gluten. If you were celiac, it would have been quite eroded by now. What are the effects of phytate and whole grains on a digestive system? So some people are very sensitive to phytate and they can't break those components down in plants. But I would say then it's very, so if anybody's very interested in the gut health and can manage the budget, you can do a stool test. And that can really pinpoint what's happening in your gut, the acidity, the digestion, the inflammation, what you're absorbing, the pancreatic enzyme. So that would be a really good test to do if you're really struggling with digestion. I've been supported, I've got three more minutes, menopause by my GP and I've just been on HOT for a year, diagnosed with hypothyroidism. So the two are very well linked, very similar symptoms with either of these cause of complete alcohol. Interesting and alcohol intolerance. Possibly, maybe your detoxification pathways. So the liver has to clear excess hormones. The liver has to clear, I don't know whether you're on medication, but I would certainly think about your liver here. So milk thistle tea is good for the liver. So very gently, milk thistle tea, cruciferous vegetables, cabbage, kale, Brussels sprouts, onions, garlic, beetroot. So juicing is great for the liver. So you can consider the first place, the first organ to filter out those nutrients of the liver. So you could sort of juice with beetroot in the morning, ginger, turmeric. So just try the holistic approach and see if that can help with your alcohol tolerance. So alcohol intolerance is usually to do with the liver not metabolizing alcohol quick enough that can leave you with a hangover very quickly. DHA, I think it's a problem. My DHA is low, what should I do? My doctor doesn't think this is a problem. My energy is very low. If you have a low DHA and you can confirm it in a test, then you can get bioidentical DHA, just like you can get bioidentical hormones. So Heather, if you want to reach out something offline, I'm sure we can work something out or I can point you in the direction. But if you've got test results and it's low for your age, it might not even be bioidentical DHA that you require, that you might need to manage your stress levels better because if you're very stressed, the DHA is the first to be depleted. I won't get one free. That's some multivitamin recommendation. Would you, I would recommend biotin for hair loss. Yes, it's not the answer, but there's a lot of good hair loss multivitamins. So for hair, you need biotin, vitamin C. They're all good supplements for Lenion. Insomnia, a very good tip for insomnia. 300 milligrams of magnesium and 100 milligrams of 5-HTP. There's a really lovely supplement called Nighttime by Dr. Vegan, which you can take one to two capsules before bed. And that's pure natural chamomile, magnesium, 5-HTP. It's very natural. There's no medication in there. And my last question, if you have Hashimoto's, isn't it just Gliadon you have to avoid? No, isn't it Gliadon only? No, if you have Hashimoto's, so still treat yourself as unique, you're still individual, just because you've got Hashimoto's. It doesn't mean that there's a kind of Hashimoto's protocol. So just eat, cut out gluten ideally, cut out dairy, follow the nutritional advice I've stated, look at the underlying deficiencies, possibly B12 iron and eat, because there's so many different intolerance and diets, et cetera, but eat the foods that feel right for you. So if you're suffering from lots of food intolerances, maybe the best place for speed to start would be smoothies and soups, et cetera. And that, I think that's everything. I think I've reached my time. So thank you all so very much. And lovely to speak. And I'm just gonna leave my email address on the chat. Thank you, Lynn. Thanks, Lynn. Thank you. And yeah, thanks, Lynn, and thanks, for having me, Alice Godfrey Nutrition. And I...  I specialize in helping people with thyroid health. I work mostly with tired women, as you can imagine, some men, but mostly women. And I kind of help them make little tweaks to their diet and lifestyle that help improve their thyroid function, calm their thyroid autoimmunity, if that's relevant, boost their energy and just generally reduce their symptoms. So I thought today it would be good to talk about five of the main of the changes that I make with all my clients. There are lots of others, but these are some of the key ones. So hopefully they'll be helpful. So I'm going to start. So the first one is gluten. And this is actually the subjects of one of the short videos that I'm doing for Lynn that are going to be available next week. So there's a bit more information there, but it's quite a key one. So I don't think it'd be a problem to talk about today as well. So gluten is probably the most, it's definitely one of the most common types of foods that we eat in the West. We could, it's kind of a go-to for many people and you can quite easily have it for breakfast, lunch and dinner without thinking about it. But gluten is actually really quite inflammatory. It's quite hard to digest and it can actually damage our gut lining. And it's heavily implicated when it comes to also immune thyroid disease. Gluten alerts the immune system to attack it and then the thyroid basically gets caught in the crossfire. And this may be because gluten molecules are very similar in shape to thyroid molecules. So as I said, there's a really strong association between gluten and autoimmune thyroid disease that's been found in studies. And they're also a vast number of client stories, like not just mine, but colleagues of mine. And you read about it all the time that have following a gluten-free diet can show a reduction in symptoms and also in thyroid antibodies. So I always say give it a go because you can just do it for kind of a month or two months and you're not really going to be missing out on major nutrients there and you'll find out what difference it makes to you. So things to watch out for, if you are going to give it a go, be very strict. So even the tiniest bit of gluten can spark an inflammatory autoimmune response and flak stuff, spark symptoms and spark a flare up. So also be wary of the supermarket replacement gluten-free products. They can be really, really helpful. And I always say to my clients, use them for the transition while you're getting used to being gluten-free. But ideally, in the long run, you want to be kind of choosing different foods and just amusing them a bit because they are really handy. But the problem with them is that they, in the desperation to get something to taste and look like gluten, they add in all kinds of different additives and different flowers and ingredients and our guts can also find them quite hard to digest. And then also, if they can't do that, get a gluten feel or even if they can, they'll add in a load of sugar so that you'll enjoy it anyway. So yeah, just watch out for those. They don't all have lots of sugar, but just kind of read the ingredients I'd recommend doing that or kind of going for alternatives like rice pasta and you can get lentil pasta. Also you can make bread that isn't like springy normal bread, but you can make it out of gluten-free oats and nuts and seeds and things. Another thing to watch out for is cross-reactivity. So there are some foods which appear as gluten to the body. So they can also spark an autoimmune response. So if you do have autoimmune thyroid disease and gluten doesn't make a huge bit of difference, then it may be that one of these is causing an issue as well. But I don't want you to get hung up on those at the moment because there's a long list of them and you may need help kind of working out which ones give me trouble. You can't test for it, by the way. So yeah, as I said, I recommend cutting out for about a month or two ideally if you can last that long and then you'll see, you'll really start to see what difference it can make and it can cause inflammation all over the body. Personally, I stopped eating gluten and this was before I was diagnosed as hypothyroid, but I was actually trying to get pregnant and someone recommended stopping it. And a couple of months down the line, the RSI that I'd had really painful wrists, very stiff shoulders, just disappeared. So it can show itself in many different ways, not just gut symptoms. So that's number one. Number two of the diet changes is healthy fats and specifically omega-3 fats, which you may well have heard of. So most people eat a lot of omega-6 fats and they are things like vegetable oils, peanuts, they're in processed foods, all kind of processed foods like crisps, pastries, salad dressings, biscuits. So people eat quite a lot of those and then not that many of the omega-3 fats. And basically there's a ratio we need to keep and things if we're eating too many omega-6 and not enough omega-3, then we get this imbalance. And basically omega-6 fats are generally inflammatory and omega-3 fats are anti-inflammatory. So the best places to find omega-3 anti-inflammatory fats are oily fish. So there's an acronym to remember the oily fish, which is smash, which is salmon, mackerel, anchovies, sardines and herring. Maybe you don't have too many of the anchovies because they are very salty, but they're still good to have sometimes. Oil salmon is better than farm salmon for lots of reasons, but one of them in relation to omega-3 has more omega-3 and it has less omega-6 of the inflammatory omega-6. So oily fish is one of the best places to get it, but not everyone eats fish. I understand that. You can get it in flaxseed and chia seeds, but they will need to be freshly ground. And also the levels are not anywhere near as high as they are in oily fish. And then also you can get it in beef and lamb, but it must be grass-fed. So the cows and the sheep must have been eating grass because that's where they're getting the omega-3. And unfortunately, a lot, well, pretty much all beef that isn't organic will be grain-fed, not grass-fed. So with sheep, very often they're more likely to have been eating grass. You see them on the hills, don't you? So you wouldn't necessarily need that organic or for it to stay grass-fed, but they're good places to get your omega-3s as well. So ideally, have oily fish or grass-fed beef around three times a week. And if you can't manage that, then supplementing is a really good idea. And you can get, if you don't eat meat, you can actually get, or you don't eat, don't want to eat fish, you can actually get algae supplements as well as fish oil supplements now. So number three is about carbohydrates. And it's basically about changing your relationship with carbohydrates. So it's really important to have all the macronutrients we call them, so proteins, carbohydrates and fats. And you can also have them to have them at every meal. But we need to be really careful with our carbohydrate intake. And that's not saying necessarily that you need to cut it down. But the main thing is to kind of have the balance. And this is to do with blood sugar balance, which is not just for diabetics. It's important for all of us, really important. So basically whenever we eat anything, our blood sugar goes up and then it comes down again when the pancreas releases insulin, it brings the blood sugar down again. And when we eat proteins and fats, so proteins, you know, meat, fish, eggs, nuts, seeds, pulses, whenever we eat those things, our blood sugar goes up very gently and comes down very gently. And whenever we eat fat, the same thing happens. So it goes up very gently, comes down very gently. And the body really likes that. You know, it doesn't have a pressure on the body. It's just like, OK, we can cope with this. We'll get back to equilibrium, you know, nice and gently. But when we eat carbohydrates on their own, our blood sugar shoots up really high and then drops really dramatically. And if we have a carbohydrate breakfast, for example, then we just start off this roller coaster for the whole day or if we're having snacks, but a carbohydrate. So we get this roller coaster up and down, up and down. And the body finds this quite hard because it wants the blood sugar to be balanced. So it has to work really hard to get it down and up each time. And it puts pressure on the pancreas. It also puts pressure on the adrenals, which are closely linked with the thyroid because the low blood sugar actually stimulates a stress response, a fight or flight response. It also increases cravings. So we're more likely to be craving sugar and it affects our energy and our mood. And the brain needs a constant supply of blood glucose so that it can do its jobs. And if it does when it gets these peaks and troughs, there's times when it's not getting enough. And this long term is going to affect. Well, long term, it's going to affect our mental health, but short term, it's going to affect our mood and our energy and, you know, things like brain fog. So so what do we do about it? We need to keep it more constant and have more of the kind of gentle up and down. So things we can do are switch from a carbohydrate based breakfast to a high protein breakfast. So, you know, in the West, we're so used to carbohydrate breakfast, like cereal, porridge, toast, but actually, you know, that fry up maybe not so bad. After all, well, fry up maybe, you know, don't have it every day. And obviously, you have to be careful of the of the dangerous fats, but eggs are brilliant. Also, if you like cereal or you like porridge, you could have a muesli with lots of nuts and seeds and at saying with porridge, lots of nuts and seeds and not not anything sweet on it or have fresh fruit on it rather than dried fruit. You can also add actually protein powder. You can get protein powder that's made of pea or of hemp. But that's all all it is. There's no added bits. So just be careful, don't get any that you get, you know, that people like gym bunnies get. Just the ones that are the pure protein and put a bit of that in it. And that really helps as well. And then also with snacks, that's another place that we're quite many of us, you know, commonly have like a sweet snack or a carbohydrate based snack. So, you know, it could be slice of toast or crackers or pastries or, you know, there's just so many things that we just naturally would go to instead of protein. So you can add like nuts and seeds are really helpful and you can have like a handful of those. You could even make up a trail mix of different nuts and seeds with a bit of dried fruit in. Just don't go crazy on it. And or like, you know, oat cakes with nut butter on them or hummus or raw vegetables with hummus. And, you know, if you are going to have something sweet, then try and have something that's protein before it's because that's going to really lessen the impact of the blood sugar rise on your body. And then no sweet drinks, ideally, because sweet drinks are the worst. Excuse me. They they just send your blood sugar straight up because it just goes straight into your bloodstream. The sugar, because it's so easy to digest. And then another thing you could do is work out your carb limit. So if you ever feel sleepy or crave sugar after eating a meal or a snack, then you've probably had too many carbs. So maybe kind of step it back a bit and try and get the balance on your plate. Get a decent amount of oily, oily, not oily, healthy fats and protein. So number four, I think there was a question. Are we going to do questions at the end then? Or I think I'll just. Yes, we'll be doing questions at the end. OK, fine. OK, I'll just pound through. So number four is upgrade your fiber intake. So we all know that, you know, fiber is important, but but it really is important, particularly for anyone with thyroid issue. What we need to do is increase the variety, first of all. So this is very important for our gut microbes. So it's been shown that if we have a broad variety of fruit and vegetables, then our gut microbiome, the bacteria in our gut become more diverse and diversity in your gut of these different bacteria is has been shown to be associated with good health, being healthier and less risk of chronic disease. So that's what we want. We want a big variety of fruit and vegetables. You know, if you try not to get in the stuck in the same rut, the big, the same vegetables, because yes, of course, it's good to have broccoli three times a week. But, you know, next time pick something else up when you get like a lot of people are shopping online now. But if you do go into the supermarket, have a look around, use your eyes to kind of see what's appealing. You know, we eat with our eyes as well as our stomach or, you know, the rest of it. So, yeah, try and kind of mix it up a bit. And that and that will really help your gut and help the gut health improve. Fibres also really important for moving things along and moving things along, which we know in hyperthyroidism, your your gut transit moving things along is that much slower. Hence, some people suffer with constipation. So if we can encourage that and have good fiber that's going to that's going to move along, then that's going to take along with it toxins and dead bacteria that we don't want hanging around. So anything we can do there. And also, you know, anything we can do to improve our gut health is going to be good for our thyroid, because that is one of the places that we convert T4 T4 hormone to T3 hormone, which is the type of hormone that needs the type of thyroid hormone that gets into the cell. So, as I said, a wide variety of vegetables then there are some vegetables which are particularly good like food or it's not really food, but what the bacteria use and what they consume. And that is there's some vegetables which are particularly good at that and they're called prebiotic foods and I've got a list of them here. I'll just pick a few out. So things like artichokes, asparagus. I mean, there's loads of your regular vegetables like carrots and Brussels sprouts and mushrooms and onions, sweet potatoes, cucumbers. Chickeries are really good one. Also fruits, apples, avocado, plantains really good. And then other sources, things like chia seeds, we already mentioned them, flax seeds, pumpkin seeds, wild rice is a really good one. Even dark chocolate, would you believe it? But I'm not saying go and eat loads and loads of dark chocolate, but you can have some. So is that the end of my brief? Oh, yeah. And then one more thing I was going to say about fiber is and vegetables is more cruciferous vegetables, if you don't eat many of those, because they are very helpful to the liver in detoxification. And again, with an underactive thyroid, you are more likely to have less effective detoxification by the liver and the liver is another place that T4 is converted to T3. So yeah, important there. OK, so number five is my last one and it is water. So basically just kind of try and make sure you're drinking enough. So the average for the average woman, ideally, we want to be drinking around two litres a day. And that's not to include diuretic drinks like tea and coffee. Herbal teas are fine. And for men, it's kind of more like three litres. And that seems like an awful lot. But you know, the body, especially if we suffer from low energy, which many of us do, it's so important. It's actually H2O is part of the chemical reaction that makes energy, that makes ATP, which is energy in the body. So, you know, if we don't have enough water, if we're slightly dehydrated, we're going to feel less tired, basically, more tired, basically. And, you know, I find that having glass of water, if I'm feeling just a bit sluggish, drinking a glass of water can just turn things around completely. It's it's something we should go to more. So it's quite difficult to get into the habit, though. So you can do things like take a large glass of water to your bedside when you go to bed and don't drink it then, but drink it first thing in the morning, because, you know, you've had a whole night without water and you will be slightly dehydrated. So drink it then as soon as you wake up or as you're getting ready. You can also leave glasses of water, small ones, all around the house, which I wouldn't I'm not suggesting you do forever. That would be weird and slightly annoying. But in the transition of kind of getting to drink more, it can be really helpful because you just see them and you're like, oh, yeah, I'll drink that. OK, and then, you know, and you just kind of it can be really, really helpful. My clients have found that. Some of them. Also, you can you can buy a lovely new jug and fill it with water at the beginning of the day. Put in some herbs or some strawberries or some, you know, obviously lemon and lemon or lime, just anything to make it slightly more interesting. I know it can be dull. But then the other thing that I find myself saying as well is just just down it, you know, and just drink it. Yes, it's boring. It's not very interesting drink, but it's part of your health. You know, it's like breathing, not quite, but almost it's something you need to do to be healthy. And then the other thing is filtering it. We heard this week that they're going to be putting fluoride in all of Britain's water. So well, for that reason, but also, you know, there are a lot of impurities in there. There are hormones from the contraceptive pill. There are antibiotics. There are all kinds of things in there, which are particularly important when you have a hormone related issue to remove if at all possible. And you can get, I think the best way to get most of these things out, if not all, is reverse osmosis, which you can get a filter fitted under your under your. Think in your kitchen, which is not actually that expensive. I think it's a couple of hundred pounds, but might be worth something. Not worth considering anyway. And so, yes, that's it. So basically, these five changes are, you know, they are likely to kind of improve, increase your energy levels, reduce inflammation in the body and improve your digestion and your metabolism. So, you know, even if you pick a couple of them and you do do them consistently, then you're likely to see some kind of improvements. So so that's it. Any questions? Shall I? I think there's. Yeah. OK. So I so I have a really dry scalp. Anything anyone can suggest to help. I've tried all shampoos, none help. So dryness is a pretty common thing. I get this quite a lot with my with my clients. I think dryness in general, if you've got an underactive thyroid is really common. And so obviously, number one would be keeping hydrated. And make sure that you're getting your two litres or close to it. Also, healthy fats that I also mentioned are really important when it comes to skin and and and cells in general. So so there's a meager three facts I mentioned. They every single cell in the body has a membrane that's made up of those facts. So if you're low in those facts, your cells aren't going to be as robust. And they'll do things like get dry when there's not enough moisture around. And so a meager three facts really important. Also, for any kind of dry membranes in the body, C buckthorn oil is really helpful, which is actually another type of fat, a meager seven. But if you look up C buckthorn oil, you can get capsules, which might be really helpful. And then I think someone's tried to get suggested. Poor Mitchell shampoo. Oh, I use will either products which are completely natural. So and I actually use a baby shampoo, their baby shampoo for my hair and you don't need conditioner. It's so soft and lovely. And and it's just a surprise that it's helpful to always eat one for four spoonful of protein before eating the rest of your bounce meal. Well, yeah, I mean, it comes to the same thing. Protein getting enough protein and also that should blood sugar balance. So if you can have protein at the start, then yeah, you're less likely to get that. You're less likely to get that, you know, big, big peak and then trough. So I can understand saying that. What about questions? I wonder if anyone would bring that up. Go to just from the research that I've read more recently, it seems that they are not the problem that we thought they once were. And I certainly don't tell my clients to cut back on them. I mean, I always do food diet with my clients and get keep quite a close eye on what they're eating. So if they were suddenly, you know, having loads and loads of spinach and smoothie every day, then I might be like, OK, let's, you know, maybe reduce that slightly. But if you're eating them just in a balanced meal type way and a few times a week and then most of the time they're cooked, I wouldn't recommend, you know, eating a whole cauliflower raw or anything like that. But it doesn't seem to be the problem that we once thought it was. And I also go the goetrogens, you know, that if you do, as you say, if you cut out, cut them out, then you cut out so many nutritious vegetables and so many nutrients that you need. So, so yeah, I don't worry about that. And also it seems that iodine, you know, generally we can get enough iodine. And so if it is reducing the iodine we're getting, then it's not necessarily going to affect our thyroid. And OK, next question. Yes, Maureen UK government is talking about adding fluoride to the system or system. Yes, I think it is a concern. Again, this is to do with iodine and basically it displays fluoride. The fluoride is taken up on the iodine receptor sites instead. So we're not getting as much iodine. Now, I think this could potentially be a problem because we drink a lot of water, especially if you're drinking your two liters, you know, and even though it's a small amount of fluoride, it's going to have an effect whether, you know, subtle. Yes, perhaps, but it's still going to have an effect. And so, yeah, I would be concerned about it. I was actually researching it the other day and I read that the type of fluoride that goes into the water system is a is a is a very difficult type for the body to deal with or it's a it's not kind of naturally what what what is, you know, it's not a natural form. It's it's changed in some ways that makes it even worse. So I would do your research but but yeah, ideally filter is green tea okay to count towards water intake. And if it's decaffeinated. Yes, I think it probably is. But if you're someone who just drinks it all every day, I'm not actually sure on its diuretic properties I have to say. And I think it is probably slightly diuretic so yeah I would actually maybe count one cup or something but also just watch out if you're having any diuretic type drinks, then it, even though you have loads of them it can actually be dehydrating you. So overall, so I would watch out for that one. Yeah. And is tap water okay I think I've answered that one. I have a lot of fluid retention all over my body. Anything to deal with this. Well that that finally enough can be to do with not getting enough water. But also it can, it can be related to a lot of different things so I probably need a little bit more information on that. Yeah, sorry but I must say that if you my five suggestions. I find that you know quite often I will do kind of more general things with a client to start with. And very often they have lots of different issues going on and very often improves them all, or you know, most of them. So if you kind of start doing these little steps, then it kind of just helps your body, you know, get the tools it needs to kind of heal itself and be more healthy. We have had fluid in the in the middle of many years has been investigated should be worried I don't know if it's been investigated I mean there's a lot of information online about it. So you could, you could have a look yeah I didn't know I know it's about 10% of the country had it. I didn't know where it was. Yeah, I would, I would investigate it and then maybe consider the filtering. Thank you for the advice will be taking a few more orders. I promise if I try to drink but supporter, I get a terrible headache. Okay, the only I would say just do it very gradually and and maybe drink it at room temperature. That might help as well. I actually find I pretty much always have my water and bit warmer than room temperature I'll do half from the top and then half from the kettle, just because it keeps me a bit warmer. And so that might help you know your body has to work quite hard to warm up cold water. So if you're trying to increase and and you get side effects like that just do it really slowly, maybe work out a plan for yourself. And you know how much more you're going to have each day, and hopefully won't get that. Get the headache. And when you say other foods may cause a similar problem like interglute and do you mean like the protein found in oats and casein milk or other other key ones. There's actually a long list. Yes, so it's just one of them actually. And dairy. Yes, is one of them. Then there but there are others there. So I mean even things like buckwheat, which you know I eat a lot of buckwheat pancakes. So I think I'm fine. You know if you eat a lot of one of them, and you haven't noticed anything. Well, I don't know maybe I'm a bit more in tune. But yeah, the eggs is another one. Yes, a lot of great soya is another one. Yeah, so what are the grains of the rice. But as I say, don't get worried about this right now. I would just kind of mean you can. You can kind of just if you kind of like have a have an idea of those ones I said so eggs, soy, rice, buckwheat oats. I think you're dairy. And yeah, and just kind of observe and also look at your diet and say am I eating a lot of the any of these and if I am maybe I'll cut it back a little bit because it might improve things. Thank you for this info I need to stop for the juice. What about soy. I think I just mentioned soy so soy is one of those. Yeah potential cross cross reaction reactive ones. Otherwise soy is a goichijan but as I said I'm not overly concerned about those. I always read about overweight with hyperthyroidism. I have a shimmy toes but struggle with being underweight. And well, yeah, this can be this is relatively common.  subjected to subjected to subjected to very often actually be related to your gut health. And I don't want to frighten you and it may well not be this, but it is possible that there are parasites which are far more common than you realize. In fact, probably most of us have some kind of parasites, but they won't necessarily affect us. So I did have a client who was quite underweight and had a massive appetite and was quite underweight. And we did a gut stool test and she did have a parasite, you know, not a dangerous one, not the ones that you see grim pictures of, but that are really long and stuff. But yeah, just something you can do things to kind of move them on, move them along. And that sometimes helps because yeah, parasites can take some of your nutrition. Sorry to interrupt you, but I think it's time for a comfort break now. So thank you very much for talking Alice. It's been brilliant. You're welcome. The rest of the questions I will send on to you and we can just do one great big document with all the rest of the questions. Great. I'll put it out for everybody to see. Our next speaker is Sarah Tomlin, a nutritional therapist who's going to explain how stress affects the thyroid. And I'm fairly stressed at the moment, so mine's gonna go a bit funny. We could all find this helpful, I think, at times in stress. Thank you very much for inviting me to speak. And it's been great to listen to everybody that's come before me. I am actually going to share some slides if that's okay, because I think that it adds value because I'm going to talk about the mechanism of stress on the body. So it can be quite useful just to have a visual. So I'm Sarah Tomlin, as Lynn has introduced. I'm a nutritional therapist and I use nutrition and lifestyle to combat the symptoms of thyroid disease, which as most of you will know, can be very challenging to say the very least. Today we're going to talk about how stress can actually affect the thyroid and if you can find ways to de-stress or to implement things that can make you feel more calm, then it can actually improve your thyroid symptoms. So what is stress? Well, stress manifests in different ways from emotional stress, physical stress, and stressors in the form of toxins, pesticides, as well as lack of sleep and elevated blood sugar, as well as some medications. And typical presenting symptoms can be insomnia, depression, fatigue, headache, upset stomach, and irritability. And as you can see, these are very similar to some of the thyroid symptoms that we present with. So it's really important to get to the root cause of what is actually causing these symptoms. Is it stress or is it the thyroid? It's really important to find out the root cause so that we can target the correct area. So all forms of stress send a message through the body. That message, it throws off our cortisol and our adrenaline, which can subsequently cause our thyroid to underperform. And I believe it's a really good idea to get to know your body and to get to know what's going on inside so you can get a better understanding of what could be the root cause and how you can heal. So during stress, we activate the HPA axis, and that stands for hypersalamic pituitary adrenal axis. The adrenal glands are part of the endocrine system, just like the thyroid. And there are two little glands that sit right on top of our kidneys. And stimulating this axis leads to a release of glucocorticoids like cortisol and catecholamines, like adrenaline. And both of these come from the adrenal glands that sit on the kidneys. And in fight or flight mode or sympathetic nervous system mode, adrenaline is released in response to a threat. And it's important, so there is to keep us alive because when we were cavemen and women, we needed to be alerted if there was a lion approaching or if danger was going to happen, or if famine was an issue and it would kind of increase our cortisol so that we responded to that message. Obviously nowadays stress comes in different forms like gills, emails, scary boss, or just life in general that brings us so much admin and things. So we really need to be careful that that stress does not become chronic. Because when it's chronic, that's when we start to have real problems. So the effect of stress on the thyroid hormones has been well documented in research papers. It actually suppresses the hypothalamic release of TRH, the pituitary release of TSH, and the production of thyroid hormones from the gland itself. So all three mechanisms of production are all inhibited by stress. And this is just the production. So we've still got the transportation of the hormones to consider how it travels around the body and whether we've got the right nutrients and the right sources to actually create the things, the proteins that carry the hormone around the body. And then that's not to mention the receptor site where the hormone is like T3 is taken up into the cells. So all of those can be affected as well. And the HPT axis, so as well as the HPA axis, we rely on the pituitary to send signals to the thyroid in the HPT axis. So it's the hypothalamic pituitary thyroid axis. And when the HPA axis is disrupted, it suppresses the HPT axis and thyroid function is diminished as a consequence. It also suppresses the conversion of T4 to T3. And as we all know, T3 is the active thyroid hormone, T4 is inactive. So while our T4 levels can be fine on a blood test, it's the conversion to T3 that we really need to look at as well. Because if it's not converting to T3, then we're unable to use it inside the cell. So the interplay between stress hormones and thyroid hormones also has an effect on the immune system. Stress hormones act on antigen presenting immune cells, which may influence the differentiation of T-helper cells part of our immune system. And the differentiation of the TH cells away from TH1, which you can see from the C-sort diagram towards TH2, leads to a suppression of cell-mediated immunity and a potentiation of humeral immunity. In other words, there's a shift in the immune system so that the arm that deals with antibodies is stimulated. And that's where thyroid autoimmunity presents itself. So either as Graves disease, which is hyperthyroidism in its autoimmune form, or Hashimoto's thyroiditis, which is hypothyroidism or underactivity of the thyroid gland. And these are diagnosed with antibodies, the thyroid globion antibodies, or thyroid peroxidase, TPO antibodies, are raised. And this is what is meant by the humeral response or the TH2 arm of the immune system. So stress drives us towards this. And some of us are more susceptible to autoimmunity than others because of our genetic makeup. But our gene expression changes depending on the environment too. So the environment in which we bathe our genes has a huge influence on whether they're switched on or not or how they're expressed. So their nutrition and lifestyle comes in so well, like Alice has just been speaking of, and Melissa, all of those changes that you can make to your diet gradually can all kind of help your genes to be surrounded by the nutrients that they need and so that they don't switch on towards that unfavorable side of autoimmunity. And stress can be one of the environmental factors for thyroid immunity. So we really want to avoid it at all costs. It's fine in small doses, but not that chronic stress that we can tend to just find ourselves in without realizing. So what we're striving for is a balance of the immune system here. We want that seesaw to lie flat. And that's what the human body is always striving for. We're always, it's always trying to come back to that homeostasis. So homeostasis is the self-regulating process by which biological systems tend to maintain stability while adjusting to conditions, optimal for survival. So we always, the body's always trying to bring back balance. But if we don't help it, then it can go in one or the other direction and that's when we start to get symptoms. So boosting immune system, as well as addressing thyroid medication and support are all things you can do to support yourself through times of stress. And especially in the last couple of years, we've all, I'm sure, experienced some level of stress that's kind of manifested in different ways. So paying attention to those symptoms is really important. So cortisol then, it's released from the adrenal cortex and the adrenal glands. And when stress is perceived, and I say perceived because stress is a perception, it's how we perceive things happening in the environment. So what I might find stressful, you might not and vice versa. So it's us actually processing that information that manifests in stress. So an influx of inflammatory cytokines occurs when we are under stress. And these inflammatory cytokines actually get in the way of conversion from T4 to T3. And they block it. Stress also increases cortisol. So high cortisol levels impair this conversion as well. But cortisol isn't all bad. It's essential for our survival, in acute situations, and it also helps to regulate our blood sugar level. And it increases body fat, again, for survival, for when we were cave for men and women. And it also defends the body against infections, but it's high levels of chronic cortisol that can have a negative effect on these things. And it can actually dysregulate our blood sugar if it's too high. So for example, cortisol will increase blood glucose, which impacts insulin. And then insulin gets high as it is released to bring the blood glucose from the blood into the cells. That's where we want the glucose because we want to make energy from it. But if the insulin is dysregulated, sometimes if the insulin is too high, then the body stops reacting to it because it thinks, there's too much, I can't cope with this, so I'm just not gonna let any blood glucose into the cell. And then we have high amounts left in the blood, just causing damage, which can actually lead to cardiovascular diseases and things where the glucose is actually damaging the blood vessels. And then your cholesterol becomes high because the cholesterol's job is to go and repair those damaged vessels. So that can have a knock-on effect on that. And people kind of get scared of cholesterol, but really it's just, when it's high, it's just doing its job. It's asking the question, well, why is it high? What's happening? What's it trying to repair? And why is the damage being done in the first place? So the impairment of T4 to T3 conversion can really inhibit and impair you getting that active T3 into the cell. And so high insulin and high glucose is definitely something that you don't want. insulin resistance is basically what I've just described. So again, it's the pancreas that releases insulin in response to blood glucose. So if you have a really carb, a carb, carbineal or I guess sweets or something really high in sugar, then your pancreas is going to release quite a lot of insulin to get that glucose out of the vessels, out of the blood, and into the cells before it does any damage. And if that keeps happening and keeps happening, then as I say, the insulin becomes high as well and the cells become desensitized to it. So it doesn't actually do its job and let the glucose in, which we don't want. So the insulin has nowhere to go but to stay in the blood. So hypothyroid symptoms can occur even though TSH, T3 and T4 may be normal because of the thyroid hormone resistance at the cell level. So insulin resistance can mean that the thyroid hormone resistance occurs as well, where the same thing is happening in the thyroid and it's just not uptaking those levels of T3. So whilst blood work can look fine, actually what's happening at the cell level is we're noticing that things aren't going quite right. So the T3 isn't actually being uptaken. And so therefore the thyroid isn't exerting its effect on the body. Intestinal permeability, or sometimes referred to as leech gut, is very damaging. 70% of our immune system lies in the gut. So the gastrointestinal tract, the lungs, the bloodstream barrier, they're all primary immune components of the body. And that's where immunity starts. So in the gastrointestinal tract, there are little holes that can occur and these can be triggered by toxins, gluten, as we've spoken about already today, and stress. And adrenal stress weakens the barriers and it weakens the immune system. And in the gut thyroid connection, when the barriers are breached, those large antigens, those large proteins from gluten or any other toxins or any kind of allergens, they go through the intestinal lining through the little gaps and that creates an inflammatory response as the immune system does its job and reacts. And when this happens over and over, the immune system gets out of whack and we become susceptible to other autoimmune diseases. So stress can turn on the gene where autoimmunity can express itself and stress can also break down immune barriers and create an autoimmune flare. And that's where we see autoimmunity express this out to in the form of celiac or Hashimoto's or graves. So inflammation is what occurs as a response to those antigens getting through that intestinal area. And the DIs in a family of enzymes mediates the activation and inactivation of thyroid hormone, as you may know, from the role of these enzymes in the regulation of thyroid hormone concentrations throughout the body is very well established. There's lots of research on it. Inflammatory cytokines will decrease D1 activity and reduce tissue T3 levels and conversion from T4 to T3. As you know, T4 is the inactive thyroid. T3 is the active hormone. So we want those levels of T3 to be present. The inflammatory cytokines, so the interleukin one, interleukin six, CRP, T and F alpha, you may have heard of them. But those are the ones that increase the activity of D2 and suppress the TSH despite reduced peripheral T3 levels. So inflammation will stimulate D3, producing more reverse T3, which can block the action of T3, further causing cellular hypothyroidism by suppressing the intracelular T4 to T3 conversion and blocking the T3 receptor inside the cell. A little bit confusing, but hopefully you're with me. So, estrogen, cortisol elevations decrease your liver's ability to clear excess estrogens. So the excess estrogens have to go through the liver down a certain pathway to be beneficial and for the metabolites actually to be excreted out of the body. Hormones aren't just used once. Sometimes they are, but they're reused several times before they are excreted, but we don't want them to kind of be reused too many times and kind of worn out so that they don't exert their beneficial effects. And we want to make sure the liver is working optimally to be able to excrete those metabolites out because the unfavorable one can cause or can contribute to cancer. Estrogens related cancers like breast cancer. So we really do want to optimize that our liver. And excess estrogen will also increase thyroid binding globulin. So as I spoke about before, the transportation of thyroid hormone around the body is significant because it will reduce the amount of free thyroid available to be picked up by the cell. So it will show up in the blood as low T3 uptake and low free T3 and free T4 women who take contraception, containing estrogen, can contribute to estrogen dominance, which can affect the thyroid because there isn't that level available because it's bound to this hormone that's carrying them around. So we can increase our cruciferous vegetables, fiber and protein and water. These all contribute to good liver metabolism. And I know that Goetjegens were spoken of before. And like Alice said, it's my understanding from the research I have read that it's not quite as much of a problem as we once thought. Obviously, it was that eating these vegetables raw was going to increase your goiter or cause a goiter. And that's not necessarily the case now. Or you would have to eat loads and loads of raw vegetable, raw cruciferous vegetables for it to take effect. But if you cook vegetables, then they're not going to exert any sort of goitrogenic effect. So if you have like, I don't know, raw raw bits of broccoli in a dip or something at a party, it's not going to do you any damage. It might if you went on like a raw diet and they're everything raw, then it may kind of contribute to it. But for most people, it's not going to cause a problem. And oxidative stress, you may have heard of. Both hyperthyroidism and hypothyroidism have been shown to be associated with oxidative stress, which is an imbalance of pro-oxidants. So damaging molecules and antioxidants, which we can which we make endogenously. So we make food to thine in our bodies. And the thyroid gland actually is a unique organ that requires hydrogen peroxide for high for thyroid hormone formation. And this is actually a pro-oxidant. And and because of that combative thyroid cells contain antioxidants to protect their own cells from this hydrogen peroxide. And loss of this balance may result in thyroid cell dysfunction and thyroid disease. So it's really important that the oxidative stress is managed by antioxidants. And we can help with that by increasing our antioxidant intake from the diet. So green tea, blueberries, berries of all sorts, lots of just good kind of natural foods that's grown under the ground or on a tree or, you know, just living things, plant based foods, all the different colors of the rain, but so I'm sure you've you've heard banded about a lot, but red foods, orange, yellow, green. If you can try and include all of those different colors of the rainbow over the course of a week, sometimes it's difficult to get them all in in one day. But if you can try and strive for that in a week, then you're doing well. Because you're each of those colors means that there are different properties contained in that fruit or vegetable, for example. And in the skins where that color resides, you'll get lots of lots of antioxidants. So it's really important to include those combat those pro oxidants. So what can we do? Well, antioxidants is a big one. First, we need to remove things that may be irritating your thyroid and causing it to send out a stress signal in the first place. So things like toxins can cause thyroid inflammation as a result of this oxidative damage. And this trigger the thyroid to send out the stress response, which is picked up by the immune system. So gluten, as has been talked about, is a known antigen, and it can cause a lot of people problems. And other food, foods that can cause problems, even those like eggs and nightshades, they all need to be looked at because they're all different for everybody. And some people might get on fine with loads of tomatoes, whereas others might really suffer with indigestion. And it's about you don't have to necessarily cut these things out forever. But it's about looking at what the triggers are and then repairing the damage that might have been caused by your gut reacting to these triggers and then replacing any nutrients that is perhaps lacking. So why aren't you able to digest tomatoes? Well, it could be a hydrochloric acid problem. It could be you haven't got the enzymes there. It could be any other cofactors that need to kind of help in the digestion. So it's about looking at the person as an individual and finding out what their triggers are. And we also need to re inoculate. So the stress weakens the thyroid through its actions on the adrenals and can help negative bacteria to proliferate. And if we've got lots of kind of pathogenic bacteria, there's not enough room for the good bacteria and there's so much research on bacteria. You could do a whole day's webinar on gut bacteria, but we need to have that good bacteria to exert its effects on the body. And if there's too much pathogenic there, then you just not making room for them. So you could have a probiotic or prebiotic. Or I would recommend eating foods that are prebiotics. So the prebiotics actually feed the probiotics, so things like leeks and onions and garlic and you can also have kefir and kombucha, as was mentioned earlier, and those kind of fermented things that will promote proliferation of good bacteria. And then rebalancing the adrenals and the immune system and our detoxification capabilities. And again, that's looking at the person as an individual and finding out which of those areas are really affected. And then how can we talk then we can discover things that we can give them that can target that through food or through supplements. That stabilizing blood sugar is essential because, as I say, cortisol is so intrinsically linked with insulin and blood sugar. So in the absence of type two diabetes or insulin resistance, it's still important to keep blood sugar level stable. Because if we don't, we can have those energy slumps in the afternoon. Particularly about four o'clock, I find that clients tend to say, I can't, you know, that I actually have like brain fog and I just put to sleep for an hour if I were able to at four o'clock. Or you wake up and it takes a long time to kind of get going. So to do this, we can obviously reduce our sugary process foods and caffeine, because caffeine pulls cortisol into the blood. It's often why people reach for a cup of coffee first thing so that they can kind of get that hit of cortisol coursing through their blood and reduce the carbohydrate, heavy foods as well, like white pasta, white bread. Even white potatoes could be swapped with sweet potatoes. Not all the times white potatoes are good, but, you know, sweet potatoes are more fibrous and they with the foods that have a lot of fiber. Then they tend to kind of hold back the sugar from going into your blood too quickly, like almost like a kind of net. As the fibrous tissues go together, the blood sugar doesn't get out so quick. So you don't get those peaks and troughs throughout the day where you have a sugar spike and then a dip where the insulin's come out to get all the sugar, left you with not enough sugar in your blood and you tend to feel that dip. So balancing your blood sugar throughout the day is really good to keep your energy level stable and has knock-on effects to sleep and everything. So improve your quality of sleep as well. There's lots of things you can do with that. Limit snacking, include protein with every meal, because it's satiating. You're less likely to reach for the carbohydrates, which can put that blood sugar level up. And other things you can do are obviously looking at your depletion. So what nutrients could potentially be lacking and we can try and find that out based on symptoms. Tyrosine is a critical precursor to T4 and T3. Low dietary intake of this as well as stress can result in inadequate tyrosine. As adrenaline also uses tyrosine and in its synthesis and may compete for it. So if you're very stressed, then the tyrosine might be taken from the kind of thyroid pool and used in that part in the HPA axis rather than the HPT axis. Zinc, selenium, copper, iodine, they're all needed for the adrenal cortex to function. Obviously they're needed for the thyroid as well. And the HPA axis would always take precedence as it's for our survival. And I know without, you know, our thyroid is kind of critical to us being alive. But the court is always kind of the major hormone in the body that will always take precedence because it could mean life or death if we are having to run from a lion. Magnesium, although it's been mentioned, is brilliant for sleep. And iron levels need to be optimal as well. Vitamin D, Melissa talked about. So we won't go over it again. Amiga 3, Alex talked about critical B vitamins, these help with the energy production in our mitochondria. And then you can have herbal adaptions as well that are specific to stress. So they kind of moderate stress levels. Rhodiola, ginseng, chisandra, ashwagandha, those kind of herbs can be useful in helping you to be calm, Valyrian as well as quite a good one for sleep. And theanine as well, which you can find in green tea. But all of these need to be considered on an individual basis and interactions need to be checked. So yes, I wouldn't kind of recommend all of those as a blanket. But we can look at those on an individual basis and find out what suits you. So lastly, just another, not just, but a really important thing.  compass查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查 step off it and actually figure out what we need. Meditation has been shown to really, really help. Scientific studies based on it, and it's about carving time into your day and putting it as a priority that actually your health depends on you slowing down. So making time to fit that into the day is really important. And it engages our parasympathetic nervous system mode, not our sympathetic nervous system. So I rest and digest rather than fight or flight and that's when we're digesting food well, then we're leaving away all those nutrients that are in the food and they're going to the bits of the body that need them. So that's it for the presentation. And so I don't know how much time we've got, but if anyone's got any questions, then... Could I just ask Caroline, are you okay to wait another five minutes just for a couple of questions? Okay, for real, thank you. Okay, questions there are... So, Paul, I can see what foods contain tyrosine. Tyrosine's an amino acid. So it's going to be in your meat. If you're vegetarian though or vegan, then you can get your amino acids from things like quinoa and other plant-based proteins. So beans, lentils, chickpeas, eggs. What I will say though, if you're vegetarian, you need to have a very varied range of these protein foods so that you're having the whole complement of amino acids that you need. So we get it all from meat. It's just a bit harder as a vegetarian to find all of those, but you can very well do it. You just need to have a variety of grains and beans and various proteins from plants. Okay, Sarah, if we can go up a bit, then I think the first question was the NHS don't recognize Leaky Gupt today. Well, no, I don't think so. I think that's a quick answer. Yeah, I mean, Leaky Gupt is a bit of more of a colloquialism, really, intestinal permeability they may well. I think some doctors are open to it and some aren't, but as a rule, I'm not sure that the NHS would really, or they said to, even if they recognize it, they wouldn't really have any treatment for it, I wouldn't think. They would treat things like low stomach acid or high stomach acid with a metrozol, but they won't necessarily look at the function so what the cells are doing. So no, unfortunately, I don't think so. Some levels of stress, one cannot get away from work-related stress. Yes, exercise is definitely a good counter. We don't realize how good it is actually, but the endorphins that we produce and the opioids on our natural anti-stressers and so yes, we definitely can get those from exercise and being out in nature if you go for a run. D1, D2 and D3, they're the DI adenase enzymes. They are located in the liver, the brain, kidney, thyroid and they're needed to actually, in the conversion of T4 to T3. So without them, we wouldn't be able to uptake thyroid hormone. Is there a test that determines if you can uptake problems at a cellular level? Is it worth measuring your level of thyroid? Yes, I would say it is because then you can, or free T4 and free T3 is the measure really because if there's enough of that, then you'll know that the thyroid binding globulin is okay. If those are low, then you know that they're going to be bound to the thyroid binding globulin and therefore they're going to be not available to be uptaken, so if free T3 and free T4 levels are okay, then your thyroid binding globulin level is probably sound. A test to determine if you can have an uptake problem at the cellular level. Yes, I believe there is a T3 uptake test not done through your doctor. It would need to be done privately, but many checks might be able to do that. I don't think they do. Oh, don't know, okay. Maybe somewhere else then like Genova might be able to do that, but I can find out. Interesting to hear cytokine responses mentioned at term I haven't heard until, okay, interesting. Yes, well I suppose our immune systems, unless we've had an autoimmune disease or something like that, haven't really, we haven't really needed to learn about them and we haven't really heard much about them. So I think COVID-19 has definitely educated a lot of us about our immune system. Top five supplements, or top supplement recommendations for leaky gut. I would say firstly, you have to reduce the triggers eliminate the triggers, I should say, to take those away. And then I would repair the gut with things like glutamine that's very binding. That will actually knit the cells together. If they're kind of leaky like that, then the cells will go together with the glutamine. Slippery Elm you could also use. It's very soothing on the gut as well. And also just making sure your protein levels are good. Your collagen levels are up. So taking that in through protein and things like bone broth is really good for that. Again, if you're a vegetarian, you can't get your kind of gelatinous collagen from bone broth, but I would go down the glutamine route and that will help to knit those cells together. What dose and brand of tyrosine? Tyrosine I would get, I tend to want to get it through food. So I'd make sure your protein levels through food are up there. We can measure that and work out depending on you as an individual, your levels of protein. All supplements are same, definitely not. You kind of get what you pay for in terms of supplements. So there are better brands than others. And there's a lot of the cheaper ones that you might get through supermarkets, not all, but some a lot of the time, things like glutamine, glutamine is glutamine, so it's fairly cheap. But other things that contain a lot of fillers. So like vitamin D, for example, capsules might contain a lot of fillers and a lot of things that you're not really going to want to take. Because the actual dose of supplement is so tiny, they need to make it into something you can actually swallow. So carrageen and gum and things like that, magnesium, steroid, not necessarily things that you want to be putting in. And they themselves could cause, could be irritating to the gut. So what you're trying to heal is actually being made worse by these supplements that you're taking because the excipients in them. ITP and the H-H-Roma spleen removed. Wasn't diagnosed with undirected thyroid until I was 22, listening today, I'm thinking they could both be linked. Yeah, definitely because the spleen is part of your immune system as well. And also it's where blood cells are kind of deconstructed. So that's, and things like iron are reused. So possibly there could be nutrient deficiencies as a result of that, which can have a knock on effect, obviously, as we've talked about on the thyroid. So potentially, yes, we're all linked as well. Everything is linked in the body. So as one thing is affected, something else is going to be negatively or positively. So yes. Okay, I think that's it. So thank you very much, Sarah. No, you're welcome. Thank you, it's a pleasure to be here. Now it's very interesting. I'm sure it's helped a lot of people to understand why stress is so important to try and reduce it in some way. I hope so. Thank you very much for the privilege. Thank you. Speak to you again soon. Bye. Bye. Okay, so I'm just not sure if everybody knows exactly what T3 is. So I thought I'd just give it a quick go over. I know that I think it's one of the speakers give talk about it a little bit, but just very quickly, lyothyronine is the chemical form of the hormone T3. And it is available as a medicine. But unfortunately, there's been some issues with the prescribing of it in the UK, which I'll talk about in a moment. The body actually produces T4, thyroxine, and T3. So the thyroid produces about 85% of thyroxine and about 15% of T3. And this will depend on whichever piece of research you read. It does change in some of the research. So the T3 is actually available because of the amount that the thyroid produces. It's available immediately. But the rest of it, most of it needs to be converted from thyroxine into T3 in various organs in the body. But everybody converts at a different rate. And that can be due to nutrition. Things like selenium, you need to have plenty of, or your thyroid, your body won't be able to convert it very well. And people that have no thyroid like myself, or that have had it destroyed by antibodies, probably don't have any T3 to begin with. So they really need T3, we find. So the lyth iron is the replacement medication, and some people find it very beneficial to add to their leavers of oxygen, and it can make a huge difference to their symptoms. But unfortunately, due to the massive price rise that the different pharmaceutical companies have increased it by over the past few years, the NHS restricted its use, and this is one of the reasons that we are campaigning. So you can catch up with what we've done over the past few years on our T3 campaign page, and I'll give you the link at the end. We've done a lot of things on our own, and we did a lot of work with the other thyroid groups. Particularly the dossier. We worked with NHS England and other organisations to change the guidance, because we weren't very happy with it. So unfortunately, COVID did put a stop to a lot of the campaigning. So not much has been done since COVID started because Parliament weren't doing anything and the House of Lords weren't doing anything either. But during that time, we did let people know about the nice guidance, which we did put a submission in. Unfortunately, it wasn't exactly what we wanted. We weren't happy with the wording, and we had to have various conversations with NICE to try and get them changed. One of the things that they did do was put a note in about the RMOC, the Regional Medicines Optimisation Committee guidance, that we helped to change along with the other thyroid groups. NICE did put this into the guidance, but it was hidden light at the end in a little footnote. We were not happy about that because doctors and patients wouldn't be able to see it very well. So they did change it, and now it's a bit more visible. We have links to both the guidances and where the link is to the RMOC guidance, which is really important because it states some important comments, one of which is the majority of patients suffering from hypothyroidism can be treated effectively both the rocks in a loan, but lyothyrolinean is perceived to be an important medicine for a small proportion of patients in order to maintain health and well-being. And also it states the majority of patients suffering from hypothyroidism can be... Well, I just read that one, sorry. The prescribing of lyothyrolinean is only supported if initiated by or considered appropriate following a review by an NHS endocrinologist. And then lastly, in rare situations where patients experience continuing symptoms whilst on levothyroxine, that have a material impact upon normal day-to-day function and other potential causes have been investigated and eliminated, a three-month trial with additional lyothyrolinean may be appropriate. Well, because nice point people to the RNOC guidance, this means that they actually approve it. And this is something that I think if you're going to try and get T3 back or if you're going to try and get a trial of T3, you need to have this information. So do print the guidance this off, highlight the relevant areas and make a little dossier of your own of information that you need. So we know that patients are still having their T3 withdrawn. Patients are still being refused a trial of T3. And this is usually down to the various protocols of local clinical commissioning groups. We know that still a lot of CCGs are not allowing prescribing. Even if doctors and endocrinologists want to prescribe, they're not being allowed to. However, there has been some good news recently that we hope is going to make a big change. You've probably heard about the competition and markets authority, finding that they found from 2009 until 2017 that advanced charged excessive and unfair prices for supplying myotherin in tablets. In actual fact, the price rise actually began in 2007 and slowly increased the price by more than 6,000%. I remember having meetings with, it was Mercury Pharma then. And this was around the time that they changed it from the branded T3 to the generic T3. And it was at that point that they started to increase the price. The CMA find advanced and two private equity firms called Syngven and HD Capital, over a hundred million pounds altogether. So I don't know if you're aware, but Syngven and HD Capital were previous owners of the business, but they're now part of advance. Private equity companies buy and restructure companies to make more money for people. Personally, I don't think this should be allowed. And we're very pleased that the CMA took this action. Although they refined a few weeks ago, normally it takes, I think it's six or eight weeks for the company that have been fined to appeal. But in the case of advance, they asked for an extension of time to file a notice of appeal in respect of this. And this was granted on the 3rd of August, 2021, which allowed them to extend the appeal until the 14th of October. So that time has passed. So I'm not exactly sure if they can appeal again. I don't think they can. But the CMA then have a period of time to put in an answer to the appeal. So that's what we're waiting for now. So in a couple of weeks time, we'll find out whether they do actually have to pay the fine. And then by that time, I think things will start to happen. We are really hoping that the price of lythyrinine will reduce even further. It has reduced. Bless you. It has already reduced. A few, a couple of years ago, the price was about £248 for a 28-kill tablet packet. Now it's down to £92.51 at the moment. And we are hoping, especially if they are definitely find that the price will come down even further. And that CCGs will start allowing lythyrinine to be prescribed more often. So this is one of the reasons I'm really interested to see what the answer is to Lord Hunt's question to Her Majesty. Her Majesty's government, that are they going to take it off of a high-price medicine? So we'll have to wait and see what happens there. Thyroid UK will soon be putting together a T3 info pack, which will include the NICE guidance and the RNOC guidance. Plus we have some letters, an email from the chair of NHS Clinical Commissioning and the Deputy Chief Pharmaceutical Officer of NHS England and NHS Improvement, which states, we anticipate that there are likely to be exceptions where prescribing may be clinically appropriate to continue. We also have a copy of a letter from the Medicines Policy Unit, stating that NHS Clinical Commissioning have committed to recirculating the national RNOC guidance on lythyrinine to reinforce this with their CCG members. Thyroid UK will be following this up and sending them a letter to find out whether this has been done and if there has been any responses to do with that. So what you need to do if you want to try and access T3, the first thing you need to do is to find a doctor, a GP, an NHS GP and an NHS endocrinologist who is willing to help you. You might find out via our forum to see if other people have found a GP and an endocrinologist in your area. This can't be discussed on the boards, but it can be discussed by a private message. We do have a list here of endocrinologists who we know have prescribed T3. So if you send an email to admin, tukadminatthyroiduk.org, we can send you that list. The best thing you can do is to show proof that you need a trial. You need to have low FT3 levels. By low, it could be under the range or at the bottom of the range. Another option is to try and get a positive DIO2 gene polymorphism result. So there are testing companies that do the DIO2 gene test, although one of them, there's a huge backlog, so they've stopped doing them at the moment. But as soon as they come on board, which I think is going to be in November, if you can possibly afford to get it done, you would need to get it done privately because the NHS don't do it, I'm afraid. Another thing that you might come across as a barrier is that your GP may not want to prescribe T3. If your endocrinologist wants to prescribe it for you as a trial, he can do that with a prescription from the hospital. After the trial, he then needs to move it over to your GP. And for this, you need what's called a shared care agreement. Now, we have come across people who have managed to get a shared care agreement between the endo and the GP, but we've also come across GPs who don't want to do it because once that happens, it means the GP then has to bear the cost of the T3. Now, because the prices come down, you could use this and it may encourage them to take part in a shared care agreement. Hopefully the price will come down further. It used to be much, much cheaper. I think it was something like nine pounds a pack or something. I can't exactly remember, but hopefully it will come down a little bit more and this might make people might encourage the medics to prescribe it. We know that you shouldn't have to fight so hard for this medication, but it will make a huge difference to a lot of people. So we do encourage you to start fighting. Start writing letters. Don't just do it verbally because once it's in writing, it might make more of a difference. Fyrode UK and the other charities, the other Fyrode charities are still campaigning for you and we will continue to campaign until this matter is sorted. So we need your help to continue campaigning. We do need more money to, as I said before, to. We need a new office so that we can employ someone else to help us with the campaigning. And by doing this, it will help us continue what we call our vital work to help people with thyroid disease. So you can help us by donating. There will be details of how to do this at the end of the webinar, but please donate if you can. Even one pound would help. If you found this webinar helpful, then please consider making a donation of three pounds, which you can do easily by texting TOW to 70085 or by clicking the donate button that's at the top right hand corner of now. Don't forget to join in our Winging It campaign to promote thyroid awareness week and butterfly day if you can. So if anyone has any questions, then I can perhaps answer some of them. So I'll just stop the share for the time being. So if anyone has any questions, please feel free to ask them. So I'll just stop the share for the time being. So if anyone does have any questions, I'll try and answer them for you. Let me just go to the chat. There's quite a lot of questions. OK. In terms of levels for T3, what should we be looking for in blood test results? I've read somewhere that even if your results show that you are on the top of the range, as always with thyroid hormones, it's what is optimal for you. Yes, I do agree that what is optimal for you. The problem is if you have a T3 level that is near the top of the range, I doubt very much if you'll get T3 on the NHS because they will consider that that is optimal and you don't need it anymore. But yes, some people need higher levels, as in all the thyroid hormone levels. Some people are better at the bottom and some people are better at the top, depending on which test it is. So I'm currently trialling T3, but through private endo after having been on T4 only for one year, up from TSH and T4 all the 21, but still having symptoms. Additionally, T3 makes a big difference already for me. Yeah, we do find this even, you know, it's only some people only need 10 micrograms of T3 and it will make a huge difference. Some people need 20. Some people need a lot more, though, I must say. Some people feel better on NDT. With NDT, there's more T3 in it than a human. So you would end up probably having more T3 and perhaps an NHS doctor would prescribe. But we do suggest constantly testing so that you can find out where your normal is, where you feel better. I'm still prescribed T3, but find those little knowledge by doctors. Yeah, definitely it does cause suppressed TSH and this is a worry for doctors because they think it will affect your heart. But if they worry about that, I would suggest asking them to do a heart trace just to confirm that your heart is fine. It would be a good idea. Also, they suggest that it causes osteoporosis. So I would suggest again that you had a bone scan, ask them to do a bone scan just to confirm that you don't have osteoporosis from being on T3. OK, I hope I've heard no toes. Oh, wow, you have a lot of issues. She's on 75 to 100 micrograms to leave though. It's a huge overlap with my symptoms. Yeah. Currently, because numbers are normal. It's very difficult if you have more than one autoimmune disease or other diseases as well as thyroid disease. Sometimes it's really difficult to work out which symptoms go with which disease, unfortunately, with B12 deficiency. The symptoms are even closer. All I can suggest really, and I'm not a medic, is just to try one thing at a time and see what helps. It's probably better when you have a lot of different diseases to try and and find a medic that would be willing to help you a little bit closer than you can get on the NHS. I was told by my endocrinologist, Eva Thropsen, is the treatment. I'm in Scotland. It's someone in a support group 12 miles away from me gets prescribed.  other people had to fund it themselves. It varies so much up here, I do not understand why. You're talking about levosaroxin, or you're talking about T3. I mean, we know there is a postcode lottery all across the UK, and this is something that is not supposed to happen, and it's something that we really have tried to campaign about, but the price hike of T3 really got in the way of that, and then so did COVID. So these are things that we will be looking at in the future. Oh yeah, so you did mean lias ironing. I mean, you should really be able to get a trial, but as I said before, get some T3 testing done, try and get the DIO2 test done and see if that helps. Can NHS not source T3 from other companies? This is something I'm often asked, and unfortunately, I mean, if you've got a really good and understanding doctor, he could put the name, he could put Henning on the prescription, and then you could find a pharmacy that will access that one for you. We do have a list of pharmacies, both wholesale pharmacies and non-hol sale. Some of those can get it on the NHS if it's marked on the prescription. If you can get a private prescription, some doctors will give a private prescription, then you can access the Henning from UK wholesale pharmacies, we'll get it in for you, and the price is much cheaper than the UK. It works out, I think, about 40 to 50 pounds for three months supply. For a lot of people, that is durable. I was also diagnosed, but I'm not sure, trigger symptoms, okay. The endo team at my local hospital don't accept DIO2 test results. That's unfortunate, I've not had that before, generally they do accept. I don't know what to say about that, really, because you might change your endo, but if it's the team that aren't doing it, perhaps to start writing some letters, go to your local pals and see if you can get something done like that. I know it's difficult fighting sometimes if you're not that kind of person, but perhaps try taking, I know this sounds a bit sexist, but we have found if you take a man in with you to an appointment, sometimes it works a bit better, they'll listen a bit more. I know it shouldn't be like that, but it is. If you still have your thyroid intact in order to apply for T3, do you have to show that you've tried all the nutritional methods and reduced your stress levels in order to make sure they are not the reasons for the lack of conversion? I mean, we always suggest that people try other things first, you know, check your selenium levels or try taking selenium to see if that helps. Try all the other nutritional things, get a good multivitamin and mineral tablet, try and see if that works, reduce your stress, definitely try these other things. And for some people, that will work. To be honest, a lot of doctors, when you go to see them, they wouldn't even think about the nutritional side of things and nor endocrinologists that do bring it up because the more that they understand about that, the better. Do I have to ask my GP for a shared care agreement or does my NHS with private endocrinologists ask for it to be set up after my trial? In my experience, a shared care agreement isn't always asked for. So just see what happens, you know, if your endo writes to your NHS GP and he's willing to prescribe it, don't mention a shared care agreement because it will just be another barrier against getting it. But if you hit a barrier with that, then you might need to start fighting to try and get a shared care agreement in place. The texting tour doesn't work. It's funny, for some people it does work fine, but for a few people it doesn't work. If you're finding it doesn't work, then please just go to the donate button at the top of our homepage and donate the £3 that way. So yes, I take 10 micrograms in addition to 40 to 45 of these, and this seems beneficial so far. Everybody is so, so different. I'm a bit confused as to whether I have Hashimoto's or not. A few metologists have pointed out last year said that I had autoimmune hypothyroidism, as I already had had connoisseurs anemia, which is also an autoimmune disease. I have high TPO antibodies, so is that Hashimoto's? It seems that only 90 to 97% of autoimmune hypothyroidism is Hashimoto's, so what is the definition for Hash's? If you have the TPO antibodies, especially if they're very high, it's probably Hashimoto's. Hashimoto's is the cause of about 90 to 95% of thyroid disease. So I would say you do have Hash's if you've got TPO antibodies. Often, once you go on to thyroid medication, sometimes liver works well, the antibodies will come down. And as far as I'm aware, the more your thyroid is destroyed, the antibodies will come down, but not for everybody. Sometimes people always have antibodies, and you can have flare-ups, they can go down, and then you can have Hashimoto's flare-ups, which I think can often be linked to stress, so the less stress you have, the better. I've been holding up my TPO at the weekend because on TSH being below the range and retesting three months. OK, some people can take T4 every day. Some people take it alternative days. Some people have been told to only take it at the weekend. What I will say is it can reduce your TSH, but if you're not having symptoms of overactivity, so if you're not feeling hot all the time, having tremors, things like that, then you're probably not actually on too much. What I would suggest is if you just always take your TSH, always have your testing at the same time of day, because that can change up and down. A lot of people don't take their medication before their test because that can give a spike in T4 and possibly then lower your TSH. As I say, I'm not a medic. I just go on my own experience and experiences of others that I've heard. OK, wow, lots of questions still. Any particular fillers in synthetic meds that tend to cause problems? I don't think I get on with Manitow, for example, and definitely didn't retain for T4. Very expensive. Is there ever any chance of getting tyrosine prescribed on the NHS? OK, we do know that Manitow is causing issues for a lot of people. There was a huge problem in France with it, and they managed to overturn it with a huge campaign they had over there. This is a campaign that we do want to do, but as I said before, we need more staff. We can only deal with one campaign at a time. There are, I do know that other people have had issues with other things that go into the tablets. On our list of medications that we have, medication list for hyper and a medication list for hyper, we do know that there are some other thyroid tablets with various different excipients, and there are some with hardly any at all. But for those ones, they are more expensive and you would need to get it prescribed by your GP. I do know that some people have managed to get tyrosine prescribed on the NHS, but they would need to ask their GP to write it on the prescription as a particular brand. OK, so, different in London. After the expense of a local team, there are at Cedar Centre in Guildford, hoping two other people had bad experience of ill wear if you want a second opinion, unless they had changed their tune in the last year. Tor doesn't work for me either. Thank you very much, Dor. Oh, dear. My GP told me to go for a walk for 20 minutes a day to solve all my thyroid problems. Very helpful, not. That's not very helpful, is it? I've never seen an endo. Should be seeing one. My blood's fluctuate. I mean, you can ask for an endo, but you may need to fight to get one. I mean, it was bad enough before COVID, but now COVID is here. And because of the issue of only endocrinologists being able to prescribe, obviously, their lists have got longer and longer. So what they tend to do is look at test results that the GP sends them. If you don't have a low T3, then they often won't give you an appointment, I'm afraid. I'm on 225 micro-anxelivore days. It seems a lot compared to others. Yeah, it is. It's not a hugey-hoogie. High dose, but it is a lot. I mean, I think the average is about 150 micrograms. Personally, I'm on NDT. And I'm on three grains, which is equal to 300 of levo. Some people I know are on four or five grains. Some people I know are on 400 levo. It's very rare to find a GP that would give them. I mean, I'm on NDT. It's very rare to find a GP that would give those high doses. So the new ender in London likes to check the peak at five hours after meds. I always used to do it in the morning before meds. And now having to do the test later in the afternoon, and I think it's about two to six to six and a half hours. The problem is the TSH reduces quite quickly after nine o'clock, and then it reduces even more in the afternoon. So if your doctor's looking at the TSH, you have to be careful because it might show low in the afternoon. A private little blue Perticean endo was in with a five minutes. She increased my levo from 125 to 150, had blood tests after three weeks, and she put me back on 125. Told to eat one carb meal a day, also had a throat scan, but all OK. Can I add any further non-jewel advice? I mean, I would definitely look at other issues just in case. Check your selenium levels if you can. Sorry. Sorry. Sorry. I can hear some interference in the background that it's difficult to hear you. I'm wondering if everybody could mute themselves if that's possible. OK. Let me just check. I thought everybody was muted. Catgirl isn't muted if you could. No, that's not just a muted. Everybody else is muted except for me. So. Sorry. Sorry. No, it's OK. OK. And then thank you. Oh, sorry. Let me go back to somebody called Claire Bell isn't muted. OK, I've muted her now. OK. Oh, sorry. Sorry. Let me just go back. What range is low T3? Obviously, all the tests, the levels of the test change depending on which area you live in. T3 is. It can change. It's somewhere between three and six or anywhere in that region. So really just you need to know what the range is and then where your level is. So anywhere near the bottom is classed as low. And the same for T4 really. It's difficult because everybody is different in my area. T4 is 12 to 12. In some areas, it's something like 17 to 19 even. So it does depend on the assays that your area is using. Only check. If I only check the peak, what does it likely mean at other times? I wonder if I might show underdiagnose other times when the peak is within range. It does depend and we always suggest have it done. At the same time, every time so that you've got something to go by. You've got a benchmark. Is a horse throw a symptom of hypo? Yes, definitely. A lot of people have that as a symptom. Thank you, Zoe. I hope you managed to do something about that. I'm going to talk about it a bit more in a bit more detail. I'm going to talk about it as a symptom. Just because. Thank you, Zoe. I hope you managed to do some of the things that I've suggested. Is it best to take tablets in the morning and wait 30 minutes before eating drinking? Definitely wait at least 30 minutes before eating and drinking. Some people find it best to take the tablets in the morning. They can take them in the evening before they go to bed. Again, it's very individual. It's just by trial and error that you can find out. I have a private specialist in Alden. He does not work for NHS. He's coming from Poland. So what you say he is not able to prescribe T3. If you're seeing a private specialist, he'll give you a private prescription. If you're registered in the UK, then he can give you a UK prescription. But I don't know. Pre Brexit, he may be able to give you a private prescription. I am not sure. You need to ask him when you see him. Any advice on how if lowering hormone levels can affect those of Levo Lyon? Levo Lyon was stable on Levo Lyon, but on the last test, my T3 level is now slightly higher above range, which coincided with low estrogen symptoms starting. And there was left on San Jose for now, with retest in three months. I mean, obviously HRT isn't really my area, but I do know that estrogen, I think during the talks, estrogen can cause an issue. What I'll do is I'll ask the speaker that spoke about hormones, that question, and I'll get her to respond. Boots recently changed manufacturer. I think you'll probably find, so this is Dawn, boots recently changed manufacturer supply in my Levo, and I noticed a deterioration in my health. Can you tell me where to find the details on your site of the best one without the mandatory please? And I will ask my pharmacist to order in. If you can send me an email to enquiries at thyroid UK.org, then I can send it to you. What I will do though, everybody that attended, all the attendees will get an email on Monday, with a copy, a link to the recording, and I will put that in the email. I'll put some of the things that I've talked to people about in the email. Links for them. I've heard it's okay to take T3 with food, contrary to T4, is that your experience? The problem is there was some research about T4 and food, and coffee, and calcium. But I don't think there's been any actual research about this, not that I'm aware of. So we're just assuming the same will happen. So it's probably best to take it without food. I know that's difficult if you take some in the morning and some in the afternoon. All I can say is just try it and see what happens. You'll soon find out if you start to notice symptoms come back. What about having it around other meds and supplements? Again, we know that T4, you shouldn't be taking it with iron, coffee, and calcium. It's best to leave it for hours for some of those, two hours for others. We usually suggest taking those things around lunchtime. Some of them you have to take with food anyway. I've only been a little over a couple of weeks, I need to start now as I'm getting very little sleep, because this is off. It does, I mean, two weeks actually is very little time to see improvement. It takes about eight days for Leavos and Robson, the half-life is eight days to get into your system. So it will be possibly, I know it's bad to say, I don't want to upset you, but it can take a few months for you to actually get back to normal if your body doesn't need T3. So two weeks is really very small amount of time. It's not like taking a painkiller. It can take a few weeks for things to take effect. What you'll notice is probably is that in a couple of weeks time, you might find that you feel better one day. The next day, you don't feel so good. And then you'll have a couple of days later on that you feel good, and then you'll go back and you don't feel well for three days. This is how it often works. Whatever you do, when you have a good day, don't start doing the garden or start painting somewhere, or do anything that you think, oh, good, I'm feeling great. I'm going to get this done. Don't do that because that will make things worse. You really need to wait. Don't overdo things right at the beginning, just because you feel well for a couple of days, it can put you back a bit. Is it normal to have temperature fluctuations hot and cold? It's not normal to have a fan on in the night sometimes. It does seem to be for some people. Obviously, I don't know your age. It could be mixed in with menopausal symptoms. It could be that you have Hashimoto's, and that can sometimes give you overactive symptoms sometimes and other times. Everybody is so different. I can't really give a definitive answer to that, except that for some people it can be like that. Taking HOT definitely reduces the absorption, as I climb to my detriment. There are some things that you need to increase your liver, the Roxin for, unfortunately, but do test first before you do anything like that. I know from the forum that changing brands can cause problems, but is it the same with Lyon? My surgery keeps changing the brand, but I refuse to believe that it could cause problems. I may be wrong here, but I do think that it's possible that some of the brands of T3 have Manitowin as well. I'll definitely put the link to our medications for Hypo page up. You can check all the ingredients with all the brands of T3, natural thyroid hormone and Lyon. Is the Lyon causing the lack of sleep? I've not heard that, but if you go on to our forum and ask a question, I'm sure people will answer that. Yes, I've had three Lyon and one works better than the others. Definitely for all of the thyroid hormone replacements. Because everybody is so different, it can make a difference, just the different ingredients. How long does it take T3 to make a difference after starting five micrograms three times a day? Again, everybody's so different. Some people find a notice almost immediately. I know for me, after my thyroid operation, they put me on 200 micrograms. I had a feeling that it would be too much because I started reading up a little bit. They said, no, no, you've got to take it all. It was that night. I took the tablets in the morning. That night, I didn't know what was going wrong. It affected me almost immediately. That is not supposed to happen. Doctors tell you that that doesn't happen. But for some people it does. Some people don't absorb things very well. You might not get the full effect. Because everybody is different, it will be different for everybody. If you have no thyroid, would you be classed as hypothyroid? If you have no thyroid, you would be underactive. That's hypothyroid. That's hypothyroid. Your body can't make thyroid. Your thyroid isn't there. Thank you, Karen, for signing up for membership. Thank you. I've read a lot of contradictory advice about foods. One is not to eat kale and Brussels sprouts. I've changed from soy milk to oat milk. We'll get in touch with Alice. She said, if you eat kale, you can eat it raw. As long as you cook them and you don't eat loads and loads, things have changed a little bit about that. Obviously, overcooked cabbage isn't very nice. Just cook it normally. Don't have it too undercooked. I think you'll be fine. Soy milk. There is some research that shows that soy milk can affect, but I think it's if you have a lot of soy milk. If you have a little bit, it might be okay. But again, everyone is different. Probably oat milk might be better for some people. I think that's all the questions there. If you have enjoyed this, I think you can leave a comment. I think you can leave a comment. I think you can leave a comment. I think you can leave a comment. I think you can leave a comment. If you have enjoyed this, then do please donate. Thank you so much for coming. I will be apologising most profusely for those that couldn't get in. But I will be, it has been recorded. So we will be recording this and sending the link to everybody so that you can watch it again or watch different parts of it again. We will be editing it, taking out the non-important bits. So the next slide, I will just share the screen again. And the next slide will have everything that you need on it. So you can see that there's our campaign page, the online community, Medi-checks. Don't forget that they're donating £2 for each thyroid test ordered during thyroid awareness week. Our YouTube channel, the videos will start going on there on Monday. Any questions from speakers, send to enquiriesatthyroiduk.org. Also for copies of the NICE guidance and the REMOC guidance, write to tuckadminatthyroiduk.org. And to donate text tour, to the TWA to 7085. If that doesn't work and I don't know why it's not working, please go to PayPal to donate. Again, thank you so much for coming. Thank you so much to all the speakers. Thank you, Caroline. Just, yeah, I'm glad that you managed to get in as well. I hope that everybody has something to take away from all of that and that it helps, but you know where we are. Try and join in with all the activities that we're doing. Let's try and get thyroid disease out there as much as diabetes is and heart disease, because it does cause a lot of problems for a lot of people, makes people very unhappy and they can't do the normal day-to-day things. So do try and join in with all the activities. So thank you very much and I'll see you again soon.

=== FILE: Thyroid UK International Thyroid Awareness Week Webinar 2025 [Wu4hrNiBFk0].txt ===

 subjected to subjected to So I'm glad that you could find the time to attend today and I hope you find it really interesting. We've got some amazing speakers on very different topics this year because I thought it might be a good idea to learn a few things, new things that perhaps you haven't tried before and to learn about new innovative treatments that are coming up in the UK. So first of all just a couple of points about the webinar. Hopefully there won't be any glitches. I'm still not very used to teams. I only use it about once or twice a year. So I apologise in advance if there are any glitches about me trying to get the speakers in or answering questions or anything like that. Heidi's going to help with the questions as well. So the questions you can put into the chat if you have any and if we don't get round to it then I'll answer them probably next week. This webinar is being filmed so if you prefer not to be filmed please turn your video off but I see that everybody so far has done that already unless it was done automatically by teams which I didn't think I did that but I may have done. The recording will be edited at some point and then put onto our YouTube channel and all attendees will be sent a link to the video on YouTube and then you can watch it at your leisure if you missed any of it. Everybody's been muted for the time being so that it doesn't interfere with the talks. I know children are off school this week and so we can't help it if they need to come into your space today so it's best if you're muted. There will be a short amount of time after some speakers for those of you who have questions to that particular speaker but if we run out of time then we can organise to answer the questions later. For those of you who have not been aware of us Thyroid UK is here to provide information and resources to promote effective diagnosis and appropriate treatment for people with both diagnosed and undiagnosed thyroid disorders in the UK. We've been campaigning now for a very long time about access to T3, lyothyronine and it's been very up and down and it's a little bit down at the moment. I'm still getting a lot of people that are saying they either cannot access it at all because the GP doesn't believe in it or the ICB won't pay for it or you won't be able to get a referral to an endocrinologist which is what you need to be able to access it. Unfortunately myself and other thyroid charities have had communications with NHS England about their latest guidance. It is not simple dealing with them and they are not listening to us at the moment. The problem with the guidance is that one set of guidance says it can't be prescribed and the other set of guidance says that it can be prescribed by an endocrinologist. Unfortunately the one that says it can't be prescribed is the guidance for the ICBs so we believe as soon as they see that they don't go any further. The one that says it can be prescribed is for patients and GPs so it's confusing for people and for ICBs and for GPs. The ICB is an integrated, oh my god I've forgotten what it was now, but they took over from CCGs and the CCGs took over from the primary care groups and they hold the money so they are the ones that actually allow prescribing of certain medications and we suggest that if you are refused thank you very much integrated care boards. You might be able to change their mind but you do need to be able to have a very good case and one of which might be that you have been tested for the DIO2 gene because there was a little bit of research about the fact that people that have this gene is a polymorphism that interferes with the conversion of T4 to T3 and some endocrinologists will allow people to be prescribed. So thank you Tara. We have just produced a new page on our website called Liothyrinine which explains a lot about this with lots of links to the different guidance and everything. They do go along there and we're still fighting you know but we are a bit concerned about the future because NHS England may not be there for much longer and the ICBs have been told that they have to cut back their costs by 50% and some are merging so they're not going to be local not so local anymore some are merging from something like six to three or eight to three. I've only just sort of heard about that recently so I will be looking into that a little bit more next week probably. So it is very difficult and I don't know where it's going to go I'll be honest. I've always said that we need good quality research and the research that's been done so far really we believe hasn't been done on the right cohort of people so doing research on people that don't need T3 isn't going to help because they're not going to feel well if they're given T3 and they don't need it. So this is something that we're involved with with Dr Colin Dian at the moment and so are the other thyroid groups but it's taking a long time to get this particular piece of research approved. I think there's something going on there that is stopping it but there seems to be a lot of barriers on getting approval ethics approval so as soon as I hear any more about that as soon as it actually starts then I'll let you know. So some people may not be aware especially those on our health unlocked forum they may not be aware that we have a website which has a lot of information on it and we've just done a new lyothyronine page and a new FAQ page for hypothyroidism which has a lot of questions and answers on there some of which that I think will be very useful to a lot of people. Some things are very simple like taking your tablets in the morning with water and not eating and then there are some things a little bit more complex that might be able to help you. So we also have a Facebook page, a Twitter page and an Instagram page. Heidi has now set up for us a blue sky page although we're on there a lot it's something that we hope to expand a little bit more because a lot of charities have left the Twitter page so perhaps we're not getting quite as much reach on the Twitter page as we were so do look out for those. So for our webinar this year we have a mix of topics with some excellent speakers and I'm just so happy that these speakers agreed to come and give us a talk so I'm just going to go through them. The very first speaker is Professor Michael Rosen and he's going to talk about his thyroid story and read a poem. Emma Hunt is a personal train up who wants to help people through exercise which is what she did she has hypothyroidism and she's going to do some videos for us I think she's done some already on Instagram so hopefully that will spread around to people. I know exercise is quite difficult for people with hypothyroidism often but just walking would help or jigging around in your front room doing a dance which is what I do sometimes it's just movement basically moving a little bit more than you're used to so I'm looking forward to that one but I will say I haven't heard back from her that she received my nudge so we'll see what happens and then we've got Melissa Cohen who is a nutritional therapist and an MLP practitioner and she's going to be talking about kinesiology which I have found in the past very helpful and I'll tell you a little story about that when we get to her talk. So there's going to be a refreshment break at 12 30 for about half an hour unless things have changed and then at one o'clock we're going to be watching a presentation by Rachel Hill who is a best-selling author and multi-award-winning thyroid patient advocate. I've known Rachel for a very long time as I have Melissa and Rachel's spoken for us before and this one is specifically about navigating fertility and pregnancy when you have hypothyroidism and we do get quite a few people come to us who either have difficulties getting pregnant or unfortunately they have lost babies along the way so I'm really looking forward to this and I hope that we can spread the word about this so that people don't have so many issues trying to have their babies and our final speaker is Dr Gibran Timothy Yusuf I hope I pronounce that correctly he's a consultant interventional radiologist at Kings College Hospital and that is one that I'm really really looking forward to because I had a nodule and I had a hemithyroidectomy for me it was a little bit different because I'd been ill for 15 years prior to the nodule showing itself and I had lots and lots of thyroid symptoms but my tests were normal so nothing was done but when my lump came up I was immediately sent to see a specialist and on checking they weren't sure whether it was cancer or not so they gave me the hemithyroidectomy and for me it was the best thing ever because I got better once I was on levothyroxine or mostly better until I changed to NDT but I know that there are a lot of people out there that had nodules that are interfering with swallowing and breathing but they don't have symptoms and what Dr Yusuf has done is an easier way for patients to have an operation to get rid of the nodule and I'm really looking forward to hearing about his information so we have a few minutes before Professor Rosen speaks so I'm just going to go back to the screen let me there are some questions there oh thank you happy birthday to my husband we bought him a lovely cake from Marks and Spencer's so he's looking forward to that eating that today because someone is diet DIO2 unfortunately you can't get the DIO2 test on the NHS so you have to pay for it privately but we do work with a laboratory that that does that so if you go to our testing companies page you'll find information on there agree it needs proper cohorted research on those with the gene issue and the impact are there any questions who have a special interest in this area that we can campaign to be fully funded not that I'm aware of unfortunately but I think once you've got the test then I mean it's possible that perhaps some Mendo's might do the test for you but I don't think it's not funded on the NHS unfortunately thanks Tara for the template letter for MPs it's something that I've put in our life ironing page do to approach your MP and try and get this changed let's have a look now exercise is good for hyperthyroidism if you can manage some but obviously if you're under treated or you're not treated yet if you have subclinical then you do have to be careful and when you're at the beginning of your thyroid journey on Nevoethoroxin I always tell people don't go too mad you know I know when I was first on it I would have a day where I felt absolutely amazing and I would go and clean the house or do some gardening or go out for the day and then I would just drop again for two or three days after that so in the beginnings particularly just be just be gentle with yourself really take the medication it can take about eight to ten days for Levothoroxin to actually get into your system and that's just the beginning and then your body needs to repair itself on treatment and right at the beginning you'll be given possibly 25 50 micrograms and then you'd have to go back six to eight weeks afterwards to test to see how far your TSH has gone down and then you might be given an increase of dosage so it can take a long time I think really I mean probably because I've been ill for 15 years it was really about 18 months before I realized hang on I can do a lot more now it was a really really slow process I mean everything's slow when you have hypothyroidism Dr Colin Dian's research no it's not to do with Dr Lowe, there's a team in Glasgow that are doing it it's more to do I think with Dr Skinner's work and I think that's where the barriers are yes we're generous labs they do the DIO2 test but it's not now it's not just the DIO2 test it used to be they used to do that test alone but now I think because some other companies and organizations are selling a whole raft of genetic testing they changed I think a company called Omnos work with them I think they merged or one took over the other so they do a whole panel and I don't think it's that much more expensive than the DIO2 test was on its own so but that's the only way as far as I know that you can get the DIO2 test they also do the DIO1 test and I do know that there are some people as well that have that polymorphism as well oh any information on how to take medication when going away to a different time zone oh I've never been asked that question before I would imagine you would just try and take it you know when you wake up in the morning it might mean that you miss a few hours I expect but I'm not really sure about the answer to that question if it were me I would just carry on taking it when I wake up in the morning sorry I can't properly answer that question but I'll see if I can find out for you hi Michael you're you're on camera hi morning lovely to see you hi yeah no I was just going to say is that remember that it's not like when you take ferroxin it's not like taking a paracetamol that has like a four hour or a four hour life you're feeding something into yourself that all pans out over a period of time so people shouldn't worry about a kind of four hour six hour eight hour even 12 hour cycle all right when you're taking the pills because the body is like absorbing it slowly so just keep it regular that's all yeah that's what doctors have told me right okay oh that's good I mean that's what I would do I know you know missing one tablet even a day isn't going to make that much difference unless you're very very sensitive to it um so I wouldn't worry too much yeah just just let it pan out just think in terms of more like a 48 hour cycle rather than six or four hour cycle yeah thank you Michael that's good um right so we have five more minutes I've just answered another couple of questions it's low cortisol from hypothyroidism I've had two senescent tests and they are normal but my cortisol remains low in range um I think there's a link between them um it's I think it could be both ways to be honest okay so I think that'll do for the questions for now and I'll help with answering them a bit later so I'm going to close that down and Michael is here okay so um I'm pleased to introduce our patron uh professor Michael Rosen poet children's author and professor of children's literature we're so grateful that you managed to to fit some time into your busy schedule to come and tell us your story um and I'm really looking forward to hearing it and so I think when you're ready that will be good thank you thanks Michael thank you very much Lynn hello to everybody um you're looking at somebody who is full on Hashimoto's um you may not see that in my face but if you go to google images and put in I'd posted up if I was more fluent and know how to do this you can see if you put in Michael Rosen thyroid and then a black and white picture will come up in amongst the google images of me in the sort of final state of hypothyroidism before it was diagnosed so that's the end point of the story let's go back to the beginning in around 1966 when I was about 20 I began to notice symptoms that I'm sure all of you will recognize but of course I didn't at the time being a young man so by no means a typical person in the profile of people who suffer from hypothyroidism just various symptoms of things that were in no way related so I never joined up the dots and no doctor did so for example I remember I was asked to join a college football team and play a game and felt incredibly heavy-legged and I thought oh well maybe it's because I'm not going to bed I don't drink so it wasn't a hangover or anything like that I just remember thinking I used to be able to run for longer than this and just felt in my quads in my quadriceps this kind of real heaviness and and I remember again at the Edinburgh Festival a group of us knocking about playing footy between shows and again I remember them all running about faster than me and thinking well I know I was never fast you notice this kind of way of apologizing and trying to find explanations for yourself it's very typical of people in the early stages of hypothyroidism you try to sort of think oh well it's because I'm not drinking enough or I I'm not taking you know I'm not eating enough vitamin c or maybe I'm a bit anemic and of course mild anemia is one of the features of hypothyroidism anyway so you start taking iron pills and things and I just remember making these kind of explanations for myself and then there were some pictures of me in a play or speaking at a meeting or something and I looked at the pictures and I thought golly you know the bag's under my eyes and I was only about 2021 as I say 1966 67 68 so around about those years and I remember thinking go why is that oh I suppose as I'm not getting to bed you see I made the explanation and then I remember one time and these are sort of very early years and I think yeah definitely before 71 72 because I know who my partner was at the time um looking at my hands one morning and seeing the backs of the hand swollen it was almost as if my knuckles had disappeared and then again I gave an explanation I thought oh it was when I was walking in the country and I must have got nettle stings you see this thing this is what we do isn't it it's a bit familiar to many of you and I thought well that's funny and then the swelling went down so I thought yeah well I was right there wasn't I you see um and then I was here was another one um I met up with someone I'd been at university with so now I've left university and so it's now about 1971 so um keep the dates I was born in 1946 so now I'm up to more like 24 25 must be 1970 maybe and I met up with him we had a little chat and then he met up again with my then partner and she reported back to me that this chap Toby um had said what's the matter with Mike he um it sounds a little bit of as if his speech is slurred or he sort of slowed down he used to be quite a sort of sparky sort of a guy and I remember really being quite learned when I heard this coming from my then partner I sort of felt all kind of you know slightly annoyed and almost aggressive and thought well why people trying to kind of do me down you know I'm not I don't take drugs I don't I don't drink I've never done either so um this will come up again later as you'll see um and so I started getting these kind of mentions of things wrong um and then the next one was uh I was working in a school so this is moving on a bit more more like 1975 of 76 I think and I was working in a school in south London called voxel comprehensive a school with a large number of African Caribbean girls in it I remember one of the girls sitting next to me and staring at my face and saying you aren't half white and she was a girl of color and me going yeah well I am you know you can have lovely conversations with teenagers about skin color and so on in the ways that as adults we don't because they're very open about it and very intrigued and so uh you know I remember for example just I've digressed with one girl saying I can see all your veins me going well white skin you can see the veins and her kind of going uh which I kind of quite like as a writer in residence but this one was saying you aren't half white and I said yeah no I am and she said no no no you're whiter than the other white people and I thought am I um and again you see that was another thing another sort of symptom and then I started getting what I'd call the cold the really bad cold symptoms in fact some of them now I think back actually it hit me a bit earlier than that more like oh I think the very first time I got what I'd get it was like a feeling in which I felt the cold I would like freeze like this and hold my chest because I was almost juttering and I remember sitting on a bus in about 19 yeah that was early on 66 so I'm leaping back now so there was another disconnected symptom and I remember uh going to see I used to be in the singer Ewan McColl in a group with him the man who wrote first time ever I saw your face um and was in a kind of group with him and I remember getting on the bus in Beckenham and the guy was with me was in a an open white shirt with hardly a jacket and I had on a jumper and a jacket and I was going did you think it's cold Jim don't you think it's cold and I'm going no no I think it's all right Mike actually so you can see this is 66 to 75 so across those years I'm beginning to get these these symptoms but I didn't connect them at all and then someone I remember commenting oh about my lips and saying how they were kind of really puffy and me looking in the mirror and kind of going oh well I wonder why that is and sort of wondering about why I had puffy lips and then I'd be doing some radio recordings I can remember the producer saying uh Michael  or can you speed it up a bit? And me thinking, well, actually, I'm going quite fast anyway, aren't I? And she said, well, you're sounding very dreary today. And I thought, am I? So can you play it back? So she played it back. And I thought, yeah, my voice didn't use to sound like that. It's gruffer, it's deeper, and it's taking a bit longer to, I'm now imitating me doing it, it's taking me a bit longer to speak, and I'm slushing my esses. So it's kind of saying, show welcome once again to the program, that's the kind of way I was talking. And if you think, I'm exaggerating, I've heard recordings. And in fact, one of my kids, sadly, my late son, Eddie, I remember him once playing one of these, and he was born after I was cured, and after I was diagnosed. And he used to do imitation of me reading a story about somebody called the Knee Highman. It was a folk story. And I remember him when he was about five or six, he'd say, Dad, I'm going to go and listen to the Knee Highman. And he was imitating me on the tape. Of course, I didn't mind by then, I was diagnosed. But at the time, if it had been then, I'd been kind of annoyed that people were taking the mickey out of the way my voice had changed. Then I noticed my hair had changed. So obviously, you can see I've got gray hair now. But I used to have light brown hair, and it was quite sort of soft and a little bit curly. And you can see pictures of me from the early 60s with hair like that. And then I noticed by the 70s, the mid-70s, it had gone wiry. The curls had all gone. The hair had thickened, and it was like, it's hard to describe, but it wasn't coiled. It was more like bristles. And I thought, well, that's funny. I wonder why my hair's changed. And I remember saying to people, look, do you think my hair's changed? Are people interested that your hair's changed? No. As with all these symptoms, nobody's really interested. In fact, they get quite annoyed if you come up to them and go, oh, look, I'm sure my hands weren't quite so like this. I'm sure I could see my knuckles, and people go, yeah, all right, Michael, all right. It's not a symptom. It doesn't matter. So I'm not connected. I mean, I'm connecting them up now when I'm talking to you. But of course, I didn't connect any of these things up. And so your hair, you just think, oh, well, I know. I'll wash my hair with a different shampoo. Oh, God, it's pathetic. And that will deal with it. And then you tell yourself it's worked. You go, oh, yeah, this shampoo's really worked. I think I remember buying a shampoo and conditioner all in one and going, oh, this is really worked. This is brilliant. That funny that my hair was frizzy. Oh, yeah, now it's worked. Of course, it didn't make any difference at all. I just told myself it had. And so now we're sort of pushing on towards the end of the 70s. And some things are getting a bit critical in the sense that I notice that I can't really run for a bus. And then I notice something quite acute, which is when I beat an egg. That when I beat an egg, my hand would freeze. My hand would freeze like that. So I'm beating an egg like that. And then it would go, ah. And it would like there. I think the technical word for it in medical terms is summation. All right, that's where instead of decontracting, which is what you're doing there, you contract and decontract, contract, decontract. That what happens with hypothyroidism is that it can't do that. All right, so that's what that heavy leg thing is, is that in order for us to do repeated exercise of any sort, I mean, even talking, you have to contract, decontract, contract, decontract very, very quickly. And under hypothyroidism, you can't. So one of the symptoms of hypothyroidism is this thing called summation, where you can't decontract. So you just start seizing up. Yeah, I remember noticing that. Well, again, you don't go to the doctors and say, doctor, when I beat an egg, I find it really difficult. But again, it is, it's a symptom. And then things started getting critical. I remember once we went on holiday, I should think this is getting towards about 79, 1980. And we went on holiday in Wales. And we was another family and everybody was going out. And I said, how can you go out? It's so cold. And so I literally spent the whole holiday like clutching the fire in this cottage in Wales and didn't go out with anybody else. They all went out and I didn't. I just said, I can't. It's just too cold. And I remember them thinking it was quite funny. So I didn't think, you know, I was ill. I just thought, well, I'm just one of these blokes who just finds it really hard when it gets cold. And at the same time, I was noticing my eyes were watering. So whenever I went out in the wind, I was like crying. And again, well, I mean, everybody does a bit, whether they're hypothetical or not. So again, you can't go to the doctors and go, when it's windy, my eyes water. Yeah, OK, off you go sunshine. So I didn't do that at first at any rate. And then really one of the one of the final steps was going for a walk with my then partner on Hackney Downs. If you know, not Hackney Downs, Hackney Marshes. And if you know Hackney Marshes, it is completely flat. OK, it really is as flat as a pancake. It's what's called an alluvial plane. All right, so it's been absolutely washed flat by the river and me saying, it's up hill. And my partner going, no, it isn't. I'm saying, no, no, no, look, look, you see there that that that bump. There that's really that's really steep. And and with that, the combination of the eyes weeping. Actually, this eye is a bit, but that's nothing to do with that. That's because of COVID. But anyway, I won't deal with that. And so I did. I went to the doctors and said, look, I think there's something wrong with my eyes. And he said, yeah, it's conjunctivitis. So I said, oh, thanks very much. And he prescribed a little yellow gunk stuff that I then spent the fortnight squeezing into my eyes then three weeks. And in actual fact, cause it made it worse, which was a good reason to go back to him. And he stared at me and he said, your eyes are a bit swollen, aren't they? And I said, are they? He said, yes, I think I'm going to run a kidney test. So that was nice of him. Anyway, so they ran a kidney test and it came back and he said, well, it's not showing a lot, but you're a bit low on hemoglobin. So I'm going to refer you to Barts at St. Bartholomew's Hospital in London. So I thought, oh, right, maybe there's been something wrong with my kidneys then. That's possible. So I arrived at the renal unit in Barts in 1981. Opposite man called Mr. Baker, a wonderful consultant. And he said to me, right, so I've got this information on your kidneys. Well, out of interest, Mr. Rosen, what were you doing today? So I'll now go into my imitation of me, 1981 mode now. OK, excuse my impression. And I said, I've been doing some workshops with school students on the Isle of Dogs. And he said, oh, yes, what were you doing? And I said, we were walking by the side of the docks and writing poems. And he stared at me like this. And he said, you know, I think this idea of something wrong with your kidneys is a load of rubbish. And he pushed the notes to one side and he said, your hypothyroid. Now, for many people, that wouldn't have meant anything at all. But I haven't told you in my life story here that I did do two years of medicine. And I didn't actually flunk it, but I decided I wasn't going to be a good doctor. So I gave up. And one of the books that we had while I was doing it was called Sam Samuel Wright or Sam Sam Sam Samson Wright's Physiology. And in this book, there is two photographs and picture on the left is of a woman with a big white moon face, round white moon face. And then next to her is a woman after treatment. And her face is all shrunk down. And I used to think, for those of you of my age, references coming up now, that the woman on the left looked like Hattie Jakes and the woman on the right looked like Vera Lynn. OK, so I was used to call this Hattie Jakes and Vera Lynn, you see. And I knew it. And I used to think, wasn't that incredible that you could be one moment like that? This is actually, as it happens, just as hypothyroidism was beginning to kick in with me. That's when I was doing medicine in 65, 66, 67, you see. Little did I know that it was just beginning to kick in irony of ironies. And so the moment Mr. Baker said, your hypothyroid in came Hattie Jakes and Vera Lynn. If you don't know them, do feel free to look them up. Anyway, so, you know, there's dear old Hattie, who I loved and adored, both of them as performers and show people. And I could see me as I as I am. And then I could see my face is very like my mum's, very, very genetically similar. And I suddenly it was like a great wave came over me, because I knew more or less what hypothyroidism was at that moment. And it was like the previous 10, 15 years or collapsed into this moment. And it was a shock. It was and it was very saddening. I mean, at that moment. I felt very kind of bad that I'd not diagnosed myself. Nobody else had diagnosed me. And I realized the huge difference then between the way I was at that moment in 1981, compared with the way I was. Well, between 60, you know, as a late teenager, 64 to. Well, even as far as 68, 69 before the sort of symptoms fully kind of kicked in. And so there was this great wave of feeling and emotion and sadness kind of hit me. But Mr. Baker was very excited. He said, this is one of the best is incredible, meaning you don't normally get young men or youngish men with hypothyroidism. It is pretty rare. So he said, right, this I'm going to get students in. OK, so he got the students in and he said, what's he got? What's he got? And they went, kid, Lisa. No, just because we're in the renal department, it doesn't mean that he's got something wrong with his kidneys. What do you think? What do you think? And they went, I don't know, so is it renal failure? No, there may be any difference if you change the name. They've turned into John Cleese now. But anyway, never mind. I'll carry on. So no, it's it's good. Well, I'm going to leave the room, find out what he's got and come back in again in two minutes time. So he went out and immediately one of the students came right up to my ear and said, what have you got? And I said, I don't think I'm supposed to tell you, you see. And they stood around me staring at me. And then two minutes later in came Mr. Baker and he said, OK, what's he got? And I said, is it kidney, sir? No, no, it is a kidney for goodness sake. Have you touched him? And they went, no. So he put his hand on me and he said, see that? Come on, me, cold, cold. Look at that. And then he said, Benji, put one leg over the other, Mr. Rosen, and then he whacked me on the reflex, you know, just below the kneecap like that. And it was literally zero reaction. Bang, like that with a hammer. It was just nothing, absolutely nothing. But look at that. No reflex. What do you think? Is it kidney, sir? No, it's not kidneys. He said, OK, Mr. Rosen, would you just walk a heel to heel to across the floor? You see, you know, one foot behind the other. So I got up and I tried to do it and I couldn't. I couldn't actually do it. I've just like tea. He said, see that? Look, how old is he? 35? 35, he can't even walk. Is that that's right, isn't it? Yeah, 1981. He said, look, he can't even walk across the floor. Have you felt his pulse? Look, try and find his pulse. See, I can't even find it. His heart's gone to sleep. You can't even find his pulse. You see, so he was getting very, very excited. And he said, this is extraordinary. So the students were utterly ashamed face. And he said, he's hypothyroid. And then we're going, oh, yeah. They're writing it down, hypothyroid. You see, anyway, so they sent me away for a blood test and I came back a few days later to Barts. And I was met by it. Now, nobody believes this. All right. OK, but I promise you, I know I do tell stories and they get a bit exaggerated. I promise you, promise you, promise you. His name was, wait for it, Dr. Gesundheit. OK, no, it really was. So if you don't know, Gesundheit in German means health, good health. And it's also what you say when somebody sneezes. Yes. So when somebody sneezes in German, you go Gesundheit. You see, anyway, this doctor was called Dr. Gesundheit. If you don't believe me, he's now a professor of physiology at Stanford University in America. He was American. So you can look it up if you don't believe me. Right in Professor Gesundheit, Stanford University, just so you know that I'm telling you the truth. I'm not lying today. OK. So anyway, and Dr. Gesundheit, he opened up the notes and he said, technically, you're dead. It's not something you want to hear. OK. And I said, I don't think I am dead. And he said, well, if you're not dead, you should be in a torpor. And I've never forgotten the way he said that. You should be in a torpor, we would say torpor, I suppose. Anyway, and I just I've always remembered that. I should be in a torpor. And he said, you've got to come in right now. And he literally grabbed me and said that I was in danger of dying at that moment. Because my thyroid, what he explained was that my thyroid had disappeared, wasn't producing any thyroxine, so that had all gone. And that also the antibodies, because they test for the antibodies at that point, I think all the antibodies that had consumed it. Well, they don't consume it directly, but anyway, that shorthand. All right. They had disappeared as well. So technically, I was running on zero. There was there were no there was no thyroid gland left. The butterfly gland there sitting on your Adam's apple, if you're a man, sitting on your larynx had completely gone and all trace of even the antibodies trying to get rid of it had gone. So God knows what I was running on. Those of you who know the thyroid the thyroid sends hormone into the mitochondria. So what the mitochondria were running on, that's usually called the powerhouse of the cell. So what my what fuel my the powerhouses in my cells were running on. I have no idea. So presumably the body has other resources. I don't know anyway, but I was standing and I had been active. I mean, you know, I was doing workshops in schools and you know, I mean, I was getting up a bit late, I suppose. But I mean, I was still going and still doing one hour shows and working with these kids at George Green School and and all the rest of it and making TV or schools TV programs. I don't know. It's a mystery. Anyway, so I was admitted straight away now to the metabolic unit, as it was called, at Barts. And there were a whole set of people with extreme hormonal problems, endocrine problems, as I should say. And, you know, there was quite a sight, actually. There was a guy who was about eight foot tall with a great big barking voice and very long ear lobes and nose. And of course, he had acromegaly, you know, your endocrine. I mean, we're all linked up because they're all very various forms of autoimmune illness. And there was a poor little guy who hadn't grown at all. And he was really very, very small and they were pumping him full of growth hormone, which can be quite dangerous. And various other people, anyway, but they were all generally agreed that I looked weird. It was quite funny, actually, because, you know, I think the Martian had arrived. They'd wonder what kind of human beings we all were. But they all decided they stood at me. I remember the great big bloke saying he was a lovely, gentle guy. You know, every time he opened his mouth, he kind of barked. It was just so sad because people thought he was aggressive. And they went, you look weird, you know, like that. And and well, we did. We did all look weird. And that's I'm not being pejorative here. That's just sort of the way these endocrine illnesses the kind of effect they have, because it's it's like a sort of secret system in our bodies that we don't know about. You know, we know about our blood vessels. We know about our skeleton. We know about our muscles. You know, we know that, you know, we got hearts and the rest of it. Nendocrine sort of is like all these hormones. It's all kind of secret, isn't it? We don't really know how it works. And there's this thing that seems to switch them on and off called the pituitary. But that's just like saying it's a magic box that we got at the base of our brain. So it's kind of, oh, right. Yeah, the pituitary switches them on and off. And you go, yeah, well, who tells the pituitary to to do that? And it's kind of well the brain. And you go, what, you mean I say to the pituitary, go. And then when you have conversations with doctors about this, it doesn't get that much more of an explanation. So anyway, I'm not being horrible about medicine. It's just the pituitary and the endocrine system is it? It's there are mysterious bits about it. Anyway, so then I was put on tiny, tiny, tiny, tiny, tiny amounts of thyroid because they were very of thyroxine. They were very, very worried about giving you a lot straight away because of the potential stress on the heart. I don't know whether there were tragic cases early on in the when Hashimoto found it. Remember in the history of the illness, it was Hashimoto who discovered the thing I my particular thyroid complaint. You have others. And of course, they used to mash up cows, thyroid. And they found that brought the relief before they start inventing synthetic thyroxine. So now a little bit on the history of what I've my treatment. Well, good Mr. Besser back at. Bart, he slapped me by any end on about 200. 200 micrograms. And I was pretty zippy on that. But then when they got a bit more sophisticated with the the windows, which you'll all be familiar with, the TSH thyroid stimulating hormone, that the thyroid, the pituitary and the thyroid, they work in tandem like this. When the thyroid is not emitting, up goes the pituitary. And when it is emitting too much, down goes the pituitary. So what they do, and this will be a matter of some controversy, is quite often they don't measure the amount of ferroxine in your blood. And they don't measure its uptake in the muscles. So they go and say, if you think of it as a chain system, the start of the pituitary, the pituitary is the switch. And then the thyroid gland, if you've got it, or in the case of taking pills, is the light bulb. OK, so they don't always measure when the light bulb comes on. They're measuring whether the switch is fully on or not. Yeah, because the switch is dependent on how much thyroid is in the blood. OK, and you'll also know that there's T3 and T4. So the thyroid doesn't only produce T4, it produces T3 as well. So anyway, these are all complex things that's a little bit more complex than first appears. Anyway, so then I came down to 200 and they said, no, you see, your TSH is too low. In other words, it's I'm being overstimulated. Yeah, so then they took it down to 125. And I was on 125 for about, I don't know, could be as much as 20 years, but about a year to 18 months ago, my doctor suddenly announced, oh, your TSH is too low. You've got to come down to 100. Now, I got grumpy and I said, no, I don't want to take it down immediately to that because I actually experience heavy legs. She said, what do you mean? I said, well, I mean, I know I'm old, but when I go upstairs and I do a lot of stairs on the underground to go to travel a lot and I say I quite often find that I get this heavy leg thing that I used to get, you know, went way, way back, you know, in the 60s. And I don't really hear that doctors. They just think, well, maybe maybe it's because I'm old, but anyway, I can feel it in my thighs and I do a lot of squats and stuff to try and keep my legs strong. So I said, I'll take my down to it, take myself down to every other day. So what I do is I take 125 one day and 100 the next. So I kind of self-dosed and she agreed. I wouldn't have done it without her permission. And then when I had a blood test few few weeks later, she said, that's fine. So the reason why, and you'll know this, but if you don't say it anyway, the reason why they don't like us as they see it overdosing on ferroxine is because of the knock on effect of osteoporosis. And osteoporosis, this is what they tell me anyway. So I'm only repeating what doctors have said to me. I mean, osteoporosis when you get to my age is an incredibly serious problem. You know, basically your bones give up just to put it bluntly is that your bones get soft. And if you know anybody with full on osteoporosis, and I know women are slightly more susceptible to men, particularly if they breastfed a lot. You know, because it is effectively a form of calcium deficiency. But even so, people say that it's connected with autoimmune things and all the rest of it. So it's quite complicated. But even so, you do not want to have soft bones for a variety of reasons, because at the end of the day, you can't sit up. I mean, severe osteoporosis means you can't walk. You can't sit up. So it's a terrible illness. So they're very worried whether that's a false worry. I don't know, but they're very worried that if you overdose for a long time, you will get osteoporosis. So that's that's what happens. Now, finally, because I see I'm just coming up to time, my wife has Hashimoto's as well. So we live and love together as in Hashimoto's. But now this bit is not so funny by any means. All right, both our children have experienced both hypothyroid. So my youngest. So what we suddenly noticed, he wasn't growing when he was a teenager. And indeed, his face was swelling up and becoming moon like. We tried to we, in fact, at first, we just went saying he's not growing and the doctor didn't notice anything. And then Emma, my wife said, it's only his hypothyroid. Do you, Michael? And I went, oh, my God, look at his eyelids, which I always use as the test that swollen. But where eyelashes come out when you see somebody with the swollen bit there. That is a real classic hypothyroid symptom. It's where the edema almost first shows itself in the eyelids. Not it's in the little bulby bit where the eyelashes come out. Yeah. And I said, oh, my God, his hypothyroid, which Emma did use because that's what if hypothyroidism hits a growing child, then it will stump their growth and it isn't growth or known. It's because you need it. You need the thyroxine in your mitochondria in order to grow and have energy. So anyway, he was diagnosed with that. And then it gets more serious because he has a comorbidity. So he has, in fact, he has adesins as well. So he's we don't I diagnosed that when he was 18 or 19. He was falling over. He was getting dizzy. He was being sick. He had low blood pressure. The doctor thought it was lifestyle. But anyway, we urgently took him to A&E where he was diagnosed. And he's on hydrocortisone three times a day. So it's quite rare for a young man, age 20, well, age 18 then. So he has adesins and hypothyroidism. Meanwhile, our daughter also has a comorbidity, but another problem which women will recognize here is that she has PCOS. So that's been diagnosed officially. So for those of you who don't know that you sort of have holes in your ovary. So if you imagine the ovary, it's sort of like a sponge, but with quite very small holes and it produces follicles, which then turn into eggs. All right. But then when you under the microscope, if you have PCOS, Polycystitis, anyway, you'll know what it stands for. Polycystitis. Oh, no, not cystitis, that's something else. Polycystic anyway, ovarian, something or other. PCOS anyway. There are big holes in the ovaries. So what that's doing is actually preventing the follicles from turning to eggs. So that's one symptom, but it has a lot of other symptoms connected to it to do with energy and to do with. So obviously fertility can have terrible effects on your skin, on hair growth. So there's a whole set of symptoms connected to PCOS because it's affecting the amount of estrogen you're producing. So the whole period cycle is is affected as well, because if you're not producing estrogen, you don't produce progesterone. So the the ovarian cycle and so on. The menstrual cycle is completely disrupted. So there we are, slightly sad ending to my story. But also for any doctors listening, of course. The genetic link between parent and child and hypothyroidism, it's known the genetic link is about the potential to develop the illness. It's not a direct genetic link. So if you take, I don't know, skin colour, for example, there's a genetic link between parents and skin colour to do with the amount of melanin in your skin. Yes. All right. But with thyroid and I think with other adrenal with other endocrine problems and so on, it seems to be that the genetic link is to do with the potential to develop the illness. I think that's the state of the art state of the science. I better stop. Look, I've been chatting on for a bit. OK, thanks ever so much. I hope some of that is useful and even Riley amusing. Oh, Michael, that was amazing. Honestly, you made me laugh so much for something that, you know, a debilitating disease. And it sort of reminded me of myself in a way. You know, I had all these separate symptoms and they sent me to all these separate specialists who said, no, you know, nothing wrong with you or they gave me a medication for this or, you know, and it just didn't get me anywhere. And for me, I had the light bulb moment. I my lump came up and I went to hospital to have a check on it. And while I was in the waiting room, I saw an article about thyroid disease, someone been diagnosed with all these symptoms. And I just went, wow, that's me. What the hell? So, yeah, I just all those years, you know, I mean, I don't know about you, but it affected a lot for me with my family. I couldn't do things. I remember taking my little boy, who was like two years old at the time, to a group session where they went on all these different activities. And I was propping myself up against the wall all the way around this gym. You know, those kind of things. And like you, on a they used to be a very, very slight upward thing on the on the pavement to tell for me to take him to school. Honestly, I dragged myself up that incline. And I thought, what's going on here? Everybody else is walking normally and I'm dragging myself up here. And it was such a small incline. And I thought, I don't understand. But then it all comes together at the end when you're finally diagnosed. And you realize, you know, we're here to try and. Allow people to get more and more information so that they can realize themselves. Hang on a minute. Perhaps I've got thyroid disease. I need to go to the GP and and try and get this sorted. But yeah, there's a lot of things, you know, I mean, you talk about T3 and T4 for a lot of people, they need T3 as well, especially if they don't have a thyroid. And, you know, we're getting involved more and more in research.  and so on. So, I've done a lot of that with a Dr. Colin professor, Colin Dian, in Cardiff, not Glasgow, I said earlier, in Cardiff. So, because the research doesn't really show, not properly, and I'm not quite sure if they're doing it quite correctly. So, and I've always said right from the beginning, the only thing that's going to change is when research shows, you know, there are some doctors that are anti-T3 and there are some doctors that are pro-T3, and you just have to make sure that you get the right doctor that would be willing to even look into it. So, yeah, I'm sure a lot of people have similar stories to ours, that it's taken a long time to get there, and even when they get there, sometimes it can take a long time to get better, or you get so far better, but not quite that little bit more. And if you have the DIO2 gene, you probably need T3, you know, there's been a little bit of research about that. So, yeah, it's not as easy getting diagnosed, and sometimes it's not as easy getting well. It's not as easy sometimes as taking a little tablet every day. So, and I know they made a mistake with me, they put me onto 200 very, very quickly within five days of coming out of hospital after my operation, and I was just, my heart rate, I thought I was going to die, I was sweating, and I thought then, OK, I need to take control of this, and so I did. But it took me a long time to get better. I don't know if it took you several months to get actually on top of form again. Yeah, actually, I can see it actually, because I was on a TV program, who knows, some people might remember it, called Everybody Here, where I played a character called Dr. Smarty Pence. And when you look at the very first stuff of it, very first programs, I can see that my face is still puffy, and I was doing that in the beginning of 82. I was diagnosed in the March 81, so six months, it was still, my face was still puffy six months later. I think the general view, I think, from people who know me then, that it took me about a year, because I started taking up running, and I remember running a half marathon, and I just to prove whether I could do it, typical sort of blokey sort of thing to do, you know. And I did, I got in under two hours, I was quite proud of myself. And I did that, I think, probably by about 83, 84, something like that. So yeah. But as I say, right at this very moment, if you said, am I fine with my thyroid? I'd say, well, yeah, but I don't like this heavy leg thing when I go upstairs, and when I run for the bus, I can feel that summation thing, I can feel my legs seizing up. So at some point or other, I may go to the doctors and say, oh, I might just resign myself to being an old geezer. There's a nice Yiddish phrase, actually, but it's not nice, but anyway, we call ourselves alter-cuckers. It's probably, those of you who know the word cack, it's related to that. Where it comes from. Old pooers. Anyway, it's what we call ourselves, alter-cuckers. Alter is old, and cucker, well, I'll leave you with that. So anyway, my dad always called himself an alter-cucker, so I call myself an alter-cucker. So it's a way of sort of enjoying the fact of the condition you're in. People want to read, by the way, sorry, a big plug, want to read about me overcoming thyroid and also the death of my son. It's in a book called Getting Better. All right, so it's published by Penguin. So if you're interested in kind of mulling over it, it's in there. Yeah. Oh, brilliant. Thank you so much for, I just so enjoyed it. It was amazing. And just thank you so much for coming along. Well thank you, and thanks everybody for listening. I hope that was useful. And well, I've been making notes as well about the DIO2 gene test and the do we need T3 because I think everybody in the family. So I'd say we're a family who, you know, I don't know if you could play together, play together, pray together, but anyway, thyroid together and I don't know, factoid together or something. Anyway, so I will share this information. Remind me what an NDT is. That's natural desiccated thyroid. Oh yes, of course it is. Yeah, you can't get that on the NHS or very rarely. But I think for you, we have a lot of people, we have a lot of people come to me saying that their doctors have reduced their levothoroxin and they get their symptoms back. And there is an issue with the TSH, you know, it's quite complex. But what we recommend is if you have low TSH and your GP wants to reduce your levoh and you do and you feel poorly, go and have a dexascan to make sure that you don't have osteoporosis and that your bones are strong because I know people that have very low TSH for a long time and their bones are fine. So we're not quite sure. I think there needs to be more research into that area. Yeah, yes, yeah. Yeah. Okay. Very good. Okay. Lovely. There we are. Lovely exchange of information. That's what we're all about. I'm on various social media. I'm on X and Facebook, Blue Sky and LinkedIn. So if people want to chat, I'm always happy to chat thyroids. Go on to the... So always happy to DM me or any of those private ones. Best not to do it in public. Though I do sometimes make jokes about my thorium. Now, today I just posted a picture of me in 1981. So if you're on X, you can see me with my big puffy face. And there is actually a video of me talking. I noticed from about 1979, 1980, sort of barking on tape. The knee high man. So there you go. All right then, folks. Thanks very much. So please be in touch and let's all keep sharing and exchanging. Only connect, as EM Forster once said. Only connect. Okay. Have a good day. Take care. Have a good day to you all. Best wishes. Bye. Bye. Our next speaker is Emma Hunt, a personal trainer who has hypothyroidism and who managed to overcome the challenges that many of us have. She wants to inspire others to embrace fitness and rediscover a passion for movement, health and fitness. So I know for me to try and I try and do things that take a little bit longer for me to walk to. So to try and do it. And sometimes I just walk around the house with my husband sitting in his armchair laughing at me because I'm trying to get my steps in doors. So and I do it sometimes here when I'm on my own, I get up and walk around. And I remember at board meetings, I had a particular trustee who used to get up in the middle of the board meeting and just walk around because it was a big long desk. There was lots of us. She used to get up and walk around around the table. And I used to think it a bit strange in those days, but now I understand you have to try and get steps in just doing everyday things really helps a lot, doesn't it? And then I think the next step is to try and do a bit more formally with proper exercises and things. So yeah, I'm looking forward to hearing your speech. Thank you, Lynn. Hi everyone. I'm Emma. As Lynn's introduced me, I'm a personal trainer. I'm a type of hybridism. And so based on my journey as I started training a few years ago, I called the BOPHER gym and fitness about five, six years ago. And I really wanted to inspire others. I found a big case for feeling great doing my own training. So I wanted to qualify for the fitness team myself. So I went on and did my journey there. And unfortunately, a year after I qualified, I began to feel unwell. No sort of everything obvious that brought it on. Really strange, I had to feel a lot of tiredness having daily naps, which was unusual for me going for someone that was training quite a bit in healthy energy. And also obviously the weight gain and everything else. So for me, it was quite an unusual sort of unusual symptoms for myself as I'd been through all the health and fitness stuff. So I then decided to go for some tests and I was obviously diagnosed with hypothyroidism. I decided at the time once I'd had the diagnosis that I would focus on getting myself back to a stage where I was a bit unhealthy and wanted to kind of rest my body. My body was obviously telling me something. So I wanted to take the time out, rest and everything else. So I stepped away from the personal training and the gym for a couple of years. I've just got back into it myself probably about a year ago, six months to a year. So I found it's a massive benefit getting back into it again. Definitely seeing a big change in my mood from mental health massively. It took a big dive when I was obviously given a diagnosis. It was all quite unexplained. So it tends to hit you quite hard when you've got something that's sort of unexplained and come from nowhere. So getting back into the exercise has really helped me improve my mood and stuff. It's definitely helped with my energy levels as we're all aware with hypothyroidism. It can fluctuate. Your energy can be up and down on a daily basis. So I've definitely found that getting back into the health of it really helped me with my energy and sleep. We all know hypothyroidism can massively help us sleep, affect us sleep. Apologies. Stumbling over my words. So it can obviously be up during the night and different things like that. So I've found that it does have a massive effect on my sleep and improving my sleep. It's also taken me back to a stage where I was about three years ago, prior to my diagnosis, of getting back my strength, which for me was a mass of it. And I've done so well myself through training with a personal trainer that I wanted to get back to that strength again. So it really getting back into the gym and everything else, it really pushed me to get back in there. So it's been of a massive benefit to myself, obviously going through my journey of doing the personal training with someone to become a personal trainer and then having to step back. So I think health and fitness really for me is a major factor in making sure that I maintain some of my energy levels and hypothyroidism and to keep a good balance on a daily life. It's all, yeah, that's kind of me. I know it's sort of short and sweet, but that's kind of my story and where I've kind of got to right now. OK, so I know that you did some video for us. Yeah, so oh, yes, sorry, I forgot to mention that. So yeah, there are there is a video on Instagram, which is accessible for everyone. If you go on to my Instagram page, which I can pop in the chat for anyone that wants to go and do that. I'm also in the process of filming a few more to put out on Instagram, probably on a weekly basis. And and obviously said, over to yourself as well, Lynn, so you can there's anyone here that wishes to to access those videos through your social channels and through your YouTube. I can send those out and access them that way as well. OK, I mean, I've got one ready. I think it wasn't very long. So the one that you sent me, it wasn't very long. So I wasn't sure about showing it now. Yeah, that'd be great. I did I did try and get it up onto the screen today. But for some reason, my sharing systems on this is a bit up and down. So I always try to find it to share and put up today, but it may be worth just so. Because you and I do the kind of things that you could do. It doesn't have to be sort of. Strength training, as I do, it's just that daily movement and getting out and about. And just just a little bit on a daily basis to sort of help yourself feel. Feel stronger, feel healthier and get a fitness. OK, let me see if I can bring it up. Hi, everybody. Welcome to the third and series of at home workouts with myself, Emma and Thyroid UK. Today's focus is going to be on the upper body. So we're going to do a little warm up, three exercises and then a little cool down at the end. Now, all these exercises can be done body weight. But if you'd like to add any extra resistance, then please go and grab yourself some little dumbbells, tins, water bottles, whatever you have. Add yourself a little bit of extra resistance. But if you want to keep your body weight, then that's absolutely fine. So we're going to start now with that warm up. Take those arms out for me and take them back. Let's warm up the shoulders. One, two, three, four and five. Then bring them forward for me. One, two, three, four and five. Nice. Then we're going to bring those arms across the chest. So reach out and swing across for one, two, three, four, five. I'll make sure you're opening up that chest. Six, seven, eight, nine and ten. Amazing work. You should be feeling nice and warm now. We're going to take it now into our first exercise, which is bicep curls. I need you to stand with your arms down by your sides. Make your hands into a fist for me. And then curl the fists up towards the shoulders. We're going for ten. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine and ten. Amazing work. Let's take a little rest. Shake your arms out if you need to. Have a little dance. Next exercise we're going to go into is that overhead shoulder press. Arms 90 degrees, hands in fists for me. And we're going to push those fists up and in together. And we're going for ten. So one, two, three, four, five. Six, seven, eight, nine, ten. Amazing work. Shake yourself out again. Again, have a little dance. Move about if you need to. Have a little wiggle and a jiggle. And then we're going to take it into our third exercise, which is the bent over row. So what I need you to do for me is to bend over at the hips, bend that bum out towards the back, slide it, bend in your knees, hands down by your sides, make the hands into fists and draw those elbows back for me. And feel that in your shoulder. So we're going for ten. One, two, three. Four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, and ten. Amazing work. That's the end of your three exercises. We're now going to take it into a little cool down. So we're going to do a cross body stretch. So reach that left arm cross. Curl your right arm up. Hold that for ten for me. Five, four, three, two and one. Nice. Switch sides. Bring that right across to that left. Hold up. Ten for me. Five, four, three, two and one. And rest it there. Right. Next exercise is going to stretch out those shoulders for me again. Link your fingers, turn those hands around and push out towards the front. And take that for ten for me. Four, three, two and one. Amazing job today, guys. I look forward to seeing you on the next one. As I say, it's maybe for people, I don't know in terms of people's experience with health and fitness themselves, but as I explained it, I'd sort of gone from being quite in the gym quite a lot, training three, four times a week and also with a personal trainer to then go into the diagnosis. It was a massive kind of shock and knock-on effect to being that healthy person and to going and suffering with the, or through the tiredness, the weight gain and everything else. So anything I could do to sort of help people just daily basis, five, ten minutes, getting up, moving about. If you're one of those people that enjoys doing step counts and going out and getting your steps in and things like that running up and down the stairs. It's for me, movement has kind of really helped me to focus again and not think more about movement and how it affects my body rather than how the hyperthyroidism sort of affecting me. But it's definitely, definitely had a lot of benefits and it is a really good, good way of trying to help yourself and help your body sort of focus on the positives and not on what's trying to attack you. Yeah, there's a few people saying, yes, please put it on YouTube. So I think that's a good way to go and set up a YouTube page. Yeah, I will definitely set up my YouTube page. A lot of us older people, myself, very much included, I'm not O'Faye completely with Insta. Heidi does that for me. And if I do go on there to do anything, I'm not sure what I'm doing is right. So. Yeah, no, that's absolutely fine. I mean, the HD anything with the YouTube Instagram is when you're trying to upload a video that's more than a minute long, it kind of just doesn't like it. You have to break it. Like the video I've had to put up had to break it down into three, three sections so that obviously we do too. Yeah, no, it will go up. It's brilliant. You know, we've got a YouTube channel. I don't know if you can share on YouTube. I'm not sure if I could. You could put them on yours and then share them. I don't know. Yeah, I'm sure there's a way. Yeah, sure, there's a way. It's figuring it out and putting them on so we can share them together. If I'd sort of tag you tag you in the in the video, potentially it might work that way. Or if I just send them all across to you once I've done them and then as they go out, I can put them on my YouTube as well as you guys put them on yours as well. OK, so how long have we got? We've got like about 10 minutes. Has anybody got any questions for Emma about perhaps how to start with exercise when you've got hypothyroidism? Any opinions on cold showers as part of an exercise routine? I know they're supposed to be really good for you, cold showers and cold dipping, but it's not for me, I must say. It's really beneficial when you've done exercise to sort of help with the muscle recovery. And so I found certainly that a lot of people tend to do it post exercise to obviously help with the muscle recovery. So it's definitely definitely beneficial. I would include it at the end, at the end of a workout just to obviously help with the muscle recovery. And I've got quite a few quite a few messages now in the chat. I'm just trying to go through. And I thought that warm, something warm, I always thought something warm was good after you've done exercise, but perhaps things have changed now. Yeah, it's a combination of the two things. It's sort of the heat and the cold is quite beneficial for recovery across the press board. So because it helps with like the muscle recovery. So yes, it depends on people's the explain this now, how quickly your muscles recover from the exercise. And it's also, yeah, so I think it's also very person focus as well. If you prefer a cold shower or a cold ice bath and everything else after after you've exercised or during your training, go for it. If you've got heat, then go for that as well. If you can do a combination of the two, then even more benefit from it as well. Yeah. Just trying to. I always have it at the end after a sauna, someone has put. So Joe, so I know, yeah, yeah, so there's a benefit as well. So isn't stress extremely cold actually not very good for us? Any stress? I'm not sure about that one. I mean, yes, stress isn't good. Obviously, no stress. Yeah, stress isn't good. And obviously, I would I would say that everyone's got a different situation in terms of the level of potential hypothyroidism and how it affects your body. So I definitely recommend that you take it to your your own levels and make it. Make it for you. So if you find that cold is beneficial for you, go for the cold, cold, water, therapy, cold showers. It's all dependent on how your body reacts to the exercise and how you feel. And so it's important to kind of. I know myself that if I go out and do an hour strength training, I need to probably for myself go and do it in the morning because by the end of the day, that's my energy levels will be into the ground. So it's again, it's for everyone individually, how it works for them, how it works with your body and how you how you feel sort of with the fatigue. If you're better off in the mornings, go for it. Go and do go that. Go do that strength training. Go and do that that half hour walk and get yourselves out and about and get that day started. If you find yourself better in the evenings, then go and grab it, grab the exercise. I'm very individual, isn't it? I would have thought mornings would be would be good for a lot of us because your cortisol levels are higher in the morning than they are in the afternoon and evening. And that might just give you a little bit of help to do the exercise. So. This lady, Lucy, is saying what exercise is the best to start with? I've just been diagnosed two months ago and never really knew much about exercise anyway. But now I'm really struggling. Do I do like cardio weights? What is best? Is there so I would say a combination of everything you said there. The light like cardio weights was best. So you're better off starting on doing sort of like to moderate exercise. So in terms of your ability to movement, getting out for sort of 10, 15 minute walks, going out, sort of building that heart rate up, using light weights. I don't know if you've got a you go to a gym or if you sort of would be looking to work out at home. But definitely strength training is really good for helping with building up your muscle mass, your strength and helping with balancing the weight. And I was like, there is a weight gain tends to be one of the big, big areas. So light weights and like cardio to start off with, I would suggest. I know you could buy an I've got one. I bought a pack of weights, if you see what I mean. So it started off with tiny little ones and then the next one. And you can go right up to the more heavy ones. They're not heavy by any means, but you know, it's just like holding something's resistance, isn't it? Sort of help your muscles. So as I'm aware, anyway, I'm not the next boat on it. What have I got here? But I've talked about post-exertional menace. Have a look at that one. Okay. I'll move. So this lady says, I agree. It's feeling cold is a regular problem for my Hashimoto's. It's the degree of coldness. After exercising the shower, I remove the shower head and concentrate on the cold water onto my legs to help my muscles heal. And it works for me. I don't do extreme cold. Yeah, I think you have to find out what works for you. I mean, I'm not a good person. I mean, I'm I know, perhaps I shouldn't say this, but for some people, exercise is a complete no, no, because they're just not there yet. You know, and I think you need to be treated in the way that your body needs in terms of treatment, medication. And sometimes it's just you need a little bit more. You know, we were talking earlier with Michael about the TSH being too low. But I know a lot of people come to me and their GPs won't let them go down further than 2.5. But that just that little bit more going down to one can make a huge amount of difference to people. And actually, the British Thyroid Association in their guidance on lyothyronine says that people can now actually go right down to the bottom of the TSH range or a little bit more, but not completely suppressed. So there again, you know, if anybody's struggling with that, just do take a copy of the BTA guidance to your GP to have a chat about a little bit more lyvothyroxine, because it can make a lot of difference. And if you're met with a barrier with your GP, and I know this sounds sexist, but it's not meant to be, but it works. Take someone with you. Take a strong woman with you who can advocate for you. But in a lot of cases, if you take a man with you who advocates for you, your husband or your partner or someone that knows you really well, where they can say, look, this isn't her. She's not getting better. What are you going to do about it? Because I don't know about you, but when you go into the doctor, you kind of go back a bit, you know, it's like they're on a pedestal. And you say, oh, yes, yes. All right, then. Oh, OK. Whereas really, we need to try and be just a little bit firm, not aggressive, just a little bit firm to ask for things. And sorry to say, but sometimes having a man with you does make the GPs listen just a little bit more. So. Definitely. I mean, a couple of I've noticed a couple of posts in the message about post exercise malaise. My advice with that is generally, I'd say, pace yourself. If your body is starting to feel like fatigued, it's feeling like too much. It's just at the end of the day with exercise, with hyperthyroidism, with all of this, you need to listen to your body. That's the most important thing that I can say with all of this. Just balancing when you do the activity, if you do the rest, you do strength training. For example, the advised time rest between sets is about two minutes. But if you're finding yourself getting.  2-photique, take longer, make sure you're resting your body between those sets. If you're going out for a walk, if you're going out for half an hour, do it in 10-minute intervals. Take 10 minutes, rest for 10 minutes, go for 10 minutes, rest for 10 minutes. It's so important to listen to what your body is saying to you. Obviously, I know a lot of people are spoken about the cold water therapy and the shocks and things to the system. I have to say that the cold is something that I haven't actually experienced myself. It's a really strange one, but I feel really un-constantly hot, which is unusual. Cold works for me, but it obviously is safer for others who have posted in the group. It all depends on what your system and what your body can handle. On your level, the levels of hypothyroidism that you have. Yeah. Okay. Thank you very much, Emma. Thank you. If anybody's got any more questions, do put them in the chat and I can forward them on to Emma. Yeah, quite happy to answer any more, be honest. My email is also there as well. I haven't answered anything. If I missed some of the messages and haven't answered anything today, then feel free, please just put me an email. I know someone's mentioned something about fitness trackers. They're definitely a good idea of indication of what levels you're working at, tracking steps, track your heart rate, and tracks your energy levels and how far you're pushing some of the track. If you're doing aerobic exercise around aerobic and things like that, so it can give you a level of where you're working to. Okay. Thank you very much. Thanks ever such a lot, Emma, and we'll be in touch again soon. All right. Thanks very much. Take care. Bye. Okay. So our next speaker is Melissa Cohen. Let me just find. So, Melissa, if you've come to any of our webinars before, you will have seen Melissa. She's also spoken at our conference, the last one we had. So, Melissa is a nutritional therapist and NLP practitioner. So, she's going to speak about kinesiology today. And I said I was going to give you a little story. I had some kinesiology when I was ill with undiagnosed hypothyroidism, and it did help me. But the main thing that I was really actually quite shocked about was that it helped my son. He had a bad experience, and I mean a bad experience. He stayed over at a friend's house one night, and I got a phone call at 10 o'clock panicked from the parents saying that my son was inconsolable and I had to go and get him. And it turned out that in their bedroom, his friend had put the film arachnophobia on. And from that day onwards, he was dreadful. He wouldn't go into a room on his own unless he would check for spiders. He wouldn't go in the garden in certain areas. It was horrific, actually, at that time. So, I took him to this lady who was a kinesiologist. Now, he was very young, bearing in mind, he was about eight. And he didn't really know what was going on when I took him. I just told him he was going to be seeing a nice lady who was going to ask him some questions and things like that. And so, she used kinesiology on him. And then we went home. And literally, a couple of days later, he called me upstairs and said, oh, look, Mummy, there's a spider. And he was looking at this spider and watching this spider move around. And I was absolutely amazed that he could do that. And even, you know, that carried on. It wasn't just a little thing. He's carried on. And from that day, he's not been worried about spiders at all. So, I think kinesiology can be very powerful in some areas. So, I'm really looking forward to listening to what Melissa has to say. So, I'm not sure. Is Melissa ready? I've got the timing right, haven't I? Yes. And Ashley's here. Well, thank you, Lynn, for inviting me on your webinar. And lovely sorry, guys, that I can't see you all. But just a little bit about me. Thanks for the introduction, Lynn. And it's great to hear all these kinesiology stories. So, I've been working with Farod UK, contributing every quarter to their articles on nutrition. And I've always been interested in what the body wants, because we over intellectualize everything. So, you know, I've worked a lot with thyroid patients. And we constantly talk about TSH and leifothyroxine and leoithyrinine and blood markers. And is it anemia? And is it inflammation? And what else is going on? And all of these are really relevant. And sometimes it's almost like the body holds on to stress. So, I'm going to take you on a bit of a journey and explain what that means. And, you know, so when I'm having a consultation with a client, I can over intellectualize and the client can over intellectualize. And I think the most easiest way of kind of saying it is, you know, when someone says, hi, how are you? You say, I'm fine, thanks, how are you? But sometimes we're not fine. And most times we are, but sometimes we're not. And then sometimes we don't even realize that we're not. So, let me talk you through this. Okay, so in kinesiology, it's all about energy. So, if you can just put the allopathic and blood testing on the side for now. And anybody that's done acupuncture will notice this diagram that I've got here of, I noticed my cursor is not showing on the screen. And you've got all these lines going through the body. And these are like acupressure points where your acupuncturist will release energy. So, energy is something that you can't see, which we'll talk about, but we can feel, can't we? We feel when we're energized and we feel when we're passionate or when we're excited about something. So, traditional Chinese medicine is such a unique wisdom. It's a 3000 year old medicinal fountain of knowledge. And the Chinese medicine practitioners always work with our energy meridian lines. So, if you can imagine, we've got these invisible superhighway forces around the body that carry energy to every organ of the body and our muscles and our tissues and even our emotions. So, the Chinese medicine model is all about, so very much similar to what Lynn was saying, the her son had this sort of arachnophobia. You know, there's fear of spiders and you can lock that fear in. And what kinesiology does is find where that fear is locked in and release it. It sounds very simplistic, but it is. So, and I'll talk how kinesiologists work. So, I'm just about completing my foundation in kinesiology and I find it a beautiful modality to work with nutrition, so as long with the bloods and the functional testing and the case taking, sometimes it's really nice to just get on the bed and let somebody do some muscle testing and find out where the blockages are. And then 10 times out of 10, people come off that bed feeling much more relaxed and much more at ease. So, these meridian lines that you're seeing in the body, one of these meridian lines that go from the ring finger all the way up to the eyebrow, so we've got a better diagram on here, is known as the triple warmer meridian. And the triple warmer meridian is linked to the thyroid. And it does make sense because triple warmer is all about adrenals, thyroid and sex hormones, hence the triple. And this energy line runs from your ring finger all the way to your eyebrow. So, think of it like a control centre, a control superhigh way to make sure that your temperature is okay and your body's distributing the energy effectively. Absolutely, the thyroid does that. The thyroid is the regulator, it's the thermostat in the body, but the energy, the energy flow has to move around as well. So, here's a really nice diagram that you can see it starts from the finger and it goes round the ear and to the eyebrow. And this is thousands and thousands of years old, ancient wisdom and it's something that I'm finding really interesting and noticing a really, it's a really insightful medicine and really complementary as well to the allopathic medicine. And you have meridian lines on either side, so it's both sides of the body. So, it helps support metabolism, especially when we're in that fight and flight, which I'll be discussing, which I'm sure you're all aware of. We can just get in this fight or flight stress mode and that impacts the thyroid because the pituitary gland in the brain not only controls the thyroid, but also controls our stress hormone and also controls our sex hormone. So, when everything's completely, let's say the pedals are on and we're completely full throttle, really stressed, those three elements can become impacted. So, this meridian line, this energy line linked to the thyroid is all about fire and enthusiasm, vitality and warmth. And also interestingly, the Chinese medicine also looks at the thyroid as expression. So, there is also a modality of thought that if we are inhibiting our views and we're not that vocal and we're suppressing, that can impact the thyroid as well. So, this is where the body can release all of this tension. So, it's all about fire and enthusiasm and vitality and warmth, but we don't want to burn all of this up. We don't want to have so much vitality, so much passion that it leads to irritability and impatience. And we don't want so little energy where it just leads to feelings of coldness and emptiness and flatness. And usually, when there is a lack of energy within the Chinese medicine model, within the kinesiology, it really means there's a blockage somewhere on that meridian line from the ring finger to the eyebrow. Now, if you could see me, picture that you can see me, and if you can picture somebody running their finger, not touching the body, but running their finger from that ring finger, just let's say an inch from the body, so not touching, and then going all the way to the eyebrow. In fact, you do touch the first point of the meridian line, which is the ring finger, and then trace it all the way around the ear and then touch the eyebrow. And I've had this done to me, and you can actually feel like a nice tingling sensation. I encourage you to try this with your partners and your friends, and you can just lie down and get them to trace the meridian line from your ring finger over the ear and to touch the eyebrow and to do that probably about 10 times on each side, and that's called running the meridian line. So every meridian line, so that meridian line from the ring finger to the eyebrow is all linked to the muscles, and this muscle, a bit of physiology is called the teres minor muscle, which is located around the shoulder. So every emotion is linked to a muscle, is linked to an organ, and very much the Chinese medicine model is all about what are you feeling, what are your symptoms, how are you expressing it, and then based on that a kinesiologist will muscle test that particular muscle. So this particular muscle is called the teres minor muscle, and let's say for example if you're interested in seeing how your thyroid is on a Chinese medicine model, there'll be a certain muscle test that will see how this teres minor muscle is responding. So what are the indications that you may have? And you, bloods could be fine, you might be the clinical hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism and on medication, it doesn't matter, kinesiology works really well alongside this because it's just a very different way of managing energy. So shoulder problems, you know, we all have that weight on our shoulders, and excessive weight on our shoulders due to procrastination and stress and over-utilizing the adrenals, etc. And that will impact the thyroid and other expressions are weight changes, metabolism, excess emotions, so too little thyroid, empty, too much thyroid irritability, shakiness, palpitations, and just generally that feeling of overwhelm, even if your thyroid is beautifully balanced, just managing somebody's stress, which is on this Meridian line, just this feeling of overwhelm and can actually lead to almost like a paralysis where you just don't know which way to turn and just manipulating this muscle really is a beautiful way of balancing energy. So what do I mean when manipulating muscle? So you can see in the middle picture here, there's a kinesiologist in the blue shirt and the patient's lying down and the kinesiologist is very, very gently pushing their forearm towards their body. So the practitioner, the client then has to resist it. So it's all about how much you can resist the pressure of a practitioner. It's not about muscle and strength, it's all about your energy. On that particular day, how much you can push against the practitioner's hand and then the practitioner through kinesiology can figure out whether it's, is it nutrition that muscle Meridian wants? Is it emotion? Is it hydration, electrical? So if you think of electrical in the heart needing magnesium and potassium and sodium, or is it structure? So if it's structure, there's something called lymphatic massage that you all may have heard of. And this is used in kinesiology to stimulate the waste, the flow of the waste from the organ. So lymph actually gets rid of toxins and also sends white blood cells to where it needs to go to fight infection. So the lymph is really important for drainage and clearing out toxins. And I encourage you, I wish I could see you, but I encourage you, if you can put your hands, your fingers just near the side of your shoulder and if you, and if you rub that area, it's actually quite, quite painful. It's the main area where the lymph actually drains. And so kinesiology is not just about muscle testing and nutrition, it's also about stimulating the lymph flow. And depending on how weak or strong that muscle is, will enable a practitioner to give you the best protocol. So it's a lot to get your head around because I come from a science background and with Western allopathic medicine, it's kind of really far from simple in a sense. But if your bloods are saying something, and I know it's exacerbating for, especially for thyroid, because you could have a great TSH and a, let's say, let's say, for example, that you're lucky enough to get your T3 levels checked and your antibodies and everything's in line, and you still don't feel great. So in the allopathic world, it's well, you're doing fine. But that doesn't mean that you feel fine. And I think that's really the best way to be is to not wait for your blood markers to be out of range, but to check in with what is my energy? How am I feeling? You know, am I able to walk? Am I able to do the exercise that I want to do? Am my joints hurting? What's my mood lies? My metabolism changed? All these things that cost us nothing that we can check in with our body. And even if you are on thyroid medication, even better, you can support yourself with kinesiology and by checking in on yourself and asking yourself some key questions such as how am I sleeping? Am I refreshed when I wake up? Am I able to do the walks that I used to walk? Am I able to lift the weights that I used to used to lift? Or simplistically, am I able to enjoy what I would want to enjoy? So Western medicine is very much what can be seen, what can be measured, what can be scanned, what can be treated, whereas the Chinese medicine is all about the energy, the energetic resonance of a person that can be mapped. But we won't be discussing that today. But you can feel it, you know, we can feel tingling, we can feel excitement, we can feel when somebody comes into the room, what we feel about them, are they quite an energetic person or we can feel when the energy drops in the room, especially at the end of the day. And plant-based medicine is really on point right now. A lot of people are going back to plant-based medicine and looking at ways to complement their medicine and their or their lot of medication to support their well-being. So let's go back to the triple warmer. This is the meridian line, remember, that runs from the finger right through to the eyebrow. And this is a picture of a woman here lying on a bed in the tree pose. If any of you do yoga, she's lying on the bed in a tree pose or if any of you like ballet, kind of in a pirouette lying down. This practitioner is gently pulling her leg, she's resisting to see how easy it is to pull her foot down to meet the rest of her body. So this triple warmer is the body's energy flow, managing hormones. And it's almost like a built-in alarm. If there is an energy blockage, so looking at this woman, let's say for example, the practitioner, if she can easily pull this lady's leg and this patient on the bed has no energy or no resistance, then we know there's something blocking on that meridian line. And then it's a really beautiful modality to find out what supplements the body needs, whether there's more lymphatic massage that needs to take place, whether there's an emotional element to it. So emotions that are linked to the thyroid, as explained before, or lack of speech, lack of expression, overexcitability, very much linked to the adrenals. So from my experience as a nutritional practitioner, often see women when they reach a certain age, their thyroid may slow down or when they go through a lot of stress and their adrenals are compromised, the thyroid is compromised. So it's almost like a traffic jam. We want to clear this traffic jam and we clear it by releasing emotional tension. And I'm going to talk you through that, which is going to be difficult through this black space, but I'm going to do my best because I have some demonstrations that I was going to show you. But just holding onto certain points in the body, even if you're not expressing, can really help release that emotional tension, that heaviness that we feel. It's like talking to a good friend and we walk away and we just walk out feeling much, much lighter. So I'm going to be going through that. So just to recap, meridians are our energy and they go backwards and forwards and they flow energy into our muscles and into our organs and help regulate hormones. And these symptoms are, we all know them where we're constantly on edge or we overact to things that we shouldn't be reacting to, like if we're running late or if we, somebody has a different opinion to us and we over, we over stress or we can't switch off. We're tired and we're wired, tension in the shoulders, the neck, the jaw, cold hands and feet, yes, it's the thyroid, but also think of the energy flow around the body as well. Even rubbing hands, really, really, really, really hard and holding them up to your face. I hope you can hear that rubbing hands. You can feel the heat and just tracing the meridian lines will really help the body's metabolism. So other areas with the triple warmer and this meridian line, and it holds, it's very much linked to thyroid, is when everything slows down, bloating, constipation, intergestion, can't absorb us effectively, but also that could be due to the adrenals as well, because when we're in this fight or flight, if we can't release a tension, maybe the muscles are tight or maybe we're holding on to an emotion that doesn't serve us anymore. As Lynn's story of her son, his adrenals were so fixated on arachnophobia, there was just a tension there, but when the kinesiologist worked with him, it released all of that tension and the emotional pull just went. Ongoing all of that can actually really impact the digestive system because of that rest and digest state that we want to be in all the time. If this is not kept into check, burnout can be expressed, constant fatigue, and the last hormones really that are neglected by the body, as well as the poor thyroid are sex hormones such as estrogen, progesterone, testosterone, and then the immune system can be impacted. So we have these really lovely points called neurovascular points, which mainly on the head, and the lymphatic points, which I explained were just near the breastbone and on the back near the shoulder bone that you can just dig in and just rub between those two ribs near the breastbone to help remove lymph. And you can feel it will be slightly, slightly painful, but the more you rub this area, the less painful it will be and the more you can increase the lymph flow. But just going back to that slide, also there's the rebounder trampolines that are fantastic for lymph, where you can just jump on these trampolines and keep them in the house, they're only small. This is a diagram that I'm not going to go through massively, but it just shows you that there's a sensor in the brain called the hypothalamus that communicates with the pituitary, and then that gets really busy, the pituitary gland, it's the major hormone gland, communicates with the thyroid, it communicates with the adrenals, it communicates with our sex hormones. So if you can imagine all of these meridian lines are blocked, inflammation can start and this can impact the physiology of the body. So muscle testing is a really simple way to find out how the body responds to certain supplements. Let's start with that. So we saw a lady lying down with her in the tree shape doing a yoga position lying down, and we saw somebody with his forearm slightly out in a practitioner trying to press the forearm back into the body, and this is a very gentle muscle test to see how the body is responding to different foods. So a kinesiologist will apply gentle pressure and you won't really feel it, you'll you'd just be lying there on the bed letting the practitioner test all your muscles, and then if the muscles weak the practitioner will find out if there's an emotional element there, a nutritional element, a hydration, electrical element or a structure. If the muscle remains strong it means that the body, there's no tension, there's no support needed, or if the muscle gains strength after being weak it means that the support that you've given the body through nutrition or through emotional support means that it has been fixed for now. So muscle testing helps identify what the body needs right now and can really help balance the body. It's a very quick, cost-effective, painless way to support a person. That's why I like it. I think it works best with other combinations. So I know osteopaths use kinesiology if for structural work and chiropractors, nutritional therapists such as myself and naturopaths and herbalists, it's a really quick way especially to get remedies ready, especially if you don't particularly want to go through a whole comprehensive case taking, you just want to do some kinesiology work, then a practitioner can work really well and help support you nutritionally through supplements. I just have to say it's not a substitute for a medical diagnosis but more of a way to understand what your body needs right now from an energetic point of view. So just to go through some supplementations which I'm sure you're all aware of to help reduce inflammation and to support the nervous system. So ashwagandha and rhodiola are really lovely plant-based medicines that really immediately help support stress and help support the adrenals. So if you can imagine, I like to think of this analogy that you have, let's say a swimming pool, let's say a big paddling pool in the garden and let's say all the stress is the water leaking out and all the holes coming in this pool and the water is leaking out and even if you have the best diet in the world, it's not going to be enough because the water is completely leaking out. So the whole kind of building block and all of these imbalances in the body, particularly the thyroid, is managing stress because we saw in that diagram how much it's linked to the adrenals. So most of my clients have experienced a huge amount of stress and then thyroid issues and that's no coincidence. So ashwagandha almost is like a shortcut to help the body modulate stress, in other words, calm that cortisol down and it tells the brain a little bit like meditation and breath work that everything's fine. It stops the pituitary glands, stimulating the adrenals, it tells the control center in the brain that everything's okay. And while you're taking these adaptogens, it gives you a chance to do the work, get some kinesiology, take some time to journal and really understand what's happening on an emotional aspect in the body and also that emotional aspect will then reduce any inflammation. Magnesium is really important. Magnesium is needed. There are hundreds of metabolic reactions in the body that happened every second of the day. So you can imagine ending up millions of reactions in the body every day and therefore it just helps calm the nervous system. We need magnesium for GABA, we need magnesium for our bones and to metabolize food into energy and we've got pantothenic acid B5 and B6, really important for mental health and energy metabolism as well. Amiga 3 fatty acids are excellent sources of fats to reduce inflammation and they support the brain. The brain is mainly fat as well and we have these myelin sheaths that also cover our neurons that help communication and these neurons help dictate our mood, our serotonin, how much reward we're getting from life and as I said also reduce inflammation. Eltheanine is beautiful, it's a beautiful component from green tea that helps produce GABA and that really helps with mental clarity and also helps relax without the drowsiness. And then lastly we can get a lot of these through herbal teas. So chamomile and lemon balm and licorice root. Licorice root be careful if you're prone to hypertension. If not licorice roots really great for sugar cravings and increasing energy. Lemon balm and eltheanine work together really well to promote calmness and clarity and chamomile is just a lovely flower herb that really helps with relaxation. So let me just talk to you about these.  neurovascular points. So if you can imagine you're putting your hands in your forehead really heavily now, every time we're worried we might lean on our hands and put them in our forehead. But if you raise your two fingers between your eyebrows and your hairline and just ever so lightly, like butterfly pressure, just hold onto your forehead and just maybe do that while you're doing some breath work will really help release tension along that triple warmer meridian linking to the thyroid. There's also the top of the skull and there's a picture of a baby, the fontanelle, the part of the skull that's really soft when the baby's born. And so right at the top, if you can put two fingers there, that really helps to form a bliss. You might need to try this maybe offline when you're not concentrating and just touch it ever so lightly. And if you hold these points for two to three minutes, any time that you're feeling overwhelmed or there's a high tension, it really does help to reduce this. So there's the baby's head. So it says small circular motions, feather-like touch and really helps to relieve stress. So it's beautiful for baby's kinesiology and children, especially children can be quite overwhelmed if they speak a counselor, psychotherapy. Kinesiology is a really gentle way of releasing that tension from the body. Also, there's an immediate stress release if the web between the thumb and the index finger and just gently pinch that spot just to release the tension anytime you're feeling very stressed as well. So there's all these different pressure points that you can use and take home to your loved ones and even do that to them if they're talking in the stress, you can just place two fingers on their forehead or on top of their head on their fontanelle. So that ties up that presentation. I do apologize that you can't see me. If you're ever in London or you'd like to see me over Zoom, I'd love to meet you and provide a kinesiology session with nutrition. But for now, start by practicing simple acupressure holds, either light feather touch on your forehead or trace your meridian line from your index finger all the way around the ear and then touch and finish with the eyebrow. Explore muscle testing with a qualified practitioner. You might want to see somebody locally in your area and just out of interest to see what your body needs. So just go forward. Thank you for listening. I'd love to hear what you've taken away from this talk. Feel free to share your thoughts and I'm happy to meet you in the chat. Thank you so much. And I'm just so sorry we can't see you. I have checked this end and you are down as presenter. So I'm not quite sure what happened there. But we could just, if I go through some of the questions and let's have a look. So we did that. Someone has said, funny, I love sleeping in this position. I take it that's the lady. I'm not sure I take it's the lady that had her leg bent perhaps. Oh, okay. That is nice position. Yes. Yeah, like the tree pose. Someone's asked a personal question. I'm not quite sure whether to ask you that or not. It's about hypothyroidism. I can try. Okay. It just says, does Melissa have hypothyroidism too? Okay. Now I'm happy to answer no, but I had subclinical hypothyroidism, funnily enough. After I got involved with Thyroid UK, I recognized the signs and my TSH was quite high. So I do know the feeling just subclinical and I didn't feel great. And so no, I nipped in the bird, but I know everybody's levels are so different. People thrive on different levels. That's right. Yeah. And that's the issue we have with ranges. Yeah. It's like the 12 ranges very wide and somebody might feel brilliant at a low level. I know. But other people really need it to be a high level and it's so wide. And then it's ridiculous. And then the doctors say, stop eating protein. You're eating too much protein. Oh, it's crazy. You're eating too much protein. So someone has pointed out that you should test first for deficiencies before you take supplements. Sometimes that's easy to do. But I'm not sure that all of them are very, I mean, some of them you can get done by your GP. Yeah. But I think some you can't. Yeah. I think you can't test for everything. You know, you can't test for Ashwagandha and Lemak. You can test for Vitamin D and B12 and iron. But if you think about it, the minerals are stored in the bone. So it's gonna be very rare that you'll have a zinc imbalance or a calcium imbalance because the heart will take that and the bone over precedence. So don't just think that. It's really important to know the body will overcompensate to make sure that your heart still works and you've got enough minerals for the bone. Yeah, I mean, Michael, I don't know if you saw Michael's talk. I only saw the end, unfortunately. Honestly, I don't know how he was walking around at the level that he was. So obviously somehow in his body, his body was compensating a lot. So, I mean, what I often tell people is, give it a try, don't take huge amounts, massive amounts, just try and see how you go. But if you start to feel ill in any way, then stop taking whatever it is that you're trying. Vitamin D can be a bit, you have to be careful with Vitamin D. I know that. You do. Yeah, you do. Vitamin D gets stored in the liver. So it's a fat soluble vitamin and you can get Vitamin D toxicity. So, yes. But, and the B, most of the vitamins are water soluble, Vitamin blast and cruise, it's just the A, D, E and K. And then the minerals, it's very hard to test for. Yeah. You know, if you think of zinc's really, really needed for the thyroid as well. Yeah, yeah. And I would say probably 10% of people have low zinc on their blood tests because the body will overcompensate. Yeah. It's very rarely that you have a low zinc level. Yeah. The next question is, any adverse interactions between ashwagandha and levothoroxin? Now, I asked a question, I think I answered a question about this this week about ashwagandha. What are your views? I'm trying to, I just have a look, because I did look it up. That may, it shouldn't take me a minute just to find the word ashwagandha in my emails. It seems that ashwagandha can increase T4 levels. So I'm guessing if you're subclinical, that might be what you need. But I think if you're hyper, it might not be a good idea to take it. Yeah. I think every, I think there's no specific scientific research to say, don't take ashwagandha if you're taking levothoroxin. And, you know, maybe if you're interested in if you're feeling stressed and you're on levothoroxin, maybe get a little tincture so you can dilute it rather than a capsule and just take a fraction of the amount and a little bit of water. Yeah. I mean, basically with taking things with levothoroxin, I find it's always better not to take anything with your levothoroxin immediately, but do it later. No, no, I agree. I agree. I meant if you're on medication. Yeah, yeah. Yes, absolutely. But I think somebody put something there. So what's the next one? So this lady said, I don't think so. I've taken ashwagandha alongside levomany times. So she's obviously all right. Yeah, there's, yeah. Can you get green tea without caffeine? You can get decaffeinated green tea. And it's a really good question to get that l-theanine, but you've still got a little bit of caffeine in there. If you're interested in theanine, you can get capsules. I know Viridian do a really nice one. Viridian do a really nice lemon balm and l-theanine. Oh, right, OK. My worry about green tea is that it has fluoride in it. And we know that we have to be careful with fluoride for people with hypothyroidism. Yes. Any help for thyroid and sugar diabetic interactions? Sugar di- so diabetes and thyroid. Well, yes, but that's a... That's a whole other story isn't it? That's a whole other story. So stress is really, so if you're on diabetic medication at the moment, let's say metformin, then you really need to support that metformin. So diet-wise, your friends are the unsaturated fats, the olive oils, the oily fish, the avocados, to try and... I'm assuming you're diabetic type two. It's diabetic type one, it's different. That's autoimmune. Yeah. OK, the next one is, do you know a good kinesiologist in Suffolk? Probably not, but I would say go to Bant, they might be able to find someone there. They might be, yeah, a lot of nutritionists are kinesiologists as well, yeah. Yeah, I can't remember what Bant stands for, Melissa. British association of nutritional therapists. Yeah, so if you go to their website, I think there's a search function there, I think where you can look for certain things on there. Someone said, all very interesting and hadn't heard of this before, so that's good. Great. Thanks so much, Melissa, that was really interesting and useful. Look forward to trying out some of these techniques. And there's a few more thank yous before that. I have to go, unfortunately, but thank you so much, Lynn and Heidi, for organising all this. Oh, that's nice. Thank you for very useful information. That was very interesting. Thank you, Melissa. More interesting, thank yous. I know kinesiologists in Leicester and Melbourne, if that's of use to anyone. Thank you. Yeah, there's lots of thank you. Oh, it's a pleasure. The tree leg, yes. Okay. Does the muscle testing usually involve one session? Good question. Yeah, you can just have one session, absolutely. You might need a few sessions, but yeah, you can do all the muscles in one session. Okay, this is really interesting. Please, can you have your details in order to contact you for help? I can just put my details in the chat now. Yeah, if you do that, thank you. And I will just put my email address in. But if you Google Melissa Cohen Nutrition, you'll find me. Yeah. There's more people that want to contact you, so that'll be good. By exception, your clients currently, do you know any kinesiologists in the northern area that you can recommend? So that would be banned. We'll do that again if you look for the north of England. Yeah, are you accepting new clients currently though? I imagine you are. Yeah, there's probably been about three weeks. But yeah, we can book something in for, where are we, maybe end of June? Yeah, Okudoki. Why did the doctor tell you to stop eating protein, Melissa? Oh no, they've told some of my clients this, because B12 is found in protein. Yeah. So... Yeah. Stop eating red meat. Yeah, so the GPs will say, maybe you're eating too much protein, which is not really the answer. Yeah. I know, just a quick story, my husband was taking, oh crikey, what's it called? It's multivitamins and minerals in the tube, barocca. Okay. And he thought he'd start doing that, just to help, he wasn't feeling ill or anything, he just thought it was a good thing to do. Yeah. And he overloaded on iron. He had a funny turn, went to the hospital, and his iron was massive. So you do have to be careful about these things, if you don't need it. Just one barocca a day? Yeah. Gosh. He obviously, you know, stores iron better than other people, perhaps, I don't know. Yeah. Well, his ferritin maybe was very high. Yeah, might have been. But sometimes, I know we're kind of staying off the subject, but sometimes when your ferritin is high, it's because there's an infection in the body. Yeah. And the iron feeds the infection, the virus, the bacteria, so the body stores iron, it doesn't utilise it. Yeah. Yeah, all these things. What level would you be to get vitamin D toxicity? Oh, do you know that's a really good question? I don't know is the answer. I would say it would probably have to be over 200, 250. But I would say a good level would be around 100. Yeah, OK. Ladies said, I have worked with Melissa and can highly recommend our, that's Fiona. Hi, Fiona. Yes, I have silly high ferritin, but iron's fine. Yeah. So yeah, that's the thing. The ferritin gets stored in the body, finding for usually some infection. Yeah. OK, I think that's everything now. So we're going to break now for refreshment. But thank you so much, Melissa. That was really interesting as usual. Your talk is always very interesting. Thank you for having me. Lovely to be here now. So our next speaker, so to say, is Rachel Hill, although she's not here in the flesh. She's having a lovely holiday. I'm not jealous at all. She's created a video for us, and I think you'll find it interesting. Rachel is a bestselling author and multi-award winning thyroid patient advocate, content creator and speaker. I think she's the invisible hypothyroidism lady. And she has some really interesting things to say. This time she's talking about navigating fertility and pregnancy with hypothyroidism and Hashimoto's. My screen's just gone blank. Come on, come back. Thank you. Not enough is talked about this topic. So this is a good opportunity for us to learn and spread the word. I mean, it would be handy, perhaps not for some of us now, but for our girl children who may be thinking about having a baby and they need to make sure that they get tested. Before they start thinking about that. Right, so I'm just going to try and do this. So it says to share. Hello, everyone. Welcome to this talk by myself, Rachel Hill, also known as the Invisible Hypothyroidism Online. I'm here talking for Thyroid UK's International Thyroid Awareness Week 2025 event. This is pre-recorded. And if you catch me looking down, it's because I'm just looking at my notes to make sure I cover everything I want to cover here today. So I'm here today to talk about my personal journey with hypothyroidism and Hashimoto's, especially when it came to my personal experiences of starting a family whilst also having a thyroid condition. So first of all, who am I? I am a multi-award winning thyroid patient health advocate. I'm a writer, a speaker, an author, a content creator. And through all of this, I have created four books. I've been involved in thyroid health advocacy since 2015. So this year marks 10 years since my own thyroid diagnosis and 10 years since I started sharing my experiences online and connecting thyroid patients together and raising that awareness in our thyroid space. For many years, I had unexplained ongoing fatigue, hair loss, muscle aches and pains, migraines, acid reflux, mountain symptoms, which I know will be familiar to a lot of you, which eventually led me to that diagnosis of hypothyroidism and Hashimoto's. And I know, again, that this is a really common experience. Being a thyroid patient advocate means that I openly share my real experiences of having thyroid issues. And I also work to improve the awareness around signs, symptoms, testing, as well as treatment options for thyroid conditions. Primarily, hypothyroidism and Hashimoto's, because again, that's what I personally have experience of. I find my foundations are in sharing from a personal experiences kind of place. I have a very busy community online, particularly on social media. I create videos and posts. I do live Q&As. I get involved with events like this. And I also write a weekly email newsletter about living with thyroid conditions that is also hosted on Substack, which is a platform some of you might be becoming aware of as well. I have written books to help other thyroid patients, as previously mentioned, with this wealth of knowledge that I have gained through my own personal research, my own experiences of navigating the health care system, NHS, private doctors as well, and really through navigating the different life stages. So I had symptoms from being a child, but particularly as a teenager, diagnosed in my early 20s. I went through a good five years or so of getting that sort of in a good place and under control. And then I embarked on wanting to start a family, and now I am in that parenting phase. And so I share my whole journey of having thyroid conditions through all of these life stages in the hopes that it will reach the right people and help them know that they are not alone. A lot of us are going through this and that by sharing what we experience along the way, we can definitely help each other. So the topic of my latest book, which was released last month on the 1st of April, was topic pregnancy, was fertility, pregnancy and parenting with thyroid disease. And this is going to form the basis of this presentation for Thyroid UK's event. So what's my experience of thyroid disease? Well, symptoms began when I was a child. I had chronic constipation, fatigue, headaches, deep muscle pains in my legs, particularly after a long day that were kind of going unexplained for years. I was told that I was just lazy or that I was just having growing pains. And so it was a good while longer until I was diagnosed. In fact, I endured my whole teenage years feeling incredibly fatigued, slowed down, achy with extremely heavy and disruptive menstrual cycles too. In fact, I spent my 18th birthday in the ICU, so in the intensive care unit with pneumonia, following worsening health and an immune system that was just struggling to fight anything off. Due to the amount of both physical and mental stress I was experiencing at the time due to a very unhealthy home environment that I was unfortunately brought up in, which all definitely did not help the triggering of my thyroid condition, which I know again will be a familiar story to many of you. I left hospital after my 18th birthday and continued to experience these symptoms of fatigue, muscle pain, but then also weight fluctuations of weight loss and weight gain. My brain started, leg cramps. I started to develop severe cystic acne all around sort of these. This portion of my face and this continued for another four or five years or so. By the time I was actually diagnosed with autoimmune hyperthyroidism at 21, I felt like I'd lost years of my life to ill health. I felt like my childhood and teenage years had been taken away from me really. And by the time I was diagnosed, my health was in such a terrible place that I was in a really bad state. They're the able to work. I was bedbound. And some days I remember recording that I felt like a 91 year old in a 21 year old's body. In short, I have not had an easy ride with thyroid disease. And I know this is not an uncommon story. My story is by no means unique. Many of you here today will be nodding along and will have had a similar journey with this too. So it was at this time that I started recording and blogging about my experiences as a thyroid patient online. I set up the invisible hyperthyroidism.com, which is my website, is still active today, and began blogging about all my experiences. The trials, the tribulations of getting diagnosed, trying different thyroid medications and medications for all the other symptoms. And I immediately felt touched by the amount of thyroid patients reaching out to say they were having the same kind of experiences. It felt bittersweet because I would much rather we don't have these shared hard experiences, but at the same time, there's something so powerful about us connecting with with each other. And so I just knew that I had to keep going with doing this to hear that sharing my ups and downs and being honest with it all was with getting my health condition managed, was helping others. This gave me the passion to keep on going and to keep on doing it. And that's why I'm still doing it 10 years later. So I continued to share what was and wasn't helping me while on this path to regain my health. I made different lifestyle changes, such as changing my diet, going gluten free, for example, changing my exercise, investigating which supplements might help me, but also in changing thyroid medication type and discovering that many doctors weren't testing the full thyroid panel or the thyroid function test, but that they were just testing TSH, thyroid stimulating hormone. And then going beyond there to discovering discovering the optimal test results and optimal thyroid levels are even more specific than just falling within quite a wide range and how this could impact my health and get me on that path to recovery to where I am today. The key message in amongst learning all of this was really clear to me. We have to be our own thyroid advocate to get anywhere. Understanding your third condition, what it means, what tests to check, what results to aim for, what questions to ask, what other thyroid jigsaw puzzle pieces could be involved, such as low vitamin levels, poor gut health, food sensitivities, over exercising and more was really, really crucial. I share my experiences with learning and implementing all of this online before condensing it into a book to be your own thyroid advocate was born. A story of my time as a young person and diagnosed navigating a diagnosis and then wondering what on earth I was supposed to do once I had that diagnosis. I felt confused, overwhelmed and frustrated. So this book, be your own third advocate, covers the many jigsaw puzzle pieces that we can slot into place when we have hyperthyroidism and Hashimoto's and our own medication, but are still just not yet feeling better. The feedback I received was again, bittersweet because it helps so many people recover their health just as I had done. But the stories I received could be really, really heartbreaking. This book was written for the newly diagnosed. It was the book that I wish I had when I was newly diagnosed. And I really wanted to deliver what was missing in that sense and to connect with other thyroid patients in a way that they could hopefully get the thyroid information that they needed, even though brain fogged and fatigued. So cutting out all the jargon and technical knowledge that we don't necessarily need to know. After I released this book, where did I go from here? And this is how we're going to get onto the topic of today's presentation. So at the time of writing, Biorne Thordavica, I was still experiencing a regular period, cystic acne, extremely heavy and painful periods. And I was not regularly ovulating. I knew I wanted to start a family within the next few years, ideally. So these symptoms concerned me. As someone who always likes to plan ahead, I knew that this would be something I would be better off addressing now so that when I was ready in the next few years, I wouldn't have those stumbling blocks in the way. In 2018, when I attempted to start a family, I actually fell pregnant only to miscarry soon after. And this was a really heartbreaking experience. I mean, like many of you, I knew the statistics that women with hypothyroidism are more likely to experience a pregnancy loss. But I told myself that that wouldn't happen to me, surely not. And then it did. I found out from a blood test taken just after I'd miscarried that my free T4 level, the main thyroid hormone had dropped below the bottom of the range. Something I had not checked recently before trying to conceive. So could this have been the cause for the miscarriage? Or at least been a contributing factor. Here started my journey with exploring how my fertility had been impacted by my thyroid condition and what I could do about it. Here's a picture of my eldest now. He's actually five now, but he's a tiny baby there. So my periods after the miscarriage took nine months to settle back to any sense of regularity, which was surprising. I didn't expect it to take that long. I'd had an early miscarriage about six weeks in. But perhaps this is due to having a thyroid condition. It really did take my body a long time to settle. And this was also quite a hard experience to go through as well. During these nine months or so, I was not ovulating predictably. My physical health had taken a flare up and my thyroid symptoms were through the roof. My health felt all over the place. So I decided that instead of trying to rush into trying to conceive again, I would allow my body time to settle, my periods to become more predictable as a sign of me then being more fertile, I suppose. And I would use this time to research as much as I could and implement as much as I could before trying to conceive again. I wanted to optimize my health as much as possible this next time around. If I could avoid another miscarriage, then I wanted to or at least reduce my chances. Chances of. And obviously it is worth mentioning here that we do not know all the causes behind miscarriages. There are many different causes or contributing factors and we cannot prevent them all. There's an element of control here that we can slip into. And I guess I just wanted to feel like I could be that I was in control of the things I could be or that I could I wanted to take the steps I felt I could to at least try and control certain aspects and feel like I was doing as much as I could. So I spent 14 months following my miscarriage, diving into research, books, guidelines, studies, advice, talking to thyroid experts in order to optimize my health and learn about all the many things I could do to increase my chances of becoming a mum whilst having a thyroid condition. And then thankfully when I tried to conceive again, 14 months after that miscarriage and with my health in the best place, it had actually been thanks to all of the things I implemented and learned about. I felt pregnant immediately. And once again, it stuck and it stayed stuck this time. In 2020, I welcomed my healthy baby boy who, like I say, is five years old and thriving now and keeping me very busy. And then when I wanted to try and conceive again in 2021, 18 months after the birth of my first child, I felt pregnant easily once more. And I had another healthy baby, which I feel very blessed for. So what did I learn in those first, in those 14 months of research and what helped me to improve my chances of having a healthy conception and pregnancy following this pregnancy?  c-loss-with-thyroid-issues. This is what I've shared online throughout my journey and what I have now condensed into my latest book, the Positive Thyroid Pregnancy Book, which was released last month. There it is. So yes, thyroid function and fertility are closely linked. Abnormal thyroid hormone levels in women can lead to miscarriage, preclampsia, depression, anxiety, before and during pregnancy, low birth weight, the baby being admitted to the NICU, anemia in pregnant women, stillbirth, and the baby being born with congenital hypothyroidism or developmental delays if hypothyroidism is severely under-treated and not well-managed. These risks are anxiety inducing. And so understandably, it helps us to understand where they come from and what we can do to minimize those risks. Thyroid hormones directly affect the uterine linin, which can cause infertility or miscarriages to occur when thyroid hormones are not normal. As well as complications during pregnancy, some women with low thyroid hormone levels may struggle to fall pregnant at all. Hormones TSH and TRH are increased when thyroid hormones, such as free T3 and free T4 fall too low. TRH stimulates the pituitary gland to release TSH, which then instructs the thyroid gland to release more thyroid hormones, T3 and T4. T4 is our store thyroid hormone and T3 is the active thyroid hormone. So therefore, infertility can occur when TRH, which is also responsible for stimulating the pituitary gland to release prolactin, causes this increased prolactin to interfere with us ovulating, which can happen when thyroid hormones are low. Increased prolactin can prevent the ovaries from releasing an egg each month, which can then make it impossible to conceive. Because if you don't ovulate, you can't fall pregnant naturally. This is what was happening to me. I was tracking my cycles and it was hard to see if I was ovulating someone. Some months I could tell I wasn't ovulating at all. My cycles were all over the place and understanding your cycles is just one piece of this big puzzle. So ensuring that your thyroid hormone levels are optimized, especially when you have hyperthyroidism is crucial if you are wanting to fall pregnant, to start a family or expand your family. For women with a known thyroid condition, it's not recommended that we try to conceive unless we know that our thyroid hormone levels are optimized. Not doing so risks infertility, pregnancy loss and complications should you fall pregnant, especially since the embryo or fetus requires thyroid hormone very early on and does not develop its own thyroid until at least the end of the first trimester. So that is a long time that that growing baby is dependent on your thyroid hormone supply. So it's crucial that you have enough yourself. A study also found that among women with diminished ovarian reserve or unexplained fertility, low 3T3 levels and positive thyroid antibodies actually associated with a low antrall follicle count. And additionally, if you have the autoimmune condition, Hashimoto's, then the antibodies from this may be a cause for concern too. We want to keep a check on adequately managing your antibodies if at all possible, since some experts say that thyroid antibodies could cross the human placenta and attack the growing babies that are aglant to. We need more research on this, but it's a sensible place to start. Research has shown that high levels of thyroid proxidase antibodies increase the risk of premature births. So keeping Hashimoto's well controlled, if at all possible, can be helpful. Many of us do have both hypothyroidism and Hashimoto's, such as myself, so keeping in mind the management of both of these for your fertility and pregnancy and postpartum health can be really important. If you have been told that you have subclinical or borderline hypothyroidism, yet you wish to fall pregnant, then your doctor really should start you on thyroid hormone replacement medication or at least increase it so that you are well within range to improve your chances of a healthy conception and reduce the risk of miscarriages. People with subclinical hypothyroidism falling pregnant have a much higher risk of miscarriage compared to people with normal thyroid function. So please do make your doctor aware if you are planning to fall pregnant and make this plan ahead of time where possible. Get your thyroid levels optimized. The areas I've found to be key where, first of all, optimizing those thyroid hormone levels, we just can't talk about it often enough. Not just testing TSH, not just having TSH in range, we need to actually check those thyroid hormone levels, free T3, free T4, and if at all possible, thyroid antibodies too. And then only try to conceive again when they are all optimized if at all possible. As of 2024, nice guideline state, and it's here on the screen so you can read it with me. If symptoms persist, consider adjusting the dose of LT4, that's your levothoraxin, for example, further to achieve optimal well-being, take and care to avoid over-treatment. If symptoms of hypothyroidism persist, consider adjusting the dose of LT4 further to achieve optimal well-being, taking care to avoid over-treatment. This is based on the fact that some people may still have troublesome symptoms, even with TSH levels in the reference range, and changing LT4 dose may improve symptoms for some people. And there's another quote there that you can read if you want to. So therefore, we can see that the importance in optimized TSH levels here, but also we don't want to be ignoring free T3, free T4, or thyroid antibodies either. Optimizing all where possible will optimize your fertility and your body holding onto a pregnancy as much as possible. What do you do if you find that your current thyroid medication is not optimizing all of these thyroid hormone levels? Well, it is at this point that you may wish to explore other options, because T4-only medications, in particular, such as levothoraxin and synthroid, while they work for many people, in some of us that do not convert these well to active thyroid hormone, it can leave free T4 levels below optimal. So some people, such as myself, do benefit from being on T3-containing medications. A note on these four, trying to conceive and pregnancy, though. Many mainstream doctors are not comfortable prescribing and dosing T3-thiomed medications in pregnancy. NDTs, such as armothyroid, which is what I take, and synthetic T3 are not widely used or widely recommended for pregnancy, particularly on the NHS here in the UK. Being on T3-only medication during pregnancy is not usually recommended, in particular because of a lack of T4 for the fetus, which is the only thyroid hormone that crosses the placenta during development. So whether a doctor keeps you on T3-only or NDT medications really is at their discretion. I had two healthy babies and healthy pregnancies on armothyroid. In my first pregnancy, I was just on armothyroid, and in my second, I was on armothyroid and levothyroxin. Less concerned with those because armothyroid does also contain the T4, but it's much more unusual for you to be on T3-only without pregnancy because, like I say, the growing baby needs T4 from you until they've got their own thyroid gland. Research has not yet been conducted on pregnant women taking anything other than T4 medications in pregnancy. So therefore, many doctors are just not comfortable, and we also don't have the guidelines there. So you may wish to seek a specialist or a private doctor if you wish to stay on anything other than T4 throughout pregnancy, and I would encourage you to do that if that is at all possible. Whereas I don't feel comfortable that T3-only thyroid medication is safe for pregnancy, it's just not something I'm confident about, I do feel that NDT and combination therapy of T4 and T3 can be safely used by a doctor who knows what they are doing and knows how to test and monitor these closely, and is following you closely throughout pregnancy. They will decide what is best based on your history and your personal health situation. Testing levels, ideally every month throughout pregnancy, that's the fourth thyroid panel, and adjusting your dosage is key. So testing every month throughout pregnancy is going to catch if thyroid hormone levels suddenly change and give plenty of time before those risks could start to increase if we're catching them early. There is a consensus that a growing baby does not actually need T3 in pregnancy, and that this is why T3 medications may also be unsuitable. But whereas the baby may only need T3, it's worth noting that the mother herself often needs enough T3 to feel well. So baby only really needs T4, but the T3 is often seen as being for mum. It's like myself, many people can't function without that T3-containing medication, and are willing to go back to T4 only because of this. If we don't feel well, we can't function, we can't work, and our mental health suffers, and throughout pregnancy, we often feel tired and strained enough. So again, there's so many considerations here on how to best manage your thyroid condition through pregnancy. There are many women around the world who have had successful pregnancies and healthy babies on levothyroxine and synthroid, on leothionine T3 medications, and on NDT, such as armothyroid, myself included. There is no, I honestly believe that there is no one-size-fits-all when it comes to managing thyroid conditions and choosing the right thyroid hormone replacement medication that suits you, and that works for your body, and resolves symptoms, and this is going to be the same for out-pregnancy as well. I think it's just worth bearing in mind that doctors can be a lot firmer on what they are and are not willing to do throughout pregnancy, and especially if you're referred to an endocrinologist or an obstetrician, as I was throughout pregnancy as well, but I think the key thing here is that our thyroid hormone levels need to be optimized. So we want to be checking all the tests every month, if possible, and focusing on that as our main concern, should we say. Okay. Optimizing thyroid hormone levels, as much as I've talked about it, is the most crucial piece of the puzzle, but not the only piece. My personal experiences and research also led me to understanding that other puzzle pieces can impact our fertility or chances of a healthy pregnancy, too, so you can see some on the screen just here. Thyroid antibody levels, diets, such as food sensitivities, blood sugar balancing, consuming alcohol, caffeine, and more, types and frequencies of exercise, over-exercising, cardio, strength training, before, during after pregnancy, nutrient levels, supplements, which are key to this stage of life, such as iron, vitamin D, folate, and more. Your gut health, how to improve your gut health, your adrenal health, and looking after your nervous system, your cortisol levels, your stress, optimizing your sleep, all of these things form this big, thorough jigsaw puzzle that I talk about, and it can feel quite overwhelming because there's a lot there to consider, but your thyroid condition really can impact a lot, and a lot of other things really can go hand in hand with it and may explain why you still feel unwell. So when it comes to looking at our fertility and pregnancy and postpartum health, too, we want to consider all of these areas and look at how we can optimize all areas of our life or other things that might be going on in our body that we've not picked up on yet. And, of course, we cannot forget about men's fertility at this stage of our lives, too. We can both be a part of a preconception plan, which is where you plan for your pregnancy sort of six to 12 months ahead of time, optimizing your health before you even try to fall pregnant, which, in turn, optimizes the quality of our eggs and sperm. It's worth knowing that if after trying to conceive with your thyroid condition for 12 months, if you've had no luck, then it is recommended to see a doctor for a fertility evaluation. This will include looking at a full thyroid screening as well as other things. Depending on this age, depending on your age, this may even be after six months of trying to conceive, so it is worth checking with your doctor what the guidelines are for this. Assistive reproductive technologies may be useful. This can include IUI, IVF, donor eggs, fertility drugs, egg and embryo freezing and more. So it's worth just being aware of your options if you are finding it hard to fall pregnant naturally. Moving on to pregnancy with thyroid issues. Once pregnant, you really are not just advocating for yourself, and this is a key message that I like to get across. You're also now advocating for your unborn child and your family. So advocate for your third levels, all of them to be checked every month or so throughout pregnancy, and make sure that you write down those reminders about booking in for your appointments, booking in for your blood tests, follow-ups, everything. Make it a priority and don't rely on others to do it for you. The NHS at the minute is stretched, and so throughout my pregnancies, I really utilized my Google calendar to remind me when I would need another blood test, to pick up prescriptions, to check in with my midwife or GP or various appointments. I really utilize that to write everything down to keep on top of it, use notes on your phone, a spreadsheet, whatever works for you, but make it your priority to really advocate for yours and your family's health. I think it's also worth being aware of how TSH can be more suppressed in pregnancy due to HCG, the pregnancy hormone that you've heard of. That is the hormone that pregnancy tests pick up on when you urinate on them. This is why test ranges change for pregnant women because TSH can be suppressed by HCG. So ensure that any pregnancy, any ranges for your thyroid blood tests are altered during pregnancy, and that your doctor and the lab are using altered pregnancy ranges, because again, this will help to ensure that your thyroid medication is tweaked in the right way. Your doctor should be keen to keep your thyroid hormone levels within the adjusted pregnancy ranges in order to look after both you and your baby's health. So just don't be afraid to ask questions. Think of everything that you're advocating for. Don't be afraid to make a bit of a pest of yourself. It is normal, and in fact, the case for most women, that an increase in their thyroid hormone replacement medication will be needed during pregnancy as your body needs thyroid hormone more than ever at this time to sustain a pregnancy and grow baby. So as soon as you're pregnant, you want to get in with the doctor as soon as possible and see if your medication needs increasing straight away. It often does, and then there's often a blood test taken very soon after. Don't be surprised if your demand for thyroid hormone increases very quickly. That is quite normal. There's a lot going on in the first month of pregnancy. A lot of changes. However, for some types of thyroid medications, this may be different. So for example, in my first pregnancy on armothyroid, I didn't need any dosage changes at all until I was almost at the end of my pregnancy. I believe I was about 30 weeks before we needed a dosage adjustment. But compared to my second pregnancy, where I was on armothyroid and levothoraxin, it needed increasing about three times in the first few months alone. So this is why it's so important that we have our levels monitored closely because each pregnancy is so different that we need that treatment and management to be individualized as well. Because my thyroid level's been checked so often, it meant that we could catch those drops and those changes very quickly. And that's why, again, I'm a big advocate of having those regular blood tests throughout pregnancy. Throughout pregnancy, you may also want to keep on top of those key nutrient levels and any supplements that you are taking. So keep in mind that your needs can change that pregnancy, you might find that you need more iron, for example, as the pregnancy progresses. It's not recommended to take any supplements without running them by your doctor first. So do have repeat blood tests to check how you're getting on with things and to reassess your needs. And coming to what is here on the screen now, as you can see, there are several factors that can make a pregnancy high risk. And this includes existing health issues, like thyroid conditions, things that exist before can develop during pregnancy. So these can include pre-existing health conditions like high blood pressure, PCOS, diabetes, kidney issues, autoimmune and thyroid issues, obesity, drug, alcohol, cigarette use, older mothers, younger mothers, pregnancies that contain more than one fetus or baby. There are many things there that can make your pregnancy high risk. And as you can see with thyroid issues, and this list has been pulled from the NHS website as well, thyroid issues are included there. So that includes both hyperthyroidism and Hashimoto. So they are referred to as risk factors. However, if you have them, they won't automatically make your pregnancy high risk. Whether you are personally considered high risk will be decided on an individual basis. Because as I said before, each pregnancy is different, each woman is different. And what may be considered a high risk to some may not be considered a high risk for another. In my first pregnancy, the GP did refer me to an obstetrician and endocrinologist. Is he originally considered to me to be high risk? But after seeing them, that was withdrawn. They decided that my thyroid condition was actually quite simple to keep on top of as it was. So if you're experiencing complications in your pregnancy, levels are fluctuating a lot, blood pressure concerns or other health issues, or if you are on privately prescribed or self-sourced thyroid medication, then again, these might be considered as risk factors. Now predicting what a thyroid patient's health is going to be like during pregnancy and after giving birth is nigh on impossible, but it doesn't mean you can't be prepared. So whereas some women with hyperthyroidism report feeling better when pregnant, for many others they can feel worse or feel much worse after delivering their baby as well. And this may be because of those fluctuating hormones and things needing to settle after birth. Diarrheal hormone can take anywhere from a few weeks to a few months to iron out in women who've just given birth and have hyperthyroidism. So we also want to keep this in mind. And for some, they may benefit from working with, for example, a functional medicine practitioner, a naturopath or another progressive practitioner to just address and keep in mind support for things like your lifestyle, adrenal health, stress and that holistic support following birth. It's really common for Hashimoto's to come out of remission in the postpartum period, although it can then go back into remission soon after too. Really, if that happens, we just want to focus on supporting you as holistically as possible. And this did happen for me after giving birth as well. My Hashimoto's came out of remission for a few months and then came back under control again. Again, just due to all of those hormonal fluctuations. Maximising how much time the new parent with a thyroid issue gets to sleep, rest and recuperate will go a long way and get in their health back on track so that they can be as present a parent as possible. And then really by the year mark when your baby is turning a year old, your level should hopefully be settling back down if not already settled. And if you're feeling unwell still by this point, then checking those important thyroid tests, making sure you're not just having TSH run, as well as those nutrient levels, vitamin D, B12, ferritin, they can really deplete after pregnancy and childbirth. So again, if you're having any hair loss that's continuing past a few months postpartum or muscle pains and fatigues, then we really want to be checking in on those as well because low thyroid hormones and low ferritin is often behind those complaints. Keep in mind as well, adrenal health following pregnancy and childbirth. Pregnancy is a stress on the body. There are good stresses and bad stresses. Pregnancy in particular is a big stress. And although it happens every day, it's not to be downplayed how hard this can be on your body. Some people can experience migraines and headaches as they're recovering and their levels or their hormone levels are settling, as well as flare ups in fatigue and other symptoms. I know that I personally try to avoid comparing myself to other moms who perhaps didn't have chronic health conditions like myself, who seem to be doing a lot more running around with their babies than me, going to lots of baby classes, and getting out and about a lot more when instead I quite enjoyed sitting in the garden in the sunshine soaking up simple times with my son or going for short walks instead of being out for whole days, which would deplete my thyroid restricted energy levels even more so. I do like to share the message that we often feel the pressure to lose extra baby weight after giving birth to and I could go on to say a lot about this. I've had a real battle with body image and weight myself before, but I'm just going to say, I don't understand how we can go from celebrating a woman's body for growing, nurturing and birthing a whole human life to berating her body, to shrink back down, look as if it never did any of those things as soon as the baby is born. Although it may be tempting to jump into a new weight loss plan as soon as possible, I would urge you to focus on giving your body a little bit of a boost in your body. Giving your body recuperation and nutrition and the care that it needs instead. Because doing this will help with your breast milk production, which can be impacted with hyperthyroidism, as well as give you the energy and hopefully good mental health to kickstart your postpartum period as well. Our bodies usually settle to where they're happy, so they often lose any extra excess weight with optimized thyroid hormone levels and a balanced diet and regular exercise and focusing on those lifestyle components anyway. But your body will be individual. I encourage you to think about adopting that healthy lifestyle and focusing on how you feel over your weight alone. Because your child will want you to be a present, mentally resilient parent, and that should be your priority. I know I wanted to be present for my children. I didn't want to be focusing on constantly dieting and worrying about the way I look. It's something that I'm quite passionate about in terms of looking after new mothers' mental health in that way. A quick note on breastfeeding before we finish. Hyperthyroidism can impact your milk supply. So we need to keep on top of keeping your thyroid hormone levels optimized. I know I've said this many times, it's really important. Keeping them optimized for breastfeeding as well. I go more in depth about navigating thyroid health symptoms and more as a new parent in the book, The Positive Thyroid Pregnancy Book. But I hope this presentation has given you a good foundation to start with. I have a lot more to say on this and I could have talked for another hour or two at least. But I'm hoping that this presentation has at least given you a good foundation if you're at this stage in your life on where to go. And if you do want more, then you can check out The Positive Thyroid Pregnancy Book. So you can see all four of my books there. So, V.R.A. and Threat Advocate, I wrote in 2018. In 2019, I wrote You Me and Hypothyroidism. I wrote that with my husband about navigating relationships. We've got Throid Superhero there, which is a children's book all about understanding their grown-ups hypothyroidism and then The Positive Thyroid Pregnancy Book there on the left with the amalgamation of the butterfly of thyroid symbol and pregnancy test. So to round us up, looking after your thyroid health and knowing what you can do in that preconception stage as well as during and after is really important. The associative risks of improperly managed thyroid conditions can include complications like miscarriage, stillbirth, preclampsia, anemia, and many more. So we want to understand what we can do to look after ourselves in this time, advocate for ourselves. And I'm hoping that this presentation gave you a good starting point with that. Now, with these risks, it is important to understand that the vast majority of pregnant women with thyroid conditions do go on to have very normal and uneventful pregnancies. And I do want us to remember that as well. It's not all doom and gloom and that's not what I wanted to do with this pregnancy. So what I would love to do with The Positive Thyroid Pregnancy Book is to arm more of you with the knowledge that I gained, that you need as well to feel empowered in this life stage and to understand just how amazing your body can be and how to navigate this with a thyroid condition because thyroid issues really are not an easy ride. My books are a great tool to help you navigate a new diagnosis, piece together the reasons why you still feel unwell, whether you are in this, trying to conceive parenting stages I am, whether you are newly diagnosed and would benefit from some of my other books that I've written. They piece together the puzzle pieces and arm us with the information that we need to get better. But I do feel it's also important to put this information out there in many different formats so that you can access it on where you are and I can meet you where you are too. And so this does also include my website which is here on screen, theinvisiblehypothyroidism.com. On there I've got hundreds of website articles covering all topics, so hundreds. So I'm talking diet, exercise, all the many symptoms, everything, work life, social life, relationships, all about hypothyroidism, Hashimoto's and those things. So do check out theinvisiblehypothyroidism.com. You can pop any keywords into the search bar and see if I've got an article on it. I've also got social media and my email newsletters. And I'm very active across events like this. You'll also find me on Thyroid Podcast. So you have many options available when it comes to educating yourself and those around you on your thyroid condition and how it impacts you. I really hope that my experiences of pregnancy and pregnancy loss with thyroid issues can at the very least help others and help to prevent as many losses or pregnancy complications as possible. And do reach out. If you've got any questions, if you'd like to ask me anything else, I'm on social media, so you can see there. I'm on Instagram and Facebook. That's where I'm most active on those too. You can pop me any questions over there. And if you go to Substack as well, that's where my email newsletter is held. I publish an email newsletter every week. It includes a deep dive into a certain topic that I want to raise awareness on with thyroid issues, as well as a roundup of everything else that's going on in the thyroid world, such as these amazing online events here. So do reach out, check out my books shown there in the picture and let me know if you have any other questions. But thank you so much for Thyroid UK for hosting this event and for having me be a part of it. I hope to see you all again soon. Okay, so hopefully you found that really interesting. A lot of it for me, I already knew, but one thing that I do try and get people to do is to, if they're even thinking about getting pregnant, just to check their health in lots of ways. Get a thyroid test done before you start to try and get pregnant. And also just make sure that as soon as you are pregnant, get an appointment with your GP to ensure that your levels, your thyroid levels are optimized. For someone says that they also had a miscarriage, which was so hard to accept. I hope, of course, they helped, that's interesting. And someone else, I know this is, it's so upsetting to hear this, how many people with subclinical or thyroid, full-on thyroid disease have miscarriages. And it does make me wonder if you're diagnosed, whether you're just under-treated or that you need T3. I hope you're writing your own book. Do let me know when you're finished, it's at Elizabeth. Has anyone considered freezing their eggs? Or has anyone done research into this more? And if it's worth it with hypothyroidism, I can't answer that question. Also need to put pressure on the nice guidelines as they are not necessarily helpful. Yeah, I agree. I think, nice are changing the way that they do their guidelines, though, I think that they're now looking more into patient experiences, as well as research and cost. I think a lot of the time cost comes into it, unfortunately. Any special experience or interaction with COVID-19 vaccination? We do know that the vaccination does impact the thyroid. I think more hyperthyroidism. We've got a position statement on our website about COVID-19 and the COVID-19 vaccine.  ectonation. So if you want to pop there and have a look. Yeah, very good presentation. I have a daughter with hypothyroidism and wants a family. Just spread the word, really. You know, I'm 71 now, so it's not going to affect me in that way, but, you know, I had my son's wife, possibly, and other people, you might have friends and family who are younger thinking about starting a family. Do let them know. I just want to say Rachel's website is full of useful info on all things. It was fantastic help when I was being dismissed by the NHSGPs. Yes, I agree. Oh, thank you. I'm glad you enjoyed the talk, Alexandra. People are always told their thyroid levels are fine, but they are not if they only test TSH and T4. In my area, we're lucky enough that they do test TSH and T4 in a lot of areas. Further north of the country, I'm not sure why. They only do TSH. They don't even do a T4. Nowhere can you get a T3, really, unless you visit an endocrinologist. But I know that someone who's actually going through the volunteer process for us sent me some information on how she managed to get T3. And I'm going to incorporate that into our life-th ironing document as soon as I can. So how do we know that nice guidelines are actually really useful? I don't know how to answer that question. I think they're useful in some instances, you know. But for subclinical hypothyroidism, there is something there that is helpful for some people because doctors are allowed to give a trial of levothyroxine if they've had levels with a TSH borderline or just over the range. I think it's three months apart twice, then they can give a trial. But actually, it can also just be down to the GP what his feeling is. And if he's helped somebody before in that situation, who he's seen get better, then he's more likely to do the same for the next patient and the next patient. I'm hoping that, you know, the younger doctors might be a bit more open-minded. I agree. There are some people where our numbers look subclinical, but we are actually full-blown hypothyroid. I think that was me. My levels were smack bang in the middle. They weren't even subclinical. But I got better on levothyroxine after my operation. So, yes, can confirm in York, it's only TSH. Sorry, I missed the last part and had a question about starting a family if you can help. What I'll do is, I think somewhere in this chat, I don't know if it's in here actually, but I'll make sure that everybody gets the correct emails addresses so that people can email. Or email me at enquiries at thyroiduk.org and then I'll forward them on. In Newcastle, they test TSH and T4. I only had TSH tested, but I'm sure I have hyperthyroidism. There is also, you know, it's not as common, but there is also subclinical hyperthyroidism. And I had managed to help some people who come to me and say, I'm sure I've got hyperthyroidism. But it's not as clear cut as hypo, subclinical hypo, to be honest. But there is information online about subclinical hyperthyroidism. Some research, not a lot. A lot of people buy and test their own bloods now. Unfortunately, that's what I have to suggest. Because if your GP can't do all three tests, there's no other way for you to get it unless you purchase your own. And it's a sad situation that you have to do that. But, you know, we do think it's a good way of finding out exactly what your issue is. I know I test my levels, not only of thyroid levels, but my B12, my vitamin D, my ferritin, every six months, just to make sure that everything's on top. And I was poorly a little while back, about three months ago. Oh, my God, the pains, my back pain, my bone pain was horrendous. And then I'd realized that I'd run out of my vitamin D and wasn't including it every day. So, and then I started taking it and within about a month, those pains went. So it's really important. So, yeah, the next speaker's here. Oh, who's here? Oh, okay. Brilliant. Thank you. Sorry for running a bit late. No, that's fine. We were running late as well. Let me just introduce you. So, our final speaker is an excuse me if I'm saying this wrong, Dr. Gibran Yusuf. Tim Yusuf, C.J.F. Yeah, Tim Yusuf, who is a consultant interventional radiologist at Kings College Hospital. He's going to talk about microwave thyroid ablation for thyroid nodules, which he introduced into the UK. Many people have nodules and some need removing, like mine, but this way of removing nodules is so much less invasive for patients. And Heidi will put a link to the Kings College Hospital NHS Foundation Trust article in the chat if you want to see that. So, here we are. Okay, I'll take the chat off. I'll take that off. Oh, no, that's not done. Okay. Thank you very much, Timothy. So, the stage is all yours. Lovely. Thank you very much. So, thank you for everyone for coming and thanks for bearing with me and for the apologies again for my delay. I was just caught in another case. So, I hope you can all hear me okay. I'll briefly give you a presentation about microwave thyroid ablation. Just give you an idea of what it is. Hopefully that will then encourage you to think about it, tell friends and family about it as well. It's a procedure which is, it's not suitable for everyone, but it is certainly an option now and it is something that I'm very proud as Lynn mentioned to introduce to the UK. So, as I said, my name is Gibran Tim of UCF, but everyone calls me Tim. It's much easier. I work at Kings College Hospital and the Princess Royal Hospital, which is a division of Kings situated in Bromley. So, the easiest way I think to divide this presentation up is to talk about all the big questions. So, you're 5Ws and an H. So, you're who, what, where, why, when and how for microwave thyroid ablation. But why don't we restructure that? Because some of these categories go together. So, the what and the where go together, the why, the who, the when go together and the how, which is probably one of the key bits I think it's useful to let people know about today. So, let's start with a what? Well, thyroid nodules are incredibly, incredibly common. Now, the thing is we don't scan everyone in the population. We scan only a relatively small percent of the population we scan there next, but it's thought as many as 60% of the population have some form of thyroid nodule. Now, that could be symptomatic or asymptomatic and the majority are asymptomatic. And of the nodules, only a very, very small percentage of them are cancer. That said, a number of people still have symptoms from their nodules, just simply from the sheer size of it. That may distort the windpipe, distort the airway, it may distort the esophagus, the food pipe. It may also cause a bulge. We had the lady in our BBC story that happened, I think Lynn mentioned the link to, where her problem was being able to do up a shirt. So, she can do her job properly because she couldn't wear the right uniform. So, the presentation really matters much to the individual. Similarly, we had someone who, to eat a steak, they had to turn their head to the left and push, which that's bothersome for her. Now, the way we need to categorize these nodules is on a one to five system, we call it the U system. It's not recruiting to the American Army that we need you classical signs. This is based on the British Thyroid Association, where one is a completely normal thyroid and five is a clearly cancerous nodule. And the important numbers you need to know, two is a benign nodule, three means we can't entirely say it's benign nodule, so we might need to sample it. So, that's where the categorization comes in. Now, you have a choice of what to do with benign thyroid nodules because they're not cancerous. They may be very life-impairing, but they're not necessarily life-limiting as opposed to when we think about cancer treatments where we really need to deal with those and sort those out as much as we can as early as possible. So, you've got the option for having conservative management, which means basically a watch and wait. It can be a slow process, it can be a long-term thing, and you're entering that watch and wait usually with the anticipation that at some point you will have to choose do you have to choose a watch and wait. So, you have a further procedure. Now, with surgical management, it's the traditional technique where there's a scar across the bottom of the neck and they remove either all or half of the thyroid. Now, obviously, if you remove all the thyroids, you have potentially removed the thyroid hormone. So, you have high-pray thyroid and that may happen with half the thyroid as well. You've got the potential for nerve injury, you've got a hospital stay and the mention of the scar as a rather large scar usually across the bottom of the neck. These are often things that put people off and mean that because it's not life-limiting, that sometimes people don't want to quite take that step yet. Now, the problem with that is that eventually you reach a crossroads and you have to say, it's not bothering me enough or it is bothering me. What should I do? And it has to be time to make a decision. And this is where thermal ablation comes in. I say thermal because there is more than microwave ablation. Many of you may have heard of radiofrequency ablation, which is an alternative means of using heat energy. There's also cryoablation, which is very much new in the world of ablation for thyroids and still being investigated where it forms an ice ball. Or in fact, I haven't included it here, but there is laser ablation, which is on the horizon as well. Now, these types of ablations are typically done for cancer treatments. So you try and burn the nodule, sorry, you burn the area of the liver or kidney, for example, and you try and burn beyond it. However, with micro thyroid ablation, you're trying to just destroy the symptoms. You're not trying to kill the nodule and remove it completely. You want an asymptomatic nodule, essentially. And that's the way the heat generates from the tip and that chicken breast up there. That's a microwave probe. You can see where it's cooked that focal area. And that's the sort of trolley we use for a micro ablation. Now, the question I get asked a lot is why should I do microwave or why should I do RFA and which one's better and why? Well, they are ultimately quite similar. And what you feel tends to be quite similar. It's a dual needle in the neck with movement around, which then allows you to burn the nodule and burn that. At least we aim for 70 to 90 percent of the nodule that we want to burn to try and cause a reduction in size. Now, when you do radiofrequency ablation, they're generally longer procedures. There's more of a sensation of continuous popping and movement because that's what happens. You burn a tiny bit, you move back, burn a tiny bit, you move back. And it's very aptly named the moving shock technique. You need to have some pads attached to you for the conduction of the electricity. And the studies do suggest that it's a bit more painful than microwave. That said, neither procedure, I would say, is a very painful procedure, but that's me talking as a doctor and as a doctor is doing micro ablation rather than one that's a patient. What I can tell you is that we can treat larger nodules with micro ablation. It's generally quicker. You get a lot less artifacts, so it's a bit easier to see what's going on. And you can be quite precise depending on what sort of power you use. So for that basis, I use a low energy because it tends to be a bit more precise and controlled the area. And that said, radiofrequency is also quite precise. As I said, the studies suggest microwaves are a bit less painful. And I can only tell you from our side that actually patients tend not to have much pain associated, the sort of thing that paracetamolibuprofen deals with on its own. Now, the next question you probably want to ask is, where does this happen? Well, the good thing is this is happening around the globe. It really originated in the far east, South Korea, being the main place. But actually, you've got it happening in India. You've got it happening in Sri Lanka. You've got it happening in quite widely in Europe, including that's meant to be Italy and Spain specifically. Lithuania more recently. You've got it happening in South America. You've got it happening in the Middle East. You've got it happening radiofrequencies happening in the United States. And of course, in the UK, we've got it. We've got it. The guidelines all we back you up. So it's not just us going off on a random tangent thinking this is a good thing. Actually, this is something that is useful and backed up by European fire associations in the UK by NICE for microfire manipulation, a radiofrequency operation. But also there's more recent international guidelines published in Europe as well as the far east with increasing appreciation that the very small cancers we may be able to treat with. But as yet, this is not in UK guidelines. So the why, who and when. So this really comes down to the person. So this is for the people who have reached that crossroads who have decided I've reached that point. I need something done because it's impairing my life enough. But I do not want surgery. And this is where microwave comes in and is best at dealing with single nodules. Maybe a couple of nodules. What it's not great at is dealing with the large multi nodular goiters that have hundreds of nodules all over the place because you treat one at a time. You don't necessarily treat. You don't need to debulk the gland. You're aiming to treat a focal area. The difference of surgery is that one day you have a thyroid after you've had the surgery that's removed. So you've got an instant effect, so to speak. Obviously the recovery is longer. It's been more tricky in terms of complications, but it's not treating a single focus. So what you really want is for a patient to say, this nodule right here is bothering me. I feel like it's pressing. I feel like that's in the way. I feel like I can see it. So that's the ideal sort of scenario. That said, we do certainly treat patients in a stepwise process. So if we need to, we treat them once, bring back later, treat again. And that's something we can do. As I said, it's when patients reach this crossroads because many of them learn to live with symptoms, especially because it's non-cancerous. But life impairing is not to be forgotten. So we had patients just today actually who's had recurrent A&E attendances because the thyroid bothers them is getting the way of their daily living. So actually these things are important. So when can you do it? Well, this is a really easy one. You have to be symptomatic from the nodule. It has to be bothering you. What we won't do is we won't treat a nodule, which is not causing a problem. So we have to have people who come in and say, I want to treat it because I know it's there as opposed to because it's causing a problem. So it is really quite critical. That is the case. And that's why I don't know if many of you remember the old CSI series and the Who Are You song that goes with it. But this is my my acknowledgement to that. So who can have it? You've got to be able to fit our criteria of saying that ideally at the moment it's restricted to adult patients. You must be able to lie flat for the procedure and must be able to tolerate it under a low chronic setting because we don't like to put people to sleep on the basis that we'd like to be able to talk to them. And hear their voice so we know if we're causing any nerve injury or any problems. It must be at the moment under UK guidance of benign nodule, which we've proven with a fine needle aspiration. And ideally a single nodule, but that but multiple nodules don't entirely rule you out. Who's unsuitable or it's really the exact opposite. So those that can't lie flat. Those that are pregnant. We advise to wait because pregnancy anyway can increase the size of nodules, but also it's not worth taking the additional risk at that particular time. And the when you have extensive bilateral nodules, we tend not to treat nodules below the collar bone as well because then if anything goes wrong, there's a risk of having to open the chest and a much bigger surgery. We don't treat asymptomatic nodules and any nodules that are not definitively benign on the fine needle aspiration and the guidance doesn't allow us to treat us yet. So this is just an example of how to find a第一第一第一第一第一第一 We don't treat asymptomatic nodules and any nodules that are not definitively benign on the fine needle aspiration a guidance doesn't allow us to treat us yet So this is just an example of us doing a thyroid ablation Just to give you an idea of what you're looking at. There's a patient's neck You can see the probe within it and you can see a gentle movements within it and we see it's talking to the patient throughout The techniques we have Really, this is on the technical side. We can draw back and Blade to burn lines. It's called the moving shot technique or we can burn one area Overlap and then do another area. It's called overlapping. What we tend to do is this thing called a fluid motion Where you can see that long white lines are needed within the nodule and what we're doing is we're moving it as we ablate and The idea of doing that is you're both disrupting it with a heat as well as some mechanical energy And we're beginning with some very good results from this What you'll feel now, this is probably the bit that people most want to know Your neck will feel a bit stretched a bit stiff to start with You may feel some pressure during the procedure as we push with the probe and with a needle and you feel that stinging of the local Anesthetic now the needle itself to go in often takes a bit of a push and a bit of a borrow to get in But it's not normally too uncomfortable and most patients don't need any any painkillers for this In terms of procedure you'll feel warmth in the neck can go up towards the jaw even cause a bit of a headache When we pause the machine it stops instantly. So we ask patients to tell us when they reach the seven out of ten and Generally again at that point most people can absolutely fine You can get some burns on the skin So we asked people to tell us if it feels like it's on the skin that they can feel a hot heat sensation We do afterwards give a cold compress which we keep on the net for a couple of hours And then we do an ultrasound before we this is our by in particular what we do an ultrasound before sending patients home People tend to say they have some mild stiffness and mild neck swelling So do expect a little bit of swelling afterwards and then stiffness, but that tends to resolve within a few days Some people can take a little bit longer, but certainly it doesn't usually inhibit significant and daily activities The complications that can happen well there are complications from every procedure sadly and They're all very low risk, but they are a risk You can get the same sort of things as with a thorodectomy in the sense of you can get nerve injury You can get infection You can you can need to convert a minimally invasive procedure like this to a more invasive procedure Where you actually do an emergency thorodectomy those are all very rare along with the idea of actually a Mechanical injury to the esophagus or the airway which is why we ask people to stay nice and still through the procedure And it is critical that that's why patients can lie flat as well Skin burns are slightly more realistic. They can happen Generally the incision is no more than a centimeter So the skin burn is a similar size if it happens and they are superficial burns But they are significantly better than having a larger scar associated with thorodectomy nodule rupture is one specific to ablation where you can get some bleeding with a nodule and it can burst you can get some bruising over the neck and chest down towards the the upper chest Against quite rare, but it can happen within the first 60 days if it go if it ruptures towards the back Which is more rare you can get some compression of your airway again It may need to require emergency surgery emergency admission But all of this is done as a day case Indicating how safe and confident we are in it So our patients usually Scott discharged about three to four hours afterwards and that is that is quite a long follow up That is us taking extra precautions as opposed to Just being a bit more cautious So just to give you very briefly before I finish to don't take too much more of your time the The procedure started in the UK in 2023 with us. We did at this point to one-year follow-up. We had 27 patients We had a quite large volume nodules 56 mils. That's difficult to put into words How much that is but our largest nodule was treated 11 centimeters The procedure itself for the burn time is about 20 minutes, but actually it's It's Variable depending on the size location patient tolerance, etc. We allow about an hour per procedure This is a question quality of life questionnaire, so with the highest score Being 115 and the lowest score being 23 when we started before the procedure patients are around a 45 But actually when it one year out all our patients scored 23 Which is the lowest possible score and they are asymptomatic So they've all improved greatly Patients had some mild neck ache. You require some minimal energy here and only two required sedation at that time This is just a patient who he told us they had neck pain and they wanted the the Procedure because they thought they needed neurosurgical procedure and she had a bit of difficulty swallowing This was before the procedure and this is three months later And you can see the marked reduction in size and that's about 78 percent reduction in volume And she didn't need the surgery anymore because a neck pain disappeared and she's one of a number of patients that have had this sort of experience and You can see the one that said the BBC story here's a variety of patients Over the time we followed it up and one that I quite liked gave us a Rundown of how it increased their activity and saying they were able to then increase their active energy Their walking speeds gone up and that was particularly important for them Because before they were only able to walk 10 to 20 yards for being sure to breath And that's been a sustained result and we recently followed them up at one year And they feel like they still were significantly improved because the nodule continues to shrink over this time I should mention the results you tend to see the biggest shrinkage at three months But it's not like surgery with hair today gone somewhere. So it is a gradual process, but it keeps shrinking even up to two years So just to summarize it's been a very positive experience. It's been very it's a safe procedure in our hands so far It's been very highly effective and we've had great patient satisfaction. Obviously, I'm very thankful to the team and for helping us with the introduction and Keeping this going and making it available to patients across the UK, which is what we're working on now So, thank you very much for listening. It's much appreciated. I am happy to take any questions as well Thank you, Tim, let me just open up the chat and see if anybody's asked any Can't see any at the moment So I know My nodule was quite big and it was on the side and it was restricting my breathing a bit and my swallowing But when I went to the hospital When they took a sample and they let me know it was inconclusive for cancer. So I had to have a hemithyroidectomy And but you know that that was good because I was put on to thyroxine I've been ill for 15 years previous to that with thyroid symptoms But my levels were normal So but when I went after I had the lump removed and they put me on leave of thyroxine I started to get better So for me Having the whole thing removed and being put on to leave I was best for me But I know a lot of people it would be great if they didn't have to have the operation because we know a lot of people who have thyroidectomy Where they didn't have symptoms before then have symptoms of hypothyroidism and it can be difficult to balance Sometimes so yeah, no, I think this is a great thing Absolutely, it's not intended as a surgery replacement at all. It's it's it's an option Yeah, it's option for those people in the middle ground like you said Yeah, yeah, no we we come across a lot of people that say to me I don't want an operation. I don't want to have my thyroid removed because of this nodule So I think it's gonna I think a lot of people are going to be helped So making comments on my last ultrasound. I was told I have multi nodule goiters But there was no swelling on the outside which they said was rare So Yeah Yeah, I guess I didn't think it was that rare if you had a nodule Yeah, you could have lots of small nodules and they may not necessarily show on the inside You may not feel them on the inside or nice on the outside, but certainly it's It's called we think nodules are a lot more common than we see actually Yeah, yeah, but nodules could be a couple millimeters to 10 centimeters so it's So this person says sounds brilliant as someone with a U2 of 60 by 40 by 30 on the right lobe growing towards my esophagus This is now on my horizon. Thank you very much for explaining it So, thank you. I mean, this is a whole purpose to me here today So I'm glad if we can help people that we can get the news out there Yeah, thank you useful to learn about thyroid nodule surgery Thanks so much, Dr. Tim. This was really informative and great to hear about this new option for patients Are you the only hospital doing this procedure? so at the moment we we as I said we're the first but actually I think Hortsmouth and East Surrey have started I am slowly but surely getting around to train some more people and Obviously they've got to introduce their own trust and go through that sort of process But there is certainly a lot of interest and all for that interest. I was going to ask you I use a trainer. I use a sole trainer at the moment at the moment. Yeah Yeah But it's good. I want I want this to be available everywhere You know, it's something that someone has to come down from somewhere else to come to have it done. It should be available That's good. Thank you. My daughter and son both have nodules both benign and they are being monitored Daughter in Spain and son in New Zealand the guidelines seem different in other countries. That's usual Yeah, yeah, I think Spain I I know certainly there are places in Spain doing it. So I'm thinking and Europe were a little bit ahead of A little bit ahead of us and South Korea ahead of them. So we've brought it to the UK relatively later But I think so it varies and it does depend on the individual surgeons. It does depend on the individual nodules But it's a New Zealand. I'm not entirely sure if it's available  and I'm not sure I haven't really heard a bit much from them. No, no. What brought you to this intervention? That's an interesting one. Yeah, it's interesting. Thank you for the question. To be honest with you, I've worked on bring this to the UK for three years. It was something I believed in, yeah, because I thought that this is something that I think has that potential to help people, because my job as an interventional radiologist is I do a lot of minimally invasive procedures. This was one thing where it felt like there's no other options. I do ablations in other parts of the body. The idea that it was available for thyroid, and it wasn't being used yet, very much. Radiative frequency existed, but microwave after a lot of research, a lot of delving into it, felt like the right way to go for me. Ultimately, I like helping people. And sometimes the most help you can offer people, and the most sustained relationship, because I follow everyone up myself, the most you can develop that is by giving them an element of your life back. So for example, that lady who had difficulty on her walking holidays, or couldn't go on her walking holidays, to get that message saying that she can. It's a really satisfying thing. I was appreciating my bits for helping people. No, I understand exactly. That's why I'm here. That's why I founded Thyroid UK. I think it's good to do that. Someone's just said, God bless you, Dr Tim. So glad we have you. Thank you. Oh, that's so sweet. That's very kind. Okay, I don't think, oh, wait a minute. Do all nodules eventually need some kind of removal? I think you've already mentioned not necessarily. Not necessarily at all, no. Some nodules, you might notice them when they're, I don't know, a centimeter or something, and they never need to be touched. They never need anything done if they don't bother you. Other nodules are, we're talking about benign nodules here, and other nodules, I've seen people who've had six, seven, 10 centimeters nodules and said, it doesn't bother me. I'd rather not have anything done. And that's absolutely fine. It's very, it's a very individual thing. My nodule just came up one morning, just looked in the mirror. I've never, I've not heard of that, but just all of a sudden it was there. So A lot of people sort of notice it when they're, you know, putting necks on and doing a share as part of shaving, etc. It's one of those things. Yeah, so. Okay, I think that's, that's all the questions. So thank you so much. That was really interesting. Thank you. Apologies again for running a bit late. No, don't worry, because we were running late due to that was my fault. I don't know teams as well as I should. So there were some technical issues, which I did warn people about at the beginning because I prefer Zoom, but I do need to get used to teams a little bit more for these things. And it was a question of a little button that I hadn't clicked. Okay, we'll have a good rest of the day. Thank you very much. You're the best everyone. Thank you for listening. Bye. I hope that this has been really interesting for you. Thank you so much for coming. If you have enjoyed it, do please think about donating by just going to our homepage on our website. And there's a donate button at the top, you know, however small it really does help. Bless you. You are a big lead in every way. Thank you for coming. And if you can possibly donate, because we are a lot of charities are struggling at the moment, and we are one of them, we really do need funds to keep going. And we don't want to close as many charities are, because we want to keep doing things like this. You know, I've learned things today, and I've been doing this for 25 years. So hopefully you've all learned something on here. And I look forward to seeing you. If you're a member, we have regular get-togethers that you can join. And we do e-news. So if you want some e-news in between, we do the e-news in between the magazine issues. So do join that because you will get some more information that we don't tend to put up on the website. So thank you. Such lovely comments. We do have support groups. As long as there are some adults there, I think it should be okay. But let's have a chat. Okay. Thank you very much, everyone. I hope to see you again soon sometime. I'm going to close now. Thank you. Take care. Have a good afternoon. Bye.

=== FILE: Thyroid UK Thyroid Awareness Week 2021 Webinar recording [NqqoLKSnaII].txt ===

 as I said before, I haven't done a webinar for a while, actually, since last thyroid awareness week, so I apologise now if anything goes wrong, because I had to try and remind myself of how to do various things. So, first of all, for those that don't know, my name is Lynne Minott and I'm CEO of Thyroid UK, and I'm also the founder, I founded it as a different name about 20 years ago, because I was really upset about how I'd been treated. I've been ill for 15 years without anyone knowing what was wrong with me, you know, I was told it's in my mind, I was told I'd got fibromyalgia, told do you need some antidepressants, do you need to see a psychiatrist, and then it actually turned out that it was thyroid, and I only found that out because a lump came up in my thyroid, and I went to the doctors, they immediately sent me to hospital to do a test on it, it was inconclusive, so they took my right lobe away and put me on 200 micrograms of levosoroxin, which actually made me really, really ill with overactivity, and it was at that point that I thought, hang on a minute, they don't really know what they're doing with me, so I looked into it a little bit more and found someone else who'd had similar problems, and we started campaigning, and now we are here, and I think that we managed to help a lot of people, although there are still a lot of problems in thyroid diagnosis and treatment, so I'm really glad that everybody could come, and the talks this year are short and sweet, the speakers will be speaking for around 15 minutes, and then there will be a 15 minute question and answer session, so hopefully you'll be able to get all your questions in. So first of all, there's some housekeeping, and if for anybody else who's joined since the last time I said this, the webinar is being filmed, and we will be placing it onto our website once it's edited, all attendees will be notified of the link so that they can watch it again, and I will also be putting it, I think, onto our YouTube channel. There will be a page put up at the end of the webinar with various links to documents that I've talked about, but if you missed that for any reason, you can always contact me and we'll be able to send you this whole presentation, so you'll have all the links that are on there. If Question Time's runs out, please send an email to me at enquiries at thyroiduk.org with your question and the name of the relevant speaker, and we will contact you. Those of you that don't know much about what we do, our main thing that we do is we provide information and resources to promote effective diagnosis and appropriate treatment for people with diagnosed and those with undiagnosed thyroid disorders in the UK. As we know, a lot of people aren't diagnosed because they have borderline hypothyroidism or borderline overactive, and we need the appropriate treatment for us, whether that be levisaroxin, because a lot of people do feel better on levo, but for a lot of people we need T3, and for some people they need natural thyroid hormone, like armothyroid or earthothyroid, and we will be campaigning after the T3 campaign is hopefully finished. We will be doing different campaigning, one of which we hope to do about NDT. We have an online community, Health Unlocked. We have lots of members on there, and both members and our admin team are really, really helpful. If you have any queries, somebody on there will answer your question for you. We also have social media, Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and LinkedIn. Again, if you do ask questions on there, it's usually me that goes on in the morning. I check if there's any questions from people and I answer them. We have a paid membership, which is either £17 or £22 from January, and for that you get four magazines, but you're also supporting us because it's classed as a donation and we get gift aid on membership fees. Do please join if you can. We're hoping to do a telephone helpline in the very near future. We're trying to fund those for that now. I know we have the forum, which is nice for people to chat online, but there are some people who don't want to chat online. They want to actually speak to someone with very specific questions and a helpline hopefully will be run by people that we've trained, not doctors. They will be people that we've trained from experiences of other patients. We work with testing companies such as Medi-Chex, who are really helping us a lot in this thyroid awareness week. We've now started working with an ultrasound scan clinic because in Europe, doctors automatically do thyroid scans as part of the diagnostic workup, but in the UK, they only do a scan if there's a lump there, which we think it would be good to have scans, especially if you have Hashimoto's, to be able to see how good or bad your thyroid is working. You can find links to lots of things on the top of our homepage. We have an E-News that goes out whenever I have time to do it, to be honest, and we also have an information pack that has lots of information about thyroid issues. This year, we've done lots of things to raise awareness this year, and we've had a lot of help from Medi-Chex, so I'd like to give Medi-Chex a great big thank you, not only for doing some of the activities for us, but also they're going to be donating £2 for each thyroid test sold during thyroid awareness week. So if you are planning to have a test done by Medi-Chex or if you're thinking about it, do get it done during thyroid awareness week because it's then supporting us as well. Butterfly days on Fridays, the 22nd of October, and we're hoping that people will put tattoos of butterflies on themselves somewhere like mine. I don't know, I've got a tiny little one there because I don't have a thyroid, and also face paints, if you want to face your paint with butterflies, that would be good. We have the Winging It campaign, which is we want people to put coloured eyeliner on to show that we are winging it with our medication, which we are. A lot of people are winging it, myself included. I had my T3 and NDT stopped about three years ago, and I'm having to get hold of my own thyroid medication, which I know a lot of people are, so I do feel like I'm winging it because I have no doctors monitoring me, because if you're not on treatment, they won't do thyroid testing, so I do my own thyroid testing. Medi-Chex have done a little how-to video showing you how to do eyeliner. I've never used eyeliner in my entire life, but I will be putting some on Monday and taking some photos and putting it on our social media pages. Louise, my PA, will be doing the same, and Dion, the financial manager, will be doing the same. We'll all be here Monday morning, making our faces up. Medi-Chex have also designed an amazing butterfly filter that you can use on Facebook and Instagram so that we can spread awareness. If men don't want to do the eyeliner, they can put the filter on, because they won't have to do anything except fiddle with your phone. I must admit, I've never done a filter in my life, but I've been shown how to do it, so hopefully I'll be able to do that on Monday as well. We're asking employees and the public, including friends and family, to donate just one pound to Thyroge UK to help us raise awareness and do some of our other campaigns. All you have to do is text TAW to 70085, and one pound, I think a lot of people would be able to manage to do that, and the more people that can donate it, the more work we can get done. Alice Godfrey, a nutritionist, has made some lovely little videos for us that will be on our YouTube channel. We're going to be launching one per day, as from Monday, so do watch out for those. We're also launching our partnership with the REN project, and Alice will be talking to you about that in a moment. It's a listening service, which I think is going to be really, really important for people with thyroid disease to help with how they feel about just generally how they feel about the thyroid, how they feel about how they're being treated. We're also launching a new support group that at the beginning will be on Zoom, so that might be of interest to people. Lord Hunt is going to be putting some parliamentary questions for us to Her Majesty's government during thyroid awareness week about Lyotheirine, and I'm really pleased about that. The first one I think he's going to put up is to ask Her Majesty's government whether NHS clinical commissioners have now written to all local health authorities to emphasise to them that they are expected to follow national guidance for prescribing lyothyrene, including allowing it to be prescribed when recommended by a specialist when treatment with lyothyroxine alone has failed. I'm really pleased about that one, and it'd be interesting to see what the answer is. Another one that I think is going to be really important is that he's going to ask Her Majesty's government if lyothyrene should now be declassified as a high-cost medicine given the competitions and market authority, recent ruling and fine of £100 million issued to the drug company Avans for artificially inflating the price between 2007 and 2016. We are really hoping that this can happen and then get back to how we were before when T3 was able to be prescribed for anyone that needed it. This is Alice Peck, who is director of communications at the REN project. I'm really pleased to tell you that we've started partnering with the REN project and we'll be launching the partnership tomorrow, and Alice is here to tell you all about them. So off you go Alice. Thanks, Lynn, and thanks so much for having me. I think just hearing your introduction and realising that I know a little about my own thyroid condition and how important it is that organisations like you exist to help people navigate it. So as Lynn mentioned, my name is Alice. I am a director at the REN project and I'm a co-founder. I want to tell you a little bit about the REN project today, not just what we do but also how we might partner with organisations like Thyroid UK and why we believe in what we're doing. So I have a thyroid condition. I have Hashimoto's Thyroiditis. I also have Alopecia, as you can see, so I'm actively autoimmune. And I think some of the things we're seeing is how many people who have one condition also have multiple autoimmune diseases. I also didn't quite expect to be speaking to over 100 people, so I'm a little bit nervous. So if I ramble a little bit please forgive me. So the REN project, we came into being at the beginning of, the idea came to being at the beginning of the lockdown in March 2020 when I got a phone call from Kate and I had met Kate when we were both volunteers in the refugee crisis in Northern Greece. At that point neither of us knew that the other had an autoimmune disease. My Alopecia was still invisible. Obviously my Hashimoto's you can tell and Kate who has lupus also didn't tell me what she was going through. And so when we reconnected last year we began to share the impact of our illnesses and what we really noticed was despite hugely different medical conditions we had such a huge similar experience in the kind of emotional and social impact of getting a diagnosis. And we could really relate to the sense of confusion, of powerlessness, of loneliness and of mental illness of getting an autoimmune disease and we were really struck by the similarities in this. And Kate had this idea of offering support to people when they're diagnosed at a time when it can be very isolating, it can be very scary, you don't really know what's happening. We go to the doctor for support, they give you some medication, it might not help as Lynn said, it might make you feel worse. You might speak to friends and family and they give you their advice and their opinion and it's kind of overwhelming and confusing and suddenly your life has changed and you're forced to accept a new identity and also grieve the person who you were and it can be really hard I'm sure I'm speaking to many people who can understand that. And so Kate had this idea to support people at this point and we looked at what existed already and did a bit of research and realised we were not alone in this experience. Some NHS statistics about 66% of people of autoimmune disease have mental health problems and those are just the people who've come forward and disclosed and that 61% are struggling to cope with their condition. And there's a huge toll on relationships, on your ability to sustain regular employment, that all of this impacts at an individual level and affects who you are and how you feel. I'm looking at the kind of support that existed that NHS offers, medical support and it's invaluable and it's crucial and I think I lived in the US for six years and I cannot tell you how grateful I am every day that we have a national health service but we all know how hard it is to get an appointment with the doctor, to form a consistent ongoing relationship, not to mention the impact of COVID. And then charities like Thyroid UK, Alopecia UK, Lupus UK, Diabetes UK are also invaluable in the kind of research and information and communities that they provide. And I think just listening to Lynne talking about what Thyroid UK does in terms of the information resources, the campaigns, the online communities and the helpline for a specific question about and sort of need about a diagnosis, I think there's nothing better than charities. But they don't have capacity at the moment to provide one-to-one ongoing listening support and I think what we've realised is the importance of having a space where you can talk about what you're going through when it can be so uprooting and life-changing. And to get that kind of support you either have to be on a six-month plus wait help wait list for psychological services or you have to pay for it and that's incredibly expensive. So we saw a gap and a need and we founded the REN project and what we hope to do and what we are doing is looking beyond the specific diagnosis to what connects us despite the differences in our diseases. And what we've seen is just a huge the confusion and the powerlessness and the hope and helplessness of a new diagnosis. And we decided to create the space where people who've just been diagnosed can come and have support and to feel they're being heard and understood as they navigate this hugely unsettling and changing time. And we think that listening can be a really powerful tool. So that's what we do. We provide one-to-one ongoing free listening support for people who've been diagnosed. And we do this by training volunteers who've been interviewed and screened and then we do quite a rigorous volunteer training program. And we're training volunteers in really empathy and active listening. And we have the support of experienced medical and mental health professionals who are kind of a safety net around us. So there's various checks and support for volunteers and to make sure that the RENs, the people who come to our program, have the adequate level of support. And the focus of these sessions is really about the impact of autoimmune on life, on a person's relationships, on their work, on their sense of self-confidence and their sense of self. And so what we don't do is provide therapy or counselling. We know in limitations we're not trained therapists, but we provide a space that's free from advice and free from judgment just to hear and to understand what someone is going through. And to be a volunteer for the REN project, you don't need to have an autoimmune disease, you don't need to be experienced in what autoimmune is, but you need to be able to be empathic, to be neutral and non-judgmental and to be able to offer this space of judgment-free kind of emotional support. And what we've seen so far is just the remarkable power of active listening. Okay, so let's see, I've got about five or 10 minutes left. So we became registered about this time last year. We've been supporting RENs, which is our word for participants since April. We anticipate offering support for about nine months, but some people benefit from just three months of support, some from 12. And we do reviews every three months to gauge the benefit and to tailor and adjust our program accordingly. So it's a very flexible person-centered program. And because of that flexibility and the model which works, we're able to scale it up and down. And this month we actually began supporting people with long COVID as well because increasing research shows the really strong autoimmune component of long COVID and very similar medical symptoms of fatigue, aches, loss of taste and smell. I mean, you know, that you can read about the symptoms of long COVID, but medically similar, but also emotionally, what we've really been struck with is the experience of grief, of loneliness, of isolation, of uncertainty, of fear and the helplessness that the doctor's not knowing what's going on. And beginning to support what people have long COVID, we've been so struck by the capacity of a diseased, utterly changed a person's life and seeing people who have such a fear of not knowing how long it's going to last for, how bad it will get, and will they ever go back to who they were before. And that really speaks to the experience of a lot of the RENs we have with autoimmune disease as well. And it's such a lonely and scary time that we're so glad we can offer the support during it. So we started in April, so we've just done some of our six months reviews of people, of our RENs and kind of taking a bit of it, it's almost our one year, one year anniversary of being registered by the charity commission. So we're growing and we're snowballing and it's very exciting and it's very fast suddenly. And just kind of reflecting back on this time, we're so thrilled to be partnered with Thyroid UK and other disease specific charities as well as mental health charities, and also quite a few university disability departments who will then refer on to us. Because it's really important to us that we're not competing but we're complimenting the existing work that's going on. And also in collaborating with Thyroid UK and organizations that provide this specific support, we're able to then signpost in a really informed and kind of safe way. When RENs come to us and say, look, I'm not sure about my medications, is it making me worse? We don't offer medical advice because we're not trained in that, but we can say, look, there's these charities that exist to help you and here's their phone number and know that they're going to get the right kind of advice. So that's one exciting thing. We're also getting more and more referrals from GPs and consultants, which is really good, as well as other partner organizations and word of mouth and also through social media. And we're now supporting people across the UK because we do our sessions on video. It really allows us a lot of flexibility in who we can support. So it's really widespread geographically. Most of our RENs are women, which is representative of autoimmune disease at large. But it's very diverse in terms of the ethnicity and the backgrounds of the people we support. And it really shows that autoimmune disease is quite indiscriminatory. It does just affect anyone regardless of their background. And in age as well. So most RENs do tend to be in their 30s because a lot of autoimmune diseases are diagnosed around 18 to 30. But we're also noticing a lot of people in their 40s, 50s and 60s and 70s as well. And we support people really across every decade of life. And at the moment, we support about 35 people right now. But that's about to be 40. So we're just starting to move people next week. And there's over 61 different autoimmune conditions. Some people have one, some people have multiple. And doing the reviews after the first six months, the feedback we've received is humbling and really, really encouraging. And we're seeing a change from the initial session to the first review session that reflecting that the REN project is helping in all areas. In particular, RENs have reported feeling less lonely, more connected and more empowered in advocating their own health care needs. And we think that this is going to have a secondary benefit as well, helping people to feel that they can sustain employment, that they're able to navigate relationships better. And also it would reduce the cost we think to the NHS in terms of missed appointments or medication not taken or A&E visits. So we think that we're perhaps with the individual and the personal, but we think there is broader social benefits as well. Okay, so I spoke faster than intended, which is classic for me. But that's really what we do in a nutshell. I'm really happy to take questions. And also, if you think this would be some benefit, you do get in touch directly, or if you're interested in volunteering, but we're going to be doing another training for volunteers in January and not always looking for more volunteers. So yes, I will hand back to Lynn now. Thank you so much for having me. It's really great to speak. I was just wondering, Alice, if you could explain how people self-refer. Yeah, absolutely. So on our website is a really simple form that just you just fill out. It's just your name and your condition. And then Kate, who's the founder and my colleague, she will give you a call and talk about what we do and how it might help. Okay, so our next speaker is Melissa Curran, a very experienced nutritional therapist. You may know Melissa from our previous webinar and our last conference. She's going to be talking about balancing hormones through the menopause, which I know has been difficult for a lot of people with thyroid disease. Hello, nice to see you again. Lovely to see you. I speak to Lynn a lot, but it's lovely to see you. I think we've seen each other properly for a couple of years. So thank you so much for inviting me to this. Well, it's a really good cause. And Alice, it's really wonderful to hear your Ram project too. I couldn't agree more about autoimmune coming in threes or fours because unfortunately, that's the nature of the root of the imbalance. So a little bit about me before we begin, I'll just keep my eye on the time. So I'm a nutritional therapist. I've got a degree in nutrition. I've been practicing for about 15 years. And I've worked with Thyroid UK as Lynn explained. And you might see my articles on nutrition and thyroid that are written every three months. And I always try and include recipes and practical advice. And I really hope this is going to be some practical advice as well. I'm not sharing any slides today because I just wanted to sort of spend the time kind of really thinking about the links between menopause and nutrition. But before we begin, I actually had my own thyroid issues, funnily enough, or not funnily enough, but ironically enough, after having so many thyroid clients. So I do sympathize with you. I suddenly felt like my clients about three years ago of cognitive issues and my energy levels were very low. And the physical and the sort of psych, the mental were disconnecting. It's really hard to explain how I was speaking and how I was thinking wasn't in line. And that was due to a very slight subclinical imbalance in my thyroid, which I tapped into so quickly. So the problem with hormones, they're such a swing, whether it's sex hormones or thyroid hormones. So with menopause is estrogen decline, progesterone and decline and just the slight dip can impact you hugely. So this situation now is it's menopause is really highlighted. I think a few celebrities have got behind menopause and fantastic some women and said, you know, if you're suffering menopause, please go to the doctor. Interestingly, the symptoms of low thyroid are very similar. So hypothyroidism can mimic menopause. And also menopause can trigger hypothyroidism. So I'll be discussing the reasons behind that and what you can do nutritionally and supplement wise to help you. So what are the symptoms? So with menopause and hypothyroidism, low mood. So it's as if you're PMT, but every day for a lot of women, low mood, tearful, low energy, weight gain, thinning hair, eyebrows, foggy head, forgetfulness, concentration difficulties. And, you know, like Alice said, you can speak to the doctor and the doctor. If your markers are within range or blood tests, then you're absolutely fine. But sometimes menopause and just like hypothyroidism is a burner. It's a slow burner of dipping in that direction that you don't want. So it's really important to check in with your with your symptoms as well. It's really important to anybody on this webinar that has not been diagnosed with hypothyroidism. But if you do get tested by the NHS, always get access to your test results because whilst they might say your results are negative, they're within range, they might not be in the optimal range. And that and whilst it doesn't mean it's not important to have a diagnosis, it's important to know where your levels are and where you thrive on those right levels of the blood tests. So it's always important you can talk to a professional, talk to a nutritionist, talk to a doctor, but make sure that you get heard and your symptoms get heard and whether your blood tests are within range or not that they get seen. So estrogen enhances thyroid function. Estrogen is one of these anabolic which means it builds everything up. Estrogen builds up bone, it builds up blood.  cognition, and it really helps fire up the thyroid. Now, some clinical hypothyroidism increases in women. It's a very female imbalance, and obviously menopause is only a female imbalance, and it all happens within similar ages, 40 plus. So if you go to the NHS and you're over 45, the NHS won't test your sexual modes at all, they'll just put you on HRT. HRT might work, but if your thyroid's not functioning properly, you will still carry on with those symptoms. So there's other areas to look for as well. So if you are feeling the symptoms that you're feeling, and even if your thyroid is within range, have a think about iron and B12 and vitamin D3. The thyroid really relies on these three main nutrients to function. Now the NHS should easily be able to administer these tests. Now as there's a huge backlog with the NHS, there's a lot of fingerprint blood tests that I know Thyroid UK partner with as well, that you are able to access these fairly economically and get results quite quickly. So I want to sort of talk about iron and B12 in relation to the gut. So as we get older, I don't know whether this is familiar to anybody over the age of 40 that's listening, it's certainly familiar to me, and I'm in the health sector, but it's almost like you can't eat the foods that you used to eat, and you're kind of wanting to eat the foods that work for you. You don't want to be bloated, you don't want constipation, you don't want diarrhea, it's like this irritable bowel syndrome. And the situation is as we get older, our hydrochloric acid in our guts is lower. So a lot of people then take a meprosol, I don't know whether you've heard of a meprosol, but it's basically inhibits the acid to the symptoms of gastric reflux and heartburn stop. But then what you might get is excessive bloating and anemia, because we need a little bit of hydrochloric acid to help absorb vitamin B12, which is essential for energy. So I'm going to concentrate on the gut for now. So if you can imagine you've got low hydrochloric acid, we're getting older, you might be diagnosed with hypothyroidism or Hashimoto's, or you might not be. The symptoms are very, very similar. So what you can do is really focus on food, first of all, and rather than medication to mask your symptoms. The issue is when we have a lot of bloating and gas and flatulence and food sensitivities and constipation, etc, which is really common in hypothyroidism, what that's doing is it's driving our iron levels low, because what we're doing is we're creating quite a sterile environment in the gut when there's low hydrochloric acid, which means it's a breeding ground for unwanted bacteria. So you might have had a microbiome, you might have heard of yackels and yogurts, good to feed the gut, and these are beneficial bacteria that we all need. But when we do have a lot of the unwanted bacteria, it can actually drive our iron levels down because it feeds off our iron, instead of the iron feeding us or transporting oxygen around the body. So it's really, really important to look after gut health. And how do you do that? Well, it's really, really simple. Lots of vegetables because that feeds the beneficial bacteria. So if you think of all the dark wing leafy vegetables, the broccoli, the Brussels sprouts, probably all the things that make you gassy in the first place. So build them up slowly, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, cabbage, kale, beetroot, peppers, sweet potato, carrots, not all at once, but start aiming for about three cups a day and slowly build up to about six. And that eventually will really help you build a nice beneficial bacteria, increase your iron and increase your B12. And that will really help with energy levels. So how do you know if you've got this low hydrochloric acid? Well, as I said, the symptoms are a lot of bloating, a lot of burping when you've eaten food, possibly bleeding in the gums, a lot of gingivitis, because the guts and the mouth and the ears and the, it's all the same mucosal areas. So sometimes if we've got halitosis or gingivitis, it usually means the gut isn't fairing too well. So looking after the guts can certainly help oral hygiene as well. Another very well-known tip is lemon and water on rising. So you can drink lemon and water on rising to stimulate the acid, kill off the unwanted bacteria and trigger some good digestion. And fermented foods as well, such as organic yogurts, homemade coleslaw. There's a really lovely fermented tea called kombucha. And that's a really delicious form of probiotic as well. Another tip is a little bit like the French is just before you're having a big meal, you can have some bitter foods to stimulate your digestion. And that could be rocket radishes, spring onions with a squeeze of lemon juice. So that's talking about gut health, that will help increase iron levels and B12. So please mask the symptoms with a meprosal and gaviscom and reddies, do get help, do get advice. I'll pop in my email at the end of the session on the chat group. Additionally, vitamin D levels are associated with autoimmune disorders. So Hashimoto's, Graves' disease, all autoimmune disorders have the same root. It's where your antibodies aren't recognizing your own tissues as a cell. It's recognizing them as pathogens as a foreign entity. So ie, it starts attacking your thyroid. So vitamin D levels are lower. Now, if this is a consequence of elevated antibodies, or the antibodies elevated as a consequence of low vitamin D, don't really know, but most people with autoimmune disorders have very low vitamin D. And as soon as your vitamin D levels rise, cognitively, you should start feeling better. So if any of you have not had your vitamin D levels checked, there is a finger prick, there's a finger, a blood spot. So you just prick your finger and squeeze it. It's so much easier than a finger prick test. And it's about £30. And it's from, if you Google vitamin D3 Birmingham, there's a hospital in Birmingham that sends out the kits for about £30. And do remember, if you do supplement with vitamin D, take K2 along with it. So vitamin D and K2, K2 helps prevent that calcification in the arteries. So it's a safe way of supplementing. So I also want to talk very quickly, because I'm running out of time, about iodine. Iodine is really important. It's also important for breast health. So we're still on the subject of menopause. So iodine helps support thyroid hormones, and also it helps prevent fibrocystic breasts, which appear in that menopausal, perimenopausal age, and breast cancer as well. Incidents of breast cancer increase rapidly between the ages of 14 and 54. Iodine helps slow down or inhibit the proliferation of cells in the breast tissue. So if you have a deficiency in iodine, it's really important to supplement it because the breast tissues need that. So how can you test for it? You can do a urine test for iodine, or you can just start supplementing iodine on a very low dosage, which I'll list at the end, or eat seaweed and seafood kelp, nori sheets. Think of some sushi salmon and prawns, miso soup. That's really important for your daily food regime, just as like you've probably heard of selenium, that helps convert T4 to T3 with Brazil nuts. So a urine tests are available through MediCheck and lots of labs. You can contact me, speak to Lynn if you want to know which laboratories are available. Also, phytoestrogens have been shown to help balance estrogen. Phytoestrogens basically are plant-based estrogens, plant-based diet, chickpeas, legumes, lentils, that all help to modulate, increase the estrogen in a safe way, and also help modulate immune function as well. So to wrap up, I'm just going to give you a list of supplements not to take, but to look at, because I don't know your levels of medication, but you might want to look at a dosage of iodine at 150 micrograms, and that would be quite a nice minimal dosage. A vitamin D starting up at about 3000 international units with K2. For anybody going through perimenopause, agnus castus, 650 milligrams a day, selenium, you could have three Brazil nuts a day, or you could have 650 micrograms, sorry, selenium 200 micrograms, and then magnesium 300 milligrams a day. So the main point is, if you're eating well with the foods that I suggested, the seafood, the seaweed, the plant-based nutrition, the lentils, the chickpeas, the four cups of vegetables a day, two cups of bright colored vegetables, hydrating the lemon and water in the morning, and checking in with your symptoms as well as your tests. So if your test results are within range, but you're feeling not so good, then that's really important too to see what you can do about that. So I'm available for nutritional advice, recipes, personalized supplements, testing, and I'll put my details in the chat, but I hope that's just given you a little taster today that the metatars and the thyroid are so closely related, especially when we get to 40 plus. Thank you. Thanks, Lynn. Thank you. And yeah, thanks, Lynn, and thanks, Thyroid UK for having me. Alice's got free nutrition, and I specialize in helping people with thyroid health. I work mostly with tired women, as you can imagine, some men, but mostly women, and I kind of help them make little tweaks to their diet and lifestyle that help improve their thyroid function, calm their thyroid autoimmunity, if that's relevant, boost their energy, and just generally reduce their symptoms. So I thought today it would be good to talk about five of the main of the changes that I make with all my clients. There are lots of others, but these are some of the key ones. So hopefully they'll be helpful. So I'm going to start. So the first one is gluten, and this is actually the subject of one of the short videos that I'm doing for Lynn that are going to be available next week. So there's a bit more information there, but it's quite a key one. So I don't think it'd be a problem to talk about today as well. So gluten is probably the most, definitely one of the most common types of foods that we eat in the West. We could, it's kind of a go-to for many people, and you can quite easily have it for breakfast, lunch, and dinner without thinking about it. But gluten is actually really quite inflammatory. It's quite hard to digest, and it can actually damage our gut lining. And it's heavily implicated when it comes to also immune thyroid disease. Gluten alerts the immune system to attack it, and then the thyroid basically gets caught in the crossfire. And this may be because gluten molecules are very similar in shape to thyroid molecules. So as I said, there's a really strong association between gluten and autoimmune thyroid disease that's been found in studies. And there are also a vast number of client stories, like not just mine, but colleagues of mine, and you read about it all the time, that have following a gluten-free diet can show a reduction in symptoms and also in thyroid antibodies. So, you know, I always say, give it a go, because you can just do it for kind of a month or two months, and you're not really going to be missing out on major nutrients there, and you'll find out, you know, what difference it makes to you. So other things to watch out for, if you are going to give it a go, be very strict. So even the tiniest bit of gluten can spark an inflammatory autoimmune response and flak, flak, stup, spark symptoms and spark, you know, a flare, a flare up. So also be wary of the supermarket replacement gluten-free products. They can be really, really helpful. And I always say to my clients, you know, use them for the transition while you're getting used to being gluten-free. But ideally, in the long run, you want to be kind of choosing different foods and just using them a bit, because they are really handy. But the problem with them is that they, in the desperation to get something to taste and look like gluten, they add in all kinds of different additives and in different flowers and ingredients, and our guts can also find them quite hard to digest. And then also, if they can't do that, get, you know, a gluten feel, or even if they can, they'll add in a load of sugar so that you'll enjoy it anyway. So yeah, just watch out for those. They don't all have lots of sugar, but just kind of read the ingredients, I'd recommend doing that, or kind of going for alternatives like rice pasta and you can get lentil pasta. Also, you can make bread that isn't like springy normal bread, but you can make it out of, you know, gluten-free oats and nuts and seeds and things. Another thing to watch out for is cross reactivity. So there are some foods which appear as gluten to the body, so they can also spark an autoimmune response. So if you do, if you do have autoimmune thyroid disease and gluten doesn't make a huge bit of difference, then it may be that one of these is causing an issue as well. But I don't want you to get hung up on those at the moment, because there's a long list of them and you're made into help kind of working out which ones give me trouble. You can't test for it, by the way. So yeah, as I said, I recommend cutting out for about a month or two, ideally, if you can last that long and then you'll see, you'll really start to see what difference it can make and it can cause inflammation all over the body. Personally, I stopped eating gluten and this was before I was diagnosed as hypothyroid, but I was actually trying to get pregnant and someone recommended stopping it. And a couple of months down the line, the RSI that I'd had, really painful risks, very stiff shoulders just disappeared. So it kind of, it can show itself in many different ways, not just kind of gut symptoms. So that's number one. Number two of the diet changes is healthy fats and specifically omega three fats, which you may well have heard of. So a lot of most people eat a lot of omega six fats and they are things like vegetable oils, peanuts, they're in processed foods, all kind of processed foods like crisps, pastries, salad dressings, biscuits. So people eat quite a lot of those and then not that many of the omega three fats. And basically there's a ratio we need to keep and things if we're eating too many omega six and not enough omega three, then we get this imbalance. And basically omega six fats are generally inflammatory and omega three fats are anti-inflammatory. So the best places to find omega three anti-inflammatory fats are oily fish. So there's an acronym to remember the oily fish, which is smash, which is salmon, mackerel, anchovies, sardines and herring. Maybe you don't have too many ganchiys because they are very salty, but they're still good to have sometimes. Wild salmon is better than farm salmon for lots of reasons, but one of them in relation to omega three, it has more omega three and it has less omega six of the inflammatory omega six. So oily fish is one of the best places to get it, but not everyone eats fish. I understand that. You can get it in flaxseed and chia seeds, but they will need to be freshly ground. And also the levels are not anywhere near as high as they are in oily fish. And then also you can get it in beef and lamb, but it must be grass fed. So the cows and the sheep must have been eating grass because that's where they're getting the omega three. And unfortunately, a lot, well, pretty much all beef that isn't organic will be grain fed, not grass fed. Although with sheep, you know, very often they're more likely to have been eating grass. You see them on the hills, so you wouldn't necessarily need that organic or for it to say grass fed, but they're good places to get your omega three as well. So ideally, oily fish or grass fed beef around three times a week. And if you can't manage that, then supplementing is a really good idea. And you can get, if you don't eat meat, you can actually get, or you don't eat, don't want to eat fish, you can actually get algae supplements as well as fish oil supplements now. So number three is about carbohydrates. And it's basically about changing your relationship with carbohydrates. So it's really important to have all the macronutrients we call them, so proteins, carbohydrates and fats. It's really important to have them, you know, every meal. But we need to be really careful with our carbohydrate intake. And that's not saying necessarily that you need to cut it down. But the main thing is to kind of have the balance. And this is to do with blood sugar balance, which is not just for diabetics. It's important for all of us, really important. So basically, whenever we eat anything, our blood sugar goes up, and then it comes down again, when the pancreas releases insulin, it brings the blood sugar down again. And when we eat proteins and fats, so proteins, you know, meat, fish, eggs, nuts, seeds, pulses, whenever we eat those things, our blood sugar goes up very gently and comes down very gently. And whenever we eat fat, the same thing happens. It goes up very gently, comes down very gently. And the body really likes that. It, you know, it doesn't have the pressure on the body. It's just like, okay, we can cope with this, we'll get back to equilibrium, you know, nice and gently. But when we eat carbohydrates on their own, our blood sugar shoots up really high and then drops really dramatically. And if we have a carbohydrate breakfast, for example, then we just start off this roller coaster for the whole day. Or if we're having snacks that are carbohydrates, we get this roller coaster up and down, up and down. And the body finds this quite hard because it wants the blood sugar to be balanced. So it has to work really hard to get it down and up each time. And it puts pressure on the pancreas. It also puts pressure on the adrenals, which are closely linked with the thyroid, because the low blood sugar actually stimulates a stress response, a fight or flight response. It also increases cravings. So we're more likely to be craving sugar. And it affects our energy and our mood. And the brain needs a constant supply of blood glucose so that it can do its jobs. And if it does, when it gets to these peaks and troughs, there's times when it's not getting enough. And this long term is going to affect, well, long term, it's going to affect our mental health. But short term, it's going to affect our mood and our energy. And, you know, things like brain fog. So what do we do about it? We need to keep it more constant and have more of the kind of gentle up and down. So things we can do are switch from a carbohydrate based breakfast to a high protein breakfast. So, you know, in the west, we're so used to carbohydrate breakfast, like cereal, porridge, toast. But actually, you know, that fry up maybe not so bad. After all, well, fry up maybe, you know, don't have it every day. And obviously, you have to be careful of the dangerous fats, but eggs are brilliant. Also, if you like cereal or you like porridge, you could have a muesli with lots of nuts and seeds. And at saying with porridge, lots of nuts and seeds and not anything sweet on it or have fresh fruit on it rather than dried fruit. You can also add actually protein powder. You can get protein powder that's made of pea or of hemp. That's all it is. There's no added bits. So just be careful. Don't get any that you get, you know, that people like Jim Bunnies get. Just the ones that are the pure protein and put a bit of that in it. And that really helps as well. And then also with snacks, that's another place that we're quite, many of us, you know, commonly have like a sweet snack or a carbohydrate based snack. So, you know, it could be slice of toast or crackers or pastries or, you know, there's just so many things that we just naturally would go to instead of protein. So you can add like nuts and seeds are really helpful and you can have like a handful of those. You could even make up a trail mix of different nuts and seeds with a bit of dried fruit in. Just don't go crazy on it. Or like, you know, oat cakes with nut butter on them or hummus or raw vegetables with hummus. And, you know, if you are going to have something sweet, then try and have something that's protein before it, because that's going to really lessen the impact of the blood sugar rise on your body. And then no sweet drinks, ideally, because sweet drinks are the worst, excuse me, they, they just send your blood sugar straight up because it just goes straight into your bloodstream, the sugar, because it's so easy to digest. And then another thing you could do is work out your carb limit. So if you ever feel sleepy or crave sugar after eating a meal or a snack, then you've probably had too many carbs. So maybe kind of step it back a bit and try and get the balance on your plate, get a decent amount of oily, oily, not oily, healthy fats and protein. So number four, I think there's a question, are we going to do questions at the end, Vin, or? I think I'll just. Yes, we'll be doing questions at the end. Okay, fine. Okay, I'll just pound through. So number four is upgrade your fiber intake. So we all know that, you know, fiber is important, but, but it really is important, particularly for anyone with thyroid issue. What we need to do is increase the variety, first of all. So this is very important for our gut microbes. So it's been shown that if we have a broad variety of fruit and vegetables, then our gut microbiome, bacteria in our gut, become more diverse and diversity in your gut of these different bacteria has been shown to be associated with good health and being healthier and less risk of chronic disease. So that's what we want. We want a big variety of fruit and vegetables. You know, if you try not to get stuck in the same rut of eating the same vegetables, because yes, of course, it's good to have broccoli three times a week, but you know, next time pick something else up. When you, like, a lot of people are shopping online now, but if you do go into the supermarket, have a look around, use your eyes to kind of see what's appealing. You know, we eat with our eyes as well as our stomach or, you know, the rest of it. So yeah, try and kind of mix it up a bit and that will really help your gut and help the gut health improve. Fibers also really important for moving things along and moving things along, which we know in hyperthyroidism, your gut transit, moving things along is that much slower, hence some people suffer with constipation. So if we can encourage that and have good fiber that's going to move along, then that's going to take along with it toxins and dead bacteria that we don't want hanging around. So anything we can do there. And also, you know, anything we can do to improve our gut health is going to be good for our thyroid, because that is one of the places that we convert T4 hormone to T3 hormone, which is the type of thyroid hormone that gets into the cell. So as I said, a wide variety of vegetables, then there are some vegetables which are particularly good, like food or it's not really food, but what the bacteria use and what they consume. And that is there's again, there are some vegetables which are particularly good at that and they're called prebiotic foods. And I've got a list of them here, I'll just pick a few out. So things like artichokes, asparagus, I mean, there's loads of your regular vegetables like carrots and Brussels sprouts and mushrooms and onions, sweet potatoes, cucumbers, chicory is a really good one. And also fruits, apples, avocado, plantains really good. And then other sources of things like chia seeds, I already mentioned them, flax seeds, pumpkin seeds, wild rice is a really good one. Even dark chocolate, would you believe it? But I'm not saying go and eat loads and loads of dark chocolate. But you can have some. So is that the end of my brief? Oh yeah, and then one more thing I was going to say about fiber is, and vegetables is eat more cruciferous vegetables if you don't eat many of those, because they are very helpful to the liver in detoxification. And again, with an underactive thyroid, you are more likely to have less effective detoxification by the liver. And the liver is another place that T4 is converted to T3. So yeah, important there. Okay, so number five is my last one, and it is water. So basically, just kind of try and make sure you're drinking enough. So the average, for the average woman, ideally, we want to be drinking around two liters a day. And that's not to include diuretic drinks like tea and coffee, herbal teas are fine. And for men, it's kind of more like three liters. And that seems like an awful lot. But you know, the body, especially if we suffer from low energy, which many of us do, it's so important, it's actually H2O is part of the chemical reaction that makes ATP, which is energy in the body. So, you know, if we don't have enough water, if we're slightly dehydrated, we're going to feel less tired, basically, more tired, basically. And you know, I find that having a glass of water, if I'm feeling just a bit sluggish, drinking a glass of water can just turn things around completely. It's something we should go to more. So it's quite difficult to get into the habit though. So you can do things like take a large glass of water to your bedside when you go to bed, and don't drink it then, but drink it first thing in the morning, because you know, you've had a whole night without water, and you will be slightly dehydrated. So drink it then as soon as you wake up or as you're getting ready. You can also leave glasses of water, small ones, all around the house, which I'm not suggesting you do forever. That would be weird and slightly annoying. But in the transition of kind of getting to drink more, it can be really helpful because you just see them and you're like, oh yeah, I'll drink that. Okay. And then you know, and you just kind of, it can be really, really helpful. My clients have found that, some of them. Also, you can buy a lovely new jug and fill it with water at the beginning of the day, put in some...  herb, strawberries, lemon or lime, anything to make it more interesting. I know it can be dull. The other thing that I find myself saying as well is just down it and just drink it. Yes, it's boring, it's not very interesting drink, but it's part of your health. It's like breathing, not quite, but almost. It's something you need to do to be healthy. The other thing is filtering it. We heard this week that they're going to be putting fluoride in all of Britain's water. For that reason, but also there are a lot of impurities in there. There are hormones from the contraceptive pill, there are antibiotics. There are all kinds of things in there which are particularly important when you have a hormone-related issue to remove if at all possible. You can get, I think, the best way to get most of these things out, if not all, is reverse osmosis, which you can get a filter fitted under your sink in your kitchen, which is not actually that expensive. I think it's a couple of hundred pounds, but might be worth considering anyway. Yes, that's it. Basically, these five changes are likely to increase your energy levels, reduce inflammation in the body, and improve your digestion and your metabolism. Even if you pick a couple of them and you do them consistently, then you're likely to see some kind of improvement. Our next speaker is TheraTombolin, a nutritional therapist who's going to explain how stress affects the thyroid. I'm fairly stressed at the moment, so mine's going to go a bit funny. We could all find this helpful, I think, at times in stress. Thank you very much for inviting me to speak. It's been great to listen to everybody that's come before me. I am actually going to share some slides if that's okay, because I think that it adds value, because I'm going to talk about the mechanism of stress on the body. It can be quite useful just to have a visual. I'm TheraTombolin. As Lynn has introduced, I'm a nutritional therapist and I use nutrition and lifestyle to combat the symptoms of viral disease, which, as most of you will know, can be very challenging to say the very least. Today, we're going to talk about how stress can actually affect the thyroid, and if you can find ways to de-stress or to implement things that can make you feel more calm, then it can actually improve your thyroid symptoms. What is stress? Stress manifests in different ways, from emotional stress, physical stress, and stressors in the form of toxins, pesticides, as well as lack of sleep and elevated blood sugar, as well as some medications. Typical presenting symptoms can be insomnia, depression, fatigue, headache, upset stomach, and irritability. As you can see, these are very similar to some of the thyroid symptoms that we present with. It's really important to get to the root cause of what is actually causing these symptoms. Is it stress or is it the thyroid? It's really important to find out the root cause so that we can target the correct area. All forms of stress send a message through the body. That message, it throws off our cortisol and our adrenaline, which can subsequently cause our thyroid to underperform. I believe it's a really good idea to get to know your body and to get to know what's going on inside so you can get a better understanding of what could be the root cause and how you can heal. During stress, we activate the HPA axis, and that stands for the hyposalamic pituitary adrenal axis. The adrenal glands are part of the endocrine system, just like the thyroid, and they're two little glands that sit right on top of our kidneys. Stimulating this axis leads to a release of glucocorticoids like cortisol and catecholamines like adrenaline. Both of these come from the adrenal glands that sit on the kidneys. In fight or flight mode or sympathetic nervous system mode, adrenaline is released in response to a threat. It's important, so the least, to keep us alive, because when we were cavemen and women, we needed to be alerted if there was a lion approaching or if danger was going to happen, or if famine was an issue and it would increase our cortisol so that we responded to that message. Obviously, nowadays stress comes in different forms like gills, emails, scary boss, or just life in general that brings us so much admin and things. We really need to be careful that that stress does not become chronic, because when it's chronic, that's when we start to have real problems. The effect of stress on the thyroid hormones has been well documented in research papers. It actually suppresses the hypothalamic release of TRH, the pituitary release of TSH, and the production of thyroid hormones from the gland itself. All three mechanisms of production are all inhibited by stress, and this is just the production, so we've still got the transportation of the hormones to consider how it travels around the body and whether we've got the right nutrients and the right sources to actually create the things, the proteins that carry the hormone around the body. Then that's not to mention the receptor site where the hormone is like T3 is taken up into the cells, so all of those can be affected as well. The HPT axis, so as well as the HPA axis, we rely on the pituitary to send signals to the thyroid in the HPT axis, so it's the hypothalamic pituitary thyroid axis. When the HPA axis is disrupted, it suppresses the HPT axis and thyroid function is diminished as a consequence. It also suppresses the conversion of T4 to T3, and as we all know, T3 is the active thyroid hormone, T4 is inactive. So while our T4 levels can be fine on a blood test, it's the conversion to T3 that we really need to look at as well, because if it's not converting to T3, then we're unable to use it inside the cell. So the interplay between stress hormones and thyroid hormones also has an effect on the immune system. Stress hormones act on antigen presenting immune cells, which may influence the differentiation of T-health cells, part of our immune system, and the differentiation of the TH cells away from TH1, which you can see from the C-sort diagram, towards TH2, leads to a suppression of cell-mediated immunity and a potentiation of humoral immunity. In other words, there's a shift in the immune system so that the arm that deals with antibodies is stimulated, and that's where thyroid autoimmunity presents itself, so either as Graves disease, which is hyperthyroidism in its autoimmune form, or Hashimoto's thyroid itis, which is hypothyroidism or underactivity of the thyroid gland. And these are diagnoses when antibodies, the thyroid globion antibodies or thyroid peroxidase, TPO antibodies, are raised, and this is what is meant by the humoral response or the TH2 arm of the immune system. So stress drives us towards this, and some of us are more susceptible to autoimmunity than others because of our genetic makeup, but our gene expression changes depending on the environment too, so the environment in which we bathe our genes has a huge influence on whether they're switched on or not, or how they're expressed. So their nutrition and lifestyle comes in so well, like Alice has just been speaking of, and Melissa, all of those changes that you can make to your diet gradually can all kind of help your genes to be surrounded by the nutrients that they need, and so that they don't switch on towards that unfavorable side of autoimmunity. And stress can be one of the environmental factors for thyroid immunity, so we really want to avoid it at all costs, to find in small doses, but not that chronic stress that we can tend to just find ourselves in without realizing. So what we're striving for is a balance of the immune system here, we want that seesaw to lie flat, and that's what the human body is always striving for, we're always, it's always trying to come back to that homeostasis, so homeostasis is the self-regulating process by which biological systems tend to maintain stability while adjusting to conditions, optimal for survival, so we always, the body's always trying to bring back balance, but if we don't help it, then it can go in one or the other direction, and that's when we start to get symptoms. So boosting immune system as well as addressing thyroid medication and support are all things you can do to support yourself through times of stress, and especially in the last couple of years we've all I'm sure experienced some level of stress that's kind of manifested in different ways, so paying attention to those symptoms is really important. So cortisol then, it's released from the adrenal cortex and the adrenal glands, and when stress is perceived, and I say perceived because stress is a perception, it's how we perceive things happening in the environment, so what I might find stressful, you might not, and vice versa, and so it's us actually processing that information that manifests in stress, so an influx of inflammatory cytokines occurs when we are at a stress, and these inflammatory cytokines actually get in the way of conversion from T4 to T3, and they block it. Stress also increases cortisol, so high cortisol levels impair this conversion as well, but cortisol isn't all bad, it's essential for our survival, in acute situations, and it also helps to regulate our blood sugar level, and it increases body fat again for survival for when we were cave of men and women, and it also defends the body against infections, but it's high levels of chronic cortisol that can have a negative effect on these things, and it can actually dysregulate our blood sugar if it's too high, so for example, cortisol will increase blood glucose, which impacts insulin, and then insulin gets high as it is released to bring the blood glucose from the blood into the cells, so that's where we want the glucose because we want to make energy from it, but if the insulin is dysregulated, sometimes if the insulin is too high, then the body stops reacting to it because it thinks there's too much, I can't cope with this, so I'm just not going to let any blood glucose into the cell, and then we have high amounts left in the blood just causing damage, which can actually lead to cardiovascular diseases and things where the glucose is actually damaging the blood vessels, and then your cholesterol becomes high because the cholesterol's job is to go and repair those damaged vessels, so that can have a knock-on effect on that, and people kind of get scared of cholesterol, but really it's just when it's high, it's just doing its job, it's asking the question of well why is it high, what's happening, what's it trying to repair, and why is the damage being done in the first place, so the impairment of T4 to T3 conversion can really inhibit and impair you getting that active T3 into the cell, and so high insulin and high glucose is definitely something that you don't want, insulin resistance is basically what I've just described, so again it's the pancreas that releases insulin in response to blood glucose, so if you have a really carb, carb, carbineal, or I guess sweets or something really high in sugar, then your pancreas is going to release quite a lot of insulin to get that glucose out of the vessels, out of the blood, and into the cells before it does any damage, and if that keeps happening, and keeps happening, then as I say the insulin becomes high as well, and the cells become desensitized to it, so it doesn't actually do its job and let the glucose in, which we don't want. So the insulin has nowhere to go but to stay in the blood, so hypothyroid symptoms can occur even though TSH, T3 and T4 may be normal, because of the thyroid hormone resistance at the cell level, so insulin resistance can mean that the thyroid hormone resistance occurs as well, where the same thing is happening in the thyroid and it's just not uptaking those levels of T3, so whilst blood work can look fine, actually what's happening at the cell level is where noticing that things aren't going quite right, so the T3 isn't actually being uptaken, and so therefore the thyroid isn't exerting its effect on the body. Intestinal permeability, or sometimes referred to as leaky gut, is very damaging. 70% of our immune system lies in the gut, so the gastrointestinal tract, the lungs, the bloodstream barrier, they're all primary immune components of the body, and that's where immunity starts. The gastrointestinal tract, there are little holes that can occur and these can be triggered by toxins, gluten, as we've spoken about already today, and stress. And adrenal stress weakens the barriers and it weakens the immune system and in the gut thyroid connection, when the barriers are breached, those large antigens, those large proteins from gluten or any other toxins or any kind of allergens, they go through the intestinal lining through the little gaps and that creates an inflammatory response as the immune system does its job and reacts. And when this happens over and over, the immune system gets out of whack and we become susceptible to other autoimmune diseases, so stress can turn on the gene where autoimmunity can express itself, and stress can also break down immune barriers and create an autoimmune flare and that's where we see autoimmunity express this out too, in the form of celiac or hashimotos or graves. So inflammation is what occurs as a response to those antigens getting through that intestinal barrier and the DIs and As family of enzymes mediates the activation and inactivation of thyroid hormone as you may know. The role of these enzymes in the regulation of thyroid hormone concentration throughout the body is very well established, there's lots of research on it. Inflammatory cytokines will decrease D1 activity and reduce tissue T3 levels and conversion from T4 to T3. As you know T4 is the inactive thyroid, T3 is the active hormone, so we want those levels of T3 to be present. The inflammatory cytokines, so the interleukin 1, interleukin 6, CRP, TNF alpha, you may have heard of them, but those are the ones that increase the activity of D2 and suppress the TSH despite reduced peripheral T3 levels. So inflammation will stimulate D3, producing more reverse T3, which can block the action of T3 further causing cellular hypothyroidism by suppressing the intracellular T4 to T3 conversion and blocking the T3 receptor inside the cell. A little bit confusing, but hopefully you're with me. Eustrogen, cortisol elevations decrease your liver's ability to clear excess eustrogens. So the excess eustrogens have to go through the liver down a certain pathway to be beneficial and for the metabolites actually to be excreted out of the body. As hormones aren't just used once, sometimes they are, but they're reused several times before they are excreted, but we don't want them to kind of be reused too many times and kind of worn out so that they don't exert their beneficial effects. And we want to make sure the liver is working optimally to be able to excrete those metabolites out because the unfavorable one can cause or can contribute to cancer. Eustrogen related cancers like breast cancer, so we really do want to optimize that, our liver. And excess estrogen will also increase thyroid binding globulin. So as I spoke about before, the transportation of thyroid hormone around the body is significant because it will reduce the amount of free thyroid available to be picked up by itself. So it will show up in the blood as low T3 uptake and low free T3 and free T4. Women who take contraception containing estrogen can contribute to estrogen dominance, which can affect the thyroid because there isn't that level available because it's bound to this hormone that's carrying them around. So we can increase our cruciferous vegetables, fibre and protein and water. These all contribute to good liver metabolism. And I know Goitugins were spoken of before. And like Alice said, it's my understanding from the research I have read that it's not quite as much of a problem as we once thought. Obviously, it was that eating these vegetables raw was going to increase your goiter or cause a goiter and that's not necessary the case now or you would have to eat loads and loads of raw vegetables, raw cruciferous vegetables for it to take effect but if you cook vegetables then they're not going to exert any sort of goitrogenic effect so if you have like I don't know raw bits of broccoli in a dip or something at a party it's not going to do you any damage it might if you went on like a raw diet and they're everything raw then it may kind of contribute to it but for most people it's not going to cause a problem. An oxidative stress you may have heard of both hyperthyroidism and hypothyroidism have been shown to be associated with oxidative stress which is an imbalance of pro oxidants so damaging molecules and antioxidants which we can which we make endogenously so we make food to thine in our bodies and the thyroid gland actually is a unique organ that requires hydrogen peroxide for high for thyroid hormone formation and this is actually a pro oxidant and and because of that to combat it thyroid cells contain antioxidants to protect their own cells from this hydrogen peroxide and loss of this balance may result in thyroid cell dysfunction and thyroid disease so it's really important that the oxidative stress is managed by antioxidants and we can help with that by increasing our antioxidant intake from the diet so green tea, blueberries, berries of all sorts, lots of just good kind of natural foods that's grown under the ground or on a tree or you know just living things plant-based foods all the different colors of the rainbow so which I'm sure you've heard banded about a lot but red foods, orange, yellow, green if you can try and include all of those different colors of the rainbow over the course of four weeks sometimes it's difficult to get them all in in one day but if you can try and strive for that in a week then you're doing well because your each of those colors means that there are different properties contained in that fruit or vegetable for example and in the skins where that color resides you'll get lots of lots of antioxidants so it's really important to include those combat those pro-oxidants so what can we do well antioxidants is a big one first we need to remove things that may be irritating your thyroid and causing it to send out a stress signal in the first place so things like toxins can cause thyroid inflammation as a result of this oxidative damage and this trigger the thyroid to send out the stress response which is picked up by the immune system so gluten as has been talked about is a known antigen and it can cause a lot of people problems and other foods that can cause problems and even those like eggs and nightshades they all need to be looked at because they're all different for everybody and some people might get on fine with you know loads of tomatoes whereas others might you know really suffer with indigestion and it's about you don't have to necessarily cut these things out forever but it's about looking at what the triggers are and then repairing the damage that might have been caused by your gut reacting to these triggers and then replacing any nutrients that is perhaps lacking so why aren't you able to digest tomatoes well it could be a hydrochloric acid problem it could be you haven't got the enzymes there it could be any other cofactors that need to kind of help in the digestion so it's about looking at the person as an individual and finding out what their triggers are and we also need to re-inoculate so the stress weakens the thyroid through its actions on the adrenals and can help negative bacteria to proliferate and if we've got lots of kind of pathogen bacteria there's not enough room for the good bacteria and there's so much research on bacteria you could do a whole day's webinar on gut bacteria but we need to have that good bacteria to exert its effects on the body and if there's too much pathogenic there then you're just not making room for them so you could have a probiotic or prebiotic or I would recommend eating foods that are prebiotics so the prebiotics actually feed the probiotics so things like leeks and onions and garlic and and you can also have kefir and kombucha as was mentioned earlier and those kind of fermented things that will promote proliferation of good bacteria and then rebalancing the adrenals and the immune system and our detoxification capabilities and again that's looking at the person as an individual and finding out which of those areas are really affected and then how can we talk then we can discover things that we can give them that can target that through food or through supplements. Stabilizing blood sugar is essential because as I say cortisol is so intrinsically linked with insulin and blood sugar so in the absence of type 2 diabetes or insulin resistance it's still important to keep blood sugar level stable because if we don't we can have those energy slumps in the afternoon particularly about four o'clock I find that clients tend to say I can't you know that I actually have like a brain fog and I just put a sleep for an hour if I were able to at four o'clock or you wake up and it takes a long time to kind of get going so to do this we can obviously reduce our sugary processed foods and caffeine because caffeine pulls cortisol into the blood as often why people reach for a couple of coffee first thing so that they can kind of get that hit of cortisol coursing through their blood and reduce the carbohydrate heavy foods as well like white pasta white bread if white potatoes could be swapped with sweet potatoes not all the time so white potatoes are good but you know sweet potatoes are more fibrous and they with the foods that have a lot of fiber then they tend to kind of hold back the sugar from going into your blood too quickly like almost like a kind of knit as the fibrous tissues go together the blood sugar doesn't get out so quick so you don't get those peaks and troughs throughout the day where you have a sugar spike and then a dip where the insulin's come out to get all the sugar left you with not enough sugar in your blood and you tend to feel that dip so balancing your blood sugar throughout the day is really good to keep your energy level stable and has knock-on effects to sleep and everything so improve your quality of sleep as well there's lots of things you can do with that limit snacking include protein with every meal because it's satiating and you're less likely to reach for the carbohydrates which can put that blood sugar level up and other things you can do are obviously looking at your depletion so what to nutrients could potentially be lacking and we can try and find that out based on symptoms and tyrosine is a critical precursor to T4 and T3 and low dietary intake of this as well as stress can result in inadequate tyrosine and as adrenaline also uses tyrosine and in its synthesis and may compete for it so if you're very stressed then the tyrosine might be taken from the kind of thyroid pool and used in that part in the HPA axis rather than the HPT axis zinc selenium copper iodine they're all needed for the adrenal cortex to function obviously they're needed for the thyroid as well and the HPA axis will always take precedence as it's for our survival and I know without you know our thyroid is kind of critical to us being alive but the court is always kind of the major hormone in the body that will always take precedence because it could mean life or death if we are having to run from a lion. Magnesium and it's been mentioned is brilliant for sleep and iron levels need to be optimal as well. Vitamin D Melissa talked about so won't go over it again. Amiga 3, Alice talked about critical B vitamins these help with the energy production in our mitochondria and then you can have herbal adaptogens as well that are specific to stress so they kind of moderate stress levels. Rhodiola, ginseng, chisandra, ashwagandha those kind of herbs can be useful in helping you to be calm, valerian as well as quite a good one for sleep and theanine as well which you can find in green tea but all of these need to be considered on an individual basis and interactions need to be checked so yes I wouldn't kind of recommend all of those as a blanket but we can look at those as on an individual basis and find out what suits you. So last  and then, lastly, just another, not just, a really important thing we can do is just implement stress management tools into our life, so yoga, deep breathing, meditation, walking in nature, exercise, and having fun, it's, you know, sometimes we lose sight of what makes us happy, because we're just kind of in the middle of trying to manage our lives and getting sucked into the vacuum of busyness, and really, is it what we want? Do we want to be going on this kind of treadmill all the time, or can we step off it and actually figure out what we need? Meditation has been shown to really, really help. Scientific studies based on it, and it's about carving time into your day and putting it as a priority that actually your health depends on you slowing down, so making time to fit that into the day is really important. And it engages our parasympathetic nervous system mode, not our sympathetic nervous system, so arrest and digest rather than fight or flight, and that's when if we digest in food well, then we're leaving away all those nutrients that are in the food, and they're going to the bits of the body that needs them. So that's it. Okay, so I'm just not sure if everybody knows exactly what T3 is. So I thought I'd just give it a quick go over. I know that I think it's one of the speakers give talk about it a little bit, but just very quickly, lyothyronine is the chemical form of the whole known T3, and it is available as a medicine. But unfortunately, there's been some issues with the prescribing of it in the UK, which I'll talk about in a moment. The body actually produces T4, and T3. So the thyroid produces about 85% of thyroxine and about 15% of T3. And this will depend on whichever piece of research you read, it does change in some of the research. So the T3 is actually available because of the amount that the thyroid produces, it's available immediately. But the rest of it, most of it needs to be converted from thyroxine into T3 in various organs in the body. But everybody converts at a different rate, and that can be due to nutrition. Things like selenium, you need to have plenty of or your thyroid want, your body won't be able to convert it very well. And people that have no thyroid, like myself, or that have had it destroyed by antibodies, probably don't have any T3 to begin with. So they really need T3, we find. So the lyothyronine is the replacement medication, and some people find it very beneficial to add to their lyivothoroxin, and it can make a huge difference to their symptoms. But unfortunately, due to the massive price rise that the different pharmaceutical companies have increased it by over the past few years, the NHS restricted its use. And this is one of the reasons that we are campaigning. So you can catch up with what we've done over the past few years on our T3 campaign page, and I'll give you the link at the end. We've done a lot of things on our own, and we did a lot of work with the other thyroid groups, particularly the dossier. We worked with NHS England and other organisations to change the guidance, because we weren't very happy with it. So unfortunately, COVID did put a stop to a lot of the campaigning. So not much has been done since COVID started, because Parliament weren't doing anything, and the House of Lords weren't doing anything either. But during that time, we did let people know about the NICE guidance, which we did put a submission in. Unfortunately, it wasn't exactly what we wanted. We weren't happy with the wording, and we had to have various conversations with NICE to try and get them changed. One of the things that they did do was put a note in about the RMOC, the Regional Medicines Optimisation Committee guidance, that we helped to change along with the other thyroid groups. NICE did put this into the guidance, but it was hidden right at the end in a little footnote. We were not happy about that, because doctors and patients wouldn't be able to see it very well. So they did change it, and now it's a bit more visible. We have links to both the guidances and where the link is to the RMOC guidance, which is really important, because it states some important comments, one of which is the majority of patients suffering from hypothyroidism can be treated effectively with liver theroxine alone, but lyothyroline is perceived to be an important medicine for a small proportion of patients in order to maintain health and well-being. And also, it states the majority of patients suffering from hypothyroidism can be, well, I just read that one, sorry, the prescribing of lyothyroline is only supported if initiated by or considered appropriate following a review by an NHS endocrinologist. And then lastly, in rare situations where patients experience continuing symptoms whilst on lyothyroxine that have a material impact upon normal day-to-day function and other potential causes have been investigated and eliminated, a three-month trial with additional lyothyroline may be appropriate. Well, because nice point people to the RMOC guidance, this means that they actually approve it. And this is something that I think if you're going to try and get T3 back or if you're going to try and get a trial of T3, you need to have this information. So do you print the guidance is off, highlight the relevant areas and make a little dossier of your own of information that you need. So we know that patients are still having their T3 withdrawn. Patients are still being refused a trial of T3. And this is usually down to the various protocols of local clinical commission groups. We know that still a lot of CCGs are not allowing prescribing, even if doctors and endocrinologists want to prescribe, they're not being allowed to. However, there has been some good news recently that we hope is going to make a big change. You've probably heard about the competition and markets authority finding that they found from 2009 to 2017 that advanced charged excessive and unfair prices for supplying my I think low ironing tablets. In actual fact, the price rise actually began in 2007 and slowly increased the price by more than 6000%. I remember having meetings with it was mercury farmer then. And this was around the time that they changed it from the branded T3 to the generic T3. And it was at that point that they started to increase the price. The CMA find advanced and two private equity firms called Simben and HD Capital over 100 million pounds altogether. So I don't know if you're aware, but Simben and HD Capital were previous owners of the business, but they're now part of advance private equity companies, buy and restructure companies to make more money for people. Personally, I don't think this should be allowed. And we're very pleased that the CMA took this action. Although they were fined a few weeks ago, normally it takes I think it's six or eight weeks for the company that have been fined to appeal. But in the case of advance, they asked for an extension of time to file a notice of appeal in respect of this. And this was granted on the 3rd of August 2021, which allowed them to extend the appeal until the 14th of October. So that time has passed. So I'm not exactly sure if they can appeal again. I don't think they can. But the CMA then have a period of time to put in an answer to the appeal. So that's what we're waiting for now. So in a couple of weeks time, we'll find out whether they do actually have to pay the fine. And then by that time, I think things will start to happen. We are really hoping that the price of life ironing will reduce even further. It has reduced. Bless you. It has already reduced. A few a couple of years ago, the price was about £248 for a 28 kill tablet packet. Now it's down to £92.51 at the moment. And we are hoping, especially if they are definitely find that the price will come down even further and that CCGs will start allowing life ironing to be prescribed more often. So this is one of the reasons I'm really interested to see what the answer is to Lord Hunt's question to Hermesy's government that are they going to take it off of a high price medicine? So we'll have to wait and see what happens there. Thyroid UK will soon be putting together a T3 info pack, which will include the nice guidance and the RNOC guidance. Plus we have some letters, an email from the chair of NHS Clinical Commissioning and the Deputy Chief Pharmaceutical Officer of NHS England and NHS Improvement, which states we anticipate that there are likely to be exceptions where prescribing may be clinically appropriate to continue. We also have a copy of a letter from the Medicine's Policy Unit stating that NHS Clinical Commissioning have committed to recirculating the national RNOC guidance on life ironing to reinforce this with their CCG members. Thyroid UK will be following this up and sending them a letter to find out whether this has been done and if there has been any responses to do with that. So what you need to do if you want to try and access T3, the first thing you need to do is to find a doctor, a GP, an NHS GP and an NHS endocrinologist who is willing to help you. You might find out via our forum to see if other people have found a GP and an endocrinologist in your area. This can't be discussed on the boards, but it can be discussed by private message. We do have a list here of endocrinologists who we know have prescribed T3. So if you send an email to Tukagmin at thyroiduk.org, we can send you that list. The best thing you can do is to show proof that you need a trial. You need to have low FT3 levels. By low, it could be under the range or at the bottom of the range. Another option is to try and get a positive DIO2 gene polymorphism result. So there are testing companies that do the DIO2 gene test, although one of them, there's a huge backlog, so they've stopped doing them at the moment. But as soon as they come on board, which I think is going to be in November, if you can possibly afford to get it done, you would need to get it done privately because the NHS don't do it, I'm afraid. Another thing that you might come across as a barrier is that your GP may not want to prescribe T3. If your endocrinologist wants to prescribe it for you as a trial, he can do that with a prescription from the hospital. After the trial, he then needs to move it over to your GP. And for this, you need what's called a shared care agreement. Now, we have come across people who have managed to get a shared care agreement between the endo and the GP, but we've also come across GPs who don't want to do it because once that happens, it means the GP then has to bear the cost of the T3. Now, because the price has come down, you could use this, and it may encourage them to take part in the shared care agreement. Hopefully, the price will come down further. It used to be much, much cheaper. I think it was something like £9 a pack or something. I can't exactly remember, but hopefully it will come down a little bit more, and this might make people, might encourage the medics to prescribe it. We know that you shouldn't have to fight so hard for this medication, but it will make a huge difference to a lot of people. So we do encourage you to start fighting. Start writing letters. Don't just do it verbally because once it's in writing, it might make more of a difference. Fyrode UK and the other charities, the other Fyrode charities are still campaigning for you, and we will continue to campaign until this matter is sorted. So we need your help to continue campaigning. We do need more money to, as I said before, we need a new office so that we can employ someone else to help us with the campaigning. And by doing this, it will help us continue what we call our vital work to help people with thyroid disease. So you can help us by donating. There will be details of how to do this at the end of the webinar, but please donate if you can. Even £1 would help. If you found this webinar helpful, then please consider making a donation of £3, which you can do easily by texting TAW to 70085 or by clicking the donate button that's at the top right hand corner of our homepage. Don't forget to join in our Winging It campaign to promote thyroid awareness week and butterfly day if you can. So if anyone has any questions, then I can perhaps answer some of them. So I'll just stop the share for the time being. So if anyone does have any questions, I'll try and answer them for you. Let me just go to the chat. Okay. In terms of levels to T3, what should we be looking for in blood test results? I've read somewhere that even if your results show that you are on the top of the range, as always with thyroid hormones, it's what is optimal for you. Yes, I do agree that what is optimal for you. The problem is if you have a T3 level that is near the top of the range, I doubt very much if you'll get T3 on the NHS because they will consider that that is optimal and you don't need it anymore. But yes, some people need higher levels as in all the thyroid hormone levels. Some people are better at the bottom and some people are better at the top depending on which test it is. So I'm currently trialling T3 but through private endo after having been on T4 only for one year. I'm talking TSH and T4 all the 21 but still having symptoms. Additionally, T3 makes a big difference already for me. We do find this. Some people only need 10 micrograms of T3 and it will make a huge difference. Some people need 20. Some people need a lot more though, I must say. Some people feel better on NDT. With NDT, there's more T3 than a human. So you would end up probably having more T3 and perhaps an NHS doctor would prescribe. But we do suggest constantly testing so that you can find out where your normal is, where you feel better. I'm still prescribed T3 but find there's little knowledge by doctors. Yeah, definitely. It does cause suppressed TSH and this is a worry for doctors because they think it will affect your heart. But if they worry about that, I would suggest asking them to do a heart trace just to confirm that your heart is fine. It would be a good idea. Also, they suggest that it causes osteoporosis. I would suggest again that you ask them to do a bone scan just to confirm that you don't have osteoporosis from being on T3. Okay, my passion motos. Oh wow, you have a lot of issues. She's on 75 to 100 micrograms to leave though. It's a huge overlap with my symptoms. Yeah. Currently, because numbers are normal. It's very difficult if you have more than one autoimmune disease or other diseases as well as viral disease. Sometimes it's really difficult to work out which symptoms go with which disease, unfortunately. With B12 deficiency, the symptoms are even closer. All I can suggest really, and I'm not a medic, is just to try one thing at a time and see what helps. It's probably better when you have a lot of different diseases to try and find a medic that would be willing to help you a little bit closer than you can get on the NHS. I was told by my endocrinologist, Leavoth-Roxyn, is the treatment. I'm in Scotland, yet someone in a support group 12 miles away from me gets it prescribed. Other people had to fund it themselves. It varies so much up here. I do not understand why. You're talking about Leavoth-Roxyn, or you're talking about T3. I mean, we know there is a postcode lottery all across the UK, and this is something that is not supposed to happen, and it's something that we really have tried to campaign about. But the price hike of T3 really got in the way of that, and then so did COVID. So these are things that we will be looking at in the future. Ah yes, so you did mean Lys ironing. I mean, you should really be able to get a trial. But as I said before, get some T3 testing done, try and get the DIO2 test done and see if that helps. Can NHS not source T3 from other companies? This is something I'm often asked, and unfortunately, I mean, if you've got a really good and understanding doctor, he could put the name, he could put Henning on the prescription, and then you could find a pharmacy that will access that one for you. We do have a list of pharmacies, both wholesale pharmacies and non-wholesale. Some of those can get it on the NHS if it's marked on the prescription. If you can get a private prescription, some doctors will give a private prescription, then you can access the Henning from UK wholesale pharmacies, we'll get it in for you. And the price is much cheaper than the UK. It works out, I think, about £40 to £50 for three months supply. So for a lot of people, that is doable. I was also diagnosed, but I'm not sure, trigger symptoms, okay. The endo team at my local hospital don't accept DIO2 test results. That's unfortunate. I've not had that before. Generally, they do accept. I don't know what to say about that really, because you might change your endo, but if it's the team that aren't doing it, perhaps just start writing some letters, go to your local pals and see if you can get something done like that. I know it's difficult fighting sometimes if you're not that kind of person, but perhaps try taking, I know this sounds a bit sexist, but we have found if you take a man in with you to an appointment, sometimes it works a bit better. They'll listen a bit more. I know it shouldn't be like that, but it is. If you still have your thyroid intact in order to apply for T3, do you have to show that you've tried all the nutritional methods and reduced your stress levels in order to make sure they are not the reasons for the lack of conversion? We always suggest that people try other things first. Check your selenium levels or try taking selenium to see if that helps. Try all the other nutritional things and get a good multivitamin and mineral tablet. Try and see if that works. Reduce your stress. Definitely try these other things. For some people, that will work. To be honest, a lot of doctors, when you go to see them, they wouldn't even think about the nutritional side of things, nor endocrinologists, but do bring it up because the more that they understand about that, the better. Do I have to ask my GP for a shared care agreement or does my NHS with private endocrinologists ask for it to be set up after my trial? In my experience, a shared care agreement isn't always asked for. To see what happens, if your endo writes to your NHS GP and he's willing to prescribe it, don't mention a shared care agreement because it will just be another barrier against getting it. But if you hit a barrier with that, then you might need to start fighting to try and get a shared care agreement in place. The texting tool doesn't work. It's funny, for some people, it works fine, but for a few people, it doesn't work. If you're finding it doesn't work, then please just go to the donate button at the top of our homepage and donate the £3 that way. So, yes, I take 10 micrograms in addition to 40 to 45 a blevo and this seems beneficial so far. Everybody is so, so different. I'm a bit confused as to whether I have Hashimoto's or not. A few metologists have pointed out, I had last year, said that I had autoimmune hypothalatism, as I already had had connoisseurs' anemia, which is also an autoimmune disease. I have high TPO antibodies, so is that Hashimoto's? It seems that only 90 to 97% of autoimmune hypoethyroidism is Hashimoto's. What is the definition for Hash's? If you have the TPO antibodies, especially if they're very high, it's probably Hashimoto's. Hashimoto's is the cause of about 90 to 95% of thyroid disease. I would say you do have Hashimoto's if you've got TPO antibodies. Often, once you go on to thyroid medication, sometimes blevo works well, the antibodies will come down. As far as I'm aware, the more of your thyroid that is destroyed, the antibodies will come down, but not for everybody. Sometimes people always have antibodies and you can have flare-ups, they can go down and then you can have Hashimoto's flare-ups, which I think can often be linked to stress, so the less stress you have, the better. I've been told to have my TPO at the weekend, because on TSH being below the range and retesting three months. Okay, some people can take T4 every day, some people take it alternative days, some people have been told to only take it at the weekend. What I will say is it can reduce your TSH, but if you're not having symptoms of overactivity, so if you're not feeling hot all the time, having tremors, things like that, then you're probably not actually on too much. What I would suggest is if you just always take your TSH, always have your testing at the same time of day, because that can change up and down. A lot of people don't take their medication before their test, because that can give a spike in T4 and possibly then lower your TSH. As I say, I'm not a medic, I just go on my own experience and experiences of others that I've heard. Okay, wow, lots of questions still. Any particular fillers in synthetic meds that tend to cause problems? I don't think I get on with Manitope, for example, and definitely didn't retain for T4. The only experience is there ever any chance of getting tyrosine prescribed on the NHS. Okay, we do know that Manitope is causing issues for a lot of people. There was a huge problem in France with it and they managed to overturn it with a huge campaign they had over there. This is a campaign that we do want to do, but as I've said before, we need more staff. We can only deal with one campaign at a time. I do know that other people have had issues.  with other things that go into the tablets. On our list of medications that we have, medication list for hyper and a medication list for hyper, we do know that there are some other thyroid tablets with various different excipients, and there are some with hardly any at all, but for those ones, they are more expensive and you would need to get it prescribed by your GP. I do know that some people have managed to get tyrosine prescribed on the NHS, but they would need to ask their GP to write it on the prescription as a particular brand. OK, so, Indoor London. After the expense of a local team, there are Cedar Centre in Guildford, hoping two other people had bad experience, so be aware if you want a second opinion, unless they have changed their tune in the last year. Tor doesn't work for me either. Thank you very much, Dor. Oh, dear. My GP told me to go for a walk for 20 minutes a day to solve all my thyroid problems. Very helpful, not. That's not very helpful, is it? I've never seen an endo. Should be seeing one. My blood's fluctuate. I mean, you can ask for an endo, but you may need to fight to get one. I mean, it was bad enough before Covid, but now Covid is here. And because of the issue of only endocrinologists being able to prescribe, obviously, their lists have got longer and longer. So what they tend to do is look at test results that the GP sends them. If you don't have a low T3, then they often won't give you an appointment, I'm afraid. I'm on 225 micrograms of liver, a day that seems a lot compared to others. Yeah, it is. It's not a hugely, hugely high dose, but it is a lot. I mean, I think the average is about 150 micrograms. Personally, I'm on NDT and I'm on three grains, which is equal to 300 of liver. Some people I know are on four or five grains. Some people I know are on 400 liver. It's very rare to find a GP that would give those high doses. So the new endo in London likes to check the peak at five hours after meds. I always used to do it in the morning before meds. But now having to do the test later in the afternoon, and I can go to the doctor six to six and a half hours. The problem is the TSH reduces quite quickly after nine o'clock and then it reduces even more in the afternoon. So if your doctor is looking at the TSH, you have to be careful because it might show low in the afternoon. A private food policy and endo was in with a five minutes increase. My levo from 125 to 150 had blood tests after three weeks and she put me back on 125. Told to eat one carb meal a day. Also had a throat scan, but all OK. Come out and move further knowledge or advice. What to do. I mean, I would definitely look at other issues just in case. Check your selenium levels if you can. So sorry. Yes, I'm interference in the background that it's difficult to hear you. I'm wondering if everybody could mute themselves if that's possible. OK. Let me just check. I thought everybody was muted. Catgirl isn't muted if you could. No, that's just. Yeah, everybody else is muted except for me. So sorry. No, it's OK. It's OK. And then thank you. Oh, sorry, let me go back to somebody called Claire Bell isn't muted. OK, I've muted her now. OK. Oh, sorry. OK, is. Sorry, let me just go back. What range is low T3? Obviously, all the tests, the levels of the test change depending on which area you live in. T3 is. It can change it somewhere between three and six or anywhere in that region. So really, just you need to know what the range is and then where your level is. So anywhere near the bottom is classed as low and the same for T4, really. It's difficult because everybody is different in my area. T4 is 12 to 22. In some areas, it's something like 17 to 19 even. So it does depend on the assays that your area is using. Only check if I only check the peak, what does it likely mean at other times? I wonder if I might show underdiagnose other times when the peak is within range. It does depend and we always suggest have it done at the same time every time so that you've got something to go by. You've got a benchmark. Is a horse throw a symptom of hypothermia? Yes, definitely. A lot of people have that as a symptom. Because. Oh, thank you, Zoe. I hope you managed to do some of the things that I've suggested. Is it best to take tablets in the morning and wait 30 minutes before eating, drinking? Definitely wait at least 30 minutes before eating and drinking. Some people find it best to take the tablets in the morning. Some people find it best to take them in the evening before they go to bed. Again, it's very individual. It's just by trial and error that you can find out. I have a private specialist in Oldham. He does not work for NHS. He's coming from Poland. So what you say he is not able to prescribe T3. If you're seeing a private specialist. He'll give you a private description. If he's registered in in the UK, then he can give you a UK prescription. But I don't know. Pre Brexit, he may be able to give you a private prescription. I am not sure you need to ask him when you see him. OK. Any advice on how if lowering hormone levels can affect dose of levoliome with stable on levoliome, but on last test, my T3 level is now slightly higher above range, which coincided with low estrogen symptoms starting. And there's definitely on same dose as we know with retest in three months. I mean, obviously, HRT isn't really my area, but I do know that estrogen, I think, you know, during the talks, estrogen can cause an issue. But what I'll do is I'll ask the speaker that spoke about hormones, that question. And I'll get her to respond. Boots recently changed manufacturer. I think you'll probably find. So this is Dawn, boots recently changed manufacturer supply in my lead, though, and I noticed a deterioration in my health. Can you tell me where to find the details on your site of the best one without the mandatory please? And I will ask my pharmacist to order in. If you can send me an email to enquiries at thyroid UK.org, then I can send it to you. What I will do, though, everybody that attended, all the attendees will get an email on Monday with a copy, a link to the recording. And I will put that in the email. I put some of the things I've talked to people about in the email. Links for them. I've heard it's OK to take tea with food, contrary to tea for your experience. The problem is there was some research about to for and food and coffee and calcium. But I don't think there's been any actual research about this, not that I'm aware of. So we're just assuming the same will happen. So it's probably best to take it without food. I know that's difficult if you take some in the morning and some in the afternoon. All I can say is just try it and see what happens. You'll soon find out if you start to notice symptoms come back. What about having it around other meds and supplements? Again, we know that T4, you shouldn't be taking it with iron, coffee and calcium. It's best to leave it for hours for some of those. Two hours for others. So we usually suggest taking those things around lunchtime. Some of them you have to take the food anyway. I've only been a little over a couple of weeks and you just died. Now is I'm getting very ill to sleep because this is off. It does. I mean, two weeks actually is very little time to see improvement. It takes about eight days for Leavos-Arotson. The half-life is eight days to get into your system. So it will be possibly, I know it's bad to say. I don't want to upset you, but it can take a few months for you to actually get back to normal if your body doesn't need T3. So two weeks is really very small amount of time. It's not like taking a painkiller. It can take a few weeks for things to take effect. What you'll notice is probably is that in a couple of weeks time, you might find that you feel better one day. The next day, you don't feel so good. And then you'll have a couple of days later on that you feel good. And then you'll go back and you don't feel well for three days. This is how it often works. Whatever you do, when you have a good day, don't start doing the garden or start painting somewhere or do anything that you think, oh, good, I'm feeling great. I'm going to get this done. Don't do that because that will make things worse. You really need to wait. Don't overdo things right at the beginning, just because you feel well for a couple of days. It can put you back a bit. Is it normal to have temperature fluctuations hot and cold? You'll have to have a fan on in the night sometimes. It does seem to be for some people. Obviously, I don't know your age. It could be mixed in with menopausal symptoms. It could be that you have Hashimoto's and that can sometimes give you overactive symptoms sometimes and other times. Everybody is so different. So I can't really give a definitive answer to that, except that for some people it can be like that. Taking HRT definitely reduces the absorption as I climb to my detriment. So there are some things that you need to increase your levels of the Robson for, unfortunately, but do test first before you do anything like that. I know from the forum that changing brands can cause problems, but is it the same with Lyon? My surgery keep changing the brand, but refuse to believe that it could cause problems. I may be wrong here, but I do think that it's possible that some of the brands of T3 have Manitowin as well. So I definitely put the link to our medications for Hypo page up. And then you can check all the ingredients with all the brands of T3, Natural Thyroid Orlo and Livo. Is the Livo causing the lack of sleep? I've not heard that, but if you go on to our forum and ask a question, I'm sure people will answer that. Yes, I've had three Lyos and one works better than the others. Definitely for all of the thyroid hormone replacements. Because everybody is so different, it can make a difference, just the different ingredients. How long does it take for T3 to make a difference after starting five micrograms three to one a day? Again, everybody's so different. Some people find a notice almost immediately. I know for me, when they put me after my thyroid operation, they put me on 200 micrograms. And I had a feeling that it would be too much because I started reading up a little bit. But they said, no, no, you've got to take it all. And it was that night I took the tablets in the morning. And that night I didn't know what was going wrong. It affected me almost immediately. And that is not supposed to happen. Doctors tell you that that doesn't happen. But for some people, it does. And I don't know why. Some people obviously don't absorb things very well. So you might not get the full effect. So because everybody's different, it will be different for everybody. So if you have no thyroid to cancer, would you be classed as hypoglyph or hypo? If you have no thyroid, you would be underactive. So that's hypo because your body can't make thyroid. When you thyroid isn't there to make thyroid. Thank you, Karen, for signing up for membership. Thank you. I've read a lot of contradictory advice about foods. One is not to eat kale and Brussels sprouts. I've changed from soymilk to oatmeal. Hope that's OK. We'll get in touch with Alice. As Alice said, goitrogens can cause a problem if you eat a lot raw. But as long as you cook them and you don't eat absolutely loads and loads, you should be OK. Things have changed a little bit about that. Obviously overcooked cabbage isn't very nice, but just cook it normally. Don't have it too undercooked, and I think you'll be fine. Soymilk. I mean, there is some research that shows that soya can affect. But I think it's if you have a lot of soymilk. I think if you just have a little bit, it might be OK. But again, everyone's different. And probably oatmeal might be better for some people. I think that's all the questions there. So. If you have enjoyed this, then do please donate. Thank you so much for coming. I will be apologising most profusely for those that couldn't get in. But I will be it has been recorded. So we will be recording this and sending the link to everybody so that you can watch it again or watch different parts of it again. We'll be editing it, taking out the non important bits. So the next slide, I'll just share the screen again. And the next slide. We'll have everything that you need on it. So you can see that there's a campaign page, the online community, Medi checks. Don't forget that they're. Donating £2 for each test thyroid test ordered during thyroid awareness week. Our YouTube channel, the videos will start going on there on Monday. Any questions and speakers sent to enquiries at thyroid UK.org. Also for copies of the nice guidance and the remark guidance right to tuck admin at thyroid UK.org and to donate text tour to you to seven double eight five. If that doesn't work and I don't know why it's not working, please go to PayPal to donate. So again, thank you so much for coming. Thank you so much to all the speakers. Thank you, Caroline. Just, yeah, I'm glad that you managed to get in as well. I hope that everybody has something to take away from all of that and that it helps. But you know where we are. Try and join in with all the activities that we're doing. Let's try and get thyroid disease out there as much as diabetes is a heart disease, because it does cause a lot of problems for a lot of people. Makes people very unhappy and they can't do the normal day to day thing. So do try and join in with all the activities. So thank you very much and I'll see you again soon.

=== FILE: Thyroid UK Webinar featuring Nigel Abraham [rS8q_SwfIkg].txt ===

 ect. Excellent. Thank you very much, Lynn, and good morning to everybody. This lecture is very much about adrenal function and how adrenal function can impact thyroid function. And because of that, I have made the assumption that most of you, which I know the members often are, are fully aware of thyroid hormones and what testing of those and how they interact with each other. I will obviously reference them, but I won't go into a great deal of detail about how thyroid works so much as how neutrinals impact thyroid function. So, in the first instance, I'll get this to a kick, the adrenal glands and the thyroid glands are definitely connected to a point. They're both glands that produce hormones and are part of their endocrine system, and they share a connection. They both have a pathway which starts in the hypothalamus, which then goes via the pituitary, and then ultimately to release of hormones. The hormones' signals of the adrenals release cortisol, which is often referred to as our stress hormone, and of course, our thyroid hormones are released via the appropriate signal. So, what we will refer to a lot going forward is going to be the HPA axis, which is our hypothalamus pituitary adrenal axis, and it's equivalent in the thyroid, which is the hypothalamus pituitary thyroid axis. So, for my own sanity and everybody else's, we will refer to this HPA and HPT going forward. To be honest, most clinicians know that there is a complex relationship between the stress response controlled by our HPA axis and thyroid functions. Both the adrenal and the thyroid glands share this similar signaling pathway, and they are tasked with managing energy. So, it's not surprising that there is a relationship between these two axes. Since thyroid hormone is needed for normal development and regulating metabolism in the adult, some people suggest that where there are issues with the HPT axis, it may be as part of a down regulation during a stress response to conserve energy. So, in this webinar, we will look at how the HPA axis influences the HPT axis and therefore thyroid function. Corsair, as we said, is our stress hormone. It's released by the adrenal glands in high amounts when there's a dangerous situation at hand. If the danger is a predator, for example, cortisol helps us to fight or run away our fight and flight response. This is a very old response, and in general terms, modern humans and what we're exposed to in terms of modern day stresses, this system was never really designed for. So, it's not surprising that with all of the modern day stresses, our adrenals often struggle to cope properly. But cortisol, of course, is released as part of our normal function, and what we see is what's called a diurnal cycle. So, we see at the highest levels of cortisol, first thing in the morning, it's part of our response to get up out of bed and get going, and then throughout the day, it starts dropping down, and ultimately, we should have very low levels just prior to sleeping. Functions, of course, are numerous, but the main ones are, it is actually an immune suppressant, and as I'm sure many of us are aware when you are given steroids or cortical steroids as a medicine, that's usually to dampen down some part of the immune response. It maintains blood pressure and increases blood glucose to give us energy. Again, it's part of that fight and fight response, and increasing fat breakdown and fat storage. So, all of that is designed for that short-term getaway from danger. It was never designed to be constantly triggered, which is what we see in modern day stresses. So, the activation of the HPT-axis in certain stresses appears to reduce the HPT activation, but it's often in a rather unpredictable and contradictory manner. We will see later that sometimes it can make increased thyroid hormones, sometimes it can suppress thyroid hormones. What I know from research, and I have slides on other presentations to show this, is that we can show stress profiles in certain conditions. For example, PSD and in depression have very characteristic stress profiles, and we know that many of these conditions are also reported to have complex associations with thyroid function also. So, the published research is limited, but evidence shows that therapies and practices that balance and improve our adrenal function can at least indirectly benefit thyroid function as well. So, here we will describe some of those relationships and have a look at the mechanisms of how that can be. So, to do that, we're going to need to review some of the background science of all this. One of the key concepts of stress is that the adrenal glands themselves are the glands that under stress, but they're the first glands to fail under stressful conditions. So, they are the primary glands that deal with stress, but because of the way modern stress happens, they're often the first wings to start showing fall function. And the other thing to remember is that when we look at all of the symptoms and results of stress, most of that is related to excessive stress responses, not necessarily the stressor itself. So, just to review how all of this works, the HPA axis, as we said, starts in the higher regions of the brain, and the hypothalamus will release CRH hormone as well as AVP, but we're talking about CRH in this instance, which both make their way to the anterior apaturitrate. And once there, CRH will stimulate ACTH, which will enter the bloodstream and ultimately cause the adrenal cortex to manufacture our cortisol hormone, but also another hormone called DHEA, which we'll talk a little bit about later. In common with all these pathways, there is an effective feedback, but in the first instance, cortisol, as we've said, is mainly around mobilizing glucose and providing energy. The cellular actions also principally aid through genomic actions, actually, in the release of ACTH causes changes in the way our genes work, which then causes changes to our metabolism. And as we said, there is a second hormone, which is DHEA, which we also measure in our stress profiling, because this goes along with cortisol. It sort of counterbalances cortisol, and in a healthy function, in adrenal function, those two hormones should be in balance, where there's excess of one over the other that often leads to problems in itself. So we have this feedback layer, so that once cortisol has been released, it is detected, and this then causes a down regulation in the HPA axis via the hypothalamus to now reduce cortisol production. So we should see a nice predictable release of cortisol in an optimal way, where this whole system is functioning properly. And most of the stress responses that we are measuring are related to dysfunctions in this feedback mechanism. If the feedback mechanism can often lead to extended activation, i.e., no resolution of the stress problem, so we're producing an over-producing lots of cortisol, or ultimately, when this goes on for too long, it can often go the other way. And now we see feedback which limits the stress response and starts reducing cortisol production. So our HPT axis is very similar to the HP axis, in that again, it begins at the hypothalamus, this time releasing TRH, which is stimulating, interesting is that that response is stimulated by things like food intake, cold stress, and leptins, which we'll talk a little bit later on. And TRH is transported to the pituitary where it stimulates TSH, and TSH release, which again is under saccharine regulation, and I think a lot of medics that understand that daily levels of TSH do vary, and that that needs to be taken into account when doing testing. And TSH will bind to the TSH receptor in the thyroid, which stimulates the production of our thyroid hormones. So here, I'm hoping you're all familiar with this part, but as we know, there are several different thyroid hormones, and they're differentiated by the number of iodine molecules and where those iodine molecules are attached. T4 is primary hormone, and T3 is the second primary hormone, both of which in circulation. T4 is described as being relatively inactive in comparison to T3, but it makes up about 80% of our hormone secretion from the thyroid gland, whereas active T3 makes up about 20%. Both are bound to carrier proteins, such as thyroxine, bilidgoblin, and this is important because whenever we're looking at hormones, whenever they are circulating on carrier proteins, and the same is true of cortisol, they're in an inactive form. That's our transport system, and the bilid proteins have to be removed before the hormone becomes active. So the amount of active hormone in this case is probably less than 1%. And when we're looking at cortisol, this becomes really important, and the total cortisol levels from blood sampling is often gives us a very inaccurate measure of the amount of free cortisol, which is that important point. The difference here is that blood tests have good free hormone measurements, so you'll be familiar with 3T4 and 3T3. So we have good blood tests to do that. There are no equivalent blood tests for measuring cortisol. The only way we can measure blood tests free cortisol is with very complex technology, but the answer to that problem, as we'll see in the end, is to measure saliva. So conversion of T4 to T3, as we know, is accomplished by a series of DiDNAs enzymes, and these are expressed not only in the thyroid, but most importantly, they're also expressed in different body tissues, and they're expressed in different amounts in different tissues. So most T3 is produced in the peripheral tissues from the conversion from T4. And as I'm sure many of you are aware, that most medics still don't understand this concept, and a medical school has still taught that the TSH stimulates thyroid to produce T3 and T4, but you still don't get the most important bit, which is that T3, the most active hormone. Most of that is going on outside of the thyroid. T4 T3 regulates the synthesis of TRH and TSH in one of these negative feedback mechanisms again. In addition to the negative feedback, there is also a more central regulation of the HPT axis, and this is where things like nutritional signals, leptins, peptides can also come into regulating the amount of activation of the HPT pathway, both hyperfamers and in local tissues. Regulation is controlled by nutrient status of the cell, for example, which can alter thyroid hormone signaling activity again by modifying things outside of our DNA and genetics. The expression of different types and amounts of these DIVA enzymes greatly affects how much thyroid hormone activity, how much we have of those most important active thyroid components. There is also this second mechanism, but again, I believe most of you will be aware of, is that we can convert T3 to a form of reverse T3, which is a very inactive form of T3, and where this happens in excess, it's going to be at the expense of our active thyroid hormones. People talk about this as being a negative regulator of thyroid activity. Some people describe it as either inactive or inhibitory hormone. It would be wrong to describe it completely as inactive because it does have activity, it's just very low compared to our main hormones. If you believe that why we have this function is a sort of protective mechanism, perhaps it's a way of mopping up excess T3, which in its active form is a very active and potentially damaging hormone. So what is the connection between our adrenal axis and our thyroid axis? Well, the mechanism of the adrenal activation influences thyroid functions has been explored for many decades. It's not actually you. I know it's often not recognised by the Ministry of Medicine, but it is not a new concept. So I noticed from the literature back in 1997, Han Saley Memorial Lecture, Han Saley was one of the pioneers at looking at our stress responses and how we adapt to stress responses. And at the 1997 lecture, it was presented that the activation of our stress response axis is generally associated with a decreased thyroid hormone status. So we have decreased TSH and inhibition of that peripheral conversion to T4 to T3. So in general terms, when we're under severe stress, at least or ongoing stress, this tends to lead to a down regulation of our thyroid hormone production. The underlying mechanisms contributing to this are multiple in that this seems to happen at different parts of those pathways. We know that CRH, for example, will downregulate TSH production. We have a direct influence by ACTH on TSH, direct influence of cortisol on TSH, and this influence on the conversion of T4 to T3. It's even ACTH in cortisol will both cause activation of the D3D ionized enzyme to create more reverse T3. So the influence of the stress pathway on our thyroid pathway is at multiple different levels. One thing to mention at this is what we call inflammatory stress. So in stressful conditions, we often get the release of inflammatory cytokines, which is associated with activation of hyperphytosperituritary and adrenal axis. So these inflammatory cytokines may also affect thyroid function at the level of the central nervous system at least. So we have a link here that both stress and thyroid function are affected by situations where we have a high level of inflammation. So in a human clinical study, for example, where they sort of deliberately induced inflammation by giving an injection of gamma interferon in otherwise healthy people, we saw a decrease in plasma TSH and plasma T3 concentrations. So there is some experimental evidence to confirm that. And of course, there was also an increase in our inactive reverse T3 was found as well. Then as the more physical traumas, for example, surgery has often been shown to affect our thyroid axis. Surgery induces a hypermetabolic state characterized by increased cortisol also. And studies have shown that levels of TSH decrease, T3 decreases, reverse T3 increases. Whereas levels of T4 tend to remain fairly stable with our increased release of cortisol. So perhaps this is an example of post trauma such as surgery where the thyroid hormones have changed. The one that doesn't seem to change too much is T4. So it's an example of where that might not necessarily be the best measure of what's going on in our thyroid. High cortisol levels don't always mean low hormone levels. But generally speaking, there is a strong connection. So in their observational study, where they looked at the relationship between cortisol and TSH, they found that the result showed that a positive correlation between cortisol and TSH levels, meaning that elevated cortisol levels were correlated with elevated TSH levels. Then we have perceived stress. Remember that when stress is concerned, it can be physical, in obvious things like trauma, following surgery. But most of the stress that we're dealing with in testing is more perceived stress. If your mind or the brain believe that something is going to cause harm, then no stress responses will be triggered, even if it's not physically going to do so. So activation of stress pathways by these groups have also been linked with thyroid status. So again, when we're looking at a study on hyperthyroid women, for example, increased TSH levels was a general indicator of hyperthyroidism were found to positively correlate with higher levels of perceived stress. And interestingly, also subjects with hyperthyroidism had higher BMI, and they had these high stress scores indicating that they were under stress at the time, TSH levels, and lower levels of 3 to 4. Here's another experiment which they often do, psychiatric studies on students where they expose them to various stresses. In this one, it was medical students who were having important exams coming up, and they found that the thyroid axis before and after exams changed, and that the response was actually slightly different between genders. Other studies have shown similar relationships between levels of perceived stress and hyperthyroid biomarkers, particularly TSH. The one that doesn't is when we're looking at subjects which are described as having burnout. This is again an adrenal stress situation where they are showing emotional exhaustion and largely an inability to cope with stresses. These people didn't really show much of a change to thyroid hormone stages, but that's because this condition is the opposite of what we've been talking about so far. This is the end result and of adrenal axis failure where we're no longer producing free cortisol that we need. So this is a kind of opposite scenario. Autoimmune thyroid. The link between stress and autoimmune thyroid conditions appears to be limited mostly to hyperthyroid conditions. There is a link between uncontrolled stress and autoimmune conditions generally, and thyroid is no exception to that. But overall studies trying to link stress to hypothyroidism, particularly Hashimoto's, has been difficult to show an association. It may be because the course of this condition is very long term and goes through different stages, but there is definite published evidence linking Graves disease, for example, with posterior stress, where it is commonly cited that severe emotional crises or disturbances occur just prior to the onset of Graves disease. For example, in one study looking at Graves disease reported having more challenging life events, both negative and positive compared to controlled subjects. Nonetheless, the exact mechanism linking stress and Graves disease is not really that fully understood. And not all studies have necessarily shown that direct link. Metabolic stress and thyroid function. This is a bit more interesting in some ways. Thyro-Hormone status and body competition appears to be closely related. We've already mentioned in some of the previous slides that obesity has an effect on our thyroid hormone measurements. Thyro-Hormone is involved in regulation of metabolism, lipid and glucose metabolism, thermogenesis, food intake and Fox fat oxidation. So therefore, our thyroid access often in concert with our adrenal access acts to adapt both to under and over nutrition. When calories are limited, for example, the thyroid access is downregulated and an attempt to preserve available energy. Obesity and my thyroid dysfunction are common conditions and frequently coexist. Thyro-Hormones are present typically in obese adult subjects as high TSH and low to normal 3-T4 and a high to normal level of 3-T3. One study found that circulating TSH levels were higher and 3-T3 levels were higher in the obesity-competitive lean controls. The bit that struck me in looking at that data was just how much higher and suggested that TSH levels were 100% percent higher than in normal controls. That's going to have a profound effect on TSH levels in terms of measurement for blood tests as with our 3-T3 levels. Population studies suggest that higher levels of T3 often see their big subjects, maybe a result of some kind of resetting of the thyroid set point in that the thyroid is now establishing a new level of what it thinks they should be. There are a few other proposed mechanisms to explain the relationship between obesity and hormone production. However, the mechanisms are still not fully understood. One proposal is back to our denies and enzymes again where we're showing that this in obesity can lead to higher conversion of T4 to T3. It may be an adaptive mechanism for increasing energy expenditures due to increased fat mass. Another proposed mechanism suggests that obesity is associated with state of thyroid hormone resistance so that the receptors as we see here are not reacting to the thyroid hormones in a way that they would have done other ways. We know for example that the TSH receptors can be reduced as much as 6 to 7% in obese subjects compared to normal subjects. This is adaptive in that these receptors change their expression. For example, following gastric bypass where the subjects significantly improved their fat mass would see a significant increase in the presence of these receptors. BMI decreased by 33% and this was correlated with a decreased level of TSH and 3T3. Another proposed mechanism suggests hormone leptin interacts with thyroid hormone metabolism. This is a strange one. Leptin is a hormone produced by our adipocyte. It is also involved in the regulation of body weight through hypothalamic signalling resulting in increased thermogenesis and decreased appetite. Leptin levels increase as body fat increases. So in addition to our normal thyroid and adrenal hormone responses to starvation, leptin levels are also affected by under nutrition as levels of leptin decrease. At this point I thought I'd present a case that is not a new case. I've had it for some time but I think it highlights just how these two things go together. It is quite an extreme case but often that's the best way to make a point. So some time ago I've been doing thyroid testing in particular. I came across a case of a 41 year old female. She had a very extreme history of psychiatric induced stress. She had a history of depression. She had some suicidal tendencies. She certainly suffered from anorexia and probably had bulimia as well. She was needless to say extremely thin and underweight and she had severe symptoms of IBS and gastric symptoms. She had become as part of her many psychiatric issues, she became obsessed with detox and she had taken statements from the internet where we had to detox is vitally important and I think there's even a book called detox on die out there and she took it really quite literally and apparently at one point she was having coffee enema eight times a day for over three years. So with that extreme symptoms it was I think it's helpful to see well how does that affect typical thyroid results and it also highlights the problem with thyroid testing which I know you is a big part of thyroid UK education program. So what we can see here first of all is that the TSH was 2.5. Now typical hospital values would regard that as normal as I'm sure many of you know. In terms of a functional assessment or how we're trying to educate conditions 2.5 is pretty much at the high end of what  we would regard, recall, normal. So its flag has been yellow here. Similarly, free T3 was slightly low, but again, would have been regarded as normal. And crucially, the reverse T3 is higher than is considered to be normal. So at this point, it highlights that the GP, for example, is classifying this lady as not having a thyroid issue. The functional medicine approach would be saying, well, there's definitely evidence of suppression there and a sort of underactive thyroid. So when we looked at our stress profiling, it kind of wasn't a surprise that it was not exactly normal. She had what's called an elevated car response, which is the first morning response. On an ALTES, that's the first three samples that we've taken. And this is regarded as the most sensitive measure of a severe stress response. She had all three levels way above what they should be. And this type of response is associated with depression, which we know is one of her many problems. And it's regarded as a first stage of the long-term stress response. She would have had a very high levels for a long time. And what we're now beginning to see, which is when we looked at the DHEA, that that system is beginning to fail. So this is long-term severe stress. And she has elevated cortisol inhibition of T4 to T3 conversion, as measured by our reverse T3. So the other thing we looked at part of the stress profiling would be her DHEA levels. Remember, we said that DHEA is sort of counterbalances cortisol. So ideally in this case, where she has very high levels of cortisol, she should have high levels of DHEA. In fact, she had the opposite. She had low levels of DHEA, which means that when we look at the ratio of cortisol to DHEA, it's all cortisol and very little DHEA. So this again is a bad stress response. And it's an indicator of poor HPA adaptation, which is an indicator that her stress system is now beginning to fail. So that's an extreme case, but it does show the link between those two things. At this point, I just want to introduce a study I came across a few years ago, which is looking at the relationship between clinical diagnosis and lab testing, which again, I know many of you will be very familiar with, but the value of clinical diagnosis of thyroid dysfunction is often limited. And clinical manifestations of disease very considerably. So, you know, you have this idea of your made students have been looked up that chapter from whatever book they're looking at says, thyroid disease manifest as A, B, C. Needless to say, with most conditions, I guess it does sometimes, but it also manifests as D, E, and F quite frequently as well. And look, everybody with a similar adrenal problem doesn't necessarily have the same symptoms. So physicians in general do tend to rule out thyroid dysfunction much more frequently in their established diagnosis of thyroid disorder. But this is the study I came across, which I think highlights this, because this is a published work. This isn't just people's opinion. And what I did is they took three eminent endocrinologists and asked them to assess the thyroid diagnosis and treatment options for 55 patients who had suspected thyroid disease. So they were given the medical notes and they were able to do a full physical exam. But the interesting and most significant point is, is that all three of these endocrinologists changed their minds and altered their clinical opinion in one third of those cases when they were presented with the blood test. So without the blood test, they made one diagnosis, once they were given the blood test results, they changed that diagnosis. So an agreement on thyroid dysfunction was almost perfect when the results of the blood test were known compared to trying to do a proper clinical evaluation without them. So I'm a career, a laboratory scientist. So yes, of course I'm going to say how important laboratory testing is, but this is an example where a clinician to get the right answer does have to order up the right test and also be able to evaluate those test results correctly, which is also a problem. So if only patients with nearly suggestive symptoms of thyroid dysfunction are evaluated, then many patients with thyroid disorders will remain undiagnosed. I suspect a lot of members of the thyroid UK will be saying, yes, tell us about that. And it's imperative improvement routine laboratory screening to identify such patients so that the appropriate treatment for thyroid disorders can be instigated. But maybe we should also be including adrenal function, because if we do correctly diagnose and we have got the right test and we have a vision of what we want to do to fix that, there is strong evidence that we need to also make sure our adrenals are functioning properly to make that happen. So we've talked about adrenal function, I've talked about course soul and the HLA, I need to talk a little bit now about how we actually assess that. So I've mentioned that we do our testing using saliva and there are very good reasons why we use saliva rather than blood tests. And mainly it's to do with this free fraction. The stick with cortisol is carried around the body, bound to carrier proteins, and it's about 95% inactive and bound to those proteins. We're interested in only that two or three percent of the cortisol reduction is actually active, because the 95% does nothing. So if you do a blood test that says, well your cortisol seems to be perfectly normal, that gives us no information about that free component. And what we see time and time again is normal blood test results with abnormal saliva results because we're measuring that very sensitive free component. Remember, we don't have the luxury of having free blood tests. Saliva is really the only way to measure that free fraction. The assay needs to be incredibly sensitive, but what we do have now is diagnostic semitips that are manufactured specifically for the measurement of these hormones from saliva. I guess I should mention at this point, because it's not on the slides, is that if you make a case for saliva testing and it's very convenient, you don't have to have blood tests, you can do it at your own home and collect your ingenuity, people are probably saying, why can't we have thyroid tests done by saliva? Fortunately, the answer to that is that they don't work. Thorough hormones are conjugated differently, which means if you try to measure, they do exist in saliva, that the levels are incredibly variable. If you try to measure THH, it goes up and down hour by hour, if not minute by minute. So it would be nice, it would be a wonderful thing, but it just doesn't work that way, unfortunately. But I've been testing saliva samples now for many, many years, and many of our presentations used to have to start off with convincing evidence that you could measure such things as cortisol from saliva. There was a lot of doctors who would use the phrase, you can't measure hormones from saliva. So I used to have to present all these studies saying, well, not all hormones, but in this case, of course, so you absolutely can. I would say now, we've gone full circle, and now it is actually the sample of choice for certainly assessing stress function, but also other conditions as well. It's a reliable marker from this free serum cortisol, which is, we said, is very difficult to measure. So measuring saliva is a much more simple and easy way to get that information. Sliver reservoirs are not affected by a saliva refrow rate, because one thing people say, well, if you're collecting saliva, what if you're somebody who makes lots of saliva, or somebody has a very dry mouth, and actually even struggles to make saliva? Surely that would affect the hormones you're trying to measure. I can show the studies that prove that it doesn't, but it's the way cortisol gets into saliva is not affected by saliva flow rate. And as I said, from a full circle perspective, and very elevated midnight cortisol, the cortisol now is now the main diagnostic tester in a hospital environment for diagnosing Cushing syndrome, which is characterized by very uncontrolled levels of high levels of cortisol. This slide is meant to just talk about sampling techniques. If you are going to be having, or want to have a general testing, and we are not the only laboratory that does that, so there are plenty of people that can provide that for you, the actual sampling method is very important. There are lots of saliva-collection devices with indicators on them, and things that you can chew on, and pads to collect the saliva, which generally speaking work with cortisol, but they do not work with DHA, which is an important part of the testing. The only way you can get a reliable result for a lot of saliva hormones is what's called passive drool. It's literally just dribbling saliva into the right type of plastic tube. This is an example of study that shows just how affected the results are if you use the wrong type of plastic tube. At this point, forgive me if I do a little bit of the sales pitch, which is about our adrenal stress profile and why it differs from other ones out there. As we said, saliva tests are not new, they've been available for 20 years, but in many cases, lives have fallen into the foul of using, originally using kits that were intended to do blood tests and modifying them to do saliva tests. They weren't very good, they weren't very accurate or sensitive, and the reference ranges were often not of sufficient quality. These days, as I said, we have CE marked diagnostic kits specifically for the use of measuring from saliva, but to do that, when we introduced this test a few years ago, we had to really update those reference ranges. We worked with the manufacturer to do 200 tests for cell samples, looking at the exact normal ranges for cortisol at all those different time points. Remember, cortisol is highest in the morning and lowest at night, so you have to have a specific reference range for that specific time point. The other thing about all diagnostic kits is that the regulations demand quite rightly the results that you're getting are traceable to a recognised standard. The gold standard for measuring cortisol is chromatography, LC-MS-MS, and what you can show is that the standards we use in the test to determine the levels are traceable and calibrated to those recognised gold standards. So, at the time, nearly established, it's been a few years now, but we established current recognisable reference ranges which agrees with the more recent literature. The other thing is traditional saliva tests of this nature utilise four saliva samples. So, it's usually one sample taken in the morning, one midday, one in the early evening, and one just before sleep. More recent studies, and I've done a lot of work on this myself previously, say that that doesn't work because the first morning response, if you remember, is the cortisol awakening response, or car, is the most important part of these measurements. So, when you first open your eyes in the morning, the levels of cortisol are already beginning to rise. So, what we do is we get people to take their very first sample as soon as they wake up in the morning, which gives us our baseline. The next sample is taken 30 minutes later, and then the third sample, one hour later. So, we have three samples that are all intended to find us, to analyse that first morning response and find where the peak is. And by doing that, we get a much more reliable indicator of whether that morning response is low, normal, or high, which completely dictates the stress evaluation and diagnosis. So, to make that happen, we introduce a five sample test point by putting the three of them in that important first morning response. Quite simply, if you do the traditional four test version, and I have to confess and own up, look, I didn't do that for many years, it's not, depending on when the person takes that first sample, can be either too low or too high and change the interpretation of the response. Using three samples makes sure we do not miss that. We try to make it understandable. So, we have graphs to show you where your results are, compared with normal. So, this is the breakdown of the first morning response with arrows saying whether it's high or low, and the reference ranges of why we are saying that. Cortisol to DHEA ratio is important. That's another measurement in itself. In that, if you have high cortisol and high DHEA, that's not necessarily a bad thing. It means you're probably under stress, but your adrenals are doing the function. They're working well. The HPA axis hasn't started showing dysregulation. Where that's at a balance, that's an indicator of things are going wrong. And then ultimately, we use the report to stage what type of stress you're suffering from, how long that stress is going, and what impact it's had on the HPA. So, it's really important to understand the stress response and its relationship and reliance on mechanisms, maintaining important things, that's its metabolic function. And armed with that knowledge, we can make much more insightful decisions about treatment options and what is wrong with people. I would say it's actually impossible to manage and managing any patient with a chronic condition, an ongoing condition, without understanding the relationship between our stress response, things like inflammation and glucose regulation. So understanding of the changes at a genetic level and an epigenetic level, influences on the systems will greatly enhance our understanding of how chronic stress influences chronic disease. So adrenal fulcric pathos of this type helps us to understand these changes, shows us what's going on, and gives us clues as the best way to manage and hopefully resolve those dysfunctions. So how can we manage cortisol and thyroid function? Well, whilst there are many nutrients and herbs that affect thyroid function, there are limited studies to evaluate the real effectiveness of these specific nutrients in stress-induced thyroid dysfunction. In fact, it's from the terms of published literature, almost none. I did, however, come across some reliable information about ashwagandam. Now, I think I need to open my hand up at this point, so I'm not a nutritionist, and therefore I know nothing about these supplements other than what the literature has said. So I'm reporting studies and literature about the effect rather than any personal use. And this particular herb is described as an adaptogenet, so it will change, for example, cortisol and thyroid hormones. It's one of the few adaptions that has been evaluated by studies, and it's effects on thyroid function. So while they're somewhat limited on human trials, when looking into it, most of the work had been done on animal studies, but there are human studies now also, and they have shown that this supplementation is able to improve thyroid status. So, for example, randomized placebo control, double-blind human clinical trial set out to evaluate the effect of the herb on subclinical hypothyroidism. They found that T3, T4 and TSH levels were different from our placebo group. Treatment apparently with 600 milligrams a day was found to be safe and tolerable, which is another important function. And it may be especially beneficial for people who have a stress problem, an HPA-axis dysfunction, in addition to our thyroid dysfunction. There are a couple of others which have gained, I do not know anything from personal experience, but there is one called a trade name called target one, which basically contains is a luthero root extract. And again, at least some studies have shown it's been able to prove burn-outs in drugs, if she's a stress situation where our dreams are no longer functioning properly. And it also been shown to significantly improve symptoms after 12 weeks, but also if that's going to happen, I'll go back a bit, it could potentially help with thyroid function in that indirect way. And Rodeola again has shown to improve stress symptoms, such as fatigue and exhaustion and functional impairment. And additionally, literally found that Rodeola may which is stressful and must prevent chronic stress. So these adaptogenic herbs may be helpful, I say may be because I haven't used them. In both adrenal and thyroid support, especially at times of significant chronic stress. But what else can we do? The context is key when discussing cortisol levels and adrenals of thyroid health. Dermal with pushing syndrome, which is a condition where the adrenals are failed, or the sort of action, the adrenals haven't failed, the HPA axis is failed, so that we're getting a continual switching on of the adrenals producing excess of cortisol. It's very different, has very different imbalance of hormones than someone with hyperthyroidism or Hash and motor disease. In some ways, this means that treatment will differ, but there's also some things we can do to improve conscious support, i.e. better cortisol management and therefore better adrenal and thyroid function. Improving the adrenals and thyroid health isn't necessarily about therapies that target these glands directly. So I thought we'd take a look at some of the other factors that influence cortisol levels, adrenals, and by inference, therefore thyroid health. So this is the gut health part. Now, as I'm sure many of you are aware from the literature and publicity, there's a huge interest in our gut microbiome. We now have technology which is able to us at a DNA level or RNA level to identify all of the bacteria and fungi we have in our gut and assess the levels of those. And what all of the studies are now trying to show is the link between different levels of different bacteria and diseases, particularly chronic diseases. And that is probably also involved in our abilities for stress responses, and therefore has an impact on how we handle stress, how we produce cortisol, and therefore possibly also thyroid hormones. So gut health is another crucial point. If a pathogen takes up resonance in our gut, it's a significant stress on the body, and that stress of what caused our cortisol to rise. Equally, auto-digestant for absorption of nutrients or through an impaired gut lining is another stressor that may contribute to increased cortisol levels. Now, the idea that we have increased permeability of our gut and we're letting food molecules through that triggers abnormal response is something that we are the lab specializing testing for, which is what we call food sensitivity testing. And that's by looking for specific IgG antibodies to the food that we're eating. What this shows us is that we've got a damaged gut wall. This is letting our relatively undigested food through, which is triggering immune response, which triggers inflammation, which causes cortisol release. And whilst I have no studies to directly show that, probably infrared is thyroid function. Although from memory, I think there's fair amount of studies that have linked autoimmune thyroid disease and causes of trigger may well have been something that came from our gut originally, and therefore may be related to increased gut permeability. So healthy diet, lifestyle, maybe adding a probiotic is something that perhaps can also help where we have symptoms like gas and bloating, for example. Again, I don't prescribe probiotics, but the literature is full of convincing evidence that they can be of value. One approach is what's called a synbiotic, which combines the actual bacteria itself, but also prebiotics. There's a lot of interest in the bacteria on their own, aren't that helpful if they don't have the right substrates to work on, which is usually the right type of fiber. So this type of approach, for example, in hyperthyroid patients for eight weeks, they did show some beneficial effects on thyroid function. So again, it's something to consider as part of the overall strategy for imprisoning thyroid function. We've mentioned before the effect of nutrients and calories, low-carb diet, a strict low-carb diet for some time, may well end up experiencing adrenal and thyroid symptoms. So it may be an example of maybe you need to lay up on that a little bit and start to introduce some of the healthy carbs to see whether that can increase the symptoms. Calorie restriction significantly increased cortisol levels in women, so severe dieting can have implications on its own. How to prevent stress. Stress, believe it or not, this is something we put in our guides and our reports, but I completely accept that sometimes this is very difficult. When you show us a very long-term stress report, it says things like, you know, look for the factors that may be stressing you alive and look at alleviating them. The problem with stress is that very often, it's almost impossible to do that or very difficult to do that. So we have to try to find ways around it. So there are generalizations, which is probably true for all of us, meditation, walking, gentle exercise, not aggressive exercise. Anything that you find calms your mind and body, and I'm certainly not an expert on that thing. Maybe that means taking a power nap occasionally. Conic stress is a major problem for human beings. I have slides which I haven't been able to include, which shows evidence now that when pregnant women are under stress conditions, that stress is being passed on to the unborn child at a genetic level. And when they assess the children after they've been born by looking at their cortisol responses, their stress responses, they were already impaired. So our next generations are already inheriting not very good stress responses, and that kind of doesn't bode well for us as a species, I think. But most stress... A lot of us see stress as external, you know, job issues, relationships, financial issues, obviously, are huge responsibility for other people. But carrying unresolved trauma that becomes internalized in your body causes most of the issues associated with stress. Most of us have probably experienced chronic stress, whether it's one or many of the above. At the moment, it's all about our ability to cope with that stress. Some people are really good at coping with that stress, and the adrenal systems are working fine. Other people will damage that system and ultimately to adrenal failure. And you can't always predict that, and you can't always put a time scale on it. But it's all about, as we described here, stress is stacking up. Remember our fight-and-flight response was a short term get away from danger. And then everything has to be switched off and go back to normal. Modern day stressors, which are continual, is something that we just haven't adapted to be able to cope with, and that's where the problems come in. The chronic stress must be improved to see improvements in physical symptoms. And I believe, and I think there is evidence to say, that this can include proper thyroid regulation and function. So, at that point, we will go back to then, I guess, and see if there's any questions that you would like answering. Okay, this question. Hygothyroidism, as well as being linked with adrenal issues, may cause sleep problems. So could feeling unwell on waking up also be connected with adrenal dysfunction? Almost certainly. Much of adrenal testing is that cortisol-awakening response. And that cortisol-awakening response is vitally important to the whole health and wellbeing process. So what we see in severe stress is the cortisol-awakening response is somewhat impaired. So you don't get that cortisol kick in the morning until that's going to start leading to severe fatigue, for example. And in chronic fatigue scenarios, they did do a study on that and found that most chronic fatigue patients have a very poor awakening response to cortisol. That, as you can see, it's not be the cause of chronic fatigue, because I think it's multifactorial, but it doesn't help. It's part of...  the cycle of the T. And so we see people with disturbed sleep patterns. So what happens is that you're waking up several times during the night. Your genomes are now completely confused about what your wake-up time is. So you're having short spikes when there should be big spikes and other spikes occurring when there shouldn't be. So disturbed sleep pattern has a profound effect on our awakening response. And if the genomes aren't working properly, then that does impact other things and we believe that will impact thyroid function too. It also goes on to ask, is there also a connection with migraines? Probably, that doesn't sound very definitive. As a brief mention of food sensitivity testing, where you have increased gut poverty, lots of anti-bullies, which trigger the inflammatory pathways, that's strongly linked with migraine, as it is with IBS. So, the inflammatory conditions, if you have inflammatory conditions, they are going to be a stressor, which is generally a stress response. So, probably, I don't think I have any direct, public-relating stress to migraine, but I can see why that would be potentially involved as well. Oh yeah, that's bringing in lots of things. Cacemos and development of thyroid antibodies. Yeah, I don't think there's anything definitive on that, is there? I'm sure you've looked into it for yourself. And from memory, there's the obvious link with evadability of strontium. And there was links with a particular bacteria, which, eucinea, I think, was linked at some point. So, selenium, I believe, there were some studies that suggest that, I think, as the opposite, was selenium excess could be related to reducing thyroid antibody responses. We had some slides earlier that were more to do with grave disease rather than Hashimoto's, but I think that the evidence may not be published wise, but I'm sure that's because it's a complicated scenario to look at. I think you mentioned heavy metals. Heavy metals is a very contentious issue with everybody. From a functional medicine perspective, there are tests to show you just how much heavy metals most of us are carrying around in our body tissues, which can be quite scary. The effects of that are potentially numerous, I would have thought. I don't think I have any, you said about mercury, for example, there's a lot of studies looking at mercury in relationship to brain function. Does it cause abnormal brain function? Well, what if it's damaging the bits that tell your thyroid to produce hormones, then now that's going to impact how your thyroid works. The generation of autoantibodies, including thyroid alternatives, is still one of those big unknowns to medicine. We know it does it, we can test for it. We can treat it with stretch hammers by using steroids, but there's still no real answers as to why we effectively produce antibodies to self. I don't think that helped your question, but I think the answer is we don't really have those answers. Thank you. So the next one, Heidi, I think with Andrea. Yeah. I look forward to the webinar as I have both Hashimoto's and high-sustereoidism and secondary adrenal insufficiency. However, cross prints of Sheffield Hallam was never able to advise me to circumvent if there's a connection between these two. Eventually, I was able to wean off again of hydrocortisone, but my cortisol levels still are low, albeit within range. Stuff deemed not required to be treated. I'm at a loss on what I should expect of my new endocrinologists as they just keep changing and some are telling me I don't need much monitoring. Yeah, it's going to be a bit negative. I think in that I would be really pleasantly surprised if your endocrinologist, as in the NHS system, is going to encompass adrenal testing of the nature I've been talking about. So if they do take any notice of your history and what you're talking about, they will probably order out blood tests. I would be really concerned that those blood tests would probably show normal, which would not necessarily reflect your cortisol status and profiling. So I've tried not to shamelessly sell things because unfortunately adrenal testing off the top I'm talking about is only available for private and you have to pay for that and you have to make your own decisions. But I've had many run-ins of endocrinologists when we're talking about especially cortisol measurements. Most of the time they're not interested in listening, but to be honest that was some years ago and it would be really good to think that maybe that message just got through. As I said, cortisol from saliva is actually running in some hospitals these days, so you might be lucky, but equally you might also have to do a test off your own back and then try to persuade them to take any notice of it. You talked about long-term hydrocortisone. Well, one thing I need to mention is unfortunately we can't do the test if you're on hydrocortisone or corticosteroids or anything like that. Because we're only measuring that free bit, which is really sensitive, if there's even a width of hydrocortisone that you perhaps stopped several days ago, it would be so high on our test that it would be unmeasurable. So our test isn't useful to you until you're absolutely sure you don't have any external cortisol or hydrocortisone or anything like that in your system. Then we can see precisely what your own adrenals are doing at that point, if that makes sense. But everybody knows that long-term steroid use, it may be fixing some problems, but it always creates other problems. And that has to be certainly looked at when we're looking at these conditions. Does that help? Hopefully it helps her. A neat case play fair is the next question. Any plans for an NHS pathway for thyroid patients relating to stress and other impacts on patients' lives throughout the pathway from diagnosis to optimal IE menopause, HRT and gluomydrinals? I don't know. As I said, in the 30-odd years I've been providing saliva hormone testing, we have gone through, you can't measure hormone saliva to say, well, actually, okay, maybe you can, but we don't believe it means anything to, well, actually, the entire research world is using it. So perhaps it does mean anything to where we are right now. I know that some hospitals are using saliva-recorded somphal diagnosis in Cushing's disease. But I think what we're saying is, are they doing this adrenal profiring? Are they doing multiple samples to look at the profiles? That hasn't made it into the NHS yet. I would really like to think it could. From a lab perspective, because I've worked in NHS labs as well, it fulfills all the criteria. They are diagnostic kits to do the testing. The literature supports the use of it. And the interpretation is very valuable. So, you know, all of us would like to think you should be able to get access to this type of testing. But at the moment, I believe you're still running to problems with them doing blood tests. You're doing a saliva test. You present that to your GP who completely ignores it because your saliva test has suggested that you've got adrenal hypofunction, for example, and that that needs to be addressed. And the blood test is completely normal, so it will just get ignored. I have seen scenario that there's a test called the Sennatvin test, which is a hospital-based test. When you finally persuade the doctor that I really want my adrenals checked out, they will reluctantly refer you for this Sennatvin test, which injects you with an injection of ACTH, and then does blood tests to monitor your increase in cortisol. And what it usually shows is that your adrenals are working fine. And they have no understanding that that is a completely irrelevant test when looking at the gene or hypofunction, for example. That only works if you had adrenal disease. So all it's saying is you don't have adrenal disease because you have no idea about function, because they give you so much ACTH, even the worst function in adrenals would kick out some cortisol. So again, you've had this test which says it's fine, and at that point your doctor's not interested in doing any follow-up tests. So it is a problem, and I completely understand that. And I'd love to be able to get this type of testing into a hospital environment. I guess don't hold your breath. Valerie says, correct load blood pressure, but higher resting heart rate is their relationship to an HPA axis and HPT axis. Again, almost certainly. But this is why I can't break my own rules. You need a full clinical history. You need access to all those results and all those testing. But as we said, one of the hormones we didn't mention because we don't test for it, that's produced as part of the adrenal response is directly controlled blood pressure, for example. Any stress response included cortisol will have an influence on a heart relationship. So it could be related to a stress response. So that's possible. Why not? Next one down I've got is Rachel. My endocrinologist tells me to ignore thyroid antibodies as they don't affect thyroid treatment. What is affected by thyroid antibodies? I have to do more. One of mine was 13-cylinder. Yeah, okay. That's sort of right, aren't they? In the levels of thyroid, particularly TPO, which is the main one they test for. It does vary hugely for people. You can have some in the thousands and others that are a little bit higher. I'm not sure that that means that somebody's condition is worse than somebody else's. It's much more complicated than that. I guess it doesn't necessarily affect treatment. They're going to be basing treatment on the effect those antibodies have had on your thyroid hormones, aren't they? Regardless of what level you're at. The test has answered the question, which is you have autoimmune thyroid disease. But I don't know if there's any specific strategies in fixing the level of thyroid antibodies, for example. I think there were some studies that said if you took the right amount of T4, had the right level of T4, that I think that was more preventative and that was one of the reasons why people make antibodies. But yeah, I think maybe they're right in that sense. What's the CPAP at night? Somebody's asking what is CPAP at night and frequent wake-up, which affect my test result. I don't know actually what that is, but in a way I don't need to know. If whatever you're doing is causing you to frequently wake up, then we need to be really careful of interpreting those test results. Because you'll see that first morning response, which is that important, will definitely be effective. But we need to take into account when those samples were taken compared to your wake-up. The first sample is advised to take your normal wake-up time, whatever that is. Even if you're on shifts, then that might be in the afternoon, but whatever you know when it. Which goes out the window when you wake up several times during the night. So I tried to advise to take the first sample when you have your, I don't know, what you would call your major wake-up. Possibly even the first major wake-up. And then we have to interpret it based on what time you're waking up. But you will definitely have an impaired awakening response. And that waking response is really important to how you, the whole functioning for the day. So frequently waking up will definitely impact your results. And what I'm trying to say is, helps breathing to sleep back near, which is presumably why you do have to keep waking up all the time. Yeah, I mean, it's not going to solve your problem. But what it is going to demonstrate is that what effect that problem is having on you. And it will profound affect your course of waking results, which will probably give you fatigue. And may even be part of increasing the poor sleep response. So you need help with that. And maybe the saliva intestine can help a professional know what to target and what to do using adaptogens and try to improve. My guess is your course of working sort to be reduced. We need to put strategies to try to help increase that. Okay, I think, sorry, can I interrupt? I think there was quite a few more questions and time is running out. So it's okay with you. We'll, we'll type these up and send them on to you so that you can respond to me. To the people. Is that okay? Yeah, there's quite a few questions. There isn't. So yeah, I'm obviously happy to get those to me and then I'll give you back the feedback and answers to that. Yeah, I have been made addresses for everybody. So I'll send them to you as soon as we can. So I just wanted to say quickly that Dr Abraham's and his team have given our beneficiaries a 10% discount code on their functional tests. So I'm going to put something later on in the meeting. And I just like to say thank you again. It's been really interesting and obviously people have a lot of questions. So some people this may be the first time they've even thought about the adrenals and certainly the call to our awakening response test. I think for some people is something that they might consider doing after your talk. So, so thank you very much. Yeah, yeah, more than welcome. Yes, it was perhaps optimistic to introduce a whole new testing in a lot of slides in one go. But, you know, obviously there are lots of questions there. So there's obviously interest and things that will get answers. So we get those answers back and take it from there. Thank you. Thank you very much. I just wanted to give a quick update for people on the T3 campaign. And if some of you are not aware of what T3 is, it's another hormone that thyroid produces. And we know that for some people it converts at different rates. And for those of us that have no thyroid or it's been destroyed by the antibodies, we don't have any T3 in our thyroid to begin with. I think Nigel was saying that thyroid produces about 20%. But without thyroid, you're not producing even that. So, lie, thyroid is a T3 replacement medication. But unfortunately due to cost prescribing is restricted, even though the cost has actually come down quite a lot over the past year or so. And we're just fighting all the time to try and enable people to access T3. The competition and markets authority found advanced charged excessive and unfair prices because they hyped the price of lie, thyroid and up for absolutely no reason. And they, and the two private equity firms that they were working with were fined over 100 million pounds. So it is much cheaper, but unfortunately, both NHS England and the British Cyroid Association have updated their guidance, which we think needs to be changed. And we are working with the other thyroid groups to try and do this. But it's really difficult. Currently, they're not really listening to what we're saying. They don't believe that patients need T3 often. And so it's really, really hard to get it prescribed. You have to visit an endocrinologist. And sometimes it's difficult to get an appointment to an endo. So, and you also need to find a GP that will help you because the first stop is your GP to ask for a referral to an endocrinologist. If the GP doesn't think that's necessary because your TSH looks normal or even your FT4 looks normal. They won't refer you. And in some cases, we know that the GPs have a telephone meeting or an email to the endocrinologist giving your test results. And then the endocrinologist doesn't want to see you. It's really, really hard. There are several barriers. And we are trying to fight this so that everybody can have access at the moment. It's still a postcode lottery that the government don't want to happen. So we are continuing to fight for everybody. For some people, if you have a positive DIO2 genetic test, that might push some endocrinologists into at least having a trial of T3. And we do have a list of endocrinologists, both NHS and private. And some of the, well, all the ones on our list that are NHS have prescribed T3 in the past. So it's hopeful that they might continue to do that. To enable, to have a trial, as I said, you need to find a doctor and an endocrinologist willing to help. You need to show proof that you need a trial, which should show that you have low FT3 levels, and if possible, a positive DIO2 gene polymorphism result. For the DIO2 genetic test, you will need to get it done privately because the NHS don't do it. But it is worth doing because it might encourage the GP or the endo to set the ball rolling to get a trial. We have had meetings with both NHS England and the BTA. But unfortunately, it's very worrying. The BTA's guidance is actually worse for people who have been diagnosed with subclinical hypothyroidism in the past, because what they're trying to do now is to see how you get on without any levosa roxine at all. We, all the groups, totally worried about this. And there is also at the moment a trial going on by Professor Simon Pearce, where he's trying to get patients to join the trial and have a trial without any thyroxine at all. And we have heard of some patients that have done this and became very ill quite quickly. They do say the trial information does say that they will put you back on it if you have symptoms, but I'm not convinced because it's possible that your test results won't show that it's a problem. So do be careful if you're thinking about going on this trial. And we know that there are some people that really don't want to be taken a tablet for the rest of their lives. You need to. You know, it's in my experience, if you come off of levosa roxine, you're going to be poorly. So just be very careful if you do decide to try and go on this trial, because it may make you very ill. There is a possibility you don't need levosa roxine, but there's also a possibility that it's going to make you ill and that you won't be able to get your levosa roxine back again. So do be careful if you think about going on that trial. So we are fighting and you need to fight for your medication. Don't just accept no. Just keep on trying to get a trial because for some people it does help a lot. We are continuing to campaign, but we do need more funding to do this. We need more staff. We need some staff with campaigning skills. There are actually only three of us that work in thyroid UK. I know we look massive because of what we have online, but actually there are two part timers and myself as the only full timer. So we do need more staff and one way of getting this and to enable us to campaign more is if people donate. All you need to do is either click this link when you get the presentation or just go to our website and click the link to donate on the top right hand corner. Someone asked if this trial is for levo or night oh? The trial is for levo. Yeah, it's for levo, which shocked us because previously we have been fighting and trying to talk with them about lyothyronine and then all of a sudden they start thinking or Professor Pierce's trial trying to get people to come off of levo, Levo, the rocks in because they think it wasn't needed in the first place because you had subclinical hypothyroidism. But to my mind, there are two types of subclinical hypothyroidism and one is with symptoms and one is without and we do know that some people didn't need to be put on levo, the rocks in in the first place because I've had people come to me. Who had a woman's health check and they were put on to leave a theroxin and it made them ill, whereas they weren't before so we do know it happens. But in the main people with subclinical hypothyroidism and symptoms do need treatment. I want my lyobac as well. I had my NDT and my lyothyronine taken away from me a few years ago when the first price hike happened. So, you know, I'm the same as everyone else really I want to get it back because I will be retiring in the fairly near future and whether I will be able to afford my NDT at that point is another matter. Colin Dine is a really helpful endo and he believes that people need T3. So he is doing his best. And there is a trial that's going to be ongoing soon and I'm on the steering committee for patient participation. So I'm hoping that we can make sure that the trial is correct. We did. We did have meetings about the protocol for the trial. We had some good input on how it should be run, which they accepted. So I do have high hopes for that one. Oh, thank you Maureen. I guess I'm just awkward in the fact that I don't want to leave until something is sorted out. I've been doing this a long time now. And I'm really hoping that change will come once we get more people and more. We need more doctors to help us to be on our side if you like. I'm currently taking a T3 dose of 25 at 330. Well, I've had moderate success so far. Is this a mechanism you are aware of? I'm looking to take a 30g dose to improve things further. I have been aware of the car test and that's one of the reasons I wanted to do this webinar. It's not my forte, the Adrienals I will say, but you know, I know some information. But I might be able to ask Nigel that question and see what he thinks if he has an answer. But I do know a lot of the private GPs understand Adrienals much better than NHS GPs do. Shorts and Aston tests. My understanding is that they're not very pleasant. And in our information that we had a chat with the Coutroutry Foundation doctors and it does say in there that even if it comes back negative, you cannot accept that as true. So it is a step that you can take if you have severe or severely low levels of cortisol. Okay, I think that's about it really for today. So I'd just like to say thank you very much for listening and I really hope that this is helping you to move forward and be able to get better from some of your symptoms anyway. So thank you very much and hope to see you again soon. Thank you.

=== FILE: Thyroid UK World Thyroid Day 2023 Webinar [r2-3bGVlz_M].txt ===

 subjected to subjected to I'm also a certified lifestyle medicine physician and a functional medicine doctor. And so today I'm going to be doing a presentation about the genetic changes to be aware about for thyroid disorders. So I'm also a trained a Nutri-Genomics practitioner with provider called LifeCodeGX. So most of the talk today is kind of going to be referencing to their panel that they provide. So I myself also have Hashimoto's Thyroiditis. I was diagnosed in 2016. So for me as well, this has been an interesting journey for the last few years, kind of understanding thyroid disease and really kind of developing my expertise in this and really try and get to the root causes for why thyroid disorders develop rather than the current kind of conventional approach of just taking Leroythoroxine and that being that, really to try and understand what the triggers are. And really that's kind of furthered my interest in understanding the genetics regarding thyroid disorders as well. So, sorry, I'm just trying to move. So as you know, thyroid disorders are very common. It's estimated that one in 20 people have a thyroid problem and probably more because many people are undiagnosed or unaware that they may have a thyroid problem. And there's often many triggers for why a thyroid problem can occur. So things like lifestyle factors, nutrition diet, stress, environmental factors, all of these things can predispose you to developing a thyroid condition. But often there will be an underlying genetic factor that will have triggered or have be the underlying predisposing factor, which then enables the further triggers to then trigger a thyroid condition. So what are epigenetics? So epigenetics is the way that the environment affects our genes. So it's essentially the study of how our behaviors and environment can cause changes in the way that our genes work. Now it's really important to know that epigenetic changes are reversible. So they're not kind of lifelong. So if you have an epigenetic change, it's not kind of a life sentence. You can modify your diet, your lifestyle to enable these genes to then function effectively. So how do these epigenetic changes occur? They occur by what we call single nucleotide polymorphisms. So SNPs. So these are changes that can happen in a single DNA building block, which can result in a change in gene expression and function. So Nutrogenomics is the study of how nutrition can affect genes. So it's how nutrition impacts these epigenetic changes and causes these SNPs. So as we know, poor lifestyle, poor nutrition can cause these SNPs to develop, but then you can reverse these SNPs by adopting a good nutrition and optimizing your nutrients. So this is an example of the testing that I can offer with Life Code GX. So as you can see, we can assess for a various, with kind of a large number of different genetic changes in the kind of the whole thyroid axis. So as we know, in terms of thyroid physiology, there's kind of a series of steps that need to occur for thyroid production, thyroid metabolism, thyroid activation. I'll talk about that briefly in a second, but there's many, many different genes that can be affected at all the various different stages of the thyroid pathways. And so in some people, you may only have a few genetic influences, some people may have many, but it's interesting to know because then you can look at how your nutrition and how your lifestyle can then be modified to improve these genetic SNPs. So in terms of thyroid physiology then, so just to kind of recap on thyroid physiology. So in terms of how the thyroid is kind of produced, how thyroid hormone is produced, we have initially, we have a hormone that's released by the brain called the thyrotropin releasing hormone, which is released by the hypothalamus to signal the pituitary gland to produce TSH or thyroid stimulating hormones. This TSH then signals the thyroid gland to produce thyroid hormones, mainly T4, T3 and reverse T3. And then in the thyroid gland itself, we know that the TPO gene, so the thyroid peroxidase gene oxidizes iodide into iodine, which then can essentially, with the help of hydrogen peroxide, it basically joins tyrosine residues, tyrosine is a protein, it's an amino acid, it's a really important amino acid for thyroid hormones. And tyrosine basically joins with iodine to make T4, T3 and reverse T3. And then in terms of clearing excess hydrogen peroxide, because we know that hydrogen peroxide can be damaging to the thyroid gland, we need a gene called glutathione peroxidase to essentially remove hydrogen peroxide from the thyroid gland, otherwise that in itself can be quite damaging to the thyroid gland. There's then a negative feedback loop, so what T4, T3, reverse T3 can essentially do a negative feedback loop, but back to the hypothalamus and the pituitary to essentially say either produce more or produce less thyroid hormone, depending on how much thyroid itself is being produced. Now also important for thyroid function are what we call the iodine enzymes. So di-denease enzymes have various different functions in thyroid metabolism and thyroid production. And there's three main types of di-denease enzymes. So there's the DI01, which can convert T4 into T3 in the thyroid gland. There's DI02, which converts T4 to T3 in the thyroid gland and in the peripheral tissues. And there's DI03, which converts T4 to reverse T3. And it's important to know that these are also selenium dependent enzymes. So as we know, T3 is probably one of the most important thyroid hormones because it's what our mitochondria need to produce energy. So our mitochondria are the energy centers of all our cells. It's pretty, we have mitochondria in pretty much every single cell of our body, except our red blood cells. And essentially mitochondria are needed to produce ATP, our main source of energy. And so for our mitochondria to function effectively, we need optimal levels of T3. Yet most of the thyroid hormone produced by a thyroid gland is T4. So essentially our body needs to have good function of these di-denease enzymes to be able to convert the T4 into T3. As without that conversion happening, you can't utilize that T3 to then produce energy and get our mitochondria to function well. Likewise, T4 can also be converted to reverse T3, which is not utilized. So we can't use the reverse T3 to produce energy. And so we do need to be mindful because certain things can actually favor the conversion of T4 to reverse T3. And that's things like extreme stress, illness, and other kind of lifestyle factors. And so again, this is where the genes is really important because genetic variations on these di-denease enzyme genes can also affect how these genes are working. And then so what happens in autoimmunity? So as we know, autoimmune thyroid conditions kind of are the most prevalent type of thyroid conditions present. So we know that autoimmunity happens when there's a dysregulation of the immune system leading to an immune attack on the thyroid gland. So this is where we can get antibodies that develop to the thyroid itself. So typically we see antibodies to the thyroid peroxidase and also to thyroid globulin, which is a protein in the thyroid gland. So when these autoantibodies develop, we can get chronic inflammation of the thyroid gland, also known as thyroiditis. So this then causes tissue damage and disruption of thyroid function. So there's obviously the two main types of autoimmune diseases, there's the Graves disease and Hashimoto's, Graves predominantly presenting as hyperthyroidism and Hashimoto's predominantly presenting as hypothyroidism or underactive thyroid. And it's also important to know that often there's genetic variants that are the primary risk factors for the development of an autoimmune thyroid disease. So you can see often there's a strong family history component with autoimmune thyroid conditions. So now I'll go through the relevant kind of genes to be aware about in each of the different stages of the thyroid physiology. So when we look at the actual hypothyramus, pituitary thyroid axis, there's three main genes that we can test for. So there's CAPZB, PDEAP, TSHR. So the CAPZB gene, this codes for the production of TSH from the pituitary and changes in this gene can cause either increased or decreased thyroid simulating hormone production. Well PDEAP, so SNPs in this gene can increase or decrease thyroid sensitivity to the GSH. So if it's lowered, so the sensitivity to TSH is lowered, it will inevitably lead to lower T4 and T3 production. Now it's also important to know, as I mentioned, as these are epigenetic changes, these can be modified with lifestyle and nutrition. So itch, hope and ginger can be quite helpful in this case to increase sensitivity to TSH in the thyroid gland. And there's the TSHR gene, which essentially can affect the TSH receptors on the thyroid gland. And so in some people as well, you can get antibodies to the TSH receptors themselves, that's very rare, that's probably the least common type of autoimmune process that can happen. But ultimately, that's what often kind of, in terms of Graves disease, that's the main kind of pathological process. It's the development of TSHR antibodies. And in order to support that, you'll be thinking about anti-inflammatory nutrients and vitamin D. Then looking at the actual genes in the thyroid gland itself, so you have the thyroglobulin protein, so the thyroglobulin, the gene that codes for that. So again, if there's genetic changes on this gene, you'll have an increased risk of developing an autoimmune thyroid condition. And this is exacerbated in the presence of what we call HLA-DR3 alleles. So these again are certain genetic changes that can predispose you to the development of celiac disease or gluten sensitivity. And then the thyroid, as we know, the thyroglobulin, that protein, it actually provides tyrosine for thyroid hormone synthesis to then enable the storage and inactivation of thyroid hormone and iodine. So again, the thyroid globulin is a really important protein for thyroid hormone synthesis. So in cases where if you've got genetic changes with the thyroid globulin gene, you may need to avoid iodine, because actually iodine in excess in autoimmune patients can be harmful to the thyroid gland. So again, just, you know, you need to be really cautious when you are, if you're thinking about supplementing iodine. And also this is where a gluten-free diet can be really helpful for patients with thyroid disorders. The other gene to be aware about is GPX1. So again, SNPs in this gene can increase the risk of oxidative stress or oxidative damage to the cells, increasing autoimmunities. So oxidative stress is a process that happens when again, if our mitochondria are not functioning very well, we produce these free radical species and these free radicals can be harmful to ourselves creating a process called oxidative stress. And so how we can help support this is through giving selenium and then aiding with detoxification to remove these free radicals. And there's our master antioxidant or detoxifier in our body called glutathione. And in order to help synthesize glutathione, we can consider glutathione rich foods and glutathione precursors such as N-acetal cysteine. And then there's the SNPs to consider for thyroid transport. So in this case, we'll be looking at two main genes. So that can affect how the kind of thyroid hormone is then transported from the thyroid gland to the tissues. So again, if there's any issues, which are, you know, this is where it becomes quite interesting because your thyroid could potentially look normal on your blood tests because your thyroid is, you know, your thyroid gland is producing thyroid. You're producing T4, T3. And so you're not seeing that kind of result. You're seeing a normal result on your blood test. But if you've got then issues with thyroid transport and how your peripheral tissue are able to utilize thyroid, then that may not necessarily show up on a blood test. So again, this is where genetic testing can be quite helpful. So with, as I mentioned, so with these genes, so if you've got changes in these genes, if you, you know, if thyroid transport is affected, then if you're not transporting your thyroid to your cells and your tissues and your cells and tissues are not able to utilize thyroid hormone. And that's where majority of the symptoms of hyperthyroidism can develop. And this is particularly important for brain health because, you know, if the thyroid hormone is not being transported into the brain, then we're, you know, increasing the risk of mental health conditions. And then looking at thyroid activation. So once the thyroid is transported, you need to activate the thyroid. So as I mentioned, there's the DI-Denae's enzymes that can activate the thyroid. So particularly through the T4 to T3 conversion. As I mentioned, these genes are selenium dependent. So if you've got changes in these genes, supporting selenium is very important. And then there's also vitamin D. So vitamin D, again, is extremely important for thyroid activation. And so if you've got any changes to kind of your vitamin D genes, then that can also affect T3 activity. So vitamin D is a really important nutrient to support. And then for thyroid metabolism. So this is how the thyroid is then kind of metabolized and excreted out from the body. So through detoxification. So it's against nips and these genes can affect how the thyroid is essentially detoxified. And so in these things, if you've got genetic changes with your detoxification processes, addressing your detoxification with detoxification supporting foods, so particularly things like sulfur, that are found in garlic, onions, and leeks, it's important. And then also looking at gut health and dysbiosis. So we know that, especially for a process called glucuronidation, your gut health is extremely important. And we know that in cases where there's dysbiosis, that process of glucuronidation, which is a detoxification process, can be affected. So again, when we often find in patients with thyroid disease that gut health is one of them main, like poor gut health is one of the main kind of triggering factors for then the development of thyroid disease. So from a functional medicine approach, gut health is often kind of one of the main areas that we will look at for patients presenting with thyroid conditions. And then lastly, looking at the snips for autoimmunity. So there are several genes that can predispose you to developing an autoimmune thyroid condition. And often when there's a genetic change in this, as I mentioned, it will increase the risk of developing antibodies. So particularly there's the CTLA4, and this is a group of genes that regulate the immune system. So any changes in these genes can lead to loss of immune regulation, or increasing risk of immunity. There's the FoxE1 gene, and then this gene is responsible for thyroid development. So changes in these genes can affect the thyroid globulin and thyroid peroxidase antibodies. So again, increase the risk of developing antibodies to the thyroid globulin and thyroid peroxidase. And then as I mentioned, there's the HLA gene. So these genes can affect how antigens or kind of peptides are presented to the immune system. So as I mentioned, gluten can often be a trigger for thyroid conditions. The reason being is that the gluten protein is very similar to the thyroid protein. And so where our body can produce antibodies to gluten, we can mistaken the thyroid gland for gluten and start producing antibodies to the thyroid gland itself. And so often following a gluten-free diet can be quite helpful for those with thyroid conditions. So in terms of how to kind of, just to kind of summarize, how can we support our thyroid health from kind of epigenetics point of view? So, it's really important to know that, yes, these epigenetic changes can occur, but they are modifiable, they're reversible. And just because you have a genetic predisposition, that's not technically a life sentence. So from a functional medicine approach, we're always looking at the root causes and the triggering events for why these thyroid, of why thyroid condition may have developed. So in terms of how we can support the thyroid, we'll be looking at dietary triggers. And the most common, as I mentioned, being gluten, dairy can also be a very common trigger for some people for the development of thyroid disease. And so some people find that doing something called a full-automene protocol diets can be very helpful for identifying food triggers. So this is where you eliminate or kind of common food triggers for thyroid disease or autoimmune thyroid disease for a period of four weeks, sometimes longer, and then you introduce foods back one at a time to see what are your specific food triggers. And then ensuring that you have sufficient thyroid supporting nutrients in your diets, or if you're taking supplements, so selenium, so to optimize selenium, you should, you know, taking two Brazil nuts a day, so eating two Brazil nuts a day can give you the required selenium that you need, magnesium, zinc, vitamin D, these are all really important nutrients to support thyroid health. I mentioned being cautious with iodine, especially in the context of autoimmune disease. Yes, a little bit of iodine is needed, but excess iodine is harmful if you've got autoimmune thyroid disease. So just be careful, because a lot of thyroid supporting supplements will have iodine in them. And then essentially really focusing on having a whole foods anti-inflammatory diet. So looking at ways of, you know, removing refined foods, removing refined carbohydrates, removing processed foods, sugars, and really encouraging whole grains, proteins, healthy fats like avocados, nuts and seeds, oily fish, and really looking at ways to support your kind of thyroid and your overall inflammation through a whole foods anti-inflammatory diet. I mentioned avoiding iodine and excess, and then really to look at the body as a whole. So really, you know, your thyroid is just, you know, rather than focusing just on the thyroid gland, the thyroid kind of the effects of the thyroid are systemic. The thyroid is literally, and G3 as I mentioned, you literally need it for every single cell and every single organ and tissue of your body. So you really do need to start looking at the body as a whole to figure out what else is going on here, like what else could be triggering this thyroid disease. So as I mentioned, you know, it may not be the thyroid gland itself, it could be an issue with thyroid transport, it could be an issue with the peripheral utilization of thyroid hormone. So, you know, we know that as I mentioned, things like stress, infections, poor gut health, toxins, these can all affect thyroid hormone production, activation, and how we can utilize thyroid hormone. So in summary, you know, the key points that I would like you to take away from this talk are that epigenetics are modifiable, you know, your genes can load the gum, but it's the lifestyle that pulls the trigger. So really to try and look for the root causes for why your thyroid condition may have developed, and to look at everything as a whole, rather than focusing in on kind of just genes itself or on the thyroid itself. So thank you for listening today. If you would like to work with me for functional medicine, I'm currently working with Dr. Sarah Davies, who's a leading functional medicine practitioner in the UK, we are a clinical functional nexus. We just to note, we also do have an endocrinologist on our team who is prescribing T3 for anyone who's interested, but any patients that come to see us will be offered a full functional medicine approach to their thyroid. So I will leave it there. Thank you very much. Thank you, Narusa. Thank you so much. That was really interesting. I think at the moment, we've got just one hand up or two hands up. Lou. Just need to... Elsa, do you have a question? Sorry, Elsa, we can't hear you yet. I've clicked Disabled Mike, but it doesn't seem to be doing it, so... I've allowed it, no, it needs to be allowed, so I've done that, so... Elsa, are you there? Do you have a question? Can you put your mic on? Is your mic on, Elsa? Okay, can you hear me now? Yes, I'll. Sorry, sorry. Sorry, I'm in a hurry. Yes, basically, I was saying, I've been diagnosed with hypothyroidism. About 31 years ago. And the endocrinologist put me on 100 milligram of levothyroxine, which I've been taking for a very long time with my same GP. I've had the same GP for 27 years. Then, like three years ago, my GP just closed, he stopped practicing, and I had a new GP. And through blood tests and all that, they said that my 100 milligrams was far too... was too high, basically, because on the paper, the results of the blood test showed that it was too high. I was feeling tired all the time at the time, but after that, we discovered that I had no vitamin D whatsoever in my system. So, the doctor's carried out various tests, like at first, they put me for three days on 70 milligrams of levothyroxine, all those sort of changes, but I've never felt that well. So now I'm back on 100 milligram, and I'm okay now, but the paper says that it's too high. So, shall I carry on like this, or shall I go back through all the trials? I don't want to do that, because I was feeling really unwell when I was on 70 milligrams of levothyroxine. That just didn't work for me. I'm really sorry. I can't give any personal medical advice, because you're not my patient, but generally, if you present it, so we'll be thinking about peripheral uptake of your thyroid hormone, how you're cells are managing to utilize that thyroid hormone. So, it sounds like you need a higher dose of T4, because you're not converting that T4 into T3 sufficiently, and so you're needing that higher dose of T4 to enable you to get the T3. But as I mentioned, your blood thyroid panel is not reflective of what's happening in your tissues per se. So, just because your blood test shows your TSH is suppressed, it doesn't necessarily reflect how your tissues are getting the thyroid hormone. So, working on that T4 to T3 conversion is going to be really important. So, looking at nutrition in terms of selenium support, and then other kind of nutrients that can help with that T4 to T3 conversion is going to be really important. Can I just say, can you hear me just checking? Can I just say that we hear this a lot. We have a lot of people come to us who say their TSH is low and my doctor has reduced my levozoroxin. All I can suggest really is just to go back to him and say, look, I'm not very well on this. Could you please put it up again? I mean, he may do another test and find that your TSH has raised a little bit because you're on that. But really, you do need to go back to your GP and just say, could I please go back? I'm so poorly now. I need to go back onto that dosage because I felt so well on that dosage. Yeah, in fact, no, I am back 100. And I'm fine. I'm just thinking of becoming T as well. Yeah, definitely Vitamin D really helps. And so many people in the UK are low in Vitamin D and they don't realise, they just don't realise. We definitely need it all through the winter here, but I know a lot of people need it all year round. I have to take it all year round. Otherwise, I get very low levels of Vitamin D. And then you feel exhausted in time. Yeah. Yeah. So I'm fine now. OK, good, good, good. Thanks so much. Who else? So, Lou, if you could turn that mic off. And Caroline, I think, is next. No, no, no. No, oh, that's the number seven. Wow. It's Mary. Mary S is next. So, Mary, if you can turn on your microphone, you should be able to speak now. Hello, can you hear me? Yes. Thanks for the presentation. Is it Neroosa? Yeah. Thank you. It's quite interesting because you mentioned a lot of snips, really, that can affect the thyroid. And it's quite refreshing to find someone who actually knows so much about all of those, because most GPs think that thyroid disorders are straightforward, very simply sorted by a TSH and very little else. And they diagnose and treat by that and refuse to refer you because they don't know that there's more going on. I have confirmed DiO1 and DiO2 snips. You seem to be saying, which I haven't heard before, that that can be reversed. Is that right? By diet and nutrition? I mean, I have what I think is a healthy diet. I eat nuts. I eat avocado. I eat a wide variety of things mainly.  old foods, don't eat much, processed food, cooked from scratch, and I've been doing that for a long, long time, but I still seem to need T4, T3. So I'm intrigued, really, by what you're saying, because that's new to me, and it doesn't really kind of fit with my experience, unless there's something else going on, of course. As you know, it's very complex. So there could be multiple genetic changes happening, so it may not just be the DI01 and DI02 SNPs that are contributing to your need for T3. So my focus wouldn't only be on the DI01 and DI02, I'd be trying to look at all the genes in context. And yes, absolutely, these epigenetic changes are modifiable to an extent, but it's not gonna be the case for everybody, unfortunately. So certainly my approach would be to try and optimize your nutrition and lifestyle and the modifiable factors that can affect your epigenetics, but once you've done that, and if there's still a conversion issue, I would 100% support T3 therapy that's needed. And it's really to try and look at kind of all the factors rather than say, the concern, I suppose, is if you look, if you go straight to T3 therapy without optimizing your health, your diet, your nutrition, and everything else like that, that T3, again, it might not be effective. You might not be able to utilize that T3 very well if you've still not been able to change the underlying kind of lifestyle, et cetera. So really it's to improve the efficacy of that T3 therapy that these kind of lifestyle changes are really important as well. Yeah, okay. Well, I say my experience, there may be something else that I don't know about because obviously doctors don't readily test for all the things that might be going on, like different nutrients or minerals that I might need. I mean, I supplement B12 complex and D3 with MK2, so, and then with my diet, which has, as I said, been on for years, but at the moment, still needing that, but it may be that there's something undiscovered because you mentioned quite a few steps that I have no idea if I have those, but it's so frustrating that you, as someone who suffers from a thyroid issue yourself, can obviously impart the knowledge that you have on these things. And yet it's not widely known in the general endocrine community in the NHS, and it's so hard to get any recognition for, you know, I mean, people ask sometimes on the thyroid support group, is it worth me getting a DIO2 test? I think I might have an issue there. And you don't really know whether to say, yes, it should be, a resounding yes, you need to know that so that you can address it, but really the truth is, is there a point? Because even if people have a certificate that says they have it, and that it affects FG4 to T3 conversion, going to see a GP and saying, refer me to an endocrinologist, please, if I've got an issue, just might fall on deaf ears. So I'm beginning to rant now, but you've answered my question, but thank you very much, it's very interesting. Thank you, Mary. I'm going to turn your mic off now. Tabitha, if you can turn your microphone on and ask your question. Hi. Okay, so I've been having, I started having issues when I hit the menopause. I was about, I say about almost 48. I noticed a huge difference in how I felt. I'm somebody that's always worked out, eating healthy, blah, blah, blah. I'm now 53 this weekend, and I've just found out that although my thyroid is, seems to be fluctuating, it's kind of range from about 450 to 575, I think is the highest it's been, right? So my TSH has been doing this. I personally think I'm subclinical hypothyroid, hypothyroid, but secondary to that, I had pneumonia last year, then I seem to develop a chronic cough after that, but I suffered from ensoulement. Then from going to the doctors, and then decided to go private to get to the bottom of it, I found that my thyroid has actually not migrated anywhere, it's inside my tongue, and that's become a goiter. So I have two very large masses. I think it's one big mass, but it's tuned out that I've got no thyroid here, and it's all inside my tongue, the base of my tongue, so that's what this is here. That's the one underneath in the midline jaw, and I've got one on the actual inside of the base of my tongue. So I convinced I'm hypothyroid, I just wanted to know what you thought with those levels of TSH, and the fact that I have a very large goiter, and where it is. Yeah, so optimal TSH that we aim for in the clinic is less than, it's between two to 2.5, that's the optimal TSH. So certainly if you presented to us, that would be considered hypothyroid. Oh, right, okay. Yeah, but yeah, it's very, we have not met anyone before that has had an issue with the thyroid migration, you probably obviously had that since birth, they're not only just come to realize. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, it's cause such a big issue. I'm actually off on the sick at the moment, I've been off sick since January, I'm very lucky I have very supportive employers, and because I'm a trainer, I deliver courses, it's just, I could talk for a while, and then I'll start coughing, cough, cough, cough, and then by the end of the day, coughing all night, and then it's just constant, it was just literally relentless. When I saw the surgeon, he said, if I have the surgery to remove it, cause that was the initial thought, it would have to be removed. I would lose most of my tongue, I like to end up with a hole in my neck, and limited speech. So as you can imagine, I'm scared. So I've now looked into, I had a little chat with a radiologist, who did the ultrasound, and he seems to think, radiofrequency ablation might work for me. Are you familiar with that? No, unfortunately not. Right. But it does sound like you do need some thyroid support in terms of some thyroid hormone potentially, because without that, that point is gonna enlarge, and cause further issues in terms of respiratory issues. So I would recommend looking into, potentially trying to source a thyroid hormone, either through your GP or privately. Okay, so what did you say that a normal thyroid thing was? The range? The TSH, so ideally we would like to see it around 2.5, obviously too low TSH isn't good either, cause suppressed TSH does, there is kind of evidence to show that that can increase your risk of cardiovascular disease and osteoporosis. So we do need to have, there have to be kind of an optimal range of TSH. I would be happy to see it anywhere between one to 2.5. So yeah. Okay, thank you. Okay, I'm really sorry, but we have to stop there. For those of you that still have questions, could you please put them in the chat, and we'll ask Neroosa the questions, and get back to you. So it's time for a break now, and thank you so much Neroosa, that was really, really interesting. And I'm sure everybody found it interesting as well. I mean, I've known that there are other SNPs, but that was an explanation of it, that was quite simple compared to some of the research papers that I've read. So thank you so much for joining us. Yeah, it's been a pleasure to meet you. Thank you. Okay, so we're going to come back at 12.35, give you all a chance to have a comfort break, and perhaps something to eat quickly. And I'll see you then. Thank you. Okay, so I'll tell you very quickly, a little bit about my background. I am a clinical nutritionist, and I also have Hashimoto's. I've had it since my early 20s, and I'm now 49. So I've always been very interested in the condition, and what we can do nutritionally to support it. I read a book when I was first ill, which was like, you don't have to be unwell. And I thought, well, that's a very interesting concept. What can I do to improve my outcomes? I also have lectured in the past, I run a clinic, and I work for Regenerus Labs, where I provide clinical support to practitioners and also people who take the DIO2 test. So that's a little bit about my background. I'm going to talk about how T4 is produced. Now, Dr. Cumeran covered some of that, so I'm not going to spend too long on it. I'm going to talk about conversion to T3. I'm going to consider DIO2, which Dr. Cumeran mentioned around the genetic factors affecting conversion. I'm going to explore nutritional factors affecting conversion and some general nutrition recommendations in thyroid disease. The GP who was just speaking was talking about how you need to be careful with supplementation and dosages. And that's particularly true with the thyroid, because as you guys all know, it's an incredibly fussy little gland that requires personalized management. So this is the cascade of thyroid hormone production. And the part that I'm particularly interested in today is the piece at the bottom. So the T4 to T3 production, getting it into the bloodstream and getting it into the TH-sensitive cell to influence the genetic material in the nucleus of that cell. So the instruction comes from the hypothalamus. You've got thyroid trope and releasing hormone, getting the pituitary, telling it to produce TSH. And you can see there's negative feedback. So when the T4 and T3 are at the right level, the TSH levels should be lower. Now, I just want to say a word about TSH because there's often conversation about whether T3 has an influence on TSH or is a high T4 in the bloodstream enough to reduce your TSH. And to be honest, yes it is. So the inactive T4 can give you a normal TSH result and you will still be feeling awful because you're not activating to T3, the more powerful hormone. So the thyroid gland, it produces the three hormones, T4, some T3, around 80% is T4, maybe 20% T3, and then it produces calcitonin. And calcitonin is really interesting because we do have some research about its impact in the kidneys with vitamin D production. It may also facilitate the entry of calcium into the bones, but we don't have very good evidence on that. So it's kind of the forgotten hormone of the thyroid, but it's still quite an interesting one, particularly as a lot of people with thyroid disease have some issue with their production or utilization of vitamin D. And that's back to those SNPs that Dr. Kamran was talking about. So I want to talk a little bit about nutrition now. So this slide, I love this slide, this is what's happening in your thyroid as we speak, we hope. So if we look on the right hand side, you can see the iodine coming in through a transporter across through the thyroid cell. And then it's going into the thyroid follicle over here on the pink section to produce the thyroid hormone. You can see as we go across tyrosine is the protein part of the thyroid hormone and production of that is dependent on selenium. We need ATP, which is our energy currency, to move all of these various constituent parts around. That's highly dependent on magnesium. And actually we find in hyperthyroid, so Graves disease, that magnesium is often low because there's probably increased urinary excretion. And actually the thyroid, hypothyroid people may also be low in magnesium. Then we've got the DIO enzymes, which have been mentioned around the conversion of T4 to T3. They are selenium and zinc dependent. And as we move across into the pink section on your left hand side, you've got TPO, which is the enzyme which facilitates the production of the thyroid hormone. That's iron dependent. And interestingly, TPO determines how much iron we can store and use. And if our TPO isn't working very effectively, that's going to have an impact on the amount of iron we absorb and use. But we need enough iron to make sure it's working effectively. So you can get stuck in a bit of a cycle with that. And the other issue is if there's inflammation, your body may shut down absorption of iron from the gut in a separate reaction. So you often find iron issues in thyroid dysfunction. But again, iron needs to be tested before it's supplemented because it is toxic at higher levels. So then we've got selenium there supporting a glutathione enzyme for the iodination of tyrosine. So selenium is protective and it's also functional in the production of the hormone. So you can see why it's so important. It is very easy to get to a toxic level of selenium the recommended upper limit is 200 micrograms. But you can see toxicity at those levels. So probably a safer level is around 50 micrograms. And then if you see at the bottom, the center bottom of the screen, you've got zinc, which is supporting superoxide, is nutase, which is a protective enzyme in the production of the thyroid hormone. And the reason why Dr. Cumran mentioned iodine being an issue, what can happen is these TPO enzyme operates in a hydrogen peroxide bath. And if you bring a lot of iodine in, it overstimulates the thyroid gland. And you can just imagine it's working much harder and there's a bubbling of this hydrogen peroxide and it splashes around and it damages the thyroid cell. And the damaged thyroid cell signals the immune system that it needs to be cleared. And if that's happening at quite a high rate, you have an increased risk of auto-immunity developing. And obviously that could be your trigger, but you do need the genetic susceptibility around auto-immunity as well. So I really wanna talk about what you can do to improve things. So if we're thinking about producing the hormone in the first place, so this is basically producing T4. So your thyroid gland, functional healthy thyroid gland can produce 100 micrograms of T4 per day. So if you find your medication is going above that dose, there's something going on with conversion, there's something probably going on with cellular uptake. So the answer isn't necessarily to just give more and more hormone because that's not the issue. It's not that you haven't got enough T4, it's that your body isn't using it properly. So key nutrients in balance, it's interesting talking about specific nutrients and their role, but the whole diet is what's important. But these are the areas that have been studied. So we talked about iron, iodine, zinc and selenium. We've also got vitamin C, which is an important antioxidant, vitamin D, vitamin E and B complex as well are really important. B12 deficiency is relatively common in thyroid dysfunction. Protein levels, often people aren't using enough protein at all and that has an impact potentially on the tyrosine, but more importantly on blood sugar regulation, which has a big impact on how our thyroid works, but more of that later. So if we're thinking about things that inhibit the production of thyroid hormone stress, stress is a big one. And it's very easy for me to sit here and say, oh, lifestyle management stress response. But do you remember when we looked at the hypersalamus pituitary link? So the signal is going to the brain around the stress response. And the body thinks, well, if it's a very stressful situation, I probably need to conserve some energy and not produce as much thyroid hormone because I need to dial things down. And also you're going to be increasing your adrenaline, your cortisol, and that may also inhibit your thyroid function. So stress is a big one. And for some people, particularly with autoimmunity, stress can be a real driver of the condition. So they'll notice if they're under deadline, if they are having trouble at home. So for example, I often see people when they're just coming off some very stressful situation, I had one client who developed psychosis, which turned out to be thyroid antibodies, not bipolar. And that was following lots of deadlines at work and a bullying atmosphere at work, or post-divorce or post-childbirth. Anything that increased stress can have an impact on thyroid. Like I said, it's just such a fussy little gland. Autoimmunity, which we've talked a little bit about today. So whether that's graves or Hashimoto's. Pesticides, heavy metals, the gland is really sensitive to those. Selenium and zinc are similar in the same group in the periodic table as mercury. And then you've got fluoride in the same group as iodine. So they can kind of jump into the thyroid gland and take the space of the nutrient minerals. So the thyroid gland is quite sensitive to those. Nutrient deficiencies, we've covered the nutrients that are important. So if you haven't got enough of them, you're not going to be making enough hormone. If you have uncontrolled inflammation, oxidative stress, that puts a big demand on the body. And potentially your thyroid won't function as well under those conditions. You'll see more and more information about uncontrolled inflammation, unhealthy levels of inflammation. And that does have a big impact on your thyroid hormones. Eating too much, eating too little, and food sensitivity. So Dr. Cumberland talked about the gluten issue. Dairy also can be a problem for some people. But the whole, I mean, I think it's really important to work out what specific foods you're sensitive to rather than removing them and making your diet, missing out on certain nutrients. So conversion to T3 is just so, so, so important for us to feel well. So we know it's around four times more active than T4. We do produce some, like I said, maybe about 15 to 20% is made in the thyroid, but the majority is around conversion of T4. So we have diadenation, which is one iodine molecule being removed. And that's facilitated by, among others, DIO2. It takes place mainly in the liver, but also in the muscle, kidney, and brain. Now, if it's taking place in the liver, muscle, kidney, and brain, it's important, particularly around liver function, that that's optimized. Muscle is often quite hard to build in thyroid conditions. So how do you manage your diet to build enough muscle for this effect of conversion to take place? Because you need T3 in the first place to build muscle. So you can see how you get into vicious cycles with the thyroid. Kidney and brain, again, if you have a lot of psychological symptoms with your under functioning or over functioning thyroid, so for example, depression, mood, mania, and we've really got to think about what's happening in the brain. And if that conversion from T4 to T3 is taking place. And this is really important as we get older around cognitive function and memory. So things that increase the conversion, so the key nutrients in balance that we would think about, vitamins A, E, and zinc, it's important to think around toxicity levels and safe upper limits. So vitamin A can quite quickly come in at a higher level than you would like. It's fat soluble. And we store it. So it's not like you pee it out if you've had too much. You get swacked into the liver and maybe you can. Well, you can technically overdose on it. It's quite rare, but it does happen. And vitamin E is also fat soluble. So you need to be careful around the dosages. But interestingly, hardly any of our food has vitamin E in it anymore. And when I run vitamin and mineral tests on people, vitamin E is often the one that comes out low because you would expect to be getting vitamin E in, for example, olive oil or other plant oils. And what happens is at the harvesting site, they are siphoning off the vitamin E to put it into capsules. So if you test, for example, olive oil, most of the olive oils on the market in the UK don't have any vitamin E in them because it's been sold to the supplement industry. So to get the vitamin E, you need to eat the whole seed. So the sunflower seed, you could eat the olives. But if you're looking at plant oils as a source of vitamin E, most of them don't have it. An anti-inflammatory diet, okay, so that is such a broad sweeping general term. I'm gonna talk a little bit at the end about general guidelines. The diet, this is a lifelong condition. You may put it into remission, which is wonderful, but it is still not cured. So you do need to be careful for the rest of your life about how you eat. So the diet that you adopt needs to be sustainable. It needs to allow you to have a social life. It needs to give you enough energy and not be so restrictive as your terrible foods. That's my opinion now, working in nutrition for a long time. The more restrictive the diet is, the harder it is to stick to, the more likely people are to bounce off it. And the more lonely they're likely to become because they can't hang out with their friends anymore because they're eating this really restrictive diet. And well-balanced blood sugars. So it might seem really basic, but when your blood sugar goes too high or too low, if that has an impact on your thyroid, it's through insulin signaling, is one mechanism. Another mechanism, when it goes too high, your blood becomes a little bit sticky and we produce these proteins, advanced glycation end products, is where basically the sugar sticks to something in the blood and creates a product that shouldn't be there, which makes it less functional. And they then trigger the immune system, which will then have an impact on thyroid hormones. And when the inflammation is high, you can't convert well from T4 to T3. So hooray, you've made enough T4, but there's so much inflammation going on in the body that it can't convert to T3. So we have the DI02 SNP. I'm gonna talk about SNPs in a minute. Over and under nutrition, this is really around the hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia. And again, uncontrolled inflammation, oxidative stress and the high and low blood sugar. So the next stage of this tricky process is to get the thyroid hormone onto the cell wall, through the cell and into the nucleus to influence the DNA within that nucleus to produce certain proteins, functional proteins for the activity. So how do we make sure we're getting the thyroid hormone where it actually needs to go? We've made it, we've converted it. It's in the bloodstream, you do the test, the test looks normal, but you still feel awful. What is happening to that thyroid hormone within the cell? So if we want to increase the sensitivity of the cell to the thyroid hormone, stabilise your blood sugar, number one, adequate vitamin A, adequate zinc, and the right type of exercise. So what do I mean by the right type of exercise? It needs to not stress you out. So if you're doing cardiovascular exercise no longer than 20 to 30 minutes, but the type of exercise that seems most helpful in thyroid conditions is resistance training, building up your muscle. Because there's so many, so many reasons, I'm not going to have time to go into them all, but one of the big things that the muscle does is it converts to T3 and the other is it acts as a sink for excess sugar in the blood, which is so beneficial. And also resistance training done correctly doesn't drain you, doesn't make you exhausted. And the good news is some of it you can do C-suit, which is quite nice. So you don't have to do hours and hours of cardiovascular exercise. In fact, I would say that's one of the biggest mistakes. I see what my clients is, the type of exercise that they choose to do is cardiovascular. I had one woman who was running on a treadmill for two hours a day and couldn't understand why she put on three stone. So the right type of exercise and things like yoga, Pilates are very beneficial as well. Things that reduce the cellular sensitivity. So you've got less chance of getting the T3 into exert its effect. Nutrient deficiency, uncontrolled inflammation, and blood sugar highs and lows. So all of those are controllable through your diet. So there's so many different points where you can intervene in this cascade to improve how you feel. So I'm going to talk a little bit about gene expression epigenetics. Epigenetics is really interesting. So it's basically how your genes express themselves. So you have approximately six foot of genetic material in each cell. How does the body decide which bit of that genetic material to use? If you can imagine, there's little buttons on top of the genetic material and certain behaviors and nutrients switch them on and certain behaviors and nutrients switch them off. So what you're trying to do is you're trying to choose the behaviors and nutrients that switch on the good genes essentially. And that's your epigenetics. And then the combination of your genotype along with your epigenetics, that's called your phenotype. That's the expression of your genes and that determines health or lack of health. So you can see here on the left-hand side, you've got all these different factors feeding into your epigenetics or your nutrition, your lifestyle factors, that was sort of a stress idea. Loneliness is a big problem as well around epigenetics, toxicants. So pollution, plastics, exhaust from cars, all of that can have a big impact on how our genes express themselves, pathogen. So they're disease-causing agents, Epstein-Var virus. So if you've had glandular fever, helicobacter pylori, the microbiome, massive source of gene switching on, switching off. So that's to do with your, mainly what's been studied is your gut microbiome and mainly what's been studied within that is bacteria. But there's also all the viruses that live in your gut that maybe we don't know so much about. And then there's all the fungal growth that lives in the gut as well. And all of those can send signaling messages to hit the right or the wrong button. Okay, so I'm gonna talk about SNPs now. So Dr. Kamran has mentioned these. These are alterations in the genetic code that results in a change in the proteins being produced. And when you're doing reading about it, you'll come across some terms. So the wild type, that's the common form of a DNA code. And that's on both of the chromosomes. You get one chromosome from your mother, one chromosome from your father. Heterozygous, you've got different alleles on each chromosome. And homozygous, two identical variant alleles on each chromosome. So which is the good one? Okay, so wild type is the good one. That's the one that's most functional. Heterozygous, less functional. And homozygous, less functional still.  so the way I like to think about it, wild type was like you were on a motorway with hardly any cars and you're just powering down, and you've got loads of room to maneuver, there's lots of space for reactions to take place. So heterozygous, you're more like you've hit the A road. So you can still move, but maybe you can't go as quickly as you would like. And then person C with the homozygous, that is more like you're on some windy country road, it's really hard to get around, and if you get any more traffic on that road, you're going nowhere. So even if you're on the motorway, you can still have an awful lot of traffic that's causing an issue. And the traffic in this instance would be like background inflammation, nutrient deficiency, et cetera. So that's some basic terminology and a real sort of lay person's guide to what wild heterozygous homozygous, but I do find that road analogy really helpful. And the other thing to say about SNPs, and we were talking about why aren't they available on the NHS. The research on SNPs changes a lot. So even this DiO2, which was first really talked about in 2009, we still don't have like reams and reams of evidence to say that this is necessary, important, et cetera. We don't have the amount, with them, the NHS with nice guidelines, they want definitive evidence before they make a recommendation. And that can be really frustrating for people, a waiting treatment, and for people working within the NHS system. So one of the problems with a lot of this stuff is it's preclinical. So this is preclinical information, and some of the SNPs that Dr. Kamran was talking about are actually in the preclinical stage. But the problem is you're sitting in clinic with somebody with a massive problem, and you want to do what you can to help them. So if you're practicing safely, then you will use the current available evidence and adapt the protocol for the person based on the results that come back. But there is a sort of a rule of thumb around research breakthroughs taking 20 years to hit the GP practice, which is no good for you now. Nobody here wants to wait for 20 years to feel better. Okay, so the results can be one of three combinations. You remember I mentioned the wild, the hesserozegus and the homozygous. And the results will come back saying either T for 3-anine, C for cytosine, sorry, I haven't written it on. So you've got the wild type TT, heterozygous TC, and homozygous CC. So if you remember what I said about the motorway, the motorway is TT, wild type, yes, please, I want that one. Heterozygous TC, I'm on the A road, could be better, but it's not grateful. Homozygous CC, oh, okay, probably need a bit more intervention here. I'm on that country lane and I'm not going very fast. So you can see here what's happening, where it's happening. So the T4 on the, sorry, I can't tell my left, my right, so it takes me a while to work out with the slide. I want to tell you to look at, T4 is dropping through the cytoplasm, those blue lines on the top, on the right-hand side. And DIO2 is facilitating a reaction to T3. And that's happening within the cell. And you can see here, the green bar at the bottom around the nucleus and the transcription of the message. So the T3 goes to the nucleus, attaches to it and tells it, make this protein, please. This is what we require. And if you have T4, you can see T4 doesn't attach to the nucleus, so it's like, swanning around, not doing much. The other thing is, if you're taking more and more T4 medication, you begin to degrade your DIO2 enzyme. So it doesn't really help to take more and more T4 medication because there's less DIO2 around to make the active hormone. Okay, so this is what the result letter would look like. So TT wild type, no genetic predisposition for decreased T3 synthesis. Heterozygous, decreased ability of the enzyme to generate the active T3 hormone, again, you're on the A road. And homozygous, you're on the country lane. You've got decreased ability of the enzyme to generate the active T3 hormone. And the additional information that's given here is this genetic variation is associated with an increased risk of obesity. And I want you to look at that word associated. Associated doesn't mean causal. It means that they've looked at a group of people with this SNP and they've looked at their weights, but they, so there is an association, but there's no direct link proven, which is potentially why you don't get it moved up. You don't have your DIO2 measured on the NHS. So the CC and the CT, so the CC is the country lane and the CT is the A road. They're going to have reduced ability to convert T4 to T3 in the brain, skeletal muscle and brown adipose tissue. So if you're not converting it in the brain, remember I said that's gonna have an impact on how you feel. So really quite low mood, depression deeper than other people without hypothyroid disease is going to be more common. So if you're suffering a lot with very low mood, then I would consider this being an issue. Getting the, because you're going to be relying then on the bloodstream, which doesn't cross the blood brain barrier. So you're not going to have enough of the T3 to feel good and to have good memory. So we do have with underperforming thyroid, we do have an increased risk of cognitive decline, which really nobody wants. So you changing medication to a combination of T4 to T3 may improve psychological wellbeing. And about 16% of people with hypothyroid have this SNP. So that's, you know, of the total population of the hypothyroid people for every hundred 16 have the SNP. So when Lynn asked us to look at this presentation, I went through the data that we have at Regenerus and I looked at the last 200 results to see what we had found. So wild type, we're on the motorway, 39% of people who feel like their T4 medication is not working, don't have a problem with converting it according to this test. TC, heterozygous, so we're on an A road. There is a slowness that it isn't as efficient as you would like, 40%. But the CC, the homozygous, the country lane going nowhere, 21%. So we've got 61% of results indicating potential genetic issue with the conversion of T4 to T3. So the results, they come with a letter to share with your GP. And some people have used this to ask for a T3 medication prescription and to be referred to the endocrinologist to achieve that. It just gives you more ammunition, but it doesn't necessarily get you what you need. So what about the other 39% of people who tested, who were on increasing doses of T4 and still having symptoms? So this is back to the idea of the gene expression and what we can do around nutrition, lifestyle factors and improving health. So these are some general recommendations in hypothyroid and Hashimoto's. I would suggest having high quality protein two to three times per day. If you're feeling rubbish, I would probably start with three times per day. So the equivalent of a chicken breast, three times per day, but you can have vegetarian protein. Some people think, oh, I'm having a really high protein breakfast, I have eggs. So if I wanted you to have 30 grams of protein at breakfast and you said, oh, well, I have two eggs, each egg has about six grams of protein. So you're only getting 12 grams of protein. So that would be in, if we're looking at supporting the thyroid, that would be quite a low protein breakfast. So you need to look at the other foods that you could have to improve that. So maybe a higher protein bread, maybe a protein smoothie. Anyway, so just to say that eggs aren't high in protein, but you can combine them with other foods and you're not going to be sitting around eating steak three times a day, you can make it up from vegetarian protein as well. I also recommend gradually increasing your vegetables and choosing from colorful, brightly colored vegetables, sulfurous, so that's onions and garlic, et cetera. I'll show you, I have a little picture at the end which makes it clearer, cruciferous vegetables. So sometimes with thyroid patients, the advice is to avoid the goitrogenic vegetables. So that's the cruciferous ones, but as long as they're steamed, it really doesn't matter. If someone was having lots of kale or juices, that would be a problem. What the goitrogenic vegetables do is they prevent the uptake of iodine. So you don't get enough iodine into the thyroid gland. Too much iodine is a problem, too little iodine is a problem. So steam your cruciferous vegetables and you'll be ground. Controls start to carbohydrates, not, not, not, not, absolutely not, please, please, never, never have low carbohydrate diet if you have thyroid symptoms. Because what will happen if you're on a low carb diet and you have issues with your thyroid, with your hormone production, is that you're gonna be relying on fat for energy when you're on low carbohydrate. And to break down the fat, so as it can get into the mitochondria to produce energy, you need T3. You need really good levels of T3 to achieve that. This is also why fasting isn't great in hypothyroid as well. But what happens if you don't have enough T3, you use adrenaline, you use your stress hormone. So you might feel tired and wired on low carb. So don't do that. Finding the right amount of carbohydrates for you is, yeah, it's really important. And having the right type of starchy carbohydrates and thinking about things like sweet potatoes, planting, yam, white potatoes, if you're not, if they suit you. And starchy vegetables, beetroot, squash, all of those things are really important alongside gluten-free grains. Being gluten-free is usually helpful. In studies, it's been shown to reduce TSH. If you are autoimmune, definitely take out gluten. If you are hypothyroid, but not autoimmune, gluten is really quite hard to digest. And high thyroid, lack of thyroid hormone compromises your digestive system. So being gluten-free is probably a bit helpful in that scenario as well. So correct nutrient deficiency. The tests your GP can do if you push is B12, phylic acid, vitamin D, and iron. If your iron is low, you can assume your zinc is low. We don't really have a very good test for zinc. We don't know what the storage protein for zinc is. So that's why, you know, we can test the serum levels of zinc but it's not telling you how much your body is storing. But as a rule of thumb, if iron is low, zinc is probably low as well. Oh, and also if you're a vegetarian, make sure you're having double the recommended daily amount of iron and zinc. Consider additional food sensitivities, but don't cut out loads of foods because you're just going to be miserable, but you can do that in a controlled way. So what should your plate look like? Probably around a quarter of the plate is protein. So other leafy greens and salads, other vegetables, cooked vegetables, root vegetables, and whole grains. So that's generally what your plate should look like. And the aim, if it's also immune, or if you're feeling rubbish, is to try to get as much in the way of vegetables into your body as possible. So the different colored pigments represent different benefits, whether they be anti-inflammatory, anti-carcinogenic. The other thing that's really interesting about all the various pigments is that they provide an energy source. The different pigments provide energy source for the mitochondria to produce ATP. So if you think about B12, being really important in the mitochondria, it's the blue from the cobalt in it, the cobalamin. The other thing that the different colored fruit and veg do is provide food for good bacteria in your gut, and your microbiome has a massive influence on the expression of the genes in your cells. So what time are we now? Okay, so you can order the DIO2 test from Regenerus, and if you want any more information on nutrition, you can email me there. That website link takes you to, you can sign up for breakfasts that are helpful in hypothyroidism, and there's more information on how I work. So I'm very much apologized for the technical issues at the beginning. And I shall stop the share. Thank you very much, Virginia. That was really interesting again. Hope I didn't go too deep in, sorry about that. That's okay. We don't have time for questions, but I don't know if you're going to hang around till the end because I know I've only given like 10, 15 minutes for questions at the end, but Louise and I are happy to stay on a bit longer if people want to ask questions then, and if there's any, I can't answer all forward, but if you have the time to stay on till the end, Virginia, then that would be good, but if you don't, I'll find out the questions for people and send them to you. Okay, I think I can pop back in at half two. Okay, brilliant. Would that work for you? Yeah, that'd be great. Yeah, because I'd love to chat with you guys. Okay, thank you. Thank you. It's actually a great pleasure for me to be here and then the opportunity to share some of our research with you. I'm doing this work with Alexandros Angelidis. We are both economists at the University of Aberdeen Business School. So I would say at the start that none of us have got any medical training, but we are aware of the high prevalence of thyroid disease amongst a general population, and we have an interest on labor markets. And so we started to wonder whether it wouldn't be possible to identify some broad general patterns across the population on the influence of thyroid disease, not only on the well-being of the individuals, but also more broadly on societies, in particular with a focus on the labor market channel, if you like. So we started to look at the literature and we found that although there is evidence that chronic diseases affect various labor market outcomes, I'm talking about diabetes, clinical depression, and they do so by reducing employment prospects, increasing absenteeism, reducing productivity and lower wages. And this evidence also suggests that women seem to be more affected by these conditions than men. There is very little evidence that on the effects of thyroid disease on labor market outcomes. So we decided to embark on this project and do some work ourselves. The key stylized fact about thyroid dysfunctions are what informed our research questions to start with. So as we have had an opportunity already to hear today, thyroid dysfunctions are very common. We know they're also very much more common in women than in men. Hypothyroidism is the most prevalent condition and it affects women potentially 10 times more than men. Subclinical hypothyroidism is the most commonly, sorry, is very commonly detected as well. And from what we understand from the medical literature, it is typically not treated, or even though it can give symptoms to those affected. There is also a frequent incidence of undiagnosed thyroid disorders. And then the medical literature suggests that many people on normal TSH level, as we have had the opportunity to hear today also, continue to exhibit symptoms. And also the symptoms as well as the diagnosis seems to be more problematic when it comes to women. So the symptoms management and the diagnosis. So on the basis of these stylized facts, we did a first piece of work, which is appearing in a paper published in Economics and Human Biology. The paper is already online with the journal, where we asked whether thyroid disease and particularly hypothyroidism could contribute to explain gender differences in the labor market. And then subsequently, whether diagnosis and then the treatment of the disease could have a positive impact on these negative effects. We used a large sample of people, 240,000 observation that we got from the UK household longitudinal survey. This is a survey which basically follows people over time. So we followed people over a period of 10 years. And we concentrated on people of a working age, so 18 to 65. And the data enabled us to distinguish between hyper and hypothyroidism. So it wasn't a very fine characterization from a medical point of view of the disease, but we had this key distinction. And then there was information about the diagnosis. So we could compare individuals before they were diagnosed, after diagnosis, and also we compare these people to those people who never were diagnosed over the period. We thought that the results were quite interesting. I should say that this is a typical approach that we follow as economists. So we try to identify broad patterns in a large population as opposed to build our analysis on individual case studies. And the advantage of this is that we managed to obtain key stylized facts, which may be quite relevant actually from also from a policy point of view. So what we found in this paper is that thyroid disease, in particular undetected hypothyroidism, can have serious consequences for female workers. And both this female workers experience an increase in the gender pay gap. We have a base gender pay gap in society, which is around 13%. That's the difference in wages between men and women. And this pay gap goes up by 5%, so to about 18% for those women who have an undiagnosed thyroid condition, hypothyroidism. The channel that we identify in the paper is a productivity channel. So the thyroid related symptoms presumably affect the productivity of these women and this results in a lower wage. After diagnosis, this additional wage gap of 5% is recovered gradually over time and also the employment prospects of these individuals improves. So the key point that emerges from the paper is that thyroid disease can have consequences not only for the individual well-being of the people concerned, but also more broadly to society. I mean, a loss in productivity is an issue. And clearly this suggests that the early diagnosis is an important factor. Now on the basis of this piece of work, we decided to go deeper into the analysis. And can you hear me? Hello? Hi, yes, we can hear you. Yeah, no, sorry, because I received strange messages and that's fine. Okay, so we decided to continue on this line of research and one of the strands that we have identified was implemented this year with the people's experience with thyroid disease survey, which was conducted in March. We contacted people through the thyroid charities such as yours and we're very grateful for their help. We managed to get something like 1,200 responses and around 95% of these were women. So the purpose of this survey essentially was to try to get a broad picture about the well-being and labor market implications of the disease, but with a particular focus on the journey from the development of symptoms to diagnosis to treatment. In essence, in an attempt to try to understand what factors might affect the negative impact of thyroid disease on well-being and labor market. I should say that during and after the survey, we received many emails from people. Some were actually arguing that the survey didn't allow them to express the complexity of their experience. And this is definitely true. It was so by construction. And as I said, we try to identify broad stylized facts, but the kind of evidence that we obtain from the emails resonates very much with what was said by thyroid patients today. And it is pretty much in line with some of the results which come out of the survey. So both in the report and in the presentation today, you will see some of these statements scattered around which reflect the experience of the people concerned. In terms of thyroid conditions, the sample was, can be described by this graph. Essentially, we had 69% of people with an underactive thyroid. The majority of these were autoimmune in nature, 24%, there was also 14% of subclinical lymphocytes. 24% had an underactive thyroid, the bulk of these were graves, and there was also 6% of thyroid cancer. So moving on to an analysis of the results in terms of the journey from symptoms to diagnosis and treatment, the key points which emerge from the survey is that it takes considerable time for a thyroid condition to be diagnosed. Thyroid treatment may not be effective. And the diagnosis of hypothyroidism tends to take longer than that of hypothyroidism. And people with hypothyroidism have lower levels of satisfaction with the treatment. So let's see a little bit of evidence about these key points. First of all, the diagnosis was done in the majority of cases by a GP, 68% and 26% of cases were diagnosed by a consultant. In terms of the lag with which the diagnosis of care, relative to the onset of symptoms, we see that the average lag is of 4.5 years. And the lag for hypothyroidism is twice as long, twice as big as that for hypothyroidism. And between the onset of symptoms and diagnosis, symptoms get worse. So the lag is not without consequences for the well-being of people. And treatment, however, follows relatively quickly after the diagnosis is made. So the average is about four months from diagnosis. And this is a statement from a patient who had to wait about 10 years for thyroid cancer to be diagnosed. Now, the satisfaction with the timing of diagnosis and the timing of treatment is not very high. Clearly, given the length it takes for diagnosis to take place, it's not surprising to find that quite a large number of people weren't at all satisfied with the timing of diagnosis, about a third, were not at all satisfied with the timing of diagnosis. The timing, the satisfaction with the timing of treatment is somewhat better, given that it occurs quite fast, quite quickly after diagnosis. But you will see that from the graph that there is quite a large percentage of people who are not very happy about the timing of diagnosis, treatment, and even with the treatment itself. Again, we find the difference between hypothyroidism with hypothyroidism patients being less satisfied on all counts. They're less satisfied with the timing of diagnosis, treatment, and with the treatment itself. An important dimension which comes out of the service that the treatment may not be effective. So it takes about a year, up to a year, for the majority of people to start feeling the effect of treatment, but there is a not insignificant percentage of people who have yet to feel the effect of treatment. Now, it's important to stress here because we can cross the answer to the different questions, that this not yet, so the people who have yet to feel the effect of treatment are not, do not consist of people who have started to receive treatment very recently. So the treatment may not be effective despite a considerable amount of time having occurred from the beginning of the treatment. And again, hypothyroidism patients seem to be much less effectively treated than hypothyroidism patients. Now, therefore we have a situation where there is a delay in the diagnosis. There is a treatment which doesn't appear to be particularly or always effective. So the implication of this is that the thyroid disease symptoms persist after treatment. And although people will be in a labor market engagement and prospects improve after treatment, the improvement is moderate, especially when it comes to the labor market. So the nature of the symptoms, what comes out very clearly from the survey is that thyroid disease generate a combination of symptoms which overlap. And so people feel experience many, many symptoms. And what is striking is that after treatment, as you can see from the height of the two different colors histograms, the percentage of people which continue to experience these symptoms doesn't fall very much. It doesn't fall very much. So for example, you take tiredness and slowness, which is the symptom which is perceived by the great majority of people, it falls from about 85 to 79% after treatment. And it is striking that what the survey throws as an important result is that over 90%, 92% to be precise of people still experience multiple symptoms despite the treatment. We asked people what was the most severe symptoms. And again, here you see that the most severe symptoms, again, is tiredness and slowness. And after treatment, actually, there are more people experiencing than before. So the persistence of symptoms clearly has implications for the well-being of people. And it has implication also for the labor market engagement. When it comes to well-being, we see that there is a considerable drop in the number of people who are very much affected by the thyroid condition. So it goes from 55 to about 32%. But I think it is quite striking that despite the treatment, we still have 32% of people who are very much affected by their thyroid condition. And this clearly has implications for the daily life of people. As a lot of the statements we received suggest. When it comes to work, the situation is not very different. Again, there is a fall in the percentage of people who are very much affected by the symptoms. When it comes to work, but about 25% of them continue to feel that their condition is affecting them very much. So work, daily life and work are difficult with this condition. There is some improvement, of course, with the treatment. People experience better physical activity, better personal and family life, but the symptoms continue to affect them. When it comes to work, then when it comes to work, when it comes to work, the situation is actually worse because on a number of dimensions of work engagement, starting from employment.  aromain prospects, career development, skill developments, we see that there is only about 10% of people who reported an improvement after the start of treatment. For about 60%, there is basically no change at all. And for 30% of people, despite the treatment, these labor market indicators actually get worse. So the improvement in the labor market in terms of pain, freeze, working hours and so on is all very limited. We asked, we set up the questionnaire in trying also to understand what conditions could help people in overcome some of the difficulties. So we asked the question about the relationship with their employer. 78% of those employed at diagnosis informed their employer, but in 23% of these cases, the employer did not appear to be sympathetic at all. Now, this is a very important dimension because in the statistical, more in depth statistical analysis that we are doing on the data from the questionnaire from the survey, it is clear that those people who find that their employer is sympathetic towards the condition experience a lower impact of the disease on their ability to engage with work. So I mean, this suggests, become later to the policy implication, this suggests that it is important perhaps to put in place HR policies to support patients. But clearly the ability to engage with work may have very strong implications for the work prospects and also the ability to retain work for many people. Another aspect which we thought was important in trying to understand or in determining the extent to which the pilot condition can affect the well-being and labor market engagement with people is the relationship with the doctors. So the patient-doctor relationship, we know from other areas that the patient-doctor relationship is key. And what the survey suggests here is that patients do not feel on average that they are heard enough by the healthcare professionals. And this is something that even the few statements that we hear today from patients is consistent with that. People, however, felt more involved and empowered when diagnosis was made by a female consultant. And hypothyroidism patients felt less involved and empowered than patients with hypothyroidism and other types of thyroid conditions. So this is the graph on the question heard by more than a third of people felt that they had not been heard at all by the medical profession. And as you can see, this percentage is higher when it comes to GPs than consultants. So as we move from one to five, from the not at all to very much, the consultants always scores a bit better. And this sense also, this aspect of not being heard comes out very clearly also from the feedback that we received from patients. Hand in hand with not being heard, there is the sense of involvement and empowerment of patients. And here again, there's a very high percentage of people who do not feel at all that they are empowered or involved in the management of their condition. They don't feel capable of having an input. And the situation even along with respect to this dimension is better with the female consultants. Female consultants score a bit better on average. Consultants in general, but amongst the female consultants are better than male consultants. So more involvement and empowerment, when the diagnosis is made by a female consultant. Now, an interesting point again is that when we break down the sample with respect to the type of thyroid disease, we see that hypothyroidism patients feel less involved and they feel less empowered than hyperthyroidism patients. And this, I suppose, is consistent with their having a later diagnosis and having also experiencing also greater or slower response to the treatment than hyperthyroidism patients. So what can we conclude from this initial analysis of the questionnaire of the survey? It's an initial analysis because as we speak, we are doing more in-depth statistical analysis. But what we conclude from this is that diagnosis is neither the beginning nor the end of the journey for thyroid patients. It is not the beginning because it often occurs very late with respect to the onset of symptoms. And it is not the end because despite the diagnosis and the start of treatment, symptoms persist. There's a considerable time for a thyroid condition to be diagnosed, in particular for hypothyroidism. Thyroid treatment may not be effective with symptoms persisting after the start of treatment. Thyroid disease has lasting adverse effects on people's well-being and labour market engagement. And there is an improvement after the start of treatment, but they are relatively moderate on both counts, particularly when it comes to labour market. Patients on average do not feel they're being hurt by the medical profession and they do not feel empowered during their medical journey. Now, this is particularly true for people suffering from hypothyroidism and however satisfaction is higher when diagnosis is made by a female consultant. Now, one of the aims that we had in carrying out this survey was obviously to get a broad picture across a large sample of people. And we think there is value in that because if you concentrate on a particular case study, it is always possible that, for example, a medical person may say, well, you're a special face. Whereas if you identify stylised facts which cut across, which are supported by a large population, then clearly it is much more easy to say that there is a problem with a particular situation. And we think as a result of these results and as a result of the results of our previous paper, that thyroid conditions pose a problem on many counts, the diagnosis phase, the treatment, and then as it comes out here, the relationship with the medics. That's an important aspect because in the particular, in the specific statistical analysis that we're carrying out at the moment, what emerges, for example, is that if there is a higher sense of empowerment and involvement by the patients, then typically those people who feel a higher empowerment and a higher involvement also have higher satisfaction with the treatment. So the treatment is likely to be more effective. There is a shorter period before the effect of the treatment are felt. And then we find that there are positive implications for well-being and labour market outcomes. So this from a policy point of view suggests it is very important to look into the patient-doctor relationships. So on the basis of this analysis so far, we think that it is possible to start thinking a little bit about what can be done. And we have identified a few policy implications on which we hope that the results of the survey will draw attention to. So the first clearly is that there has to be greater awareness and we hope that this study can raise this awareness, can contribute to raise this awareness on the well-being and labour market implication of thyroid dysfunction. There are implications which go beyond the well-being of the individuals here. So thyroid disease poses real costs not only to the individuals but also society more broadly. For example, through the labour market channel. This results also suggest and confirm what we found in our previous paper that early diagnosis is of essence. Now clearly, as has been argued earlier at the beginning by Lin, in fact, it is important to understand why diagnosis doesn't take place more readily. And here again, I move to the point that I mentioned a moment ago about the relationship between patients and doctors. I mean clearly if patients are not being here or there is a tendency to maybe dismiss or misinterpret their symptoms because we know that thyroid symptoms mimic the symptoms of other conditions. I think some work could be done in that respect. There has to be a review of the effectiveness of treatment. We talked, we heard a lot today about the conversion between T4 and T3. We are not medical doctors here. But one of the points that emerged, for example, from the messages that we received from patients, we got a sense that and incidentally, even though the questions didn't theoretically allow that, people wrote in the questionnaire, they wrote, they added comments to their answers. And one thing which I think comes out is that a lot of patients have a sense of their being often on approach, which is a one-size-fits-all approach to their condition. And in fact, I was reading recently some medical papers on thyroid disease where the authors were advocating a more patient-centered approach. But again, a patient-centered approach requires, as a laywoman, in the sense that I'm not a medical doctor, but I think it requires a better relationship with the medical practitioners because if patients cannot be here in the first place, then it's very difficult, I think, to arrive at a situation where a patient-centered approach can be obtained. Thyroid disease is also a women's health issue. I mean, it's not solely, I mean, it affects men as well, but certainly it affects predominantly women. And therefore, I think it should be part of the women's health awareness agenda. So thyroid could well be a component of that agenda. And we were actually very surprised in reading the women's health plan strategy for Scotland and England. One is called plan, one the other is called strategy. None of them mentioned thyroid. So thyroid is not there at all. And I think an important step would be to achieve the inclusion of thyroid conditions into those plans as a means to increase awareness about the implications of the disease. I mentioned earlier the need to work with the employers to develop workplace and HR policies on organizations approach to stuff, to stuff experiencing thyroid related symptoms. And we think that a good step in the right direction would be the establishment of a UK wide thyroid task force, the same as what has been done, for example, with respect to the menopause. And we think here of a task force which brings together the NHS, the medics, the employers, the patients group, the thyroid support groups, because it's a multifaceted issue here that we are facing. And I think these results suggest that there is an issue, but it is a complex issue. And only something in a sense, which takes a kind of holistic approach to it may be effective. I'll stop here and I'm happy to answer any questions if I can. Thank you. Thank you very much, Katia. Very interesting. And can I just say that Thyroid UK did include a submission to the women's health strategy and it just wasn't included for some reason. They didn't include thyroid disease and we were very disappointed in that. Workplace information is something that is on our list to do. So hopefully we'll get that done quite soon because I know it is important. Some of your talk, I'm not surprised about the dissatisfaction, but it's very interesting to see how it affects the workplace. I know myself, I had to give up a job because I just simply couldn't do it. I was in too much pain and I had to have a job where I could decide when I worked and how I worked. And I'm sure that's happened to a lot of people and once I was diagnosed then I work more than full time now. So it causes havoc, particularly for women and something needs to be done. So we don't have a lot of time for questions, but nobody's got their hand up at the moment. So nobody? Oh, someone now? Oh, there, yep, okay. So Sariya, sorry if I've pronounced that wrong. Sariya, no, it's absolutely fine. It's Sariya, hi, hi. Sorry, I'm a bit late joining today, trying to join in between my work and calendar, which is quite hectic. But I've captured some of that presentation, which was really good in terms of what bits I've picked up. What I wanted to ask yourselves as leading experts, as those that have joined this forum space as well is, is that what is the links between the menopause, perimenopause and no predisposed thyroid condition, but the onset of it during that period and the links between the esophageal and progesterone? Because when you attend your GP appointments and you say, look, I'm feeling really unwell, something's not right, I don't know what it is and I can't get my hands on it. And you pose a question, I'm a perimenopausal. Quite often the look at you like, are you absurd? Really? At your age? No, you're not. So it's those myths and stereotypes that come around a woman when a woman can be perimenopausal, for example, and it's got to be a certain particular age. Because I for certain believe I was misdiagnosed because I was in the perimenopausal stage by the age of, I would say, 46, 47. And I was told no, it's nonsense. It's something else that's underlying that's going on. Everything was checked. And this is some, I was going back and forth from Dr, Dr. Ferrohulia, and then eventually they checked my thyroid readings, which isn't done as a given, you have to ask for that. And it should be done routinely considering there's one in 20 within the UK that could have a thyroid condition, for example. So I was perimenopausal at the time, they saw your thyroid readings are slightly out. So from that, they put me on levothyroxin, only 25 milligrams initially to start off with. But once I went on levothyroxin treatment for hyperthyroidism, this is what they were saying, is that you're on it for life, etc, etc. As we know, I felt really, really unwell, worse than before. I went to the doctor and ever since haven't really felt well, but I was perimenopausal. I'm in the full blood menopause now as well. And I think the links between thyroid and menopause, which is all linked to our hormones, needs to be looked at very closely. And instead of treating the thyroid strength to it, your readings are that high, that they're quite within the 0.456 ranges. And they go straight for treating your levothyroxin instead of addressing the eastern and progesterone levels that might be out of sync in your body. That's what my question is. And this is something that we need to look at very closely in terms of research, in terms of having those difficult conversations that we have to have with our GPs that don't understand the correct management of thyroid conditions or menopause or perimenopause stages. I know that's a bit of a long-winded thing that I'm asking. I hope you can capture the essence of what I'm trying to draw out. I'm not sure if Katya can answer that question. No, I'm not qualified to answer the question. I could only describe the experience of my mother, but it's not relevant to you. Yeah, I mean, in my experience, definitely the symptoms can be very similar between thyroid disease and the menopause. I don't think that GPs test properly for perimenopause or the menopause. Privately, you can get quite good testing done to tell exactly whereabouts you are. And we know that estrogen can affect the thyroid negatively when you're taking the pill and things like that. And I think probably that the levels that change when you're in perimenopause or menopause will affect the thyroid as well. And not enough research has been done. We definitely need more research on that. But thyroid itself isn't an area where people want to do research very often. The big issue is heart, cancer, children, all kinds of things like that. But thyroid comes right down on the list of research. And this is something that we want to do. We want to do something where we get everybody together. It's called the James Linde Alliance Priority Setting Partnership where we get together patients, advocates, advocacy people, doctors, researchers, we all get together to decide on the 10 most important questions that we want answered. And that could include menopause and thyroid and what happens. Unfortunately, to do that, it will cost about 25 to 30,000 pounds. It is on our list of projects to do when we get some more money coming in and we do now have a fundraiser. So I'm hoping it's not going to be the two distant future that we can do that. But I'm not sure that ordinary researchers are very interested in that area. Having said that, menopause has come right up in the media now. So it may be that somebody wants to do how thyroid affects the menopause and vice versa. Hopefully quite soon, but it is difficult. So everyone, as previously mentioned, I am Rachel Hill from the Invisible Hypothyroidism and Thyroid Patient Advocacy Blog and Website, which I set up in 2015 now. So I've been around for a little while. I'm here today to talk about the benefits of raising children, the grandchildren, children in our lives, to know the signs and symptoms of a thyroid condition and why we can all benefit from doing that. Next slide. So first of all, a bit more about me. I am a multi-award winning thyroid patient advocate, speaker, content creator on social media and an author of, as of today, three books. I have been involved in the thyroid advocacy world since 2015 when I was diagnosed with autoimmune hypothyroidism. So that was Hashimoto's alongside hypothyroidism, as many of us have those two things in combination going on. I had had many, many years of unexplained symptoms of fatigue, muscle fakes and pains, really heavy periods, cramping in my calves, hair loss, all of us can relate and the symptoms can just be really relentless and endless. And that was me too. And so I eventually got that diagnosis. I share real experiences of having autoimmune hypothyroidism and I work hard to improve awareness of the signs and symptoms and to encourage more of us to get that full testing and explore full treatment options, as well as consider other lifestyle interventions and changes that can help us with our health as well. So that can include things like exercise, diet changes and just how we live day to day to try and optimize our thyroid health as best as we can. With all of this, this is where making more children from a young age aware of the symptoms can tie in as well. So next slide, please. So how many of us knew the signs and symptoms of a thyroid condition before we were diagnosed? Raise your hand if you didn't. Yeah, I'm sure that's a lot of us. A lot of us didn't even know where thyroid gland was and hadn't even heard of the word thyroid before we got diagnosed and that's really not uncommon. Although we really do face struggles with feeling as if medical professionals have taken a serious seriously a lot of the time when we keep going in, complaining of these mounting symptoms. How much quicker could we have been diagnosed if we had had a bit of an inkling that it could be a thyroid condition and we could have asked for those tests ourselves? I know that I didn't have a clue. I'd spent years feeling increasingly fatigued, frustrated, achy, having all those mounting symptoms that I was talking about and I did not have a clue that they were connected to this one health condition. And if I had been made aware of the signs and symptoms of hypothyroidism and hashi motos from a young age, not least because it may have run in my family, then I could have asked for and received that thyroid test and that thyroid diagnosis sooner. And thus I could have had an earlier diagnosis saving years of lost and missed opportunities. But by the time I was diagnosed, I felt like I'd lost years of my life. And I was at the point where my health was so bad that my quality of life was quite hugely affected. And by the time I was diagnosed, my health was in a terrible place. It had gotten to such a bad condition that I wasn't able to work. I was bedbound and I often said that I felt like a 91 year old living in a 21 year old's body. So yes, I had developed a third condition when I was really quite young that as such not one doctor thought to check my thyroid function for many years despite me complaining of symptoms throughout childhood, but they were really mounting up when I got to those teenage years. Next slide please. So the very act of advocating for earlier diagnosis and treatment of thyroid issues means that we need to be increasing awareness among young people. By being open with the young people in our lives, whether they are our children, our grandchildren, family friends, we are giving them the advantage of being able to spot the signs in themselves or possibly even their loved ones, future spouse, friends sooner. Imagine if we could save them the years that many of us lost trying to get diagnosed ourselves or their future partner or a future friend who just so happens to have an undiagnosed thyroid issue or their own children one day. Thyroid issues can skip generations and many people who receive a diagnosis are shocked to learn that other people in their family have a thyroid issue too because it's just not spoken about often enough even within friend and family circles. Next slide please. So we can help future generations by being open about the thyroid symptoms we experience personally because as we all know they can differ somewhat from person to person. We can also share what helps us with the children in our lives. We can also share what flares look like for us, what helps us and how flare days might impact family life. We can also talk about what full thyroid testing looks like and how just going by TSH alone leaves a lot of us undiagnosed or under treated. Basically I think that we need to make it less of an unknown. It doesn't need to be a scary and worrying to be subject. It can be something that we have an open dialogue with the children in our lives about. Next slide please. Now through saying all of this I do want to make something clear and this is something that's taken from my book that was published today. The responsibility of managing our thyroid condition does not of course lie with our children but we can benefit from working as a team to understand what it looks like, how we can live well with it and how to get through those trickier days. Because I feel that we work best as a family when we work as a team and mutual understanding and open communication can really really help here. Next slide. Having two children who ask me a lot of questions like what are those pills you take and mommy why are you so tired some days and why can't you eat gluten like the rest of us. I decided that they couldn't be the only children with questions around my thyroid condition. There must be other children who are wondering these sorts of things too whether they verbalize them or not and we of course want to seize this opportunity to educate them so that they not only understand their grown-up situation but also so that they can be aware of the size of a thyroid condition in themselves or the people around them too. I know that by having two sons, my two children are male, the chances of me passing my thyroid issue down to them is much less compared to if I had daughters but it's still not a zero percent chance and I don't want them to go undiagnosed for even a second longer than they have to because like you guys I know what it feels to lose all of those years feeling frustrated and lost. So Thara's Superhero my new book released on this one Thara Day answers their questions in a non-scary way. It also encourages us to start what may feel like a tricky conversation but by opening that dialogue we're teaching them to advocate for themselves early on. Next slide please. Thara's Superhero covers a wide range of families represented throughout the illustrations, what thyroid flares look like such as fatigue, needing to rest and perhaps even having to cancel and reschedule plans as symptoms get in the way. It covers the third jigsaw puzzle, what it looks like to treat and live with thyroid disease and we all know that it's not just about taking that one pill of the home medication a day and then everything is fine. It's about diet, exercise, managing stress, trying to optimize sleep as well as we can especially with young children that's not always easy as well as looking at testing other things such as adrenal health in your vitamin levels as well which can often impact thyroid symptoms and mimic a lot of thyroid symptoms too. Thara's Superhero looks at how working as a team can benefit us all and how every thyroid superhero benefit of every thyroid superhero parent can benefit from having their sidekick as in their child to work as a team in this situation. Next slide please. So as you've heard throughout this world thyroid event, thyroid issues are often genetic and we have an increasing range of tools available to deal with this. So let's get the conversation going between adults and children and let's open a dialogue. I think that's key to supporting one another with thyroid disease and making more people aware of this genetic thing especially from a young age and within our communities. I've been Rachel Hill, thank you very much. Thank you, let me go back. Thank you very much, we got there in the end didn't we Rachel? Thank you. Does anybody have any questions for Rachel? I think we'll be putting things out for anybody that would like to purchase your book. I think there is a question from somebody. Louise will sort that out. Yeah, mirror your microphones on. Hi, to answer the question I was just going to ask where we can purchase the book. And so it's on Amazon if you just search for the name thyroid superhero that should come up. You can also follow me across social media and you'll find that I'm sharing lots of pages and I'm doing an Instagram like.  and I have laid it out today as well. So if you want to actually see what's in the book and decide if it would be helpful for you and your situation, then you can do those things too. But yeah, if you search on Amazon, it will be there. Thank you. Thank you very much. So we're really grateful for that. I think it's an excellent idea. I know when I was poorly, I missed many years. I was ill for 15 years before I was diagnosed. The relationship with my children wasn't as good as it could have been because of that. So I think what you're doing is great. It can be truly devastating. And I think there's this bit of sweetness of me being diagnosed so young. So I was 20, 21 when I was diagnosed with thyroid condition. And sometimes I wish that I had developed it and been diagnosed later so that I could have more of a normal young person's life. Yeah, had I been diagnosed at that point, maybe with children who were 10 or in their teen years, I think maybe that would have been a lot harder than me being able to get more of a grip on it before now having children in the last few years. So yeah, it's such a tricky subject. And I hear from so many other fellow thyroid patient parents. Really struggling trying to navigate this, the best that they can. Yeah, it is hard, very hard. So I think what you're doing is the first step to raising awareness of that demographic. You know, generally everything is leading towards older people, but you know, there are a lot of younger people too. And that's something that we want to do to try and reach younger people. And you know, hopefully the move to our new office is going to give us a lot more time to be able to do more projects like that. So thank you very much. So thank you very much for having me. Okay, so I think it's a question time now. If anybody's got any questions that I might be able to answer for you. And if we get a lot of questions, we're willing to stay on a little bit more if anybody's got any questions about anything really, treatment, diagnosis, whatever. But if not, then we'll end the webinar now. Thank you so much for coming. I did want to just pop up this. So we hope you found it interesting. If you do have any questions, send me an email to enquiriesatthyroiduk.org. And I do answer the questions. If it's really busy, it might take me a little while, but they do get answered much quicker than on the telephone because on the telephone I can be on for 45 minutes to people. And as you can imagine, I wouldn't get many queries answered during that time. But thank you all so much for coming. I hope you have had a good day and that you've learned a lot. And I'll see you again at the next webinar or if there are any other questions. So Maggie has a question. Go ahead, Maggie. Maggie, if you turn your microphone on, we should be able to hear you. Yes. I have lost amongst the technology today and I lost an awful lot of this, but what I have heard is very important. But you said something, Rachel, that a lot of people don't realise about thyroid. And Dr. Barry Peatfield explained this to me many years ago. And he said that when we treat our thyroid, we really need to treat the adrenals first. And I wanted to know, Rachel, what you've got to say about the adrenal glands before you go, because I had two synactin tests. And what the synactin tests do not show up is if you've even got 86% depleted adrenals, they will only show up prospective adenosine disease and you need to be 94 or 95%. The adrenal disease is not picked up. You're seen as somebody who's just neurotically looking for an answer for something, but the adrenal glands are pivotal. And I wondered what you had to say to that before you go, I truly appreciate that. Yeah, so to start, obviously, have to make aware that I'm not a medical professional, so I can't give advice or anything like that. But from the thyroid patient perspective, I am aware that you either end of the scale, with adrenal issues, you can have adenosines and Cushing's disease. And we know about this. I think what is still kind of up for discussion, in a way, and is not as well recognized within definitely mainstream conventional medicine is this idea of adrenal dysfunction or there's another term of adrenal fatigue that kind of mounts around, but isn't quite as accurate. I was a patient who at the time I was finally diagnosed with my thyroid condition. My adrenals were wrecked by a lot of us. And I had a four point saliva cortisol test throughout the day that showed that my cortisol was just chronically high constantly, which although I was on thyroid medication, I was starting on levotharoxin like a lot of us. It kind of explained why I was getting nowhere and I wasn't feeling a lot better. And actually I was feeling a lot worse to begin with. I then, like a lot of us, embarked on trying to figure out what I could do to address that adrenal dysfunction side of things and to bring the cortisol down to normal places. And this took a lot of persistence over a year or two, I would say, to finally get the cortisol back to normal place so that I could actually reap more of the benefits of my thyroid medication. And I feel like that was truly helping. I think when people first get diagnosed with a thyroid condition, you're kind of given a pill or prescription and you're sent on your way with telling anything else. And a lot of us living this know that it often takes so much more than just taking a pill every day. It's this thyroid jigsaw puzzle with many pieces that kind of slot in together and pieces can differ from person to person. The adrenal issues is one of those, which is really common among a lot of us. I think a lot of us, especially at time of diagnosis, have some level of adrenal dysfunction. How far out of whack that is will differ from person to person. And I hear from people that struggle with really low cortisol, really high cortisol, but yet it's not enough on tests to show up as addisons or cushions. And perhaps it is not, but just like pretty much any other health condition, I think it's really important to be aware and to continue to push for more progress and research in this area. Because like so many other health conditions, I don't believe that adrenal dysfunction has happened just on one end of either end of the scale. I think there's got to be some room in the middle where like we know with thyroid issues, you don't just fall within range and then you feel fine. A lot of us know that we feel better at certain places within these ranges. And I think that's got to be the same for the health issues. It's just a lot of stuff, surely. It's very important what you've just said. Can I also just say that I have, I don't know if anybody can see this, but I came across a book by Anthony Williams. I don't know if anyone can see this called Thyroid Healing. It's called Thyroid Healing, how important certain foods are for us. And I started to, I start this once I'd been diagnosed with bipolar when I went into the menopause, which I'm not discrediting from Dr. Michael Craig because I have a lot of respect for him, but it's not just that. He said there's three different components. Your endocrine system, your hormone system, and the limbic system, it all goes down with the menopause for some women because there's a subgroup of women whose dopaminergic system does not cope without the estrogen. The other thing is for those who start taking estrogen, there can be problems because estrogen fights for thyroid. And that's when I hooked on two years ago that it might be my thyroid because my mother had it, my sister had it. But what this book tells you, which is quite important is there's a drink, if we take pure, apart from the artichokes, if we take pure celery juice every day, there's a cluster salt in it. And that cluster salt builds up the adrenal glands and other cells in your body. And once I started to do that, I began to feel my brain clearer than I've ever felt, but nothing has taken away this laboured brain and laboured fatigue that I've got. And it's impacted on every aspect of my life, but it is worth looking at. And I also had with Virginia, see you've just popped up in the screen, we sent off to Regenerus as well, and you sent back a whole list of stuff that we were to look at from methylation to other stuff, but nobody could understand it for me. And because I'm now on pension credit, I couldn't work out, Virginia, what the Regenerus was. Nobody could help me. So I'm not any further forward, but the juicing does help because you have to look at your diet, but you definitely need to find out which aspect of the system has broken down because it's easy to diagnose you with bipolar depression when you're very, very depressed. But my four or five sisters have it as well, and nobody's really, really listening. So I don't know other than the cell reduce and waiting. I've also asked a Dr. Monica Laska, who used to work for Marion Gluck Clinic. She has been my lifesaver over the last few years, and she's going to get what you've just mentioned, Rachel, an index test for me now, just to see exactly where my adrenals are and see if we can build on it. But I think when you become very depleted and your thyroid becomes, when your thyroid becomes, you're not producing T3, I think you start developing hypodrenalism and all these other things and you're quacky. And this can be misinterpreted as bipolar. It's so complex and it's so... I don't think the GPs really have got the training to understand the sensitive complexities that were all unique human beings, that were all unique women and men, were not all the same, and that all these, sorry, all these categories that we're given in these labels are so unhelpful because it might get you your pit like me and enable you to go out for a few walks in the day. You might receive your pit, but it doesn't help you to get better because it shuts down any of the other professionals from realising, actually, this girl maybe lacking in T3, her mother was, her sisters are, but I'm not seen as that in Twickenham with the local GPs that I'm with. I think it's a highly complex thing and it's so easy. It's so easy just to label you. And I haven't given up because I have faith, family and friends, and I know I'm going to get better from what I've heard today and from what I'm going to do and what I'm going to further investigate with Monica and also the earlier talk speaker you had about all the complexities of the thyroid that can happen, that ordinary doctors don't get the training in because it's very limited. It's like the menopause. They don't know how important various aspects are. They don't even know that when you're given estrogen, if you start abreacting to it, that there's something wrong with your thyroid because the thyroid is grasping for the, the thyroid is grasping for the thyroxine. The estrogen sucks it up. Well done, Maggie, stick out. Thank you. Thank you, Maggie. I appreciate it. It's very complex. There are certain people, some people with thyroid disease get better immediately. Some people take longer and some people, it takes a really long time because it is so complex and other things are involved. So I wish you all the best with that. But I must go on now. I think somebody else has a question. Yes. Go ahead, Tabitha. Sorry. It's only to go off what Maggie said. I totally, I really sympathize because I've been going back and forth to doctors for a number of years now, having depressive symptoms. And I think it's mostly frustration. I think that's what gets us upset. We feel like crap. That's a crap. You're not getting anywhere with, you know, I remember calling the doctors and being told that my thyroid was out of whack. My TSH was borderline. And yet I was struggling to just function. And I just started my lovely new job, which I'm still in. And I just couldn't return information. I was crying, actually crying, begging for help down the phone. You know, GP, they were saying, we can't help you because your thyroid is just in, well, it was above five. And she was telling me that my thyroid was normal. And I said, I don't feel normal. Yeah. So I totally understand and see if you upset there. I totally resonate with you because the amount of times I've been in tears, feeling so, so frustrated. My heart goes out to you, honestly. And I think most of us can probably agree with that. Absolutely. The trouble is there's so many different aspects. So many different aspects. And GPs can prescribe when you go over the range because the range for TSH generally goes up to about 4.5. Nice. I think nice have stated that you don't need to be treated till you get to 10, which is we've always, always disagreed with that. It's ridiculous. What's the point in having a range? If you're not going to be treated when you go about the range. They change the range as well. They actually change that range. I put in a saracast for all of the thyroid tests that they've done on me because I just couldn't believe what they were telling me. And I, it says on there to keep an eye. Read your. The thyroid tests, subclinical, possible subclinical hyperthyroidism. And have they done it? No. It's me that's had to like just keep on it them and just be a pain in the backside. I've literally gone right on their nerves because I've had enough. It's so frustrating. It is. Some of the people, but they won't test the T3. I asked them in there when they were doing the test, I said, will you test my T3 as well? She said they won't. They test your TSH. They may look at your T4, but they won't look at your T3. Unless you, your TSH is of a certain level. Now that's just ridiculous. They don't even look at T3 if your TSH is super high. They don't. And that's why years ago I set up being able to allow patients to get the test done privately. And I know a lot of people think, well, I can't afford it. I can't afford it. Why are you doing that? But some people can afford it. And if we can help those people while we're campaigning to try and get it done for everybody, this is the thing. There are so many things that are just so wrong in diagnosis and treatment. It really is. But it can be a event of the bite. Do you know what I mean? I might not be dealing with this now had they dealt with it sooner. And they're still saying it's normal. And it's not. No, it's not. Absolutely not. Thank you very much. I think we have someone, Michelle. Hi there. Hi. I just want to take a slightly positive story. I've listened to the majority of the day today. I can resonate with so many of you guys on here about all the trials and tribulations you've been through, about trying to firstly get a diagnosis and then get this appropriate treatment. And a positive note, I just wanted to say hello to Rachel and you're an absolute angel because thanks to you and thanks to your book, oh my god, talk about going and fighting your own corner and getting armed. And honestly, I've been off work for the last two years. It's been honestly just an absolute shambles from start to finish between having a hysterectomy, finding out you're still very in cancer, the joy of surgical menopause, then it was all underactive thyroid. But even that was at the very start of the journey. So the biggest, and amongst all that, the biggest thing was trying to sort out your thyroid and then going back and arguing with doctors about your normal, your within range and then actually finding out for yourself what that means. My god, the difference between your within range to your now optimal range, I went in armed with my nice guidelines to be able to say, listen, I'm still not right. I know I'm not a doctor, but here's the proof because you've started your case saying, well, I think I should maybe try this and I should maybe try that and straight away the GPs have no I'm not doing that, I'm not doing that. And then I've started quoting, well, nice guideline to say this and any for you and say this and here's this book I've read and then straight and then after that, straight away they've agreed. Yeah, you're totally right. I think we should change our medication. I think we should refer you to end of your normal day. I think we should know that. So you're wanting somebody to listen. So it is just a positive thing going in the last couple of months. I've fought my corner. I'm finally optimal range. Oh my god, night and day. I am a different human being and it's just so nice. So yeah, just a wee thanks and I keep fighting. Just keep doing it. Yeah, just keep doing it. You know yourself, you know yourself as an anybody else. Definitely. I'm so I'm so glad that has helped. I think one of the best places we can start is to learn how to become armed with like the information in the vocabulary to go in and kind of fight our corner. If I think in my books, I talk about ways to prepare for like medical appointments. And there are some very simple things we can do just to have a doctor actually listen instead of, you know, I don't want to get into like Dr. Bashing or anything like that because there are many wonderful doctors out there. I'm interested in all doing their best. It's just a few bit of information, what a difference it makes. Yeah, they're doing the best with the information that they have and we're trying to do the best with the information that we have. And I'm all for trying to create a working relationship with a medical professional and it might not be the first GP you go into. It might not even be the second or third. I think at my NHS GP surgery, it took me, I believe I got to like the ninth GP. It was one of the very last doctors that was actually there. So it was a very large surgery. And so I finally found one who would agree to test TSH to even check my thyroid antibodies. I just wanted to know if my hypothyroidism was autoimmune. And he agreed to test that full panel. And at that time, I'd also self sourced my NDT medication, which so many people unfortunately have to, to get any kind of quality of life back. And he was willing to sort of run those tests alongside that every couple of months. He didn't give me grief for doing that. He understood the situation I was in. I understood the situation he was in and that he was quite limited. He referred me to an endocrinologist. Endocrinologists had absolutely not to any form of T3, whether that be leothyrinine or NDT. And we kind of formed this relationship. The best information that we had at the time, but and then the best resources that we could get. But I think part of making that successful can include knowing how to go in speaking assertively with the information. Like you said, you can either have a link or print out a copy of the nice guidelines, quote them, have them on your phone. I've done all of those things too. And it can just help us get that a little bit further. And if you do go in with a doctor who is just not listening, kind of making you feel a bit like a hypochondriac, brushing you off. We've all had those appointments where we come out and we just want to scream or we have a bit of a cry because we're so frustrated. Just know that you can go in with a fresh start with a fresh plan, take someone in with you. Things drastically started to change for me when I started to take my now husband, but at the time my boyfriend in because quite frankly, they don't listen to women, the hysterical women in the same way that they will listen to a man going in complaining about symptoms. It's a bit of an ongoing joke between my husband that he will call the doctors for something like an ear infection and he'll be seen the same day, medication the same day, and he's right as rain within a few days. I had issues with infections. I had 10 ear infections last year and it took me 11 months for me to finally get it resolved. And that's with someone who is already assertive and knows how to sort of work their way around to get to an outcome. And women are often sort of pushed aside as having psychosomatic, mental symptoms as opposed to actually treating a real physical cause. And if you've got something you can take in and it shouldn't be the case, but if you do have a male partner, a friend to take in with you, little things like that just might get you listened to a little bit better. And even if they're not, you don't have a male friend and you want to take a sister or a female friend or you have a female partner that you want to take in, then they can still also provide that alternative point of view from. I know that for me in the early days, when I was feeling absolutely awful. And so of course I got upset in the doctor's office quite early on because I was fed up. They would listen to Adam, my husband more compared to me kind of getting upset quickly and crying and saying, I've got hair loss and I'm so tired and nothing's working. They could hear him saying she used to be able to walk like five, five kilometers a day and now she can't get to the end of the street or I have to help her in and out of the shower or hearing that other perspective is something that's quantifiable. Seemed to add so much more weight to the conversation and that is one very simple hack which I appreciate. Not everyone has the budget to pay for private testing or see a private doctor, get private prescriptions and things like that. But there are some very simple hacks that don't cost a thing that we can do that just might get a bit further along. And just to end, I know I've sort of rambled on a little bit, but to end what you're talking about in terms of optimal levels and things like that, we can all start with a good baseline by getting a printout of our latest thyroid test results and they can't say no. In fact, if they do say no, you can go through sort of a formal procedure where there are forms involved that you can request, but they would really have to put up a fight to deny you a copy of your test results because that is your medical information. You can get a printout of those and you can check where you actually fall within range. So the ranges for each test result are quite wide. Falling within range means you could fall anywhere within there. Having levels that are optimised often mean that you fall at least mid range if not slightly further up within that range. So basically you fall well within the range, not only just in. And that can make, as you said, a huge difference to people's quality of life and symptoms. It made a huge difference to me and to so many other people that I hear. And going in and requesting that is actually a very reasonable request. You're not actually asking for a different medication or anything that is too woo-woo and too crazy out there. You're just asking to be moved within the reference range that they already go by and that they are already okay with. So again, that is something very simple that a lot of doctors, if you go in sort of prepared in the right way, will consider. That's not an absolutely crazy thing to ask for. But yeah, there are lots of things like this that we can kind of learn to do and go in with a bit more confidence and just see if we get a bit closer to feeling a bit more back to normal, if any of us can remember what that all feels like, right? Can I just say that we have some information about how to prepare for your visit to the GP. And I completely agree with you, Rachel. Something I always tell people is, if you possibly can, take a man in with you. It shouldn't be like that, but it really, really, really helps. And as far as the test ranges for TSH anyway, NICE made a change in their last guidance where they're kind of saying that if you still have, if a patient still has symptoms, they can go anywhere within the range. Whereas a lot of doctors worry once they get to about 2.5, they don't want to go any further. But for some people, just one point within the TSH range can make a huge difference to how they feel. So do bear that in mind as well. But try and take the guidance, take the NICE guidance with you if you're going to have a conversation and make sure if you can, have a man with you. Something I did right when I was really ill and I went in and I started crying. And the first thing he said, oh, they're there. Are you depressed? Would you like to have some antidepressants? Yeah. And I actually stopped being, no, I don't want antidepressants. I'm just fed up because nobody knows what's wrong with me. I'm not being helped. I'm so ill. So taking a man in like Rachel says, it gives their view of things, of how you were and how you are now and how things have changed because a lot of doctors reduce the levophoroxin and they get their symptoms back. So if they've got a man with you or someone else, if you prefer to do that, they can say, well, she was fine before you reduced the dosage. Can you please put it up again? And it does work that way. So do be aware. So thank you very much, Rachel, for that. That's really interesting. And I completely agree. I think we're on the same page on those things. Yeah, there's a lot of things that it shouldn't have to be this way. But while we're still making progress in other ways, if there are small things that can just help us in the meantime, it's worth sharing this stuff. Definitely. Yeah. So someone else got a question. So I think that was Michelle, wasn't it? I'll take your hand down. Yeah, Karen. I've put it into the chat. But this point about getting your test results, I don't know if it's national, but through the NHS app, you can access your results. And in my area, we have an NHS patient portal. I can see all my results going back historically, at least to the point they've started to put them on. So I get them pretty much before the doctor. Well, actually, I've got them looked at them, figured out what I've got, even before the doctor has. And I've gone in and told him, these are the results. That's what I've got. Sort me. So, you know, the NHS is actually really trying to be more overt. And they really can't refuse your records.  they really can't, they're yours, it's your health. So unless they think by giving you the records you might go and kill yourself or do something ridiculous and they'd have to be pretty clear about that to stop you, they just can't, it's not, it's illegal. And so by just saying, you shouldn't even have to get to that conversation with them, really shouldn't. So just know your rights and if they're going treating you like an imbecile, then treat them like one and tell them that you're the General Trump card that you know what you're doing and you've got the information. You all know more than many of the doctors know just by listening to you know. So I have said I'm not into taking men in because it makes us look weak and we're not weak. The very fact that you've dealt with all of these things for all of these years may and brought up children and families and work makes you very, very strong and I'd say stronger than many men. I'm sorry, I feel strongly about it but I feel that it's very absurd. There are still some older ladies particularly. I understand that. I feel that the doctor is God and they won't say anything. I know that I have an 84 year old mother and I have a mother-in-law like that but I managed to convince them in the end and they now get cross. It's just that they can't get into the surgery to have the row or even get the appointment. There's the real difficulty. Well that is now trying to get in the stock. Yeah so I'm just trying to encourage you all really and to feel empowered because you really are anyhow that's my rant. Okay, thank you. Tabitha did you have something else to say or is that as your hand up from before? Yeah I do have just one more thing to say. Only to just do your homework basically for everybody. I agree with Karen. I haven't got a guy to take in with me but what I have done is to do my homework. In fact I've disagreed with the surgeon recently. He didn't think I had a particular condition and I disagreed with him and I told him why. And it's because of that because I had done my homework and gave him my reasons. I've now been referred to genetics. That goes a long way I think. Although I can understand some may need to take a gentleman in with them. I think it's really important that you learn your stuff and go armed with what you know. Absolutely. As long as you're insisting on it because it does go a long way. Yeah I mean take some of our information in. Unfortunately though when you're first diagnosed or even for a while you have brain fog. And we know people find it very very hard to take in. It's a complex situation Thyroid. It's not simple just take this white tablet and you'll be well. It's not that simple and people do struggle with reading the information unfortunately. And sometimes someone else can read it. It could be a man it could be a friend. But then the friend needs to understand thyroid issues as well. It's not that simple sometimes and you have to find your way of dealing with it I think. That's the issue. Oh yeah I could put you get that because I've had the brain fog and I still get it. I still have my days you know. And if I'm feeling particularly rough I'll save it for another day you know. I'll just rest. I know about that. I haven't I haven't held everybody but this week I've got Covid at the moment. So organising this webinar and doing today has been a struggle I will admit. But we got there in the end so. You did it and you did it marvelously. I know what a week to get Covid though eh. Oh dear well I think that's everything guys. Thank you so much for coming. It's been really good to have a chat and thank you so much to all my lovely speakers who've been amazing absolutely amazing and given us a lot more information even me. I've learned something from this webinar. So I look forward to hopefully seeing you all at our next one. Thank you have a good rest of the day. Thank you very much. Bye. Bye.

=== FILE: Vitamin D and the Thyroid [eaWal-NC1iI].txt ===

查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查 them in the UK is autoimmune. This is really really important and so what I would always recommend is to make sure that you have optimal levels which I'll come on to in a bit. In studies it's more likely you're more likely to have thyroid antibodies if you are severely deficient in vitamin D and so that's quite interesting and studies also show that most people with autoimmune thyroid disease can't process vitamin D as well so they probably need to have more of it to maintain good health and of course in the UK you know we sometimes get a bit of sun in the summer but we don't get it all year round and even the government actually recommends that we take a supplement every day. So having said that if you have hyperthyroidism you're more likely to need more I would always recommend that you're in the normal to the high range if you get tested. We can't get enough from food and as I said we can't really get enough from sun either. If you do want to think about getting it from your food then good places to get it are Wild Salmon and Coddliverol but supplementing all year round is recommended. So what kind of dosage should you buy? You should be at least 3 to 4,000 IU. The best way though is to test and I would always recommend that. I'm not really recommending taking that amount without testing first because it is dangerous to have too much and you can do that at your GP but if they won't do that then you can do it quite easily online you can send off for a kit. There's a company called Better You which do it but there are lots of other companies as well and then when you get your results you ideally want to be in the 60 to 80 nanograms per litre range for good thyroid receptor and immune system function. So that's 60 to 80 nanograms per litre. Of course if your hyperthyroidism is not autoimmune it's still really important to have good levels of vitamin D. They don't necessarily have to be in the higher range but I would recommend them to be in the center of the normal range so they're not kind of you know drifting up towards the bottom. It's important for all immunity not just autoimmunity. So I'm Alice Godfrey and you can find me at Alice Godfrey Nutrition on Instagram, Facebook and I have a Facebook group called Get More Energy Thyroid Support for Tired Women. So thanks for watching see you soon.

=== FILE: World Thyroid Day May 22 [RgKLN2QNUrk].txt ===

 Hello, my name is Lynn Minott and I'm founder and CEO of Thyroid UK. This year, for World Thyroid Day, we're going to be looking into how people's mental health is affected by their thyroid disease. I have my own story about my mental health. When I was undiagnosed for so long, it really affected me. It affected my work. I had to change my job. It affected my family life. I couldn't do things with my children. It affected my husband because I said on more than one occasion that I didn't want to be here anymore. And I lost friends because of it. Friends stopped inviting me out because I kept turning them down because I didn't feel well enough to go out. So my social life was affected as well. And I'm sure that there are a lot of people out there with similar issues to me, some worse, some not so bad. But we need to raise awareness of how thyroid disease affects our mental health and we need to chat about it really. So we are going to be looking more at things like depression because there is a lot of research out there that shows that people with thyroid disease have depression either because of the reason that it's affecting their life or because it actually is causing the depression in the first place. So we're going to be doing an online survey and I'd be really grateful if people could participate in the survey and we'll be writing a report about the results and we would like people to give us some quotes so that we can let the policymakers know how it's affecting us. Do bear with us when we try and write the report and do the analysing because there is only three of us that work for Thyroid UK. We do look a lot bigger but there's only two of us actually that work in the office. So it might take us a little while to get that done. We do really need more funds. We need more staff to do more campaigning and to do projects so we don't get any money from the government. We do get donations from people but we would be really grateful if you could possibly donate on World Thyroid Day and it's easy to do that by texting hashtag WTDAY short for World Thyroid Day to 7085 and you'll be donating £3. We would be really grateful and this would help us to help you. We'd do more campaigning, more projects. We're also asking you to take part in other activities for international Thyroid Awareness Week which follows World Thyroid Day so do watch our other video to find out all about that. Thank you very much.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:58.456364Z ===
