houseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouseshouses swollen glands, night sweats, debilitating headaches, widespread body pain, weight gain, a puffy face, slow digestion and fatigue. I was given so many different diagnoses, ranging from every psychiatric disorder under the sun to chronic fatigue syndrome and fibromyalgia. Psychiatrists kept offering me cocktails of extremely potent psychiatric medication and when none of these medications worked, I was told I would need to start taking lithium. As a precautionary measure, I was informed that my thyroid needed to be checked before starting the treatment. This really was a blessing in disguise, as my blood test revealed I was very hyperthyroid and I had Hashimoto's thyroiditis, an autoimmune thyroid disease. I was so relieved to finally have a diagnosis that confirmed my suspicion that there was something very physically wrong with me and that my symptoms weren't all in my head. I naively thought that now I had a diagnosis, my condition would be easily treated. How wrong I was! Thankfully, I had two stable years on thyroxine and I was able to return to university and complete my studies. But soon after I graduated, the terrifying symptoms returned and the nightmare was about to begin all over again. I demanded copies of my lab test results from my GP and it turns out my thyroid had been going increasingly underactive during the last few months of my degree. However, I was not informed of this and so my thyroxine was never increased despite the fact my thyroid gland was being progressively killed off by the autoimmune disease. I've been sick for the past three and a half years and it's been a living hell. Despite my clear diagnosis, abnormal thyroid blood test results and ultrasound scans, doctors have refused to believe that my thyroid could be responsible for my ill health. I've consulted 40 doctors in three different countries and not one of them has managed to get me well as they have insisted that I'm suffering from either ME or a psychiatric disorder. One of my diagnoses was myofascial pain syndrome and I was forced to endure painful invasive surgical procedures on my spine to try and eliminate my pain. Of course, this did absolutely nothing and I was sent away from the hospital with a prescription of liquid morphine. As I haven't had any recent success with T4 or ARMA, I am now embarking on a T3 treatment protocol. From talking to other patients and through my own research, I finally have found a really supportive and extremely knowledgeable doctor to guide me. I have also discovered that I have adrenal fatigue, pre-diabetes and other hormonal deficiencies as a result of my thyroid condition not being treated properly over the years. All of these tests had to be done privately and at my own expense. This is just the beginning for me and I know I have a long rocky road ahead. Without the support and encouragement of my family, friends and online thyroid patient communities, I would not have made it this fast. I have learnt so much from fellow patients who have also been forced to spend years researching this medical condition. This illness is ruining lives. Like so many other fellow sufferers, I can never get the years back that I have lost to countless misdiagnoses and inadequate thyroid treatment. We are not alone as thyroid patients. This is a huge global problem and we need to keep fighting for the proper medical care we deserve so that we don't have to be our own doctors anymore. Wow Wow