 analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys the opportunity to express my points of view. I talked a bit rapidly in the two divisions of what I had to say. I had nine pages of notes, and I had to abbreviate those down to what I thought were the most pertinent points. I talk about, first of all, what I consider paralyzing factors that make it difficult for fibromyalgia patients to fully recover their health. And I talk about the progress being made, and I definitely think progress is being made on behalf of fibromyalgia patients. Nowadays, in fact, going back some eight to ten years, I think we have most alternative, holistic, complementary, natural medicine clinicians, practitioners on our side of the fence, seeing fibromyalgia as a complex metabolic disorder, and seeing the treatment of choice as integrated metabolic therapies, usually involving thyroid hormone therapies other than T4 replacement. In addition, and I think this is very important to consider, it's relatively newly happening, and its importance, I don't think, can be overemphasized. We are making inroads into mainstream medicine, which up until relatively recently was almost exclusively paralyzing in terms of being able to help fibromyalgia patients get well. This is something that makes me feel satisfied, excited, enthusiastic, and hopeful. And I hope that you feel the same way after listening to my segment on progress that's being made. Thank you for listening. What I want to talk about now is paralysis within the field of fibromyalgia. And by paralysis, I mean creating a helpless inability of fibromyalgia patients to fully recover their health. I think there are three causes of paralysis in the field of fibromyalgia. One is scientific incompetence in terms of an overall understanding, theoretical understanding of science. I'm not talking about individual experiments and methodology, which is often done very competently. I'm talking about the overall understanding of science, sophisticated science, higher level science. science. Also, there is censorship that creates paralysis, and there is tyranny. And within this brief 10 minutes, I hope to be able to cover all of them sufficiently to make my point. The problem with fibromyalgia began, I think, in the very earliest years of the 1970s, when a group of endocrinologists did studies using the new TSH test and found that patients who had the lowest levels of TSH compared to those who had higher levels within what then was the reference range, which as most people know was frequently changed, had a number of supposedly abnormalities that the others didn't have. They had more salt in their urine, seven-beat faster nocturnal heart rate, and a little bit elevation of a particular liver enzyme. The researchers thought that these were indications of thyroid toxicity or the syndrome of overstimulation with thyroid hormone. Later, that was determined not to be the case. In 1989, at an endocrinology conference, the rational Canadian endocrinologist Robert Volpe pointed out that those findings were simply physiological variants. They were normal, fell within the 95th percentile, and weren't abnormalities at all. But unfortunately, at that point, well, way before that, in the mid-70s, the TSH test proved to be extremely financially profitable for the drug companies that produced the tests and sold them to laboratories. And the financial profits created a juggernaut that couldn't be stopped. So big, powerful, and moving, forceful that reasoning and arguments that it wasn't the be-all and end-all of diagnosing hypothyroid patients and determining what their treatment should be. It wasn't the case. It shouldn't be the standard of practice. About that time, in the early 1970s, as a result of those researchers recommending that all clinicians cut their patients thyroid hormone dosages in half, a lot of people became sick with what boils down to hypothyroid symptoms. There was a particular subset of these people for whom probably a substance P level was too high because the gene that codes for it was disinhibited by too little thyroid hormone regulation. And these people had chronic widespread pain and tenderness and were considered among those people who for a long time had been considered to have fibrositis. The word fibrositis came from a surgeon who in the early 20th century had done some histological studies, tissue studies, and thought that he found evidence of inflammation in the connective tissues. Well, studies after the advent of the TSH test as the be-all and lindal of fibrositis patients showed that in fact there wasn't evidence of inflammation of the connective tissues. And so in 1989, at the first international symposium on fibromyalgia and myofascial pain syndrome, which I attended at the University of Minnesota, the condition was renamed fibromyalgia, which simply means pain of muscle and connective tissue. Now, back in the early 1970s, it was a Canadian rheumatologist, Dr. Hugh Smythe, who previously had referred to fibrositis patients as having hysterical conversion reaction, unresolved emotional conflicts that sneakily expressed themselves as socially acceptable physical symptoms, backed up and said, wait a minute, something is seriously wrong with these people, physiologically, organically. And he interested other researchers in studying these patients. And that began the study of fibromyalgia. In 1989, at that conference where the name was changed to fibromyalgia. Hugh Smythe was, by that point, considered the father of fibromyalgia. That was warranted, I think, because he had gotten research on these patients starting. The researchers, the mainstream medical researchers who were studying fibromyalgia patients, bought into the TSH, being the be-all and lindal. And it was sometime around this period of time that the endocrinology specialty prematurely and falsely announced that using the TSH and treating patients with thyroxin or T4 alone was the gold standard for diagnosing and treating hypothyroidism. The mainstream medical researchers, mainly rheumatologists studying fibromyalgia, really bought into this. And they considered that these patients must have some other mysterious cause for their symptoms that couldn't possibly be thyroid hormone because they had reference range TSH levels. Well, there are other indications that somebody might have an adequate thyroid hormone regulation of their tissues. And at that very conference at the University of Minnesota, evidence was presented, such as Dr. Issa Marwad's histological study showing that the tissues of fibromyalgia patients were virtually the same, the abnormal findings were virtually the same as those of hypothyroid patients. And I talked with him at length after this, weeks afterward, and he thought that indeed we were on to something in looking at inadequate thyroid hormone regulation as a cause of the problem. However, in the late 1990s, Hugh Smythe, the father of fibromyalgia, was asked to write the foreword to a book that updated us on the overall view of mainstream medicine regarding fibromyalgia. And in his foreword to the book, Hugh Smythe pointed out that, well, researchers in the field of fibromyalgia, the mainstream researchers, become interested in a particular subject. It may be abnormal brain waves or decreased blood flow through some particular part of the brain. And they restrict their interest to data only that relates to that primary interest of theirs. And they forget a long line of research going back to the early 1970s. That has been a fatal flaw of mainstream medicine in studying fibromyalgia because any serious, hardcore scientist knows that if you are to understand the phenomenon you're studying, you need to be aware of the full scope of knowledge on that particular phenomenon. You have to have a gestalt, which means you understand the individual components and from those you can deduce things that aren't known yet that may give rise to treatments that in healthcare might believe a particular condition such as fibromyalgia. But the rheumatologists didn't do that and the other mainstream fibromyalgia researchers. Well, my research group and I did that, we have considered all of the data going, stretching back all the way from the beginning all the way up to today. And when we use deductively formulated theory, which is the logic of science that cosmologists and mathematical physicists use, you can come up with the best of all answers. And that we have. We have. We have come up with the conclusion that inadequate thyroid hormone regulation is the main underlying factor of most patients, fibromyalgia. Not all patients, but most patients. And if you look at the deductively formulated theory and the tests that we have performed to practice that basic logic of higher level science, it's obvious that there is no competitive hypothesis with the inadequate thyroid hormone regulation hypothesis. There are no ranking competitive hypotheses. They don't even measure. So, what's the problem in the nature of fibromyalgia? Well, a problem in not understanding the nature of fibromyalgia has given rise to an unfortunate outcome. In about 2000, when my book, The Metabolic Treatment of Fibromyalgia was published, a lot of the mainstream medical researchers went off into the default conclusion that, well, since they couldn't figure out the nature of this problem, it had to be a psychiatric, psychological one. Other researchers joined hands with big pharma and began working with medications for fibromyalgia. So, not curative medications, but ones that at best are palliative in giving the patients some reprieve from symptoms, but certainly not a cure. And often these medications make patients even worse. So, what we have is essentially a division of labor in the field of fibromyalgia. We have, on the one hand, the division of practitioners, researchers, clinicians who are working to develop these drugs, such as Lyrica, Cymbalta, Amitriptoline, Cyclobenzapine. And we have a division of clinicians, mainly natural medicine clinicians, complementary, alternative, whatever you want to call them. I refer to them as alternative medicine physicians who work earnestly and intently to fully relieve patients of their fibromyalgia so that they become fully functional and able participants in society again. You know, it strikes me that the mainstream medical researchers who haven't considered the whole expanse of knowledge of information, objectively verified information we have on fibromyalgia patients, are missing out, truly missing out on an understanding of science. If you look at people like Einstein, for example, the he considered the expanse of knowledge, objectively verified information in the field of physics and and philosophy in formulating his theories of relativity, the specific in general, and in developing along with Max Planck quantum physics. physics. There was Orsted, for example, in 1820, who explicitly described thought experiments, which Einstein took to heart and used as his main method of developing his theories and working out his point of view of the world. He knew about Maxwell's theory of electromagnetism, published in 1873, long before he was working in the patent office to develop his theories, and Maxwell showed that electricity and magnetism were really two aspects of the same thing. He claimed he wasn't aware, but there's evidence that he certainly was aware of, Nicholson and Molley's 1881 and 1887 experiments clearly demonstrating that there wasn't an luminiferous ether that the entire world consisted of, of, and this figured into his mathematical calculations that gave rise to to specific relativity and general relativity. So it's clear to see that if researchers don't appreciate and consider the full range of objectively verifiable evidence we have, they're not going to understand fibromyalgia, and that happens to be the state of mainstream medicine in regard to fibromyalgia. Censorship, I'll just mention one example because there are so many. I could do an entire college seminar on them. The editor-in-chief of a popular fibromyalgia magazine, Fibromyalgia Aware, asked me to write an article on the relation of fibromyalgia to thyroid hormone resistance because of popular demand from their readers. And she herself was interested in it. My editor and director of education of the Fibromyalgia Research Foundation, Jackie Yellen, and I worked on the article for several months. And knowing that some of the old guard rheumatologists who studied fibromyalgia were on the editorial board, we were very careful to produce a diplomatic and palatable article. We turned it in, and the magazine stalled on publication of the article for almost a year, and the editor-in-chief avoided my calls for most of that time. Finally, I got her on the phone, and she admitted and agreed with the term that! our article had been censored by members of the editorial board. And guess who that was? I think it was some of the same rheumatology fibromyalgia researchers who had shot down acceptance of our double-blind placebo-controlled studies back in the late 1990s because they knew our line of research. And I think rubber stamp the papers don't publish this paper. Tyranny. Tyranny is there in the sense that the endocrinologists never bothered to prove that having an in-range TSH level is healthy, beneficial, right, ethically and morally. They never proved it was tenable through experimentation or through deductively formulated theory. Yet, nowadays, and for a long time in virtually every city, they have endocrinologists who function as thugs, almost as though they're thugs in organized crime, who see to it that if clinicians are getting patients well, second fibromyalgia, by using thyroid hormone therapy that doesn't involve the TSH and thyroid hormone levels and thyroxin or T4 that these clinicians are summarily punished, many losing their license. So, involved in the paralysis of our ability to help fibromyalgia patients recover and become functional again and get off disability and is partly due to incompetence in understanding the overall scope of fibromyalgia, censorship and tyranny by the endocrinology specialty. So, that's the long and short of that and what I would really like to get into now is the progress that's being made, the inroads that are being made into mainstream medicine and that's something to be positive about. I want to talk now about progress in the field of fibromyalgia as a thyroid disorder, having done a clip on sources of paralysis in the field. We are making inroads into mainstream medicine and I think this is something to be delighted about and certainly that's the reason for enthusiasm considering the obstacles placed before us some 20 years ago. Doors are opening now. The conservative medical school, state institution, Stanford University Medical School, is in the process of conducting a study as we speak on the treatment of fibromyalgia with T3 therapy. I've communicated with Dr. Ian Carroll, the chief investigator on the study. Oddly, he was not privy to the 20 years, some by the 20 years of research by my research team with the Fibromyalgia Research Foundation. Unfortunately, once a study is in process at a university, it's very difficult to stop it and change the protocol. Consider that the researchers have to go through an institutional review board analysis to make sure that the study is safe for humans and so on and so forth. It's difficult to change the study. I anticipate some shortcomings in this study, which I will write about once it's published. Hopefully, Dr. Carroll and his colleagues will take to heart the suggestions of shortcomings and do further studies. But Stanford University Medical School is not the only school, the only institute, conservative institute, that has now began to move into the area that my research team started some 20 years ago. The United States National Institutes of Health, NIH, is considering doing a study of chronic fatigue syndrome in fibromyalgia patients, considering them as having thyroid hormone resistance. And, of course, the appropriate treatment for that condition is T3. And parenthetically, our research team has been characterized as using T3 only in its treatment of fibromyalgia patients. That's not true. Many of them are simply hypothyroid, and we traditionally have treated them with both T4 and T3 therapies, either desiccated thyroid, preferably, or synthetic T4 and T3. Nonetheless, for thyroid hormone resistance patients, superphysiologic dosages of T3 are usually necessary, and that probably will be what occurs at the NIH. And that is a significant inroad, as my research team and I were persona non grata for many years at the NIH when the old guard rheumatology fibromyalgia researchers were on the committees that decided whose studies would be advanced and whose weren't, and ours weren't, of course. In fact, some of those old guard rheumatology researchers were on committees when we applied for grants from other organizations, and recognizing our line of research, they almost immediately rubber-stamped, don't fund this study. They're simply a prejudice against the viewpoint that fibromyalgia was a metabolic disorder, and usually involving too little thyroid hormone regulation. But those times are past. There is a highly astute, brilliant rheumatologist in the northeastern United States who treated fibromyalgia patients for the standard drugs, amitriptyline, cyclobenzaprine, lyrica, cymbalta, that really don't work. At most, they might give some palliative relief. But this rheumatologist reported that he had never gotten any fibromyalgia patients well with those treatments. He began using the treatment protocol that I described in my book, the metabolic treatment of fibromyalgia, and then reported he had a 77% success rate. For various reasons, he was called before the board for using this treatment that wasn't approved by the guidelines committees of the endocrinology specialty, which is nothing but T4 replacement, clearly the lousiest approach to thyroid hormone therapy. This rheumatologist is arranging to do a study to show that T3 treatment of fibromyalgia patients is both safe and defective, and that's in the works, and I'm serving as a consultant to that study. This year, a doctor in Italy conducted a study of 120 fibromyalgia patients and found that 41% of them had autoimmune thyroiditis, had elevations of one or the other of the anti-thyroid antibodies, thyroid peroxidase for thyroglobulin. Her name is Dr. Bozinski. Pardon me, I am an Anglo-phile and speak only English, and I'm not sure about the pronunciation of her name. But having found that 41% of the 120 fibromyalgia patients had autoimmune thyroiditis, she has conjectured that the autoimmune thyroiditis was there probably a considerable time before the patients developed symptoms of fibromyalgia, and then those symptoms developed as a result of the inadequate thyroid hormone regulation that occurs subsequently to autoimmune thyroiditis. This stimulated the editor-in-chief of the magazine for the fibromyalgia network, Kristen Thorson, to end the silence of her group and her magazine on the metabolic and thyroid approach to fibromyalgia. She conducted an interview of me that was published in the magazine, and this provided a lot of people, many people subscribed to that magazine, and it gave a lot of them probably insight into what may have happened to them that led up to their fibromyalgia symptoms. It might have been thyroidectomies, chemical ablation of the thyroid gland, naturally developing hypothyroidism, naturally developing thyroid hormone resistance, or whatever, but I think that is a real coup. Eight years ago, the third edition of the textbook of natural medicine, a huge two-volume textbook that what I call natural medicine doctors, alternative, complementary, whatever one wants to call them, but I call them natural medicine doctors, and many mainstream clinicians use these textbooks. I was asked to write the chapter on fibromyalgia for the third edition, and that, too, was a coup, because previously, only the old guard rheumatologists who began studying fibromyalgia and have a very mainstream medical view of the condition always were the ones to ask chapter, asked to write chapters for textbooks. But eight years ago, the viewpoint that fibromyalgia is a metabolic disorder usually involving inadequate thyroid hormone regulation, as well as other metabolism-impeding factors, made it into the textbook. About eight months ago, the editors of the textbook of natural medicine, Dr. Joseph Pizzarno and Dr. Michael Murphy, asked that I update and rewrite the chapter for the fourth edition of the textbook, which is published by Elsevier in the UK and should be coming out hopefully around the first of this new year. So I hope that those of you interested in fibromyalgia and who appreciate it as a metabolic disorder involving abnormally low metabolism, usually related to hypothyroidism or thyroid hormone resistance, possibly complicated by nutritional deficiencies, a pro-inflammatory diet and physical deconditioning, and the use of metabolism-impeding medications, such as, for example, propranolol and a lot of the anti-anxiety medications. Positive developments are occurring, and we are making inroads into the mainstream medicine, which, in my opinion, is largely a paralysis of progress in the field of fibromyalgia. As developments occur, we will do our very best to keep you abreast through publications in drlow.com, fibromyalgiaresearch.org, and our open-access, peer-reviewed international journal, Thyroid Science at thyroidscience.com. Positive things are happening, and I hope you, as we, feel good about that. analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys analys