 ect. Excellent. Thank you very much, Lynn, and good morning to everybody. This lecture is very much about adrenal function and how adrenal function can impact thyroid function. And because of that, I have made the assumption that most of you, which I know the members often are, are fully aware of thyroid hormones and what testing of those and how they interact with each other. I will obviously reference them, but I won't go into a great deal of detail about how thyroid works so much as how neutrinals impact thyroid function. So, in the first instance, I'll get this to a kick, the adrenal glands and the thyroid glands are definitely connected to a point. They're both glands that produce hormones and are part of their endocrine system, and they share a connection. They both have a pathway which starts in the hypothalamus, which then goes via the pituitary, and then ultimately to release of hormones. The hormones' signals of the adrenals release cortisol, which is often referred to as our stress hormone, and of course, our thyroid hormones are released via the appropriate signal. So, what we will refer to a lot going forward is going to be the HPA axis, which is our hypothalamus pituitary adrenal axis, and it's equivalent in the thyroid, which is the hypothalamus pituitary thyroid axis. So, for my own sanity and everybody else's, we will refer to this HPA and HPT going forward. To be honest, most clinicians know that there is a complex relationship between the stress response controlled by our HPA axis and thyroid functions. Both the adrenal and the thyroid glands share this similar signaling pathway, and they are tasked with managing energy. So, it's not surprising that there is a relationship between these two axes. Since thyroid hormone is needed for normal development and regulating metabolism in the adult, some people suggest that where there are issues with the HPT axis, it may be as part of a down regulation during a stress response to conserve energy. So, in this webinar, we will look at how the HPA axis influences the HPT axis and therefore thyroid function. Corsair, as we said, is our stress hormone. It's released by the adrenal glands in high amounts when there's a dangerous situation at hand. If the danger is a predator, for example, cortisol helps us to fight or run away our fight and flight response. This is a very old response, and in general terms, modern humans and what we're exposed to in terms of modern day stresses, this system was never really designed for. So, it's not surprising that with all of the modern day stresses, our adrenals often struggle to cope properly. But cortisol, of course, is released as part of our normal function, and what we see is what's called a diurnal cycle. So, we see at the highest levels of cortisol, first thing in the morning, it's part of our response to get up out of bed and get going, and then throughout the day, it starts dropping down, and ultimately, we should have very low levels just prior to sleeping. Functions, of course, are numerous, but the main ones are, it is actually an immune suppressant, and as I'm sure many of us are aware when you are given steroids or cortical steroids as a medicine, that's usually to dampen down some part of the immune response. It maintains blood pressure and increases blood glucose to give us energy. Again, it's part of that fight and fight response, and increasing fat breakdown and fat storage. So, all of that is designed for that short-term getaway from danger. It was never designed to be constantly triggered, which is what we see in modern day stresses. So, the activation of the HPT-axis in certain stresses appears to reduce the HPT activation, but it's often in a rather unpredictable and contradictory manner. We will see later that sometimes it can make increased thyroid hormones, sometimes it can suppress thyroid hormones. What I know from research, and I have slides on other presentations to show this, is that we can show stress profiles in certain conditions. For example, PSD and in depression have very characteristic stress profiles, and we know that many of these conditions are also reported to have complex associations with thyroid function also. So, the published research is limited, but evidence shows that therapies and practices that balance and improve our adrenal function can at least indirectly benefit thyroid function as well. So, here we will describe some of those relationships and have a look at the mechanisms of how that can be. So, to do that, we're going to need to review some of the background science of all this. One of the key concepts of stress is that the adrenal glands themselves are the glands that under stress, but they're the first glands to fail under stressful conditions. So, they are the primary glands that deal with stress, but because of the way modern stress happens, they're often the first wings to start showing fall function. And the other thing to remember is that when we look at all of the symptoms and results of stress, most of that is related to excessive stress responses, not necessarily the stressor itself. So, just to review how all of this works, the HPA axis, as we said, starts in the higher regions of the brain, and the hypothalamus will release CRH hormone as well as AVP, but we're talking about CRH in this instance, which both make their way to the anterior apaturitrate. And once there, CRH will stimulate ACTH, which will enter the bloodstream and ultimately cause the adrenal cortex to manufacture our cortisol hormone, but also another hormone called DHEA, which we'll talk a little bit about later. In common with all these pathways, there is an effective feedback, but in the first instance, cortisol, as we've said, is mainly around mobilizing glucose and providing energy. The cellular actions also principally aid through genomic actions, actually, in the release of ACTH causes changes in the way our genes work, which then causes changes to our metabolism. And as we said, there is a second hormone, which is DHEA, which we also measure in our stress profiling, because this goes along with cortisol. It sort of counterbalances cortisol, and in a healthy function, in adrenal function, those two hormones should be in balance, where there's excess of one over the other that often leads to problems in itself. So we have this feedback layer, so that once cortisol has been released, it is detected, and this then causes a down regulation in the HPA axis via the hypothalamus to now reduce cortisol production. So we should see a nice predictable release of cortisol in an optimal way, where this whole system is functioning properly. And most of the stress responses that we are measuring are related to dysfunctions in this feedback mechanism. If the feedback mechanism can often lead to extended activation, i.e., no resolution of the stress problem, so we're producing an over-producing lots of cortisol, or ultimately, when this goes on for too long, it can often go the other way. And now we see feedback which limits the stress response and starts reducing cortisol production. So our HPT axis is very similar to the HP axis, in that again, it begins at the hypothalamus, this time releasing TRH, which is stimulating, interesting is that that response is stimulated by things like food intake, cold stress, and leptins, which we'll talk a little bit later on. And TRH is transported to the pituitary where it stimulates TSH, and TSH release, which again is under saccharine regulation, and I think a lot of medics that understand that daily levels of TSH do vary, and that that needs to be taken into account when doing testing. And TSH will bind to the TSH receptor in the thyroid, which stimulates the production of our thyroid hormones. So here, I'm hoping you're all familiar with this part, but as we know, there are several different thyroid hormones, and they're differentiated by the number of iodine molecules and where those iodine molecules are attached. T4 is primary hormone, and T3 is the second primary hormone, both of which in circulation. T4 is described as being relatively inactive in comparison to T3, but it makes up about 80% of our hormone secretion from the thyroid gland, whereas active T3 makes up about 20%. Both are bound to carrier proteins, such as thyroxine, bilidgoblin, and this is important because whenever we're looking at hormones, whenever they are circulating on carrier proteins, and the same is true of cortisol, they're in an inactive form. That's our transport system, and the bilid proteins have to be removed before the hormone becomes active. So the amount of active hormone in this case is probably less than 1%. And when we're looking at cortisol, this becomes really important, and the total cortisol levels from blood sampling is often gives us a very inaccurate measure of the amount of free cortisol, which is that important point. The difference here is that blood tests have good free hormone measurements, so you'll be familiar with 3T4 and 3T3. So we have good blood tests to do that. There are no equivalent blood tests for measuring cortisol. The only way we can measure blood tests free cortisol is with very complex technology, but the answer to that problem, as we'll see in the end, is to measure saliva. So conversion of T4 to T3, as we know, is accomplished by a series of DiDNAs enzymes, and these are expressed not only in the thyroid, but most importantly, they're also expressed in different body tissues, and they're expressed in different amounts in different tissues. So most T3 is produced in the peripheral tissues from the conversion from T4. And as I'm sure many of you are aware, that most medics still don't understand this concept, and a medical school has still taught that the TSH stimulates thyroid to produce T3 and T4, but you still don't get the most important bit, which is that T3, the most active hormone. Most of that is going on outside of the thyroid. T4 T3 regulates the synthesis of TRH and TSH in one of these negative feedback mechanisms again. In addition to the negative feedback, there is also a more central regulation of the HPT axis, and this is where things like nutritional signals, leptins, peptides can also come into regulating the amount of activation of the HPT pathway, both hyperfamers and in local tissues. Regulation is controlled by nutrient status of the cell, for example, which can alter thyroid hormone signaling activity again by modifying things outside of our DNA and genetics. The expression of different types and amounts of these DIVA enzymes greatly affects how much thyroid hormone activity, how much we have of those most important active thyroid components. There is also this second mechanism, but again, I believe most of you will be aware of, is that we can convert T3 to a form of reverse T3, which is a very inactive form of T3, and where this happens in excess, it's going to be at the expense of our active thyroid hormones. People talk about this as being a negative regulator of thyroid activity. Some people describe it as either inactive or inhibitory hormone. It would be wrong to describe it completely as inactive because it does have activity, it's just very low compared to our main hormones. If you believe that why we have this function is a sort of protective mechanism, perhaps it's a way of mopping up excess T3, which in its active form is a very active and potentially damaging hormone. So what is the connection between our adrenal axis and our thyroid axis? Well, the mechanism of the adrenal activation influences thyroid functions has been explored for many decades. It's not actually you. I know it's often not recognised by the Ministry of Medicine, but it is not a new concept. So I noticed from the literature back in 1997, Han Saley Memorial Lecture, Han Saley was one of the pioneers at looking at our stress responses and how we adapt to stress responses. And at the 1997 lecture, it was presented that the activation of our stress response axis is generally associated with a decreased thyroid hormone status. So we have decreased TSH and inhibition of that peripheral conversion to T4 to T3. So in general terms, when we're under severe stress, at least or ongoing stress, this tends to lead to a down regulation of our thyroid hormone production. The underlying mechanisms contributing to this are multiple in that this seems to happen at different parts of those pathways. We know that CRH, for example, will downregulate TSH production. We have a direct influence by ACTH on TSH, direct influence of cortisol on TSH, and this influence on the conversion of T4 to T3. It's even ACTH in cortisol will both cause activation of the D3D ionized enzyme to create more reverse T3. So the influence of the stress pathway on our thyroid pathway is at multiple different levels. One thing to mention at this is what we call inflammatory stress. So in stressful conditions, we often get the release of inflammatory cytokines, which is associated with activation of hyperphytosperituritary and adrenal axis. So these inflammatory cytokines may also affect thyroid function at the level of the central nervous system at least. So we have a link here that both stress and thyroid function are affected by situations where we have a high level of inflammation. So in a human clinical study, for example, where they sort of deliberately induced inflammation by giving an injection of gamma interferon in otherwise healthy people, we saw a decrease in plasma TSH and plasma T3 concentrations. So there is some experimental evidence to confirm that. And of course, there was also an increase in our inactive reverse T3 was found as well. Then as the more physical traumas, for example, surgery has often been shown to affect our thyroid axis. Surgery induces a hypermetabolic state characterized by increased cortisol also. And studies have shown that levels of TSH decrease, T3 decreases, reverse T3 increases. Whereas levels of T4 tend to remain fairly stable with our increased release of cortisol. So perhaps this is an example of post trauma such as surgery where the thyroid hormones have changed. The one that doesn't seem to change too much is T4. So it's an example of where that might not necessarily be the best measure of what's going on in our thyroid. High cortisol levels don't always mean low hormone levels. But generally speaking, there is a strong connection. So in their observational study, where they looked at the relationship between cortisol and TSH, they found that the result showed that a positive correlation between cortisol and TSH levels, meaning that elevated cortisol levels were correlated with elevated TSH levels. Then we have perceived stress. Remember that when stress is concerned, it can be physical, in obvious things like trauma, following surgery. But most of the stress that we're dealing with in testing is more perceived stress. If your mind or the brain believe that something is going to cause harm, then no stress responses will be triggered, even if it's not physically going to do so. So activation of stress pathways by these groups have also been linked with thyroid status. So again, when we're looking at a study on hyperthyroid women, for example, increased TSH levels was a general indicator of hyperthyroidism were found to positively correlate with higher levels of perceived stress. And interestingly, also subjects with hyperthyroidism had higher BMI, and they had these high stress scores indicating that they were under stress at the time, TSH levels, and lower levels of 3 to 4. Here's another experiment which they often do, psychiatric studies on students where they expose them to various stresses. In this one, it was medical students who were having important exams coming up, and they found that the thyroid axis before and after exams changed, and that the response was actually slightly different between genders. Other studies have shown similar relationships between levels of perceived stress and hyperthyroid biomarkers, particularly TSH. The one that doesn't is when we're looking at subjects which are described as having burnout. This is again an adrenal stress situation where they are showing emotional exhaustion and largely an inability to cope with stresses. These people didn't really show much of a change to thyroid hormone stages, but that's because this condition is the opposite of what we've been talking about so far. This is the end result and of adrenal axis failure where we're no longer producing free cortisol that we need. So this is a kind of opposite scenario. Autoimmune thyroid. The link between stress and autoimmune thyroid conditions appears to be limited mostly to hyperthyroid conditions. There is a link between uncontrolled stress and autoimmune conditions generally, and thyroid is no exception to that. But overall studies trying to link stress to hypothyroidism, particularly Hashimoto's, has been difficult to show an association. It may be because the course of this condition is very long term and goes through different stages, but there is definite published evidence linking Graves disease, for example, with posterior stress, where it is commonly cited that severe emotional crises or disturbances occur just prior to the onset of Graves disease. For example, in one study looking at Graves disease reported having more challenging life events, both negative and positive compared to controlled subjects. Nonetheless, the exact mechanism linking stress and Graves disease is not really that fully understood. And not all studies have necessarily shown that direct link. Metabolic stress and thyroid function. This is a bit more interesting in some ways. Thyro-Hormone status and body competition appears to be closely related. We've already mentioned in some of the previous slides that obesity has an effect on our thyroid hormone measurements. Thyro-Hormone is involved in regulation of metabolism, lipid and glucose metabolism, thermogenesis, food intake and Fox fat oxidation. So therefore, our thyroid access often in concert with our adrenal access acts to adapt both to under and over nutrition. When calories are limited, for example, the thyroid access is downregulated and an attempt to preserve available energy. Obesity and my thyroid dysfunction are common conditions and frequently coexist. Thyro-Hormones are present typically in obese adult subjects as high TSH and low to normal 3-T4 and a high to normal level of 3-T3. One study found that circulating TSH levels were higher and 3-T3 levels were higher in the obesity-competitive lean controls. The bit that struck me in looking at that data was just how much higher and suggested that TSH levels were 100% percent higher than in normal controls. That's going to have a profound effect on TSH levels in terms of measurement for blood tests as with our 3-T3 levels. Population studies suggest that higher levels of T3 often see their big subjects, maybe a result of some kind of resetting of the thyroid set point in that the thyroid is now establishing a new level of what it thinks they should be. There are a few other proposed mechanisms to explain the relationship between obesity and hormone production. However, the mechanisms are still not fully understood. One proposal is back to our denies and enzymes again where we're showing that this in obesity can lead to higher conversion of T4 to T3. It may be an adaptive mechanism for increasing energy expenditures due to increased fat mass. Another proposed mechanism suggests that obesity is associated with state of thyroid hormone resistance so that the receptors as we see here are not reacting to the thyroid hormones in a way that they would have done other ways. We know for example that the TSH receptors can be reduced as much as 6 to 7% in obese subjects compared to normal subjects. This is adaptive in that these receptors change their expression. For example, following gastric bypass where the subjects significantly improved their fat mass would see a significant increase in the presence of these receptors. BMI decreased by 33% and this was correlated with a decreased level of TSH and 3T3. Another proposed mechanism suggests hormone leptin interacts with thyroid hormone metabolism. This is a strange one. Leptin is a hormone produced by our adipocyte. It is also involved in the regulation of body weight through hypothalamic signalling resulting in increased thermogenesis and decreased appetite. Leptin levels increase as body fat increases. So in addition to our normal thyroid and adrenal hormone responses to starvation, leptin levels are also affected by under nutrition as levels of leptin decrease. At this point I thought I'd present a case that is not a new case. I've had it for some time but I think it highlights just how these two things go together. It is quite an extreme case but often that's the best way to make a point. So some time ago I've been doing thyroid testing in particular. I came across a case of a 41 year old female. She had a very extreme history of psychiatric induced stress. She had a history of depression. She had some suicidal tendencies. She certainly suffered from anorexia and probably had bulimia as well. She was needless to say extremely thin and underweight and she had severe symptoms of IBS and gastric symptoms. She had become as part of her many psychiatric issues, she became obsessed with detox and she had taken statements from the internet where we had to detox is vitally important and I think there's even a book called detox on die out there and she took it really quite literally and apparently at one point she was having coffee enema eight times a day for over three years. So with that extreme symptoms it was I think it's helpful to see well how does that affect typical thyroid results and it also highlights the problem with thyroid testing which I know you is a big part of thyroid UK education program. So what we can see here first of all is that the TSH was 2.5. Now typical hospital values would regard that as normal as I'm sure many of you know. In terms of a functional assessment or how we're trying to educate conditions 2.5 is pretty much at the high end of what  we would regard, recall, normal. So its flag has been yellow here. Similarly, free T3 was slightly low, but again, would have been regarded as normal. And crucially, the reverse T3 is higher than is considered to be normal. So at this point, it highlights that the GP, for example, is classifying this lady as not having a thyroid issue. The functional medicine approach would be saying, well, there's definitely evidence of suppression there and a sort of underactive thyroid. So when we looked at our stress profiling, it kind of wasn't a surprise that it was not exactly normal. She had what's called an elevated car response, which is the first morning response. On an ALTES, that's the first three samples that we've taken. And this is regarded as the most sensitive measure of a severe stress response. She had all three levels way above what they should be. And this type of response is associated with depression, which we know is one of her many problems. And it's regarded as a first stage of the long-term stress response. She would have had a very high levels for a long time. And what we're now beginning to see, which is when we looked at the DHEA, that that system is beginning to fail. So this is long-term severe stress. And she has elevated cortisol inhibition of T4 to T3 conversion, as measured by our reverse T3. So the other thing we looked at part of the stress profiling would be her DHEA levels. Remember, we said that DHEA is sort of counterbalances cortisol. So ideally in this case, where she has very high levels of cortisol, she should have high levels of DHEA. In fact, she had the opposite. She had low levels of DHEA, which means that when we look at the ratio of cortisol to DHEA, it's all cortisol and very little DHEA. So this again is a bad stress response. And it's an indicator of poor HPA adaptation, which is an indicator that her stress system is now beginning to fail. So that's an extreme case, but it does show the link between those two things. At this point, I just want to introduce a study I came across a few years ago, which is looking at the relationship between clinical diagnosis and lab testing, which again, I know many of you will be very familiar with, but the value of clinical diagnosis of thyroid dysfunction is often limited. And clinical manifestations of disease very considerably. So, you know, you have this idea of your made students have been looked up that chapter from whatever book they're looking at says, thyroid disease manifest as A, B, C. Needless to say, with most conditions, I guess it does sometimes, but it also manifests as D, E, and F quite frequently as well. And look, everybody with a similar adrenal problem doesn't necessarily have the same symptoms. So physicians in general do tend to rule out thyroid dysfunction much more frequently in their established diagnosis of thyroid disorder. But this is the study I came across, which I think highlights this, because this is a published work. This isn't just people's opinion. And what I did is they took three eminent endocrinologists and asked them to assess the thyroid diagnosis and treatment options for 55 patients who had suspected thyroid disease. So they were given the medical notes and they were able to do a full physical exam. But the interesting and most significant point is, is that all three of these endocrinologists changed their minds and altered their clinical opinion in one third of those cases when they were presented with the blood test. So without the blood test, they made one diagnosis, once they were given the blood test results, they changed that diagnosis. So an agreement on thyroid dysfunction was almost perfect when the results of the blood test were known compared to trying to do a proper clinical evaluation without them. So I'm a career, a laboratory scientist. So yes, of course I'm going to say how important laboratory testing is, but this is an example where a clinician to get the right answer does have to order up the right test and also be able to evaluate those test results correctly, which is also a problem. So if only patients with nearly suggestive symptoms of thyroid dysfunction are evaluated, then many patients with thyroid disorders will remain undiagnosed. I suspect a lot of members of the thyroid UK will be saying, yes, tell us about that. And it's imperative improvement routine laboratory screening to identify such patients so that the appropriate treatment for thyroid disorders can be instigated. But maybe we should also be including adrenal function, because if we do correctly diagnose and we have got the right test and we have a vision of what we want to do to fix that, there is strong evidence that we need to also make sure our adrenals are functioning properly to make that happen. So we've talked about adrenal function, I've talked about course soul and the HLA, I need to talk a little bit now about how we actually assess that. So I've mentioned that we do our testing using saliva and there are very good reasons why we use saliva rather than blood tests. And mainly it's to do with this free fraction. The stick with cortisol is carried around the body, bound to carrier proteins, and it's about 95% inactive and bound to those proteins. We're interested in only that two or three percent of the cortisol reduction is actually active, because the 95% does nothing. So if you do a blood test that says, well your cortisol seems to be perfectly normal, that gives us no information about that free component. And what we see time and time again is normal blood test results with abnormal saliva results because we're measuring that very sensitive free component. Remember, we don't have the luxury of having free blood tests. Saliva is really the only way to measure that free fraction. The assay needs to be incredibly sensitive, but what we do have now is diagnostic semitips that are manufactured specifically for the measurement of these hormones from saliva. I guess I should mention at this point, because it's not on the slides, is that if you make a case for saliva testing and it's very convenient, you don't have to have blood tests, you can do it at your own home and collect your ingenuity, people are probably saying, why can't we have thyroid tests done by saliva? Fortunately, the answer to that is that they don't work. Thorough hormones are conjugated differently, which means if you try to measure, they do exist in saliva, that the levels are incredibly variable. If you try to measure THH, it goes up and down hour by hour, if not minute by minute. So it would be nice, it would be a wonderful thing, but it just doesn't work that way, unfortunately. But I've been testing saliva samples now for many, many years, and many of our presentations used to have to start off with convincing evidence that you could measure such things as cortisol from saliva. There was a lot of doctors who would use the phrase, you can't measure hormones from saliva. So I used to have to present all these studies saying, well, not all hormones, but in this case, of course, so you absolutely can. I would say now, we've gone full circle, and now it is actually the sample of choice for certainly assessing stress function, but also other conditions as well. It's a reliable marker from this free serum cortisol, which is, we said, is very difficult to measure. So measuring saliva is a much more simple and easy way to get that information. Sliver reservoirs are not affected by a saliva refrow rate, because one thing people say, well, if you're collecting saliva, what if you're somebody who makes lots of saliva, or somebody has a very dry mouth, and actually even struggles to make saliva? Surely that would affect the hormones you're trying to measure. I can show the studies that prove that it doesn't, but it's the way cortisol gets into saliva is not affected by saliva flow rate. And as I said, from a full circle perspective, and very elevated midnight cortisol, the cortisol now is now the main diagnostic tester in a hospital environment for diagnosing Cushing syndrome, which is characterized by very uncontrolled levels of high levels of cortisol. This slide is meant to just talk about sampling techniques. If you are going to be having, or want to have a general testing, and we are not the only laboratory that does that, so there are plenty of people that can provide that for you, the actual sampling method is very important. There are lots of saliva-collection devices with indicators on them, and things that you can chew on, and pads to collect the saliva, which generally speaking work with cortisol, but they do not work with DHA, which is an important part of the testing. The only way you can get a reliable result for a lot of saliva hormones is what's called passive drool. It's literally just dribbling saliva into the right type of plastic tube. This is an example of study that shows just how affected the results are if you use the wrong type of plastic tube. At this point, forgive me if I do a little bit of the sales pitch, which is about our adrenal stress profile and why it differs from other ones out there. As we said, saliva tests are not new, they've been available for 20 years, but in many cases, lives have fallen into the foul of using, originally using kits that were intended to do blood tests and modifying them to do saliva tests. They weren't very good, they weren't very accurate or sensitive, and the reference ranges were often not of sufficient quality. These days, as I said, we have CE marked diagnostic kits specifically for the use of measuring from saliva, but to do that, when we introduced this test a few years ago, we had to really update those reference ranges. We worked with the manufacturer to do 200 tests for cell samples, looking at the exact normal ranges for cortisol at all those different time points. Remember, cortisol is highest in the morning and lowest at night, so you have to have a specific reference range for that specific time point. The other thing about all diagnostic kits is that the regulations demand quite rightly the results that you're getting are traceable to a recognised standard. The gold standard for measuring cortisol is chromatography, LC-MS-MS, and what you can show is that the standards we use in the test to determine the levels are traceable and calibrated to those recognised gold standards. So, at the time, nearly established, it's been a few years now, but we established current recognisable reference ranges which agrees with the more recent literature. The other thing is traditional saliva tests of this nature utilise four saliva samples. So, it's usually one sample taken in the morning, one midday, one in the early evening, and one just before sleep. More recent studies, and I've done a lot of work on this myself previously, say that that doesn't work because the first morning response, if you remember, is the cortisol awakening response, or car, is the most important part of these measurements. So, when you first open your eyes in the morning, the levels of cortisol are already beginning to rise. So, what we do is we get people to take their very first sample as soon as they wake up in the morning, which gives us our baseline. The next sample is taken 30 minutes later, and then the third sample, one hour later. So, we have three samples that are all intended to find us, to analyse that first morning response and find where the peak is. And by doing that, we get a much more reliable indicator of whether that morning response is low, normal, or high, which completely dictates the stress evaluation and diagnosis. So, to make that happen, we introduce a five sample test point by putting the three of them in that important first morning response. Quite simply, if you do the traditional four test version, and I have to confess and own up, look, I didn't do that for many years, it's not, depending on when the person takes that first sample, can be either too low or too high and change the interpretation of the response. Using three samples makes sure we do not miss that. We try to make it understandable. So, we have graphs to show you where your results are, compared with normal. So, this is the breakdown of the first morning response with arrows saying whether it's high or low, and the reference ranges of why we are saying that. Cortisol to DHEA ratio is important. That's another measurement in itself. In that, if you have high cortisol and high DHEA, that's not necessarily a bad thing. It means you're probably under stress, but your adrenals are doing the function. They're working well. The HPA axis hasn't started showing dysregulation. Where that's at a balance, that's an indicator of things are going wrong. And then ultimately, we use the report to stage what type of stress you're suffering from, how long that stress is going, and what impact it's had on the HPA. So, it's really important to understand the stress response and its relationship and reliance on mechanisms, maintaining important things, that's its metabolic function. And armed with that knowledge, we can make much more insightful decisions about treatment options and what is wrong with people. I would say it's actually impossible to manage and managing any patient with a chronic condition, an ongoing condition, without understanding the relationship between our stress response, things like inflammation and glucose regulation. So understanding of the changes at a genetic level and an epigenetic level, influences on the systems will greatly enhance our understanding of how chronic stress influences chronic disease. So adrenal fulcric pathos of this type helps us to understand these changes, shows us what's going on, and gives us clues as the best way to manage and hopefully resolve those dysfunctions. So how can we manage cortisol and thyroid function? Well, whilst there are many nutrients and herbs that affect thyroid function, there are limited studies to evaluate the real effectiveness of these specific nutrients in stress-induced thyroid dysfunction. In fact, it's from the terms of published literature, almost none. I did, however, come across some reliable information about ashwagandam. Now, I think I need to open my hand up at this point, so I'm not a nutritionist, and therefore I know nothing about these supplements other than what the literature has said. So I'm reporting studies and literature about the effect rather than any personal use. And this particular herb is described as an adaptogenet, so it will change, for example, cortisol and thyroid hormones. It's one of the few adaptions that has been evaluated by studies, and it's effects on thyroid function. So while they're somewhat limited on human trials, when looking into it, most of the work had been done on animal studies, but there are human studies now also, and they have shown that this supplementation is able to improve thyroid status. So, for example, randomized placebo control, double-blind human clinical trial set out to evaluate the effect of the herb on subclinical hypothyroidism. They found that T3, T4 and TSH levels were different from our placebo group. Treatment apparently with 600 milligrams a day was found to be safe and tolerable, which is another important function. And it may be especially beneficial for people who have a stress problem, an HPA-axis dysfunction, in addition to our thyroid dysfunction. There are a couple of others which have gained, I do not know anything from personal experience, but there is one called a trade name called target one, which basically contains is a luthero root extract. And again, at least some studies have shown it's been able to prove burn-outs in drugs, if she's a stress situation where our dreams are no longer functioning properly. And it also been shown to significantly improve symptoms after 12 weeks, but also if that's going to happen, I'll go back a bit, it could potentially help with thyroid function in that indirect way. And Rodeola again has shown to improve stress symptoms, such as fatigue and exhaustion and functional impairment. And additionally, literally found that Rodeola may which is stressful and must prevent chronic stress. So these adaptogenic herbs may be helpful, I say may be because I haven't used them. In both adrenal and thyroid support, especially at times of significant chronic stress. But what else can we do? The context is key when discussing cortisol levels and adrenals of thyroid health. Dermal with pushing syndrome, which is a condition where the adrenals are failed, or the sort of action, the adrenals haven't failed, the HPA axis is failed, so that we're getting a continual switching on of the adrenals producing excess of cortisol. It's very different, has very different imbalance of hormones than someone with hyperthyroidism or Hash and motor disease. In some ways, this means that treatment will differ, but there's also some things we can do to improve conscious support, i.e. better cortisol management and therefore better adrenal and thyroid function. Improving the adrenals and thyroid health isn't necessarily about therapies that target these glands directly. So I thought we'd take a look at some of the other factors that influence cortisol levels, adrenals, and by inference, therefore thyroid health. So this is the gut health part. Now, as I'm sure many of you are aware from the literature and publicity, there's a huge interest in our gut microbiome. We now have technology which is able to us at a DNA level or RNA level to identify all of the bacteria and fungi we have in our gut and assess the levels of those. And what all of the studies are now trying to show is the link between different levels of different bacteria and diseases, particularly chronic diseases. And that is probably also involved in our abilities for stress responses, and therefore has an impact on how we handle stress, how we produce cortisol, and therefore possibly also thyroid hormones. So gut health is another crucial point. If a pathogen takes up resonance in our gut, it's a significant stress on the body, and that stress of what caused our cortisol to rise. Equally, auto-digestant for absorption of nutrients or through an impaired gut lining is another stressor that may contribute to increased cortisol levels. Now, the idea that we have increased permeability of our gut and we're letting food molecules through that triggers abnormal response is something that we are the lab specializing testing for, which is what we call food sensitivity testing. And that's by looking for specific IgG antibodies to the food that we're eating. What this shows us is that we've got a damaged gut wall. This is letting our relatively undigested food through, which is triggering immune response, which triggers inflammation, which causes cortisol release. And whilst I have no studies to directly show that, probably infrared is thyroid function. Although from memory, I think there's fair amount of studies that have linked autoimmune thyroid disease and causes of trigger may well have been something that came from our gut originally, and therefore may be related to increased gut permeability. So healthy diet, lifestyle, maybe adding a probiotic is something that perhaps can also help where we have symptoms like gas and bloating, for example. Again, I don't prescribe probiotics, but the literature is full of convincing evidence that they can be of value. One approach is what's called a synbiotic, which combines the actual bacteria itself, but also prebiotics. There's a lot of interest in the bacteria on their own, aren't that helpful if they don't have the right substrates to work on, which is usually the right type of fiber. So this type of approach, for example, in hyperthyroid patients for eight weeks, they did show some beneficial effects on thyroid function. So again, it's something to consider as part of the overall strategy for imprisoning thyroid function. We've mentioned before the effect of nutrients and calories, low-carb diet, a strict low-carb diet for some time, may well end up experiencing adrenal and thyroid symptoms. So it may be an example of maybe you need to lay up on that a little bit and start to introduce some of the healthy carbs to see whether that can increase the symptoms. Calorie restriction significantly increased cortisol levels in women, so severe dieting can have implications on its own. How to prevent stress. Stress, believe it or not, this is something we put in our guides and our reports, but I completely accept that sometimes this is very difficult. When you show us a very long-term stress report, it says things like, you know, look for the factors that may be stressing you alive and look at alleviating them. The problem with stress is that very often, it's almost impossible to do that or very difficult to do that. So we have to try to find ways around it. So there are generalizations, which is probably true for all of us, meditation, walking, gentle exercise, not aggressive exercise. Anything that you find calms your mind and body, and I'm certainly not an expert on that thing. Maybe that means taking a power nap occasionally. Conic stress is a major problem for human beings. I have slides which I haven't been able to include, which shows evidence now that when pregnant women are under stress conditions, that stress is being passed on to the unborn child at a genetic level. And when they assess the children after they've been born by looking at their cortisol responses, their stress responses, they were already impaired. So our next generations are already inheriting not very good stress responses, and that kind of doesn't bode well for us as a species, I think. But most stress... A lot of us see stress as external, you know, job issues, relationships, financial issues, obviously, are huge responsibility for other people. But carrying unresolved trauma that becomes internalized in your body causes most of the issues associated with stress. Most of us have probably experienced chronic stress, whether it's one or many of the above. At the moment, it's all about our ability to cope with that stress. Some people are really good at coping with that stress, and the adrenal systems are working fine. Other people will damage that system and ultimately to adrenal failure. And you can't always predict that, and you can't always put a time scale on it. But it's all about, as we described here, stress is stacking up. Remember our fight-and-flight response was a short term get away from danger. And then everything has to be switched off and go back to normal. Modern day stressors, which are continual, is something that we just haven't adapted to be able to cope with, and that's where the problems come in. The chronic stress must be improved to see improvements in physical symptoms. And I believe, and I think there is evidence to say, that this can include proper thyroid regulation and function. So, at that point, we will go back to then, I guess, and see if there's any questions that you would like answering. Okay, this question. Hygothyroidism, as well as being linked with adrenal issues, may cause sleep problems. So could feeling unwell on waking up also be connected with adrenal dysfunction? Almost certainly. Much of adrenal testing is that cortisol-awakening response. And that cortisol-awakening response is vitally important to the whole health and wellbeing process. So what we see in severe stress is the cortisol-awakening response is somewhat impaired. So you don't get that cortisol kick in the morning until that's going to start leading to severe fatigue, for example. And in chronic fatigue scenarios, they did do a study on that and found that most chronic fatigue patients have a very poor awakening response to cortisol. That, as you can see, it's not be the cause of chronic fatigue, because I think it's multifactorial, but it doesn't help. It's part of...  the cycle of the T. And so we see people with disturbed sleep patterns. So what happens is that you're waking up several times during the night. Your genomes are now completely confused about what your wake-up time is. So you're having short spikes when there should be big spikes and other spikes occurring when there shouldn't be. So disturbed sleep pattern has a profound effect on our awakening response. And if the genomes aren't working properly, then that does impact other things and we believe that will impact thyroid function too. It also goes on to ask, is there also a connection with migraines? Probably, that doesn't sound very definitive. As a brief mention of food sensitivity testing, where you have increased gut poverty, lots of anti-bullies, which trigger the inflammatory pathways, that's strongly linked with migraine, as it is with IBS. So, the inflammatory conditions, if you have inflammatory conditions, they are going to be a stressor, which is generally a stress response. So, probably, I don't think I have any direct, public-relating stress to migraine, but I can see why that would be potentially involved as well. Oh yeah, that's bringing in lots of things. Cacemos and development of thyroid antibodies. Yeah, I don't think there's anything definitive on that, is there? I'm sure you've looked into it for yourself. And from memory, there's the obvious link with evadability of strontium. And there was links with a particular bacteria, which, eucinea, I think, was linked at some point. So, selenium, I believe, there were some studies that suggest that, I think, as the opposite, was selenium excess could be related to reducing thyroid antibody responses. We had some slides earlier that were more to do with grave disease rather than Hashimoto's, but I think that the evidence may not be published wise, but I'm sure that's because it's a complicated scenario to look at. I think you mentioned heavy metals. Heavy metals is a very contentious issue with everybody. From a functional medicine perspective, there are tests to show you just how much heavy metals most of us are carrying around in our body tissues, which can be quite scary. The effects of that are potentially numerous, I would have thought. I don't think I have any, you said about mercury, for example, there's a lot of studies looking at mercury in relationship to brain function. Does it cause abnormal brain function? Well, what if it's damaging the bits that tell your thyroid to produce hormones, then now that's going to impact how your thyroid works. The generation of autoantibodies, including thyroid alternatives, is still one of those big unknowns to medicine. We know it does it, we can test for it. We can treat it with stretch hammers by using steroids, but there's still no real answers as to why we effectively produce antibodies to self. I don't think that helped your question, but I think the answer is we don't really have those answers. Thank you. So the next one, Heidi, I think with Andrea. Yeah. I look forward to the webinar as I have both Hashimoto's and high-sustereoidism and secondary adrenal insufficiency. However, cross prints of Sheffield Hallam was never able to advise me to circumvent if there's a connection between these two. Eventually, I was able to wean off again of hydrocortisone, but my cortisol levels still are low, albeit within range. Stuff deemed not required to be treated. I'm at a loss on what I should expect of my new endocrinologists as they just keep changing and some are telling me I don't need much monitoring. Yeah, it's going to be a bit negative. I think in that I would be really pleasantly surprised if your endocrinologist, as in the NHS system, is going to encompass adrenal testing of the nature I've been talking about. So if they do take any notice of your history and what you're talking about, they will probably order out blood tests. I would be really concerned that those blood tests would probably show normal, which would not necessarily reflect your cortisol status and profiling. So I've tried not to shamelessly sell things because unfortunately adrenal testing off the top I'm talking about is only available for private and you have to pay for that and you have to make your own decisions. But I've had many run-ins of endocrinologists when we're talking about especially cortisol measurements. Most of the time they're not interested in listening, but to be honest that was some years ago and it would be really good to think that maybe that message just got through. As I said, cortisol from saliva is actually running in some hospitals these days, so you might be lucky, but equally you might also have to do a test off your own back and then try to persuade them to take any notice of it. You talked about long-term hydrocortisone. Well, one thing I need to mention is unfortunately we can't do the test if you're on hydrocortisone or corticosteroids or anything like that. Because we're only measuring that free bit, which is really sensitive, if there's even a width of hydrocortisone that you perhaps stopped several days ago, it would be so high on our test that it would be unmeasurable. So our test isn't useful to you until you're absolutely sure you don't have any external cortisol or hydrocortisone or anything like that in your system. Then we can see precisely what your own adrenals are doing at that point, if that makes sense. But everybody knows that long-term steroid use, it may be fixing some problems, but it always creates other problems. And that has to be certainly looked at when we're looking at these conditions. Does that help? Hopefully it helps her. A neat case play fair is the next question. Any plans for an NHS pathway for thyroid patients relating to stress and other impacts on patients' lives throughout the pathway from diagnosis to optimal IE menopause, HRT and gluomydrinals? I don't know. As I said, in the 30-odd years I've been providing saliva hormone testing, we have gone through, you can't measure hormone saliva to say, well, actually, okay, maybe you can, but we don't believe it means anything to, well, actually, the entire research world is using it. So perhaps it does mean anything to where we are right now. I know that some hospitals are using saliva-recorded somphal diagnosis in Cushing's disease. But I think what we're saying is, are they doing this adrenal profiring? Are they doing multiple samples to look at the profiles? That hasn't made it into the NHS yet. I would really like to think it could. From a lab perspective, because I've worked in NHS labs as well, it fulfills all the criteria. They are diagnostic kits to do the testing. The literature supports the use of it. And the interpretation is very valuable. So, you know, all of us would like to think you should be able to get access to this type of testing. But at the moment, I believe you're still running to problems with them doing blood tests. You're doing a saliva test. You present that to your GP who completely ignores it because your saliva test has suggested that you've got adrenal hypofunction, for example, and that that needs to be addressed. And the blood test is completely normal, so it will just get ignored. I have seen scenario that there's a test called the Sennatvin test, which is a hospital-based test. When you finally persuade the doctor that I really want my adrenals checked out, they will reluctantly refer you for this Sennatvin test, which injects you with an injection of ACTH, and then does blood tests to monitor your increase in cortisol. And what it usually shows is that your adrenals are working fine. And they have no understanding that that is a completely irrelevant test when looking at the gene or hypofunction, for example. That only works if you had adrenal disease. So all it's saying is you don't have adrenal disease because you have no idea about function, because they give you so much ACTH, even the worst function in adrenals would kick out some cortisol. So again, you've had this test which says it's fine, and at that point your doctor's not interested in doing any follow-up tests. So it is a problem, and I completely understand that. And I'd love to be able to get this type of testing into a hospital environment. I guess don't hold your breath. Valerie says, correct load blood pressure, but higher resting heart rate is their relationship to an HPA axis and HPT axis. Again, almost certainly. But this is why I can't break my own rules. You need a full clinical history. You need access to all those results and all those testing. But as we said, one of the hormones we didn't mention because we don't test for it, that's produced as part of the adrenal response is directly controlled blood pressure, for example. Any stress response included cortisol will have an influence on a heart relationship. So it could be related to a stress response. So that's possible. Why not? Next one down I've got is Rachel. My endocrinologist tells me to ignore thyroid antibodies as they don't affect thyroid treatment. What is affected by thyroid antibodies? I have to do more. One of mine was 13-cylinder. Yeah, okay. That's sort of right, aren't they? In the levels of thyroid, particularly TPO, which is the main one they test for. It does vary hugely for people. You can have some in the thousands and others that are a little bit higher. I'm not sure that that means that somebody's condition is worse than somebody else's. It's much more complicated than that. I guess it doesn't necessarily affect treatment. They're going to be basing treatment on the effect those antibodies have had on your thyroid hormones, aren't they? Regardless of what level you're at. The test has answered the question, which is you have autoimmune thyroid disease. But I don't know if there's any specific strategies in fixing the level of thyroid antibodies, for example. I think there were some studies that said if you took the right amount of T4, had the right level of T4, that I think that was more preventative and that was one of the reasons why people make antibodies. But yeah, I think maybe they're right in that sense. What's the CPAP at night? Somebody's asking what is CPAP at night and frequent wake-up, which affect my test result. I don't know actually what that is, but in a way I don't need to know. If whatever you're doing is causing you to frequently wake up, then we need to be really careful of interpreting those test results. Because you'll see that first morning response, which is that important, will definitely be effective. But we need to take into account when those samples were taken compared to your wake-up. The first sample is advised to take your normal wake-up time, whatever that is. Even if you're on shifts, then that might be in the afternoon, but whatever you know when it. Which goes out the window when you wake up several times during the night. So I tried to advise to take the first sample when you have your, I don't know, what you would call your major wake-up. Possibly even the first major wake-up. And then we have to interpret it based on what time you're waking up. But you will definitely have an impaired awakening response. And that waking response is really important to how you, the whole functioning for the day. So frequently waking up will definitely impact your results. And what I'm trying to say is, helps breathing to sleep back near, which is presumably why you do have to keep waking up all the time. Yeah, I mean, it's not going to solve your problem. But what it is going to demonstrate is that what effect that problem is having on you. And it will profound affect your course of waking results, which will probably give you fatigue. And may even be part of increasing the poor sleep response. So you need help with that. And maybe the saliva intestine can help a professional know what to target and what to do using adaptogens and try to improve. My guess is your course of working sort to be reduced. We need to put strategies to try to help increase that. Okay, I think, sorry, can I interrupt? I think there was quite a few more questions and time is running out. So it's okay with you. We'll, we'll type these up and send them on to you so that you can respond to me. To the people. Is that okay? Yeah, there's quite a few questions. There isn't. So yeah, I'm obviously happy to get those to me and then I'll give you back the feedback and answers to that. Yeah, I have been made addresses for everybody. So I'll send them to you as soon as we can. So I just wanted to say quickly that Dr Abraham's and his team have given our beneficiaries a 10% discount code on their functional tests. So I'm going to put something later on in the meeting. And I just like to say thank you again. It's been really interesting and obviously people have a lot of questions. So some people this may be the first time they've even thought about the adrenals and certainly the call to our awakening response test. I think for some people is something that they might consider doing after your talk. So, so thank you very much. Yeah, yeah, more than welcome. Yes, it was perhaps optimistic to introduce a whole new testing in a lot of slides in one go. But, you know, obviously there are lots of questions there. So there's obviously interest and things that will get answers. So we get those answers back and take it from there. Thank you. Thank you very much. I just wanted to give a quick update for people on the T3 campaign. And if some of you are not aware of what T3 is, it's another hormone that thyroid produces. And we know that for some people it converts at different rates. And for those of us that have no thyroid or it's been destroyed by the antibodies, we don't have any T3 in our thyroid to begin with. I think Nigel was saying that thyroid produces about 20%. But without thyroid, you're not producing even that. So, lie, thyroid is a T3 replacement medication. But unfortunately due to cost prescribing is restricted, even though the cost has actually come down quite a lot over the past year or so. And we're just fighting all the time to try and enable people to access T3. The competition and markets authority found advanced charged excessive and unfair prices because they hyped the price of lie, thyroid and up for absolutely no reason. And they, and the two private equity firms that they were working with were fined over 100 million pounds. So it is much cheaper, but unfortunately, both NHS England and the British Cyroid Association have updated their guidance, which we think needs to be changed. And we are working with the other thyroid groups to try and do this. But it's really difficult. Currently, they're not really listening to what we're saying. They don't believe that patients need T3 often. And so it's really, really hard to get it prescribed. You have to visit an endocrinologist. And sometimes it's difficult to get an appointment to an endo. So, and you also need to find a GP that will help you because the first stop is your GP to ask for a referral to an endocrinologist. If the GP doesn't think that's necessary because your TSH looks normal or even your FT4 looks normal. They won't refer you. And in some cases, we know that the GPs have a telephone meeting or an email to the endocrinologist giving your test results. And then the endocrinologist doesn't want to see you. It's really, really hard. There are several barriers. And we are trying to fight this so that everybody can have access at the moment. It's still a postcode lottery that the government don't want to happen. So we are continuing to fight for everybody. For some people, if you have a positive DIO2 genetic test, that might push some endocrinologists into at least having a trial of T3. And we do have a list of endocrinologists, both NHS and private. And some of the, well, all the ones on our list that are NHS have prescribed T3 in the past. So it's hopeful that they might continue to do that. To enable, to have a trial, as I said, you need to find a doctor and an endocrinologist willing to help. You need to show proof that you need a trial, which should show that you have low FT3 levels, and if possible, a positive DIO2 gene polymorphism result. For the DIO2 genetic test, you will need to get it done privately because the NHS don't do it. But it is worth doing because it might encourage the GP or the endo to set the ball rolling to get a trial. We have had meetings with both NHS England and the BTA. But unfortunately, it's very worrying. The BTA's guidance is actually worse for people who have been diagnosed with subclinical hypothyroidism in the past, because what they're trying to do now is to see how you get on without any levosa roxine at all. We, all the groups, totally worried about this. And there is also at the moment a trial going on by Professor Simon Pearce, where he's trying to get patients to join the trial and have a trial without any thyroxine at all. And we have heard of some patients that have done this and became very ill quite quickly. They do say the trial information does say that they will put you back on it if you have symptoms, but I'm not convinced because it's possible that your test results won't show that it's a problem. So do be careful if you're thinking about going on this trial. And we know that there are some people that really don't want to be taken a tablet for the rest of their lives. You need to. You know, it's in my experience, if you come off of levosa roxine, you're going to be poorly. So just be very careful if you do decide to try and go on this trial, because it may make you very ill. There is a possibility you don't need levosa roxine, but there's also a possibility that it's going to make you ill and that you won't be able to get your levosa roxine back again. So do be careful if you think about going on that trial. So we are fighting and you need to fight for your medication. Don't just accept no. Just keep on trying to get a trial because for some people it does help a lot. We are continuing to campaign, but we do need more funding to do this. We need more staff. We need some staff with campaigning skills. There are actually only three of us that work in thyroid UK. I know we look massive because of what we have online, but actually there are two part timers and myself as the only full timer. So we do need more staff and one way of getting this and to enable us to campaign more is if people donate. All you need to do is either click this link when you get the presentation or just go to our website and click the link to donate on the top right hand corner. Someone asked if this trial is for levo or night oh? The trial is for levo. Yeah, it's for levo, which shocked us because previously we have been fighting and trying to talk with them about lyothyronine and then all of a sudden they start thinking or Professor Pierce's trial trying to get people to come off of levo, Levo, the rocks in because they think it wasn't needed in the first place because you had subclinical hypothyroidism. But to my mind, there are two types of subclinical hypothyroidism and one is with symptoms and one is without and we do know that some people didn't need to be put on levo, the rocks in in the first place because I've had people come to me. Who had a woman's health check and they were put on to leave a theroxin and it made them ill, whereas they weren't before so we do know it happens. But in the main people with subclinical hypothyroidism and symptoms do need treatment. I want my lyobac as well. I had my NDT and my lyothyronine taken away from me a few years ago when the first price hike happened. So, you know, I'm the same as everyone else really I want to get it back because I will be retiring in the fairly near future and whether I will be able to afford my NDT at that point is another matter. Colin Dine is a really helpful endo and he believes that people need T3. So he is doing his best. And there is a trial that's going to be ongoing soon and I'm on the steering committee for patient participation. So I'm hoping that we can make sure that the trial is correct. We did. We did have meetings about the protocol for the trial. We had some good input on how it should be run, which they accepted. So I do have high hopes for that one. Oh, thank you Maureen. I guess I'm just awkward in the fact that I don't want to leave until something is sorted out. I've been doing this a long time now. And I'm really hoping that change will come once we get more people and more. We need more doctors to help us to be on our side if you like. I'm currently taking a T3 dose of 25 at 330. Well, I've had moderate success so far. Is this a mechanism you are aware of? I'm looking to take a 30g dose to improve things further. I have been aware of the car test and that's one of the reasons I wanted to do this webinar. It's not my forte, the Adrienals I will say, but you know, I know some information. But I might be able to ask Nigel that question and see what he thinks if he has an answer. But I do know a lot of the private GPs understand Adrienals much better than NHS GPs do. Shorts and Aston tests. My understanding is that they're not very pleasant. And in our information that we had a chat with the Coutroutry Foundation doctors and it does say in there that even if it comes back negative, you cannot accept that as true. So it is a step that you can take if you have severe or severely low levels of cortisol. Okay, I think that's about it really for today. So I'd just like to say thank you very much for listening and I really hope that this is helping you to move forward and be able to get better from some of your symptoms anyway. So thank you very much and hope to see you again soon. Thank you.