 subjected to subjected to I'm also a certified lifestyle medicine physician and a functional medicine doctor. And so today I'm going to be doing a presentation about the genetic changes to be aware about for thyroid disorders. So I'm also a trained a Nutri-Genomics practitioner with provider called LifeCodeGX. So most of the talk today is kind of going to be referencing to their panel that they provide. So I myself also have Hashimoto's Thyroiditis. I was diagnosed in 2016. So for me as well, this has been an interesting journey for the last few years, kind of understanding thyroid disease and really kind of developing my expertise in this and really try and get to the root causes for why thyroid disorders develop rather than the current kind of conventional approach of just taking Leroythoroxine and that being that, really to try and understand what the triggers are. And really that's kind of furthered my interest in understanding the genetics regarding thyroid disorders as well. So, sorry, I'm just trying to move. So as you know, thyroid disorders are very common. It's estimated that one in 20 people have a thyroid problem and probably more because many people are undiagnosed or unaware that they may have a thyroid problem. And there's often many triggers for why a thyroid problem can occur. So things like lifestyle factors, nutrition diet, stress, environmental factors, all of these things can predispose you to developing a thyroid condition. But often there will be an underlying genetic factor that will have triggered or have be the underlying predisposing factor, which then enables the further triggers to then trigger a thyroid condition. So what are epigenetics? So epigenetics is the way that the environment affects our genes. So it's essentially the study of how our behaviors and environment can cause changes in the way that our genes work. Now it's really important to know that epigenetic changes are reversible. So they're not kind of lifelong. So if you have an epigenetic change, it's not kind of a life sentence. You can modify your diet, your lifestyle to enable these genes to then function effectively. So how do these epigenetic changes occur? They occur by what we call single nucleotide polymorphisms. So SNPs. So these are changes that can happen in a single DNA building block, which can result in a change in gene expression and function. So Nutrogenomics is the study of how nutrition can affect genes. So it's how nutrition impacts these epigenetic changes and causes these SNPs. So as we know, poor lifestyle, poor nutrition can cause these SNPs to develop, but then you can reverse these SNPs by adopting a good nutrition and optimizing your nutrients. So this is an example of the testing that I can offer with Life Code GX. So as you can see, we can assess for a various, with kind of a large number of different genetic changes in the kind of the whole thyroid axis. So as we know, in terms of thyroid physiology, there's kind of a series of steps that need to occur for thyroid production, thyroid metabolism, thyroid activation. I'll talk about that briefly in a second, but there's many, many different genes that can be affected at all the various different stages of the thyroid pathways. And so in some people, you may only have a few genetic influences, some people may have many, but it's interesting to know because then you can look at how your nutrition and how your lifestyle can then be modified to improve these genetic SNPs. So in terms of thyroid physiology then, so just to kind of recap on thyroid physiology. So in terms of how the thyroid is kind of produced, how thyroid hormone is produced, we have initially, we have a hormone that's released by the brain called the thyrotropin releasing hormone, which is released by the hypothalamus to signal the pituitary gland to produce TSH or thyroid stimulating hormones. This TSH then signals the thyroid gland to produce thyroid hormones, mainly T4, T3 and reverse T3. And then in the thyroid gland itself, we know that the TPO gene, so the thyroid peroxidase gene oxidizes iodide into iodine, which then can essentially, with the help of hydrogen peroxide, it basically joins tyrosine residues, tyrosine is a protein, it's an amino acid, it's a really important amino acid for thyroid hormones. And tyrosine basically joins with iodine to make T4, T3 and reverse T3. And then in terms of clearing excess hydrogen peroxide, because we know that hydrogen peroxide can be damaging to the thyroid gland, we need a gene called glutathione peroxidase to essentially remove hydrogen peroxide from the thyroid gland, otherwise that in itself can be quite damaging to the thyroid gland. There's then a negative feedback loop, so what T4, T3, reverse T3 can essentially do a negative feedback loop, but back to the hypothalamus and the pituitary to essentially say either produce more or produce less thyroid hormone, depending on how much thyroid itself is being produced. Now also important for thyroid function are what we call the iodine enzymes. So di-denease enzymes have various different functions in thyroid metabolism and thyroid production. And there's three main types of di-denease enzymes. So there's the DI01, which can convert T4 into T3 in the thyroid gland. There's DI02, which converts T4 to T3 in the thyroid gland and in the peripheral tissues. And there's DI03, which converts T4 to reverse T3. And it's important to know that these are also selenium dependent enzymes. So as we know, T3 is probably one of the most important thyroid hormones because it's what our mitochondria need to produce energy. So our mitochondria are the energy centers of all our cells. It's pretty, we have mitochondria in pretty much every single cell of our body, except our red blood cells. And essentially mitochondria are needed to produce ATP, our main source of energy. And so for our mitochondria to function effectively, we need optimal levels of T3. Yet most of the thyroid hormone produced by a thyroid gland is T4. So essentially our body needs to have good function of these di-denease enzymes to be able to convert the T4 into T3. As without that conversion happening, you can't utilize that T3 to then produce energy and get our mitochondria to function well. Likewise, T4 can also be converted to reverse T3, which is not utilized. So we can't use the reverse T3 to produce energy. And so we do need to be mindful because certain things can actually favor the conversion of T4 to reverse T3. And that's things like extreme stress, illness, and other kind of lifestyle factors. And so again, this is where the genes is really important because genetic variations on these di-denease enzyme genes can also affect how these genes are working. And then so what happens in autoimmunity? So as we know, autoimmune thyroid conditions kind of are the most prevalent type of thyroid conditions present. So we know that autoimmunity happens when there's a dysregulation of the immune system leading to an immune attack on the thyroid gland. So this is where we can get antibodies that develop to the thyroid itself. So typically we see antibodies to the thyroid peroxidase and also to thyroid globulin, which is a protein in the thyroid gland. So when these autoantibodies develop, we can get chronic inflammation of the thyroid gland, also known as thyroiditis. So this then causes tissue damage and disruption of thyroid function. So there's obviously the two main types of autoimmune diseases, there's the Graves disease and Hashimoto's, Graves predominantly presenting as hyperthyroidism and Hashimoto's predominantly presenting as hypothyroidism or underactive thyroid. And it's also important to know that often there's genetic variants that are the primary risk factors for the development of an autoimmune thyroid disease. So you can see often there's a strong family history component with autoimmune thyroid conditions. So now I'll go through the relevant kind of genes to be aware about in each of the different stages of the thyroid physiology. So when we look at the actual hypothyramus, pituitary thyroid axis, there's three main genes that we can test for. So there's CAPZB, PDEAP, TSHR. So the CAPZB gene, this codes for the production of TSH from the pituitary and changes in this gene can cause either increased or decreased thyroid simulating hormone production. Well PDEAP, so SNPs in this gene can increase or decrease thyroid sensitivity to the GSH. So if it's lowered, so the sensitivity to TSH is lowered, it will inevitably lead to lower T4 and T3 production. Now it's also important to know, as I mentioned, as these are epigenetic changes, these can be modified with lifestyle and nutrition. So itch, hope and ginger can be quite helpful in this case to increase sensitivity to TSH in the thyroid gland. And there's the TSHR gene, which essentially can affect the TSH receptors on the thyroid gland. And so in some people as well, you can get antibodies to the TSH receptors themselves, that's very rare, that's probably the least common type of autoimmune process that can happen. But ultimately, that's what often kind of, in terms of Graves disease, that's the main kind of pathological process. It's the development of TSHR antibodies. And in order to support that, you'll be thinking about anti-inflammatory nutrients and vitamin D. Then looking at the actual genes in the thyroid gland itself, so you have the thyroglobulin protein, so the thyroglobulin, the gene that codes for that. So again, if there's genetic changes on this gene, you'll have an increased risk of developing an autoimmune thyroid condition. And this is exacerbated in the presence of what we call HLA-DR3 alleles. So these again are certain genetic changes that can predispose you to the development of celiac disease or gluten sensitivity. And then the thyroid, as we know, the thyroglobulin, that protein, it actually provides tyrosine for thyroid hormone synthesis to then enable the storage and inactivation of thyroid hormone and iodine. So again, the thyroid globulin is a really important protein for thyroid hormone synthesis. So in cases where if you've got genetic changes with the thyroid globulin gene, you may need to avoid iodine, because actually iodine in excess in autoimmune patients can be harmful to the thyroid gland. So again, just, you know, you need to be really cautious when you are, if you're thinking about supplementing iodine. And also this is where a gluten-free diet can be really helpful for patients with thyroid disorders. The other gene to be aware about is GPX1. So again, SNPs in this gene can increase the risk of oxidative stress or oxidative damage to the cells, increasing autoimmunities. So oxidative stress is a process that happens when again, if our mitochondria are not functioning very well, we produce these free radical species and these free radicals can be harmful to ourselves creating a process called oxidative stress. And so how we can help support this is through giving selenium and then aiding with detoxification to remove these free radicals. And there's our master antioxidant or detoxifier in our body called glutathione. And in order to help synthesize glutathione, we can consider glutathione rich foods and glutathione precursors such as N-acetal cysteine. And then there's the SNPs to consider for thyroid transport. So in this case, we'll be looking at two main genes. So that can affect how the kind of thyroid hormone is then transported from the thyroid gland to the tissues. So again, if there's any issues, which are, you know, this is where it becomes quite interesting because your thyroid could potentially look normal on your blood tests because your thyroid is, you know, your thyroid gland is producing thyroid. You're producing T4, T3. And so you're not seeing that kind of result. You're seeing a normal result on your blood test. But if you've got then issues with thyroid transport and how your peripheral tissue are able to utilize thyroid, then that may not necessarily show up on a blood test. So again, this is where genetic testing can be quite helpful. So with, as I mentioned, so with these genes, so if you've got changes in these genes, if you, you know, if thyroid transport is affected, then if you're not transporting your thyroid to your cells and your tissues and your cells and tissues are not able to utilize thyroid hormone. And that's where majority of the symptoms of hyperthyroidism can develop. And this is particularly important for brain health because, you know, if the thyroid hormone is not being transported into the brain, then we're, you know, increasing the risk of mental health conditions. And then looking at thyroid activation. So once the thyroid is transported, you need to activate the thyroid. So as I mentioned, there's the DI-Denae's enzymes that can activate the thyroid. So particularly through the T4 to T3 conversion. As I mentioned, these genes are selenium dependent. So if you've got changes in these genes, supporting selenium is very important. And then there's also vitamin D. So vitamin D, again, is extremely important for thyroid activation. And so if you've got any changes to kind of your vitamin D genes, then that can also affect T3 activity. So vitamin D is a really important nutrient to support. And then for thyroid metabolism. So this is how the thyroid is then kind of metabolized and excreted out from the body. So through detoxification. So it's against nips and these genes can affect how the thyroid is essentially detoxified. And so in these things, if you've got genetic changes with your detoxification processes, addressing your detoxification with detoxification supporting foods, so particularly things like sulfur, that are found in garlic, onions, and leeks, it's important. And then also looking at gut health and dysbiosis. So we know that, especially for a process called glucuronidation, your gut health is extremely important. And we know that in cases where there's dysbiosis, that process of glucuronidation, which is a detoxification process, can be affected. So again, when we often find in patients with thyroid disease that gut health is one of them main, like poor gut health is one of the main kind of triggering factors for then the development of thyroid disease. So from a functional medicine approach, gut health is often kind of one of the main areas that we will look at for patients presenting with thyroid conditions. And then lastly, looking at the snips for autoimmunity. So there are several genes that can predispose you to developing an autoimmune thyroid condition. And often when there's a genetic change in this, as I mentioned, it will increase the risk of developing antibodies. So particularly there's the CTLA4, and this is a group of genes that regulate the immune system. So any changes in these genes can lead to loss of immune regulation, or increasing risk of immunity. There's the FoxE1 gene, and then this gene is responsible for thyroid development. So changes in these genes can affect the thyroid globulin and thyroid peroxidase antibodies. So again, increase the risk of developing antibodies to the thyroid globulin and thyroid peroxidase. And then as I mentioned, there's the HLA gene. So these genes can affect how antigens or kind of peptides are presented to the immune system. So as I mentioned, gluten can often be a trigger for thyroid conditions. The reason being is that the gluten protein is very similar to the thyroid protein. And so where our body can produce antibodies to gluten, we can mistaken the thyroid gland for gluten and start producing antibodies to the thyroid gland itself. And so often following a gluten-free diet can be quite helpful for those with thyroid conditions. So in terms of how to kind of, just to kind of summarize, how can we support our thyroid health from kind of epigenetics point of view? So, it's really important to know that, yes, these epigenetic changes can occur, but they are modifiable, they're reversible. And just because you have a genetic predisposition, that's not technically a life sentence. So from a functional medicine approach, we're always looking at the root causes and the triggering events for why these thyroid, of why thyroid condition may have developed. So in terms of how we can support the thyroid, we'll be looking at dietary triggers. And the most common, as I mentioned, being gluten, dairy can also be a very common trigger for some people for the development of thyroid disease. And so some people find that doing something called a full-automene protocol diets can be very helpful for identifying food triggers. So this is where you eliminate or kind of common food triggers for thyroid disease or autoimmune thyroid disease for a period of four weeks, sometimes longer, and then you introduce foods back one at a time to see what are your specific food triggers. And then ensuring that you have sufficient thyroid supporting nutrients in your diets, or if you're taking supplements, so selenium, so to optimize selenium, you should, you know, taking two Brazil nuts a day, so eating two Brazil nuts a day can give you the required selenium that you need, magnesium, zinc, vitamin D, these are all really important nutrients to support thyroid health. I mentioned being cautious with iodine, especially in the context of autoimmune disease. Yes, a little bit of iodine is needed, but excess iodine is harmful if you've got autoimmune thyroid disease. So just be careful, because a lot of thyroid supporting supplements will have iodine in them. And then essentially really focusing on having a whole foods anti-inflammatory diet. So looking at ways of, you know, removing refined foods, removing refined carbohydrates, removing processed foods, sugars, and really encouraging whole grains, proteins, healthy fats like avocados, nuts and seeds, oily fish, and really looking at ways to support your kind of thyroid and your overall inflammation through a whole foods anti-inflammatory diet. I mentioned avoiding iodine and excess, and then really to look at the body as a whole. So really, you know, your thyroid is just, you know, rather than focusing just on the thyroid gland, the thyroid kind of the effects of the thyroid are systemic. The thyroid is literally, and G3 as I mentioned, you literally need it for every single cell and every single organ and tissue of your body. So you really do need to start looking at the body as a whole to figure out what else is going on here, like what else could be triggering this thyroid disease. So as I mentioned, you know, it may not be the thyroid gland itself, it could be an issue with thyroid transport, it could be an issue with the peripheral utilization of thyroid hormone. So, you know, we know that as I mentioned, things like stress, infections, poor gut health, toxins, these can all affect thyroid hormone production, activation, and how we can utilize thyroid hormone. So in summary, you know, the key points that I would like you to take away from this talk are that epigenetics are modifiable, you know, your genes can load the gum, but it's the lifestyle that pulls the trigger. So really to try and look for the root causes for why your thyroid condition may have developed, and to look at everything as a whole, rather than focusing in on kind of just genes itself or on the thyroid itself. So thank you for listening today. If you would like to work with me for functional medicine, I'm currently working with Dr. Sarah Davies, who's a leading functional medicine practitioner in the UK, we are a clinical functional nexus. We just to note, we also do have an endocrinologist on our team who is prescribing T3 for anyone who's interested, but any patients that come to see us will be offered a full functional medicine approach to their thyroid. So I will leave it there. Thank you very much. Thank you, Narusa. Thank you so much. That was really interesting. I think at the moment, we've got just one hand up or two hands up. Lou. Just need to... Elsa, do you have a question? Sorry, Elsa, we can't hear you yet. I've clicked Disabled Mike, but it doesn't seem to be doing it, so... I've allowed it, no, it needs to be allowed, so I've done that, so... Elsa, are you there? Do you have a question? Can you put your mic on? Is your mic on, Elsa? Okay, can you hear me now? Yes, I'll. Sorry, sorry. Sorry, I'm in a hurry. Yes, basically, I was saying, I've been diagnosed with hypothyroidism. About 31 years ago. And the endocrinologist put me on 100 milligram of levothyroxine, which I've been taking for a very long time with my same GP. I've had the same GP for 27 years. Then, like three years ago, my GP just closed, he stopped practicing, and I had a new GP. And through blood tests and all that, they said that my 100 milligrams was far too... was too high, basically, because on the paper, the results of the blood test showed that it was too high. I was feeling tired all the time at the time, but after that, we discovered that I had no vitamin D whatsoever in my system. So, the doctor's carried out various tests, like at first, they put me for three days on 70 milligrams of levothyroxine, all those sort of changes, but I've never felt that well. So now I'm back on 100 milligram, and I'm okay now, but the paper says that it's too high. So, shall I carry on like this, or shall I go back through all the trials? I don't want to do that, because I was feeling really unwell when I was on 70 milligrams of levothyroxine. That just didn't work for me. I'm really sorry. I can't give any personal medical advice, because you're not my patient, but generally, if you present it, so we'll be thinking about peripheral uptake of your thyroid hormone, how you're cells are managing to utilize that thyroid hormone. So, it sounds like you need a higher dose of T4, because you're not converting that T4 into T3 sufficiently, and so you're needing that higher dose of T4 to enable you to get the T3. But as I mentioned, your blood thyroid panel is not reflective of what's happening in your tissues per se. So, just because your blood test shows your TSH is suppressed, it doesn't necessarily reflect how your tissues are getting the thyroid hormone. So, working on that T4 to T3 conversion is going to be really important. So, looking at nutrition in terms of selenium support, and then other kind of nutrients that can help with that T4 to T3 conversion is going to be really important. Can I just say, can you hear me just checking? Can I just say that we hear this a lot. We have a lot of people come to us who say their TSH is low and my doctor has reduced my levozoroxin. All I can suggest really is just to go back to him and say, look, I'm not very well on this. Could you please put it up again? I mean, he may do another test and find that your TSH has raised a little bit because you're on that. But really, you do need to go back to your GP and just say, could I please go back? I'm so poorly now. I need to go back onto that dosage because I felt so well on that dosage. Yeah, in fact, no, I am back 100. And I'm fine. I'm just thinking of becoming T as well. Yeah, definitely Vitamin D really helps. And so many people in the UK are low in Vitamin D and they don't realise, they just don't realise. We definitely need it all through the winter here, but I know a lot of people need it all year round. I have to take it all year round. Otherwise, I get very low levels of Vitamin D. And then you feel exhausted in time. Yeah. Yeah. So I'm fine now. OK, good, good, good. Thanks so much. Who else? So, Lou, if you could turn that mic off. And Caroline, I think, is next. No, no, no. No, oh, that's the number seven. Wow. It's Mary. Mary S is next. So, Mary, if you can turn on your microphone, you should be able to speak now. Hello, can you hear me? Yes. Thanks for the presentation. Is it Neroosa? Yeah. Thank you. It's quite interesting because you mentioned a lot of snips, really, that can affect the thyroid. And it's quite refreshing to find someone who actually knows so much about all of those, because most GPs think that thyroid disorders are straightforward, very simply sorted by a TSH and very little else. And they diagnose and treat by that and refuse to refer you because they don't know that there's more going on. I have confirmed DiO1 and DiO2 snips. You seem to be saying, which I haven't heard before, that that can be reversed. Is that right? By diet and nutrition? I mean, I have what I think is a healthy diet. I eat nuts. I eat avocado. I eat a wide variety of things mainly.  old foods, don't eat much, processed food, cooked from scratch, and I've been doing that for a long, long time, but I still seem to need T4, T3. So I'm intrigued, really, by what you're saying, because that's new to me, and it doesn't really kind of fit with my experience, unless there's something else going on, of course. As you know, it's very complex. So there could be multiple genetic changes happening, so it may not just be the DI01 and DI02 SNPs that are contributing to your need for T3. So my focus wouldn't only be on the DI01 and DI02, I'd be trying to look at all the genes in context. And yes, absolutely, these epigenetic changes are modifiable to an extent, but it's not gonna be the case for everybody, unfortunately. So certainly my approach would be to try and optimize your nutrition and lifestyle and the modifiable factors that can affect your epigenetics, but once you've done that, and if there's still a conversion issue, I would 100% support T3 therapy that's needed. And it's really to try and look at kind of all the factors rather than say, the concern, I suppose, is if you look, if you go straight to T3 therapy without optimizing your health, your diet, your nutrition, and everything else like that, that T3, again, it might not be effective. You might not be able to utilize that T3 very well if you've still not been able to change the underlying kind of lifestyle, et cetera. So really it's to improve the efficacy of that T3 therapy that these kind of lifestyle changes are really important as well. Yeah, okay. Well, I say my experience, there may be something else that I don't know about because obviously doctors don't readily test for all the things that might be going on, like different nutrients or minerals that I might need. I mean, I supplement B12 complex and D3 with MK2, so, and then with my diet, which has, as I said, been on for years, but at the moment, still needing that, but it may be that there's something undiscovered because you mentioned quite a few steps that I have no idea if I have those, but it's so frustrating that you, as someone who suffers from a thyroid issue yourself, can obviously impart the knowledge that you have on these things. And yet it's not widely known in the general endocrine community in the NHS, and it's so hard to get any recognition for, you know, I mean, people ask sometimes on the thyroid support group, is it worth me getting a DIO2 test? I think I might have an issue there. And you don't really know whether to say, yes, it should be, a resounding yes, you need to know that so that you can address it, but really the truth is, is there a point? Because even if people have a certificate that says they have it, and that it affects FG4 to T3 conversion, going to see a GP and saying, refer me to an endocrinologist, please, if I've got an issue, just might fall on deaf ears. So I'm beginning to rant now, but you've answered my question, but thank you very much, it's very interesting. Thank you, Mary. I'm going to turn your mic off now. Tabitha, if you can turn your microphone on and ask your question. Hi. Okay, so I've been having, I started having issues when I hit the menopause. I was about, I say about almost 48. I noticed a huge difference in how I felt. I'm somebody that's always worked out, eating healthy, blah, blah, blah. I'm now 53 this weekend, and I've just found out that although my thyroid is, seems to be fluctuating, it's kind of range from about 450 to 575, I think is the highest it's been, right? So my TSH has been doing this. I personally think I'm subclinical hypothyroid, hypothyroid, but secondary to that, I had pneumonia last year, then I seem to develop a chronic cough after that, but I suffered from ensoulement. Then from going to the doctors, and then decided to go private to get to the bottom of it, I found that my thyroid has actually not migrated anywhere, it's inside my tongue, and that's become a goiter. So I have two very large masses. I think it's one big mass, but it's tuned out that I've got no thyroid here, and it's all inside my tongue, the base of my tongue, so that's what this is here. That's the one underneath in the midline jaw, and I've got one on the actual inside of the base of my tongue. So I convinced I'm hypothyroid, I just wanted to know what you thought with those levels of TSH, and the fact that I have a very large goiter, and where it is. Yeah, so optimal TSH that we aim for in the clinic is less than, it's between two to 2.5, that's the optimal TSH. So certainly if you presented to us, that would be considered hypothyroid. Oh, right, okay. Yeah, but yeah, it's very, we have not met anyone before that has had an issue with the thyroid migration, you probably obviously had that since birth, they're not only just come to realize. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, it's cause such a big issue. I'm actually off on the sick at the moment, I've been off sick since January, I'm very lucky I have very supportive employers, and because I'm a trainer, I deliver courses, it's just, I could talk for a while, and then I'll start coughing, cough, cough, cough, and then by the end of the day, coughing all night, and then it's just constant, it was just literally relentless. When I saw the surgeon, he said, if I have the surgery to remove it, cause that was the initial thought, it would have to be removed. I would lose most of my tongue, I like to end up with a hole in my neck, and limited speech. So as you can imagine, I'm scared. So I've now looked into, I had a little chat with a radiologist, who did the ultrasound, and he seems to think, radiofrequency ablation might work for me. Are you familiar with that? No, unfortunately not. Right. But it does sound like you do need some thyroid support in terms of some thyroid hormone potentially, because without that, that point is gonna enlarge, and cause further issues in terms of respiratory issues. So I would recommend looking into, potentially trying to source a thyroid hormone, either through your GP or privately. Okay, so what did you say that a normal thyroid thing was? The range? The TSH, so ideally we would like to see it around 2.5, obviously too low TSH isn't good either, cause suppressed TSH does, there is kind of evidence to show that that can increase your risk of cardiovascular disease and osteoporosis. So we do need to have, there have to be kind of an optimal range of TSH. I would be happy to see it anywhere between one to 2.5. So yeah. Okay, thank you. Okay, I'm really sorry, but we have to stop there. For those of you that still have questions, could you please put them in the chat, and we'll ask Neroosa the questions, and get back to you. So it's time for a break now, and thank you so much Neroosa, that was really, really interesting. And I'm sure everybody found it interesting as well. I mean, I've known that there are other SNPs, but that was an explanation of it, that was quite simple compared to some of the research papers that I've read. So thank you so much for joining us. Yeah, it's been a pleasure to meet you. Thank you. Okay, so we're going to come back at 12.35, give you all a chance to have a comfort break, and perhaps something to eat quickly. And I'll see you then. Thank you. Okay, so I'll tell you very quickly, a little bit about my background. I am a clinical nutritionist, and I also have Hashimoto's. I've had it since my early 20s, and I'm now 49. So I've always been very interested in the condition, and what we can do nutritionally to support it. I read a book when I was first ill, which was like, you don't have to be unwell. And I thought, well, that's a very interesting concept. What can I do to improve my outcomes? I also have lectured in the past, I run a clinic, and I work for Regenerus Labs, where I provide clinical support to practitioners and also people who take the DIO2 test. So that's a little bit about my background. I'm going to talk about how T4 is produced. Now, Dr. Cumeran covered some of that, so I'm not going to spend too long on it. I'm going to talk about conversion to T3. I'm going to consider DIO2, which Dr. Cumeran mentioned around the genetic factors affecting conversion. I'm going to explore nutritional factors affecting conversion and some general nutrition recommendations in thyroid disease. The GP who was just speaking was talking about how you need to be careful with supplementation and dosages. And that's particularly true with the thyroid, because as you guys all know, it's an incredibly fussy little gland that requires personalized management. So this is the cascade of thyroid hormone production. And the part that I'm particularly interested in today is the piece at the bottom. So the T4 to T3 production, getting it into the bloodstream and getting it into the TH-sensitive cell to influence the genetic material in the nucleus of that cell. So the instruction comes from the hypothalamus. You've got thyroid trope and releasing hormone, getting the pituitary, telling it to produce TSH. And you can see there's negative feedback. So when the T4 and T3 are at the right level, the TSH levels should be lower. Now, I just want to say a word about TSH because there's often conversation about whether T3 has an influence on TSH or is a high T4 in the bloodstream enough to reduce your TSH. And to be honest, yes it is. So the inactive T4 can give you a normal TSH result and you will still be feeling awful because you're not activating to T3, the more powerful hormone. So the thyroid gland, it produces the three hormones, T4, some T3, around 80% is T4, maybe 20% T3, and then it produces calcitonin. And calcitonin is really interesting because we do have some research about its impact in the kidneys with vitamin D production. It may also facilitate the entry of calcium into the bones, but we don't have very good evidence on that. So it's kind of the forgotten hormone of the thyroid, but it's still quite an interesting one, particularly as a lot of people with thyroid disease have some issue with their production or utilization of vitamin D. And that's back to those SNPs that Dr. Kamran was talking about. So I want to talk a little bit about nutrition now. So this slide, I love this slide, this is what's happening in your thyroid as we speak, we hope. So if we look on the right hand side, you can see the iodine coming in through a transporter across through the thyroid cell. And then it's going into the thyroid follicle over here on the pink section to produce the thyroid hormone. You can see as we go across tyrosine is the protein part of the thyroid hormone and production of that is dependent on selenium. We need ATP, which is our energy currency, to move all of these various constituent parts around. That's highly dependent on magnesium. And actually we find in hyperthyroid, so Graves disease, that magnesium is often low because there's probably increased urinary excretion. And actually the thyroid, hypothyroid people may also be low in magnesium. Then we've got the DIO enzymes, which have been mentioned around the conversion of T4 to T3. They are selenium and zinc dependent. And as we move across into the pink section on your left hand side, you've got TPO, which is the enzyme which facilitates the production of the thyroid hormone. That's iron dependent. And interestingly, TPO determines how much iron we can store and use. And if our TPO isn't working very effectively, that's going to have an impact on the amount of iron we absorb and use. But we need enough iron to make sure it's working effectively. So you can get stuck in a bit of a cycle with that. And the other issue is if there's inflammation, your body may shut down absorption of iron from the gut in a separate reaction. So you often find iron issues in thyroid dysfunction. But again, iron needs to be tested before it's supplemented because it is toxic at higher levels. So then we've got selenium there supporting a glutathione enzyme for the iodination of tyrosine. So selenium is protective and it's also functional in the production of the hormone. So you can see why it's so important. It is very easy to get to a toxic level of selenium the recommended upper limit is 200 micrograms. But you can see toxicity at those levels. So probably a safer level is around 50 micrograms. And then if you see at the bottom, the center bottom of the screen, you've got zinc, which is supporting superoxide, is nutase, which is a protective enzyme in the production of the thyroid hormone. And the reason why Dr. Cumran mentioned iodine being an issue, what can happen is these TPO enzyme operates in a hydrogen peroxide bath. And if you bring a lot of iodine in, it overstimulates the thyroid gland. And you can just imagine it's working much harder and there's a bubbling of this hydrogen peroxide and it splashes around and it damages the thyroid cell. And the damaged thyroid cell signals the immune system that it needs to be cleared. And if that's happening at quite a high rate, you have an increased risk of auto-immunity developing. And obviously that could be your trigger, but you do need the genetic susceptibility around auto-immunity as well. So I really wanna talk about what you can do to improve things. So if we're thinking about producing the hormone in the first place, so this is basically producing T4. So your thyroid gland, functional healthy thyroid gland can produce 100 micrograms of T4 per day. So if you find your medication is going above that dose, there's something going on with conversion, there's something probably going on with cellular uptake. So the answer isn't necessarily to just give more and more hormone because that's not the issue. It's not that you haven't got enough T4, it's that your body isn't using it properly. So key nutrients in balance, it's interesting talking about specific nutrients and their role, but the whole diet is what's important. But these are the areas that have been studied. So we talked about iron, iodine, zinc and selenium. We've also got vitamin C, which is an important antioxidant, vitamin D, vitamin E and B complex as well are really important. B12 deficiency is relatively common in thyroid dysfunction. Protein levels, often people aren't using enough protein at all and that has an impact potentially on the tyrosine, but more importantly on blood sugar regulation, which has a big impact on how our thyroid works, but more of that later. So if we're thinking about things that inhibit the production of thyroid hormone stress, stress is a big one. And it's very easy for me to sit here and say, oh, lifestyle management stress response. But do you remember when we looked at the hypersalamus pituitary link? So the signal is going to the brain around the stress response. And the body thinks, well, if it's a very stressful situation, I probably need to conserve some energy and not produce as much thyroid hormone because I need to dial things down. And also you're going to be increasing your adrenaline, your cortisol, and that may also inhibit your thyroid function. So stress is a big one. And for some people, particularly with autoimmunity, stress can be a real driver of the condition. So they'll notice if they're under deadline, if they are having trouble at home. So for example, I often see people when they're just coming off some very stressful situation, I had one client who developed psychosis, which turned out to be thyroid antibodies, not bipolar. And that was following lots of deadlines at work and a bullying atmosphere at work, or post-divorce or post-childbirth. Anything that increased stress can have an impact on thyroid. Like I said, it's just such a fussy little gland. Autoimmunity, which we've talked a little bit about today. So whether that's graves or Hashimoto's. Pesticides, heavy metals, the gland is really sensitive to those. Selenium and zinc are similar in the same group in the periodic table as mercury. And then you've got fluoride in the same group as iodine. So they can kind of jump into the thyroid gland and take the space of the nutrient minerals. So the thyroid gland is quite sensitive to those. Nutrient deficiencies, we've covered the nutrients that are important. So if you haven't got enough of them, you're not going to be making enough hormone. If you have uncontrolled inflammation, oxidative stress, that puts a big demand on the body. And potentially your thyroid won't function as well under those conditions. You'll see more and more information about uncontrolled inflammation, unhealthy levels of inflammation. And that does have a big impact on your thyroid hormones. Eating too much, eating too little, and food sensitivity. So Dr. Cumberland talked about the gluten issue. Dairy also can be a problem for some people. But the whole, I mean, I think it's really important to work out what specific foods you're sensitive to rather than removing them and making your diet, missing out on certain nutrients. So conversion to T3 is just so, so, so important for us to feel well. So we know it's around four times more active than T4. We do produce some, like I said, maybe about 15 to 20% is made in the thyroid, but the majority is around conversion of T4. So we have diadenation, which is one iodine molecule being removed. And that's facilitated by, among others, DIO2. It takes place mainly in the liver, but also in the muscle, kidney, and brain. Now, if it's taking place in the liver, muscle, kidney, and brain, it's important, particularly around liver function, that that's optimized. Muscle is often quite hard to build in thyroid conditions. So how do you manage your diet to build enough muscle for this effect of conversion to take place? Because you need T3 in the first place to build muscle. So you can see how you get into vicious cycles with the thyroid. Kidney and brain, again, if you have a lot of psychological symptoms with your under functioning or over functioning thyroid, so for example, depression, mood, mania, and we've really got to think about what's happening in the brain. And if that conversion from T4 to T3 is taking place. And this is really important as we get older around cognitive function and memory. So things that increase the conversion, so the key nutrients in balance that we would think about, vitamins A, E, and zinc, it's important to think around toxicity levels and safe upper limits. So vitamin A can quite quickly come in at a higher level than you would like. It's fat soluble. And we store it. So it's not like you pee it out if you've had too much. You get swacked into the liver and maybe you can. Well, you can technically overdose on it. It's quite rare, but it does happen. And vitamin E is also fat soluble. So you need to be careful around the dosages. But interestingly, hardly any of our food has vitamin E in it anymore. And when I run vitamin and mineral tests on people, vitamin E is often the one that comes out low because you would expect to be getting vitamin E in, for example, olive oil or other plant oils. And what happens is at the harvesting site, they are siphoning off the vitamin E to put it into capsules. So if you test, for example, olive oil, most of the olive oils on the market in the UK don't have any vitamin E in them because it's been sold to the supplement industry. So to get the vitamin E, you need to eat the whole seed. So the sunflower seed, you could eat the olives. But if you're looking at plant oils as a source of vitamin E, most of them don't have it. An anti-inflammatory diet, okay, so that is such a broad sweeping general term. I'm gonna talk a little bit at the end about general guidelines. The diet, this is a lifelong condition. You may put it into remission, which is wonderful, but it is still not cured. So you do need to be careful for the rest of your life about how you eat. So the diet that you adopt needs to be sustainable. It needs to allow you to have a social life. It needs to give you enough energy and not be so restrictive as your terrible foods. That's my opinion now, working in nutrition for a long time. The more restrictive the diet is, the harder it is to stick to, the more likely people are to bounce off it. And the more lonely they're likely to become because they can't hang out with their friends anymore because they're eating this really restrictive diet. And well-balanced blood sugars. So it might seem really basic, but when your blood sugar goes too high or too low, if that has an impact on your thyroid, it's through insulin signaling, is one mechanism. Another mechanism, when it goes too high, your blood becomes a little bit sticky and we produce these proteins, advanced glycation end products, is where basically the sugar sticks to something in the blood and creates a product that shouldn't be there, which makes it less functional. And they then trigger the immune system, which will then have an impact on thyroid hormones. And when the inflammation is high, you can't convert well from T4 to T3. So hooray, you've made enough T4, but there's so much inflammation going on in the body that it can't convert to T3. So we have the DI02 SNP. I'm gonna talk about SNPs in a minute. Over and under nutrition, this is really around the hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia. And again, uncontrolled inflammation, oxidative stress and the high and low blood sugar. So the next stage of this tricky process is to get the thyroid hormone onto the cell wall, through the cell and into the nucleus to influence the DNA within that nucleus to produce certain proteins, functional proteins for the activity. So how do we make sure we're getting the thyroid hormone where it actually needs to go? We've made it, we've converted it. It's in the bloodstream, you do the test, the test looks normal, but you still feel awful. What is happening to that thyroid hormone within the cell? So if we want to increase the sensitivity of the cell to the thyroid hormone, stabilise your blood sugar, number one, adequate vitamin A, adequate zinc, and the right type of exercise. So what do I mean by the right type of exercise? It needs to not stress you out. So if you're doing cardiovascular exercise no longer than 20 to 30 minutes, but the type of exercise that seems most helpful in thyroid conditions is resistance training, building up your muscle. Because there's so many, so many reasons, I'm not going to have time to go into them all, but one of the big things that the muscle does is it converts to T3 and the other is it acts as a sink for excess sugar in the blood, which is so beneficial. And also resistance training done correctly doesn't drain you, doesn't make you exhausted. And the good news is some of it you can do C-suit, which is quite nice. So you don't have to do hours and hours of cardiovascular exercise. In fact, I would say that's one of the biggest mistakes. I see what my clients is, the type of exercise that they choose to do is cardiovascular. I had one woman who was running on a treadmill for two hours a day and couldn't understand why she put on three stone. So the right type of exercise and things like yoga, Pilates are very beneficial as well. Things that reduce the cellular sensitivity. So you've got less chance of getting the T3 into exert its effect. Nutrient deficiency, uncontrolled inflammation, and blood sugar highs and lows. So all of those are controllable through your diet. So there's so many different points where you can intervene in this cascade to improve how you feel. So I'm going to talk a little bit about gene expression epigenetics. Epigenetics is really interesting. So it's basically how your genes express themselves. So you have approximately six foot of genetic material in each cell. How does the body decide which bit of that genetic material to use? If you can imagine, there's little buttons on top of the genetic material and certain behaviors and nutrients switch them on and certain behaviors and nutrients switch them off. So what you're trying to do is you're trying to choose the behaviors and nutrients that switch on the good genes essentially. And that's your epigenetics. And then the combination of your genotype along with your epigenetics, that's called your phenotype. That's the expression of your genes and that determines health or lack of health. So you can see here on the left-hand side, you've got all these different factors feeding into your epigenetics or your nutrition, your lifestyle factors, that was sort of a stress idea. Loneliness is a big problem as well around epigenetics, toxicants. So pollution, plastics, exhaust from cars, all of that can have a big impact on how our genes express themselves, pathogen. So they're disease-causing agents, Epstein-Var virus. So if you've had glandular fever, helicobacter pylori, the microbiome, massive source of gene switching on, switching off. So that's to do with your, mainly what's been studied is your gut microbiome and mainly what's been studied within that is bacteria. But there's also all the viruses that live in your gut that maybe we don't know so much about. And then there's all the fungal growth that lives in the gut as well. And all of those can send signaling messages to hit the right or the wrong button. Okay, so I'm gonna talk about SNPs now. So Dr. Kamran has mentioned these. These are alterations in the genetic code that results in a change in the proteins being produced. And when you're doing reading about it, you'll come across some terms. So the wild type, that's the common form of a DNA code. And that's on both of the chromosomes. You get one chromosome from your mother, one chromosome from your father. Heterozygous, you've got different alleles on each chromosome. And homozygous, two identical variant alleles on each chromosome. So which is the good one? Okay, so wild type is the good one. That's the one that's most functional. Heterozygous, less functional. And homozygous, less functional still.  so the way I like to think about it, wild type was like you were on a motorway with hardly any cars and you're just powering down, and you've got loads of room to maneuver, there's lots of space for reactions to take place. So heterozygous, you're more like you've hit the A road. So you can still move, but maybe you can't go as quickly as you would like. And then person C with the homozygous, that is more like you're on some windy country road, it's really hard to get around, and if you get any more traffic on that road, you're going nowhere. So even if you're on the motorway, you can still have an awful lot of traffic that's causing an issue. And the traffic in this instance would be like background inflammation, nutrient deficiency, et cetera. So that's some basic terminology and a real sort of lay person's guide to what wild heterozygous homozygous, but I do find that road analogy really helpful. And the other thing to say about SNPs, and we were talking about why aren't they available on the NHS. The research on SNPs changes a lot. So even this DiO2, which was first really talked about in 2009, we still don't have like reams and reams of evidence to say that this is necessary, important, et cetera. We don't have the amount, with them, the NHS with nice guidelines, they want definitive evidence before they make a recommendation. And that can be really frustrating for people, a waiting treatment, and for people working within the NHS system. So one of the problems with a lot of this stuff is it's preclinical. So this is preclinical information, and some of the SNPs that Dr. Kamran was talking about are actually in the preclinical stage. But the problem is you're sitting in clinic with somebody with a massive problem, and you want to do what you can to help them. So if you're practicing safely, then you will use the current available evidence and adapt the protocol for the person based on the results that come back. But there is a sort of a rule of thumb around research breakthroughs taking 20 years to hit the GP practice, which is no good for you now. Nobody here wants to wait for 20 years to feel better. Okay, so the results can be one of three combinations. You remember I mentioned the wild, the hesserozegus and the homozygous. And the results will come back saying either T for 3-anine, C for cytosine, sorry, I haven't written it on. So you've got the wild type TT, heterozygous TC, and homozygous CC. So if you remember what I said about the motorway, the motorway is TT, wild type, yes, please, I want that one. Heterozygous TC, I'm on the A road, could be better, but it's not grateful. Homozygous CC, oh, okay, probably need a bit more intervention here. I'm on that country lane and I'm not going very fast. So you can see here what's happening, where it's happening. So the T4 on the, sorry, I can't tell my left, my right, so it takes me a while to work out with the slide. I want to tell you to look at, T4 is dropping through the cytoplasm, those blue lines on the top, on the right-hand side. And DIO2 is facilitating a reaction to T3. And that's happening within the cell. And you can see here, the green bar at the bottom around the nucleus and the transcription of the message. So the T3 goes to the nucleus, attaches to it and tells it, make this protein, please. This is what we require. And if you have T4, you can see T4 doesn't attach to the nucleus, so it's like, swanning around, not doing much. The other thing is, if you're taking more and more T4 medication, you begin to degrade your DIO2 enzyme. So it doesn't really help to take more and more T4 medication because there's less DIO2 around to make the active hormone. Okay, so this is what the result letter would look like. So TT wild type, no genetic predisposition for decreased T3 synthesis. Heterozygous, decreased ability of the enzyme to generate the active T3 hormone, again, you're on the A road. And homozygous, you're on the country lane. You've got decreased ability of the enzyme to generate the active T3 hormone. And the additional information that's given here is this genetic variation is associated with an increased risk of obesity. And I want you to look at that word associated. Associated doesn't mean causal. It means that they've looked at a group of people with this SNP and they've looked at their weights, but they, so there is an association, but there's no direct link proven, which is potentially why you don't get it moved up. You don't have your DIO2 measured on the NHS. So the CC and the CT, so the CC is the country lane and the CT is the A road. They're going to have reduced ability to convert T4 to T3 in the brain, skeletal muscle and brown adipose tissue. So if you're not converting it in the brain, remember I said that's gonna have an impact on how you feel. So really quite low mood, depression deeper than other people without hypothyroid disease is going to be more common. So if you're suffering a lot with very low mood, then I would consider this being an issue. Getting the, because you're going to be relying then on the bloodstream, which doesn't cross the blood brain barrier. So you're not going to have enough of the T3 to feel good and to have good memory. So we do have with underperforming thyroid, we do have an increased risk of cognitive decline, which really nobody wants. So you changing medication to a combination of T4 to T3 may improve psychological wellbeing. And about 16% of people with hypothyroid have this SNP. So that's, you know, of the total population of the hypothyroid people for every hundred 16 have the SNP. So when Lynn asked us to look at this presentation, I went through the data that we have at Regenerus and I looked at the last 200 results to see what we had found. So wild type, we're on the motorway, 39% of people who feel like their T4 medication is not working, don't have a problem with converting it according to this test. TC, heterozygous, so we're on an A road. There is a slowness that it isn't as efficient as you would like, 40%. But the CC, the homozygous, the country lane going nowhere, 21%. So we've got 61% of results indicating potential genetic issue with the conversion of T4 to T3. So the results, they come with a letter to share with your GP. And some people have used this to ask for a T3 medication prescription and to be referred to the endocrinologist to achieve that. It just gives you more ammunition, but it doesn't necessarily get you what you need. So what about the other 39% of people who tested, who were on increasing doses of T4 and still having symptoms? So this is back to the idea of the gene expression and what we can do around nutrition, lifestyle factors and improving health. So these are some general recommendations in hypothyroid and Hashimoto's. I would suggest having high quality protein two to three times per day. If you're feeling rubbish, I would probably start with three times per day. So the equivalent of a chicken breast, three times per day, but you can have vegetarian protein. Some people think, oh, I'm having a really high protein breakfast, I have eggs. So if I wanted you to have 30 grams of protein at breakfast and you said, oh, well, I have two eggs, each egg has about six grams of protein. So you're only getting 12 grams of protein. So that would be in, if we're looking at supporting the thyroid, that would be quite a low protein breakfast. So you need to look at the other foods that you could have to improve that. So maybe a higher protein bread, maybe a protein smoothie. Anyway, so just to say that eggs aren't high in protein, but you can combine them with other foods and you're not going to be sitting around eating steak three times a day, you can make it up from vegetarian protein as well. I also recommend gradually increasing your vegetables and choosing from colorful, brightly colored vegetables, sulfurous, so that's onions and garlic, et cetera. I'll show you, I have a little picture at the end which makes it clearer, cruciferous vegetables. So sometimes with thyroid patients, the advice is to avoid the goitrogenic vegetables. So that's the cruciferous ones, but as long as they're steamed, it really doesn't matter. If someone was having lots of kale or juices, that would be a problem. What the goitrogenic vegetables do is they prevent the uptake of iodine. So you don't get enough iodine into the thyroid gland. Too much iodine is a problem, too little iodine is a problem. So steam your cruciferous vegetables and you'll be ground. Controls start to carbohydrates, not, not, not, not, absolutely not, please, please, never, never have low carbohydrate diet if you have thyroid symptoms. Because what will happen if you're on a low carb diet and you have issues with your thyroid, with your hormone production, is that you're gonna be relying on fat for energy when you're on low carbohydrate. And to break down the fat, so as it can get into the mitochondria to produce energy, you need T3. You need really good levels of T3 to achieve that. This is also why fasting isn't great in hypothyroid as well. But what happens if you don't have enough T3, you use adrenaline, you use your stress hormone. So you might feel tired and wired on low carb. So don't do that. Finding the right amount of carbohydrates for you is, yeah, it's really important. And having the right type of starchy carbohydrates and thinking about things like sweet potatoes, planting, yam, white potatoes, if you're not, if they suit you. And starchy vegetables, beetroot, squash, all of those things are really important alongside gluten-free grains. Being gluten-free is usually helpful. In studies, it's been shown to reduce TSH. If you are autoimmune, definitely take out gluten. If you are hypothyroid, but not autoimmune, gluten is really quite hard to digest. And high thyroid, lack of thyroid hormone compromises your digestive system. So being gluten-free is probably a bit helpful in that scenario as well. So correct nutrient deficiency. The tests your GP can do if you push is B12, phylic acid, vitamin D, and iron. If your iron is low, you can assume your zinc is low. We don't really have a very good test for zinc. We don't know what the storage protein for zinc is. So that's why, you know, we can test the serum levels of zinc but it's not telling you how much your body is storing. But as a rule of thumb, if iron is low, zinc is probably low as well. Oh, and also if you're a vegetarian, make sure you're having double the recommended daily amount of iron and zinc. Consider additional food sensitivities, but don't cut out loads of foods because you're just going to be miserable, but you can do that in a controlled way. So what should your plate look like? Probably around a quarter of the plate is protein. So other leafy greens and salads, other vegetables, cooked vegetables, root vegetables, and whole grains. So that's generally what your plate should look like. And the aim, if it's also immune, or if you're feeling rubbish, is to try to get as much in the way of vegetables into your body as possible. So the different colored pigments represent different benefits, whether they be anti-inflammatory, anti-carcinogenic. The other thing that's really interesting about all the various pigments is that they provide an energy source. The different pigments provide energy source for the mitochondria to produce ATP. So if you think about B12, being really important in the mitochondria, it's the blue from the cobalt in it, the cobalamin. The other thing that the different colored fruit and veg do is provide food for good bacteria in your gut, and your microbiome has a massive influence on the expression of the genes in your cells. So what time are we now? Okay, so you can order the DIO2 test from Regenerus, and if you want any more information on nutrition, you can email me there. That website link takes you to, you can sign up for breakfasts that are helpful in hypothyroidism, and there's more information on how I work. So I'm very much apologized for the technical issues at the beginning. And I shall stop the share. Thank you very much, Virginia. That was really interesting again. Hope I didn't go too deep in, sorry about that. That's okay. We don't have time for questions, but I don't know if you're going to hang around till the end because I know I've only given like 10, 15 minutes for questions at the end, but Louise and I are happy to stay on a bit longer if people want to ask questions then, and if there's any, I can't answer all forward, but if you have the time to stay on till the end, Virginia, then that would be good, but if you don't, I'll find out the questions for people and send them to you. Okay, I think I can pop back in at half two. Okay, brilliant. Would that work for you? Yeah, that'd be great. Yeah, because I'd love to chat with you guys. Okay, thank you. Thank you. It's actually a great pleasure for me to be here and then the opportunity to share some of our research with you. I'm doing this work with Alexandros Angelidis. We are both economists at the University of Aberdeen Business School. So I would say at the start that none of us have got any medical training, but we are aware of the high prevalence of thyroid disease amongst a general population, and we have an interest on labor markets. And so we started to wonder whether it wouldn't be possible to identify some broad general patterns across the population on the influence of thyroid disease, not only on the well-being of the individuals, but also more broadly on societies, in particular with a focus on the labor market channel, if you like. So we started to look at the literature and we found that although there is evidence that chronic diseases affect various labor market outcomes, I'm talking about diabetes, clinical depression, and they do so by reducing employment prospects, increasing absenteeism, reducing productivity and lower wages. And this evidence also suggests that women seem to be more affected by these conditions than men. There is very little evidence that on the effects of thyroid disease on labor market outcomes. So we decided to embark on this project and do some work ourselves. The key stylized fact about thyroid dysfunctions are what informed our research questions to start with. So as we have had an opportunity already to hear today, thyroid dysfunctions are very common. We know they're also very much more common in women than in men. Hypothyroidism is the most prevalent condition and it affects women potentially 10 times more than men. Subclinical hypothyroidism is the most commonly, sorry, is very commonly detected as well. And from what we understand from the medical literature, it is typically not treated, or even though it can give symptoms to those affected. There is also a frequent incidence of undiagnosed thyroid disorders. And then the medical literature suggests that many people on normal TSH level, as we have had the opportunity to hear today also, continue to exhibit symptoms. And also the symptoms as well as the diagnosis seems to be more problematic when it comes to women. So the symptoms management and the diagnosis. So on the basis of these stylized facts, we did a first piece of work, which is appearing in a paper published in Economics and Human Biology. The paper is already online with the journal, where we asked whether thyroid disease and particularly hypothyroidism could contribute to explain gender differences in the labor market. And then subsequently, whether diagnosis and then the treatment of the disease could have a positive impact on these negative effects. We used a large sample of people, 240,000 observation that we got from the UK household longitudinal survey. This is a survey which basically follows people over time. So we followed people over a period of 10 years. And we concentrated on people of a working age, so 18 to 65. And the data enabled us to distinguish between hyper and hypothyroidism. So it wasn't a very fine characterization from a medical point of view of the disease, but we had this key distinction. And then there was information about the diagnosis. So we could compare individuals before they were diagnosed, after diagnosis, and also we compare these people to those people who never were diagnosed over the period. We thought that the results were quite interesting. I should say that this is a typical approach that we follow as economists. So we try to identify broad patterns in a large population as opposed to build our analysis on individual case studies. And the advantage of this is that we managed to obtain key stylized facts, which may be quite relevant actually from also from a policy point of view. So what we found in this paper is that thyroid disease, in particular undetected hypothyroidism, can have serious consequences for female workers. And both this female workers experience an increase in the gender pay gap. We have a base gender pay gap in society, which is around 13%. That's the difference in wages between men and women. And this pay gap goes up by 5%, so to about 18% for those women who have an undiagnosed thyroid condition, hypothyroidism. The channel that we identify in the paper is a productivity channel. So the thyroid related symptoms presumably affect the productivity of these women and this results in a lower wage. After diagnosis, this additional wage gap of 5% is recovered gradually over time and also the employment prospects of these individuals improves. So the key point that emerges from the paper is that thyroid disease can have consequences not only for the individual well-being of the people concerned, but also more broadly to society. I mean, a loss in productivity is an issue. And clearly this suggests that the early diagnosis is an important factor. Now on the basis of this piece of work, we decided to go deeper into the analysis. And can you hear me? Hello? Hi, yes, we can hear you. Yeah, no, sorry, because I received strange messages and that's fine. Okay, so we decided to continue on this line of research and one of the strands that we have identified was implemented this year with the people's experience with thyroid disease survey, which was conducted in March. We contacted people through the thyroid charities such as yours and we're very grateful for their help. We managed to get something like 1,200 responses and around 95% of these were women. So the purpose of this survey essentially was to try to get a broad picture about the well-being and labor market implications of the disease, but with a particular focus on the journey from the development of symptoms to diagnosis to treatment. In essence, in an attempt to try to understand what factors might affect the negative impact of thyroid disease on well-being and labor market. I should say that during and after the survey, we received many emails from people. Some were actually arguing that the survey didn't allow them to express the complexity of their experience. And this is definitely true. It was so by construction. And as I said, we try to identify broad stylized facts, but the kind of evidence that we obtain from the emails resonates very much with what was said by thyroid patients today. And it is pretty much in line with some of the results which come out of the survey. So both in the report and in the presentation today, you will see some of these statements scattered around which reflect the experience of the people concerned. In terms of thyroid conditions, the sample was, can be described by this graph. Essentially, we had 69% of people with an underactive thyroid. The majority of these were autoimmune in nature, 24%, there was also 14% of subclinical lymphocytes. 24% had an underactive thyroid, the bulk of these were graves, and there was also 6% of thyroid cancer. So moving on to an analysis of the results in terms of the journey from symptoms to diagnosis and treatment, the key points which emerge from the survey is that it takes considerable time for a thyroid condition to be diagnosed. Thyroid treatment may not be effective. And the diagnosis of hypothyroidism tends to take longer than that of hypothyroidism. And people with hypothyroidism have lower levels of satisfaction with the treatment. So let's see a little bit of evidence about these key points. First of all, the diagnosis was done in the majority of cases by a GP, 68% and 26% of cases were diagnosed by a consultant. In terms of the lag with which the diagnosis of care, relative to the onset of symptoms, we see that the average lag is of 4.5 years. And the lag for hypothyroidism is twice as long, twice as big as that for hypothyroidism. And between the onset of symptoms and diagnosis, symptoms get worse. So the lag is not without consequences for the well-being of people. And treatment, however, follows relatively quickly after the diagnosis is made. So the average is about four months from diagnosis. And this is a statement from a patient who had to wait about 10 years for thyroid cancer to be diagnosed. Now, the satisfaction with the timing of diagnosis and the timing of treatment is not very high. Clearly, given the length it takes for diagnosis to take place, it's not surprising to find that quite a large number of people weren't at all satisfied with the timing of diagnosis, about a third, were not at all satisfied with the timing of diagnosis. The timing, the satisfaction with the timing of treatment is somewhat better, given that it occurs quite fast, quite quickly after diagnosis. But you will see that from the graph that there is quite a large percentage of people who are not very happy about the timing of diagnosis, treatment, and even with the treatment itself. Again, we find the difference between hypothyroidism with hypothyroidism patients being less satisfied on all counts. They're less satisfied with the timing of diagnosis, treatment, and with the treatment itself. An important dimension which comes out of the service that the treatment may not be effective. So it takes about a year, up to a year, for the majority of people to start feeling the effect of treatment, but there is a not insignificant percentage of people who have yet to feel the effect of treatment. Now, it's important to stress here because we can cross the answer to the different questions, that this not yet, so the people who have yet to feel the effect of treatment are not, do not consist of people who have started to receive treatment very recently. So the treatment may not be effective despite a considerable amount of time having occurred from the beginning of the treatment. And again, hypothyroidism patients seem to be much less effectively treated than hypothyroidism patients. Now, therefore we have a situation where there is a delay in the diagnosis. There is a treatment which doesn't appear to be particularly or always effective. So the implication of this is that the thyroid disease symptoms persist after treatment. And although people will be in a labor market engagement and prospects improve after treatment, the improvement is moderate, especially when it comes to the labor market. So the nature of the symptoms, what comes out very clearly from the survey is that thyroid disease generate a combination of symptoms which overlap. And so people feel experience many, many symptoms. And what is striking is that after treatment, as you can see from the height of the two different colors histograms, the percentage of people which continue to experience these symptoms doesn't fall very much. It doesn't fall very much. So for example, you take tiredness and slowness, which is the symptom which is perceived by the great majority of people, it falls from about 85 to 79% after treatment. And it is striking that what the survey throws as an important result is that over 90%, 92% to be precise of people still experience multiple symptoms despite the treatment. We asked people what was the most severe symptoms. And again, here you see that the most severe symptoms, again, is tiredness and slowness. And after treatment, actually, there are more people experiencing than before. So the persistence of symptoms clearly has implications for the well-being of people. And it has implication also for the labor market engagement. When it comes to well-being, we see that there is a considerable drop in the number of people who are very much affected by the thyroid condition. So it goes from 55 to about 32%. But I think it is quite striking that despite the treatment, we still have 32% of people who are very much affected by their thyroid condition. And this clearly has implications for the daily life of people. As a lot of the statements we received suggest. When it comes to work, the situation is not very different. Again, there is a fall in the percentage of people who are very much affected by the symptoms. When it comes to work, but about 25% of them continue to feel that their condition is affecting them very much. So work, daily life and work are difficult with this condition. There is some improvement, of course, with the treatment. People experience better physical activity, better personal and family life, but the symptoms continue to affect them. When it comes to work, then when it comes to work, when it comes to work, the situation is actually worse because on a number of dimensions of work engagement, starting from employment.  aromain prospects, career development, skill developments, we see that there is only about 10% of people who reported an improvement after the start of treatment. For about 60%, there is basically no change at all. And for 30% of people, despite the treatment, these labor market indicators actually get worse. So the improvement in the labor market in terms of pain, freeze, working hours and so on is all very limited. We asked, we set up the questionnaire in trying also to understand what conditions could help people in overcome some of the difficulties. So we asked the question about the relationship with their employer. 78% of those employed at diagnosis informed their employer, but in 23% of these cases, the employer did not appear to be sympathetic at all. Now, this is a very important dimension because in the statistical, more in depth statistical analysis that we are doing on the data from the questionnaire from the survey, it is clear that those people who find that their employer is sympathetic towards the condition experience a lower impact of the disease on their ability to engage with work. So I mean, this suggests, become later to the policy implication, this suggests that it is important perhaps to put in place HR policies to support patients. But clearly the ability to engage with work may have very strong implications for the work prospects and also the ability to retain work for many people. Another aspect which we thought was important in trying to understand or in determining the extent to which the pilot condition can affect the well-being and labor market engagement with people is the relationship with the doctors. So the patient-doctor relationship, we know from other areas that the patient-doctor relationship is key. And what the survey suggests here is that patients do not feel on average that they are heard enough by the healthcare professionals. And this is something that even the few statements that we hear today from patients is consistent with that. People, however, felt more involved and empowered when diagnosis was made by a female consultant. And hypothyroidism patients felt less involved and empowered than patients with hypothyroidism and other types of thyroid conditions. So this is the graph on the question heard by more than a third of people felt that they had not been heard at all by the medical profession. And as you can see, this percentage is higher when it comes to GPs than consultants. So as we move from one to five, from the not at all to very much, the consultants always scores a bit better. And this sense also, this aspect of not being heard comes out very clearly also from the feedback that we received from patients. Hand in hand with not being heard, there is the sense of involvement and empowerment of patients. And here again, there's a very high percentage of people who do not feel at all that they are empowered or involved in the management of their condition. They don't feel capable of having an input. And the situation even along with respect to this dimension is better with the female consultants. Female consultants score a bit better on average. Consultants in general, but amongst the female consultants are better than male consultants. So more involvement and empowerment, when the diagnosis is made by a female consultant. Now, an interesting point again is that when we break down the sample with respect to the type of thyroid disease, we see that hypothyroidism patients feel less involved and they feel less empowered than hyperthyroidism patients. And this, I suppose, is consistent with their having a later diagnosis and having also experiencing also greater or slower response to the treatment than hyperthyroidism patients. So what can we conclude from this initial analysis of the questionnaire of the survey? It's an initial analysis because as we speak, we are doing more in-depth statistical analysis. But what we conclude from this is that diagnosis is neither the beginning nor the end of the journey for thyroid patients. It is not the beginning because it often occurs very late with respect to the onset of symptoms. And it is not the end because despite the diagnosis and the start of treatment, symptoms persist. There's a considerable time for a thyroid condition to be diagnosed, in particular for hypothyroidism. Thyroid treatment may not be effective with symptoms persisting after the start of treatment. Thyroid disease has lasting adverse effects on people's well-being and labour market engagement. And there is an improvement after the start of treatment, but they are relatively moderate on both counts, particularly when it comes to labour market. Patients on average do not feel they're being hurt by the medical profession and they do not feel empowered during their medical journey. Now, this is particularly true for people suffering from hypothyroidism and however satisfaction is higher when diagnosis is made by a female consultant. Now, one of the aims that we had in carrying out this survey was obviously to get a broad picture across a large sample of people. And we think there is value in that because if you concentrate on a particular case study, it is always possible that, for example, a medical person may say, well, you're a special face. Whereas if you identify stylised facts which cut across, which are supported by a large population, then clearly it is much more easy to say that there is a problem with a particular situation. And we think as a result of these results and as a result of the results of our previous paper, that thyroid conditions pose a problem on many counts, the diagnosis phase, the treatment, and then as it comes out here, the relationship with the medics. That's an important aspect because in the particular, in the specific statistical analysis that we're carrying out at the moment, what emerges, for example, is that if there is a higher sense of empowerment and involvement by the patients, then typically those people who feel a higher empowerment and a higher involvement also have higher satisfaction with the treatment. So the treatment is likely to be more effective. There is a shorter period before the effect of the treatment are felt. And then we find that there are positive implications for well-being and labour market outcomes. So this from a policy point of view suggests it is very important to look into the patient-doctor relationships. So on the basis of this analysis so far, we think that it is possible to start thinking a little bit about what can be done. And we have identified a few policy implications on which we hope that the results of the survey will draw attention to. So the first clearly is that there has to be greater awareness and we hope that this study can raise this awareness, can contribute to raise this awareness on the well-being and labour market implication of thyroid dysfunction. There are implications which go beyond the well-being of the individuals here. So thyroid disease poses real costs not only to the individuals but also society more broadly. For example, through the labour market channel. This results also suggest and confirm what we found in our previous paper that early diagnosis is of essence. Now clearly, as has been argued earlier at the beginning by Lin, in fact, it is important to understand why diagnosis doesn't take place more readily. And here again, I move to the point that I mentioned a moment ago about the relationship between patients and doctors. I mean clearly if patients are not being here or there is a tendency to maybe dismiss or misinterpret their symptoms because we know that thyroid symptoms mimic the symptoms of other conditions. I think some work could be done in that respect. There has to be a review of the effectiveness of treatment. We talked, we heard a lot today about the conversion between T4 and T3. We are not medical doctors here. But one of the points that emerged, for example, from the messages that we received from patients, we got a sense that and incidentally, even though the questions didn't theoretically allow that, people wrote in the questionnaire, they wrote, they added comments to their answers. And one thing which I think comes out is that a lot of patients have a sense of their being often on approach, which is a one-size-fits-all approach to their condition. And in fact, I was reading recently some medical papers on thyroid disease where the authors were advocating a more patient-centered approach. But again, a patient-centered approach requires, as a laywoman, in the sense that I'm not a medical doctor, but I think it requires a better relationship with the medical practitioners because if patients cannot be here in the first place, then it's very difficult, I think, to arrive at a situation where a patient-centered approach can be obtained. Thyroid disease is also a women's health issue. I mean, it's not solely, I mean, it affects men as well, but certainly it affects predominantly women. And therefore, I think it should be part of the women's health awareness agenda. So thyroid could well be a component of that agenda. And we were actually very surprised in reading the women's health plan strategy for Scotland and England. One is called plan, one the other is called strategy. None of them mentioned thyroid. So thyroid is not there at all. And I think an important step would be to achieve the inclusion of thyroid conditions into those plans as a means to increase awareness about the implications of the disease. I mentioned earlier the need to work with the employers to develop workplace and HR policies on organizations approach to stuff, to stuff experiencing thyroid related symptoms. And we think that a good step in the right direction would be the establishment of a UK wide thyroid task force, the same as what has been done, for example, with respect to the menopause. And we think here of a task force which brings together the NHS, the medics, the employers, the patients group, the thyroid support groups, because it's a multifaceted issue here that we are facing. And I think these results suggest that there is an issue, but it is a complex issue. And only something in a sense, which takes a kind of holistic approach to it may be effective. I'll stop here and I'm happy to answer any questions if I can. Thank you. Thank you very much, Katia. Very interesting. And can I just say that Thyroid UK did include a submission to the women's health strategy and it just wasn't included for some reason. They didn't include thyroid disease and we were very disappointed in that. Workplace information is something that is on our list to do. So hopefully we'll get that done quite soon because I know it is important. Some of your talk, I'm not surprised about the dissatisfaction, but it's very interesting to see how it affects the workplace. I know myself, I had to give up a job because I just simply couldn't do it. I was in too much pain and I had to have a job where I could decide when I worked and how I worked. And I'm sure that's happened to a lot of people and once I was diagnosed then I work more than full time now. So it causes havoc, particularly for women and something needs to be done. So we don't have a lot of time for questions, but nobody's got their hand up at the moment. So nobody? Oh, someone now? Oh, there, yep, okay. So Sariya, sorry if I've pronounced that wrong. Sariya, no, it's absolutely fine. It's Sariya, hi, hi. Sorry, I'm a bit late joining today, trying to join in between my work and calendar, which is quite hectic. But I've captured some of that presentation, which was really good in terms of what bits I've picked up. What I wanted to ask yourselves as leading experts, as those that have joined this forum space as well is, is that what is the links between the menopause, perimenopause and no predisposed thyroid condition, but the onset of it during that period and the links between the esophageal and progesterone? Because when you attend your GP appointments and you say, look, I'm feeling really unwell, something's not right, I don't know what it is and I can't get my hands on it. And you pose a question, I'm a perimenopausal. Quite often the look at you like, are you absurd? Really? At your age? No, you're not. So it's those myths and stereotypes that come around a woman when a woman can be perimenopausal, for example, and it's got to be a certain particular age. Because I for certain believe I was misdiagnosed because I was in the perimenopausal stage by the age of, I would say, 46, 47. And I was told no, it's nonsense. It's something else that's underlying that's going on. Everything was checked. And this is some, I was going back and forth from Dr, Dr. Ferrohulia, and then eventually they checked my thyroid readings, which isn't done as a given, you have to ask for that. And it should be done routinely considering there's one in 20 within the UK that could have a thyroid condition, for example. So I was perimenopausal at the time, they saw your thyroid readings are slightly out. So from that, they put me on levothyroxin, only 25 milligrams initially to start off with. But once I went on levothyroxin treatment for hyperthyroidism, this is what they were saying, is that you're on it for life, etc, etc. As we know, I felt really, really unwell, worse than before. I went to the doctor and ever since haven't really felt well, but I was perimenopausal. I'm in the full blood menopause now as well. And I think the links between thyroid and menopause, which is all linked to our hormones, needs to be looked at very closely. And instead of treating the thyroid strength to it, your readings are that high, that they're quite within the 0.456 ranges. And they go straight for treating your levothyroxin instead of addressing the eastern and progesterone levels that might be out of sync in your body. That's what my question is. And this is something that we need to look at very closely in terms of research, in terms of having those difficult conversations that we have to have with our GPs that don't understand the correct management of thyroid conditions or menopause or perimenopause stages. I know that's a bit of a long-winded thing that I'm asking. I hope you can capture the essence of what I'm trying to draw out. I'm not sure if Katya can answer that question. No, I'm not qualified to answer the question. I could only describe the experience of my mother, but it's not relevant to you. Yeah, I mean, in my experience, definitely the symptoms can be very similar between thyroid disease and the menopause. I don't think that GPs test properly for perimenopause or the menopause. Privately, you can get quite good testing done to tell exactly whereabouts you are. And we know that estrogen can affect the thyroid negatively when you're taking the pill and things like that. And I think probably that the levels that change when you're in perimenopause or menopause will affect the thyroid as well. And not enough research has been done. We definitely need more research on that. But thyroid itself isn't an area where people want to do research very often. The big issue is heart, cancer, children, all kinds of things like that. But thyroid comes right down on the list of research. And this is something that we want to do. We want to do something where we get everybody together. It's called the James Linde Alliance Priority Setting Partnership where we get together patients, advocates, advocacy people, doctors, researchers, we all get together to decide on the 10 most important questions that we want answered. And that could include menopause and thyroid and what happens. Unfortunately, to do that, it will cost about 25 to 30,000 pounds. It is on our list of projects to do when we get some more money coming in and we do now have a fundraiser. So I'm hoping it's not going to be the two distant future that we can do that. But I'm not sure that ordinary researchers are very interested in that area. Having said that, menopause has come right up in the media now. So it may be that somebody wants to do how thyroid affects the menopause and vice versa. Hopefully quite soon, but it is difficult. So everyone, as previously mentioned, I am Rachel Hill from the Invisible Hypothyroidism and Thyroid Patient Advocacy Blog and Website, which I set up in 2015 now. So I've been around for a little while. I'm here today to talk about the benefits of raising children, the grandchildren, children in our lives, to know the signs and symptoms of a thyroid condition and why we can all benefit from doing that. Next slide. So first of all, a bit more about me. I am a multi-award winning thyroid patient advocate, speaker, content creator on social media and an author of, as of today, three books. I have been involved in the thyroid advocacy world since 2015 when I was diagnosed with autoimmune hypothyroidism. So that was Hashimoto's alongside hypothyroidism, as many of us have those two things in combination going on. I had had many, many years of unexplained symptoms of fatigue, muscle fakes and pains, really heavy periods, cramping in my calves, hair loss, all of us can relate and the symptoms can just be really relentless and endless. And that was me too. And so I eventually got that diagnosis. I share real experiences of having autoimmune hypothyroidism and I work hard to improve awareness of the signs and symptoms and to encourage more of us to get that full testing and explore full treatment options, as well as consider other lifestyle interventions and changes that can help us with our health as well. So that can include things like exercise, diet changes and just how we live day to day to try and optimize our thyroid health as best as we can. With all of this, this is where making more children from a young age aware of the symptoms can tie in as well. So next slide, please. So how many of us knew the signs and symptoms of a thyroid condition before we were diagnosed? Raise your hand if you didn't. Yeah, I'm sure that's a lot of us. A lot of us didn't even know where thyroid gland was and hadn't even heard of the word thyroid before we got diagnosed and that's really not uncommon. Although we really do face struggles with feeling as if medical professionals have taken a serious seriously a lot of the time when we keep going in, complaining of these mounting symptoms. How much quicker could we have been diagnosed if we had had a bit of an inkling that it could be a thyroid condition and we could have asked for those tests ourselves? I know that I didn't have a clue. I'd spent years feeling increasingly fatigued, frustrated, achy, having all those mounting symptoms that I was talking about and I did not have a clue that they were connected to this one health condition. And if I had been made aware of the signs and symptoms of hypothyroidism and hashi motos from a young age, not least because it may have run in my family, then I could have asked for and received that thyroid test and that thyroid diagnosis sooner. And thus I could have had an earlier diagnosis saving years of lost and missed opportunities. But by the time I was diagnosed, I felt like I'd lost years of my life. And I was at the point where my health was so bad that my quality of life was quite hugely affected. And by the time I was diagnosed, my health was in a terrible place. It had gotten to such a bad condition that I wasn't able to work. I was bedbound and I often said that I felt like a 91 year old living in a 21 year old's body. So yes, I had developed a third condition when I was really quite young that as such not one doctor thought to check my thyroid function for many years despite me complaining of symptoms throughout childhood, but they were really mounting up when I got to those teenage years. Next slide please. So the very act of advocating for earlier diagnosis and treatment of thyroid issues means that we need to be increasing awareness among young people. By being open with the young people in our lives, whether they are our children, our grandchildren, family friends, we are giving them the advantage of being able to spot the signs in themselves or possibly even their loved ones, future spouse, friends sooner. Imagine if we could save them the years that many of us lost trying to get diagnosed ourselves or their future partner or a future friend who just so happens to have an undiagnosed thyroid issue or their own children one day. Thyroid issues can skip generations and many people who receive a diagnosis are shocked to learn that other people in their family have a thyroid issue too because it's just not spoken about often enough even within friend and family circles. Next slide please. So we can help future generations by being open about the thyroid symptoms we experience personally because as we all know they can differ somewhat from person to person. We can also share what helps us with the children in our lives. We can also share what flares look like for us, what helps us and how flare days might impact family life. We can also talk about what full thyroid testing looks like and how just going by TSH alone leaves a lot of us undiagnosed or under treated. Basically I think that we need to make it less of an unknown. It doesn't need to be a scary and worrying to be subject. It can be something that we have an open dialogue with the children in our lives about. Next slide please. Now through saying all of this I do want to make something clear and this is something that's taken from my book that was published today. The responsibility of managing our thyroid condition does not of course lie with our children but we can benefit from working as a team to understand what it looks like, how we can live well with it and how to get through those trickier days. Because I feel that we work best as a family when we work as a team and mutual understanding and open communication can really really help here. Next slide. Having two children who ask me a lot of questions like what are those pills you take and mommy why are you so tired some days and why can't you eat gluten like the rest of us. I decided that they couldn't be the only children with questions around my thyroid condition. There must be other children who are wondering these sorts of things too whether they verbalize them or not and we of course want to seize this opportunity to educate them so that they not only understand their grown-up situation but also so that they can be aware of the size of a thyroid condition in themselves or the people around them too. I know that by having two sons, my two children are male, the chances of me passing my thyroid issue down to them is much less compared to if I had daughters but it's still not a zero percent chance and I don't want them to go undiagnosed for even a second longer than they have to because like you guys I know what it feels to lose all of those years feeling frustrated and lost. So Thara's Superhero my new book released on this one Thara Day answers their questions in a non-scary way. It also encourages us to start what may feel like a tricky conversation but by opening that dialogue we're teaching them to advocate for themselves early on. Next slide please. Thara's Superhero covers a wide range of families represented throughout the illustrations, what thyroid flares look like such as fatigue, needing to rest and perhaps even having to cancel and reschedule plans as symptoms get in the way. It covers the third jigsaw puzzle, what it looks like to treat and live with thyroid disease and we all know that it's not just about taking that one pill of the home medication a day and then everything is fine. It's about diet, exercise, managing stress, trying to optimize sleep as well as we can especially with young children that's not always easy as well as looking at testing other things such as adrenal health in your vitamin levels as well which can often impact thyroid symptoms and mimic a lot of thyroid symptoms too. Thara's Superhero looks at how working as a team can benefit us all and how every thyroid superhero benefit of every thyroid superhero parent can benefit from having their sidekick as in their child to work as a team in this situation. Next slide please. So as you've heard throughout this world thyroid event, thyroid issues are often genetic and we have an increasing range of tools available to deal with this. So let's get the conversation going between adults and children and let's open a dialogue. I think that's key to supporting one another with thyroid disease and making more people aware of this genetic thing especially from a young age and within our communities. I've been Rachel Hill, thank you very much. Thank you, let me go back. Thank you very much, we got there in the end didn't we Rachel? Thank you. Does anybody have any questions for Rachel? I think we'll be putting things out for anybody that would like to purchase your book. I think there is a question from somebody. Louise will sort that out. Yeah, mirror your microphones on. Hi, to answer the question I was just going to ask where we can purchase the book. And so it's on Amazon if you just search for the name thyroid superhero that should come up. You can also follow me across social media and you'll find that I'm sharing lots of pages and I'm doing an Instagram like.  and I have laid it out today as well. So if you want to actually see what's in the book and decide if it would be helpful for you and your situation, then you can do those things too. But yeah, if you search on Amazon, it will be there. Thank you. Thank you very much. So we're really grateful for that. I think it's an excellent idea. I know when I was poorly, I missed many years. I was ill for 15 years before I was diagnosed. The relationship with my children wasn't as good as it could have been because of that. So I think what you're doing is great. It can be truly devastating. And I think there's this bit of sweetness of me being diagnosed so young. So I was 20, 21 when I was diagnosed with thyroid condition. And sometimes I wish that I had developed it and been diagnosed later so that I could have more of a normal young person's life. Yeah, had I been diagnosed at that point, maybe with children who were 10 or in their teen years, I think maybe that would have been a lot harder than me being able to get more of a grip on it before now having children in the last few years. So yeah, it's such a tricky subject. And I hear from so many other fellow thyroid patient parents. Really struggling trying to navigate this, the best that they can. Yeah, it is hard, very hard. So I think what you're doing is the first step to raising awareness of that demographic. You know, generally everything is leading towards older people, but you know, there are a lot of younger people too. And that's something that we want to do to try and reach younger people. And you know, hopefully the move to our new office is going to give us a lot more time to be able to do more projects like that. So thank you very much. So thank you very much for having me. Okay, so I think it's a question time now. If anybody's got any questions that I might be able to answer for you. And if we get a lot of questions, we're willing to stay on a little bit more if anybody's got any questions about anything really, treatment, diagnosis, whatever. But if not, then we'll end the webinar now. Thank you so much for coming. I did want to just pop up this. So we hope you found it interesting. If you do have any questions, send me an email to enquiriesatthyroiduk.org. And I do answer the questions. If it's really busy, it might take me a little while, but they do get answered much quicker than on the telephone because on the telephone I can be on for 45 minutes to people. And as you can imagine, I wouldn't get many queries answered during that time. But thank you all so much for coming. I hope you have had a good day and that you've learned a lot. And I'll see you again at the next webinar or if there are any other questions. So Maggie has a question. Go ahead, Maggie. Maggie, if you turn your microphone on, we should be able to hear you. Yes. I have lost amongst the technology today and I lost an awful lot of this, but what I have heard is very important. But you said something, Rachel, that a lot of people don't realise about thyroid. And Dr. Barry Peatfield explained this to me many years ago. And he said that when we treat our thyroid, we really need to treat the adrenals first. And I wanted to know, Rachel, what you've got to say about the adrenal glands before you go, because I had two synactin tests. And what the synactin tests do not show up is if you've even got 86% depleted adrenals, they will only show up prospective adenosine disease and you need to be 94 or 95%. The adrenal disease is not picked up. You're seen as somebody who's just neurotically looking for an answer for something, but the adrenal glands are pivotal. And I wondered what you had to say to that before you go, I truly appreciate that. Yeah, so to start, obviously, have to make aware that I'm not a medical professional, so I can't give advice or anything like that. But from the thyroid patient perspective, I am aware that you either end of the scale, with adrenal issues, you can have adenosines and Cushing's disease. And we know about this. I think what is still kind of up for discussion, in a way, and is not as well recognized within definitely mainstream conventional medicine is this idea of adrenal dysfunction or there's another term of adrenal fatigue that kind of mounts around, but isn't quite as accurate. I was a patient who at the time I was finally diagnosed with my thyroid condition. My adrenals were wrecked by a lot of us. And I had a four point saliva cortisol test throughout the day that showed that my cortisol was just chronically high constantly, which although I was on thyroid medication, I was starting on levotharoxin like a lot of us. It kind of explained why I was getting nowhere and I wasn't feeling a lot better. And actually I was feeling a lot worse to begin with. I then, like a lot of us, embarked on trying to figure out what I could do to address that adrenal dysfunction side of things and to bring the cortisol down to normal places. And this took a lot of persistence over a year or two, I would say, to finally get the cortisol back to normal place so that I could actually reap more of the benefits of my thyroid medication. And I feel like that was truly helping. I think when people first get diagnosed with a thyroid condition, you're kind of given a pill or prescription and you're sent on your way with telling anything else. And a lot of us living this know that it often takes so much more than just taking a pill every day. It's this thyroid jigsaw puzzle with many pieces that kind of slot in together and pieces can differ from person to person. The adrenal issues is one of those, which is really common among a lot of us. I think a lot of us, especially at time of diagnosis, have some level of adrenal dysfunction. How far out of whack that is will differ from person to person. And I hear from people that struggle with really low cortisol, really high cortisol, but yet it's not enough on tests to show up as addisons or cushions. And perhaps it is not, but just like pretty much any other health condition, I think it's really important to be aware and to continue to push for more progress and research in this area. Because like so many other health conditions, I don't believe that adrenal dysfunction has happened just on one end of either end of the scale. I think there's got to be some room in the middle where like we know with thyroid issues, you don't just fall within range and then you feel fine. A lot of us know that we feel better at certain places within these ranges. And I think that's got to be the same for the health issues. It's just a lot of stuff, surely. It's very important what you've just said. Can I also just say that I have, I don't know if anybody can see this, but I came across a book by Anthony Williams. I don't know if anyone can see this called Thyroid Healing. It's called Thyroid Healing, how important certain foods are for us. And I started to, I start this once I'd been diagnosed with bipolar when I went into the menopause, which I'm not discrediting from Dr. Michael Craig because I have a lot of respect for him, but it's not just that. He said there's three different components. Your endocrine system, your hormone system, and the limbic system, it all goes down with the menopause for some women because there's a subgroup of women whose dopaminergic system does not cope without the estrogen. The other thing is for those who start taking estrogen, there can be problems because estrogen fights for thyroid. And that's when I hooked on two years ago that it might be my thyroid because my mother had it, my sister had it. But what this book tells you, which is quite important is there's a drink, if we take pure, apart from the artichokes, if we take pure celery juice every day, there's a cluster salt in it. And that cluster salt builds up the adrenal glands and other cells in your body. And once I started to do that, I began to feel my brain clearer than I've ever felt, but nothing has taken away this laboured brain and laboured fatigue that I've got. And it's impacted on every aspect of my life, but it is worth looking at. And I also had with Virginia, see you've just popped up in the screen, we sent off to Regenerus as well, and you sent back a whole list of stuff that we were to look at from methylation to other stuff, but nobody could understand it for me. And because I'm now on pension credit, I couldn't work out, Virginia, what the Regenerus was. Nobody could help me. So I'm not any further forward, but the juicing does help because you have to look at your diet, but you definitely need to find out which aspect of the system has broken down because it's easy to diagnose you with bipolar depression when you're very, very depressed. But my four or five sisters have it as well, and nobody's really, really listening. So I don't know other than the cell reduce and waiting. I've also asked a Dr. Monica Laska, who used to work for Marion Gluck Clinic. She has been my lifesaver over the last few years, and she's going to get what you've just mentioned, Rachel, an index test for me now, just to see exactly where my adrenals are and see if we can build on it. But I think when you become very depleted and your thyroid becomes, when your thyroid becomes, you're not producing T3, I think you start developing hypodrenalism and all these other things and you're quacky. And this can be misinterpreted as bipolar. It's so complex and it's so... I don't think the GPs really have got the training to understand the sensitive complexities that were all unique human beings, that were all unique women and men, were not all the same, and that all these, sorry, all these categories that we're given in these labels are so unhelpful because it might get you your pit like me and enable you to go out for a few walks in the day. You might receive your pit, but it doesn't help you to get better because it shuts down any of the other professionals from realising, actually, this girl maybe lacking in T3, her mother was, her sisters are, but I'm not seen as that in Twickenham with the local GPs that I'm with. I think it's a highly complex thing and it's so easy. It's so easy just to label you. And I haven't given up because I have faith, family and friends, and I know I'm going to get better from what I've heard today and from what I'm going to do and what I'm going to further investigate with Monica and also the earlier talk speaker you had about all the complexities of the thyroid that can happen, that ordinary doctors don't get the training in because it's very limited. It's like the menopause. They don't know how important various aspects are. They don't even know that when you're given estrogen, if you start abreacting to it, that there's something wrong with your thyroid because the thyroid is grasping for the, the thyroid is grasping for the thyroxine. The estrogen sucks it up. Well done, Maggie, stick out. Thank you. Thank you, Maggie. I appreciate it. It's very complex. There are certain people, some people with thyroid disease get better immediately. Some people take longer and some people, it takes a really long time because it is so complex and other things are involved. So I wish you all the best with that. But I must go on now. I think somebody else has a question. Yes. Go ahead, Tabitha. Sorry. It's only to go off what Maggie said. I totally, I really sympathize because I've been going back and forth to doctors for a number of years now, having depressive symptoms. And I think it's mostly frustration. I think that's what gets us upset. We feel like crap. That's a crap. You're not getting anywhere with, you know, I remember calling the doctors and being told that my thyroid was out of whack. My TSH was borderline. And yet I was struggling to just function. And I just started my lovely new job, which I'm still in. And I just couldn't return information. I was crying, actually crying, begging for help down the phone. You know, GP, they were saying, we can't help you because your thyroid is just in, well, it was above five. And she was telling me that my thyroid was normal. And I said, I don't feel normal. Yeah. So I totally understand and see if you upset there. I totally resonate with you because the amount of times I've been in tears, feeling so, so frustrated. My heart goes out to you, honestly. And I think most of us can probably agree with that. Absolutely. The trouble is there's so many different aspects. So many different aspects. And GPs can prescribe when you go over the range because the range for TSH generally goes up to about 4.5. Nice. I think nice have stated that you don't need to be treated till you get to 10, which is we've always, always disagreed with that. It's ridiculous. What's the point in having a range? If you're not going to be treated when you go about the range. They change the range as well. They actually change that range. I put in a saracast for all of the thyroid tests that they've done on me because I just couldn't believe what they were telling me. And I, it says on there to keep an eye. Read your. The thyroid tests, subclinical, possible subclinical hyperthyroidism. And have they done it? No. It's me that's had to like just keep on it them and just be a pain in the backside. I've literally gone right on their nerves because I've had enough. It's so frustrating. It is. Some of the people, but they won't test the T3. I asked them in there when they were doing the test, I said, will you test my T3 as well? She said they won't. They test your TSH. They may look at your T4, but they won't look at your T3. Unless you, your TSH is of a certain level. Now that's just ridiculous. They don't even look at T3 if your TSH is super high. They don't. And that's why years ago I set up being able to allow patients to get the test done privately. And I know a lot of people think, well, I can't afford it. I can't afford it. Why are you doing that? But some people can afford it. And if we can help those people while we're campaigning to try and get it done for everybody, this is the thing. There are so many things that are just so wrong in diagnosis and treatment. It really is. But it can be a event of the bite. Do you know what I mean? I might not be dealing with this now had they dealt with it sooner. And they're still saying it's normal. And it's not. No, it's not. Absolutely not. Thank you very much. I think we have someone, Michelle. Hi there. Hi. I just want to take a slightly positive story. I've listened to the majority of the day today. I can resonate with so many of you guys on here about all the trials and tribulations you've been through, about trying to firstly get a diagnosis and then get this appropriate treatment. And a positive note, I just wanted to say hello to Rachel and you're an absolute angel because thanks to you and thanks to your book, oh my god, talk about going and fighting your own corner and getting armed. And honestly, I've been off work for the last two years. It's been honestly just an absolute shambles from start to finish between having a hysterectomy, finding out you're still very in cancer, the joy of surgical menopause, then it was all underactive thyroid. But even that was at the very start of the journey. So the biggest, and amongst all that, the biggest thing was trying to sort out your thyroid and then going back and arguing with doctors about your normal, your within range and then actually finding out for yourself what that means. My god, the difference between your within range to your now optimal range, I went in armed with my nice guidelines to be able to say, listen, I'm still not right. I know I'm not a doctor, but here's the proof because you've started your case saying, well, I think I should maybe try this and I should maybe try that and straight away the GPs have no I'm not doing that, I'm not doing that. And then I've started quoting, well, nice guideline to say this and any for you and say this and here's this book I've read and then straight and then after that, straight away they've agreed. Yeah, you're totally right. I think we should change our medication. I think we should refer you to end of your normal day. I think we should know that. So you're wanting somebody to listen. So it is just a positive thing going in the last couple of months. I've fought my corner. I'm finally optimal range. Oh my god, night and day. I am a different human being and it's just so nice. So yeah, just a wee thanks and I keep fighting. Just keep doing it. Yeah, just keep doing it. You know yourself, you know yourself as an anybody else. Definitely. I'm so I'm so glad that has helped. I think one of the best places we can start is to learn how to become armed with like the information in the vocabulary to go in and kind of fight our corner. If I think in my books, I talk about ways to prepare for like medical appointments. And there are some very simple things we can do just to have a doctor actually listen instead of, you know, I don't want to get into like Dr. Bashing or anything like that because there are many wonderful doctors out there. I'm interested in all doing their best. It's just a few bit of information, what a difference it makes. Yeah, they're doing the best with the information that they have and we're trying to do the best with the information that we have. And I'm all for trying to create a working relationship with a medical professional and it might not be the first GP you go into. It might not even be the second or third. I think at my NHS GP surgery, it took me, I believe I got to like the ninth GP. It was one of the very last doctors that was actually there. So it was a very large surgery. And so I finally found one who would agree to test TSH to even check my thyroid antibodies. I just wanted to know if my hypothyroidism was autoimmune. And he agreed to test that full panel. And at that time, I'd also self sourced my NDT medication, which so many people unfortunately have to, to get any kind of quality of life back. And he was willing to sort of run those tests alongside that every couple of months. He didn't give me grief for doing that. He understood the situation I was in. I understood the situation he was in and that he was quite limited. He referred me to an endocrinologist. Endocrinologists had absolutely not to any form of T3, whether that be leothyrinine or NDT. And we kind of formed this relationship. The best information that we had at the time, but and then the best resources that we could get. But I think part of making that successful can include knowing how to go in speaking assertively with the information. Like you said, you can either have a link or print out a copy of the nice guidelines, quote them, have them on your phone. I've done all of those things too. And it can just help us get that a little bit further. And if you do go in with a doctor who is just not listening, kind of making you feel a bit like a hypochondriac, brushing you off. We've all had those appointments where we come out and we just want to scream or we have a bit of a cry because we're so frustrated. Just know that you can go in with a fresh start with a fresh plan, take someone in with you. Things drastically started to change for me when I started to take my now husband, but at the time my boyfriend in because quite frankly, they don't listen to women, the hysterical women in the same way that they will listen to a man going in complaining about symptoms. It's a bit of an ongoing joke between my husband that he will call the doctors for something like an ear infection and he'll be seen the same day, medication the same day, and he's right as rain within a few days. I had issues with infections. I had 10 ear infections last year and it took me 11 months for me to finally get it resolved. And that's with someone who is already assertive and knows how to sort of work their way around to get to an outcome. And women are often sort of pushed aside as having psychosomatic, mental symptoms as opposed to actually treating a real physical cause. And if you've got something you can take in and it shouldn't be the case, but if you do have a male partner, a friend to take in with you, little things like that just might get you listened to a little bit better. And even if they're not, you don't have a male friend and you want to take a sister or a female friend or you have a female partner that you want to take in, then they can still also provide that alternative point of view from. I know that for me in the early days, when I was feeling absolutely awful. And so of course I got upset in the doctor's office quite early on because I was fed up. They would listen to Adam, my husband more compared to me kind of getting upset quickly and crying and saying, I've got hair loss and I'm so tired and nothing's working. They could hear him saying she used to be able to walk like five, five kilometers a day and now she can't get to the end of the street or I have to help her in and out of the shower or hearing that other perspective is something that's quantifiable. Seemed to add so much more weight to the conversation and that is one very simple hack which I appreciate. Not everyone has the budget to pay for private testing or see a private doctor, get private prescriptions and things like that. But there are some very simple hacks that don't cost a thing that we can do that just might get a bit further along. And just to end, I know I've sort of rambled on a little bit, but to end what you're talking about in terms of optimal levels and things like that, we can all start with a good baseline by getting a printout of our latest thyroid test results and they can't say no. In fact, if they do say no, you can go through sort of a formal procedure where there are forms involved that you can request, but they would really have to put up a fight to deny you a copy of your test results because that is your medical information. You can get a printout of those and you can check where you actually fall within range. So the ranges for each test result are quite wide. Falling within range means you could fall anywhere within there. Having levels that are optimised often mean that you fall at least mid range if not slightly further up within that range. So basically you fall well within the range, not only just in. And that can make, as you said, a huge difference to people's quality of life and symptoms. It made a huge difference to me and to so many other people that I hear. And going in and requesting that is actually a very reasonable request. You're not actually asking for a different medication or anything that is too woo-woo and too crazy out there. You're just asking to be moved within the reference range that they already go by and that they are already okay with. So again, that is something very simple that a lot of doctors, if you go in sort of prepared in the right way, will consider. That's not an absolutely crazy thing to ask for. But yeah, there are lots of things like this that we can kind of learn to do and go in with a bit more confidence and just see if we get a bit closer to feeling a bit more back to normal, if any of us can remember what that all feels like, right? Can I just say that we have some information about how to prepare for your visit to the GP. And I completely agree with you, Rachel. Something I always tell people is, if you possibly can, take a man in with you. It shouldn't be like that, but it really, really, really helps. And as far as the test ranges for TSH anyway, NICE made a change in their last guidance where they're kind of saying that if you still have, if a patient still has symptoms, they can go anywhere within the range. Whereas a lot of doctors worry once they get to about 2.5, they don't want to go any further. But for some people, just one point within the TSH range can make a huge difference to how they feel. So do bear that in mind as well. But try and take the guidance, take the NICE guidance with you if you're going to have a conversation and make sure if you can, have a man with you. Something I did right when I was really ill and I went in and I started crying. And the first thing he said, oh, they're there. Are you depressed? Would you like to have some antidepressants? Yeah. And I actually stopped being, no, I don't want antidepressants. I'm just fed up because nobody knows what's wrong with me. I'm not being helped. I'm so ill. So taking a man in like Rachel says, it gives their view of things, of how you were and how you are now and how things have changed because a lot of doctors reduce the levophoroxin and they get their symptoms back. So if they've got a man with you or someone else, if you prefer to do that, they can say, well, she was fine before you reduced the dosage. Can you please put it up again? And it does work that way. So do be aware. So thank you very much, Rachel, for that. That's really interesting. And I completely agree. I think we're on the same page on those things. Yeah, there's a lot of things that it shouldn't have to be this way. But while we're still making progress in other ways, if there are small things that can just help us in the meantime, it's worth sharing this stuff. Definitely. Yeah. So someone else got a question. So I think that was Michelle, wasn't it? I'll take your hand down. Yeah, Karen. I've put it into the chat. But this point about getting your test results, I don't know if it's national, but through the NHS app, you can access your results. And in my area, we have an NHS patient portal. I can see all my results going back historically, at least to the point they've started to put them on. So I get them pretty much before the doctor. Well, actually, I've got them looked at them, figured out what I've got, even before the doctor has. And I've gone in and told him, these are the results. That's what I've got. Sort me. So, you know, the NHS is actually really trying to be more overt. And they really can't refuse your records.  they really can't, they're yours, it's your health. So unless they think by giving you the records you might go and kill yourself or do something ridiculous and they'd have to be pretty clear about that to stop you, they just can't, it's not, it's illegal. And so by just saying, you shouldn't even have to get to that conversation with them, really shouldn't. So just know your rights and if they're going treating you like an imbecile, then treat them like one and tell them that you're the General Trump card that you know what you're doing and you've got the information. You all know more than many of the doctors know just by listening to you know. So I have said I'm not into taking men in because it makes us look weak and we're not weak. The very fact that you've dealt with all of these things for all of these years may and brought up children and families and work makes you very, very strong and I'd say stronger than many men. I'm sorry, I feel strongly about it but I feel that it's very absurd. There are still some older ladies particularly. I understand that. I feel that the doctor is God and they won't say anything. I know that I have an 84 year old mother and I have a mother-in-law like that but I managed to convince them in the end and they now get cross. It's just that they can't get into the surgery to have the row or even get the appointment. There's the real difficulty. Well that is now trying to get in the stock. Yeah so I'm just trying to encourage you all really and to feel empowered because you really are anyhow that's my rant. Okay, thank you. Tabitha did you have something else to say or is that as your hand up from before? Yeah I do have just one more thing to say. Only to just do your homework basically for everybody. I agree with Karen. I haven't got a guy to take in with me but what I have done is to do my homework. In fact I've disagreed with the surgeon recently. He didn't think I had a particular condition and I disagreed with him and I told him why. And it's because of that because I had done my homework and gave him my reasons. I've now been referred to genetics. That goes a long way I think. Although I can understand some may need to take a gentleman in with them. I think it's really important that you learn your stuff and go armed with what you know. Absolutely. As long as you're insisting on it because it does go a long way. Yeah I mean take some of our information in. Unfortunately though when you're first diagnosed or even for a while you have brain fog. And we know people find it very very hard to take in. It's a complex situation Thyroid. It's not simple just take this white tablet and you'll be well. It's not that simple and people do struggle with reading the information unfortunately. And sometimes someone else can read it. It could be a man it could be a friend. But then the friend needs to understand thyroid issues as well. It's not that simple sometimes and you have to find your way of dealing with it I think. That's the issue. Oh yeah I could put you get that because I've had the brain fog and I still get it. I still have my days you know. And if I'm feeling particularly rough I'll save it for another day you know. I'll just rest. I know about that. I haven't I haven't held everybody but this week I've got Covid at the moment. So organising this webinar and doing today has been a struggle I will admit. But we got there in the end so. You did it and you did it marvelously. I know what a week to get Covid though eh. Oh dear well I think that's everything guys. Thank you so much for coming. It's been really good to have a chat and thank you so much to all my lovely speakers who've been amazing absolutely amazing and given us a lot more information even me. I've learned something from this webinar. So I look forward to hopefully seeing you all at our next one. Thank you have a good rest of the day. Thank you very much. Bye. Bye.