查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查 them in the UK is autoimmune. This is really really important and so what I would always recommend is to make sure that you have optimal levels which I'll come on to in a bit. In studies it's more likely you're more likely to have thyroid antibodies if you are severely deficient in vitamin D and so that's quite interesting and studies also show that most people with autoimmune thyroid disease can't process vitamin D as well so they probably need to have more of it to maintain good health and of course in the UK you know we sometimes get a bit of sun in the summer but we don't get it all year round and even the government actually recommends that we take a supplement every day. So having said that if you have hyperthyroidism you're more likely to need more I would always recommend that you're in the normal to the high range if you get tested. We can't get enough from food and as I said we can't really get enough from sun either. If you do want to think about getting it from your food then good places to get it are Wild Salmon and Coddliverol but supplementing all year round is recommended. So what kind of dosage should you buy? You should be at least 3 to 4,000 IU. The best way though is to test and I would always recommend that. I'm not really recommending taking that amount without testing first because it is dangerous to have too much and you can do that at your GP but if they won't do that then you can do it quite easily online you can send off for a kit. There's a company called Better You which do it but there are lots of other companies as well and then when you get your results you ideally want to be in the 60 to 80 nanograms per litre range for good thyroid receptor and immune system function. So that's 60 to 80 nanograms per litre. Of course if your hyperthyroidism is not autoimmune it's still really important to have good levels of vitamin D. They don't necessarily have to be in the higher range but I would recommend them to be in the center of the normal range so they're not kind of you know drifting up towards the bottom. It's important for all immunity not just autoimmunity. So I'm Alice Godfrey and you can find me at Alice Godfrey Nutrition on Instagram, Facebook and I have a Facebook group called Get More Energy Thyroid Support for Tired Women. So thanks for watching see you soon.