 Hello, my name is Lynn Minott and I'm founder and CEO of Thyroid UK. This year, for World Thyroid Day, we're going to be looking into how people's mental health is affected by their thyroid disease. I have my own story about my mental health. When I was undiagnosed for so long, it really affected me. It affected my work. I had to change my job. It affected my family life. I couldn't do things with my children. It affected my husband because I said on more than one occasion that I didn't want to be here anymore. And I lost friends because of it. Friends stopped inviting me out because I kept turning them down because I didn't feel well enough to go out. So my social life was affected as well. And I'm sure that there are a lot of people out there with similar issues to me, some worse, some not so bad. But we need to raise awareness of how thyroid disease affects our mental health and we need to chat about it really. So we are going to be looking more at things like depression because there is a lot of research out there that shows that people with thyroid disease have depression either because of the reason that it's affecting their life or because it actually is causing the depression in the first place. So we're going to be doing an online survey and I'd be really grateful if people could participate in the survey and we'll be writing a report about the results and we would like people to give us some quotes so that we can let the policymakers know how it's affecting us. Do bear with us when we try and write the report and do the analysing because there is only three of us that work for Thyroid UK. We do look a lot bigger but there's only two of us actually that work in the office. So it might take us a little while to get that done. We do really need more funds. We need more staff to do more campaigning and to do projects so we don't get any money from the government. We do get donations from people but we would be really grateful if you could possibly donate on World Thyroid Day and it's easy to do that by texting hashtag WTDAY short for World Thyroid Day to 7085 and you'll be donating £3. We would be really grateful and this would help us to help you. We'd do more campaigning, more projects. We're also asking you to take part in other activities for international Thyroid Awareness Week which follows World Thyroid Day so do watch our other video to find out all about that. Thank you very much.