 what's what's up guys its eli here what's up guys its eli here what's what's what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what and this has nothing to do, not very little to do with this, but we are talking about arm drags, and so I thought that this would be the guy to collaborate with on a video talking about arm drags because he's excellent at it. He's great with takedowns and everything arm drag related. So let's talk about it real quick. He's awesome. An arm drag typically is making two points of connection onto an arm. This can vary wildly, but typically what I'm looking to do off of an arm drag is getting something down by the wrist or low by the wrist here, and then somewhere between the shoulder and the tricep. This could be from an outside grip here. It can be from a same side grip here like this. It can be from a cross side grip. This could be an arm drag. This can be an arm drag. This can be an arm drag. So ways that we can drill and train this, depending on the orientation that we have, is I can just have Aaron place his hand on me like this here, and whenever he places his hand on me just to build some dexterity and some tactile sensitivity for the arm drag, what we can look to do is this kind of like wax off kind of motion with my near side hand up by the wrist. I'm going wrist to wrist on this side, and then this hand up here is going thumb up, and I'm trying to catch my little snuff box right here by the tricep over on this side. The way I like to run this drill is I like to split his stance off of the drag, so I'm going to pass the arm over and across this way. So we still wind up in this do-si-do grip, but I'm splitting his stance so that we don't wind up in this like spiral of doom. What I'm going to have my partner do from here like this, I'm going to have Aaron push me apart, push us apart with his arm over here. I'm going to take this arm that was high up on his tricep on this one, and it's going to become my wrist side. So then I'm going to drag this direction here. He pushes us apart again, and then I drag again, and then he pushes us apart again, and I drag again. And this is good to continually run this because it's going to build up a lot of sensitivity, and it's going to get me really familiar with the grips and the placements and the sensitivities that I need to develop to be able to hit that arm drag at frequency. So that's more off of a connected type of arm drag where he's here. That's probably the time that I would want to blade and circle for this. If I catch his arm coming in and intercept it, I'm probably going to look more like a snap on the wrist here like this, and then I'm probably going to get by the tricep on this side as well. So as he's reaching in, I'm going to snap here like this, and I'll look to pull, and I can run the same drill again. We can move in to that circular one as well. So those are going to be two different categories of it. So there's lots of different ways that we can elicit that response. One more that I particularly like, and then I'll shut up and let Aaron talk, is that I like sometimes to be able to elicit the response. If he's not doing anything to really engage me and bridge that gap to elicit the arm drag response, sometimes I'll go on a thumb post over here like this, almost a collar tie, keeping this rear leg back here like this. And whenever he goes to touch the arm that I just gave him here like this, that's my tactile point of reference here, and then I can start looking to drag inside that way there. He can do the same thing. Sometimes he'll come to the inside over here, and then that gives me opportunities for my snap to drag into that arm as well that way. Okay, so those are good entry points just to be able to get that actual arm drag to get us together. You got any more of those that are good about bridging the gap like that? Yeah, so another one that plays off of that, we use those ones similarly as well, but another place that I'll hit a lot of arm drags off of, and I want my, you know, any of my students to work off of, is from over-unders pummeling situations, right? Usually in pummeling situations, the idea or the concept is, I'm trying to get to the inside, but sometimes I want to escape the inside position and get to the outside. That's when I'm going to use my arm drag, right? So what I'll often think about doing is, I'm going to drive a little bit heavier on my right side underhook, and I'm going to start to get my little Lego hand or web grip into the bicep to start to create some distance and reach here. I'm going to keep my head and chest in tight as I come to go to reach, and now I'm already kind of splitting Eli's stance. I can come across, I can start to make my drag from this position here. Same exact concept. I'm pushing in, pulling with the other side, and then where we go from there, obviously, is where we go from there. I'm generally going to be doing kind of the same exact thing where I'm looking to split his stance and find the far side. So when we start teaching people initially right out of the gate, it's like, okay, cool. From this position, I'm kind of creating a little bit of distance to stretch the arm out. I'm going to start to use my elbow tight, hand in to create a little bit of space. I'm going to reach across, keeping good head and chest pressure to be able to make my drag and go to step in from there. And then if you want to make it a little bit more dynamic, once people start understanding it, we can actually run this off of arm drags where I use that motion and momentum to start to catch the same exact weight. I appreciate you watching the Knight Jiu-Jitsu channel. If you want me to keep making videos like this and you're getting good information from any of the videos I have out there, make sure you like, subscribe, hit the notifications, share the video, do all the things. Check out my Patreon, become a member of the channel, anything you do to help support so that I can keep making these videos for you. I appreciate you watching as always. Let's get back to it. That's another great place too from the actual clinch initiated like that. Rather than using it to bridge the gap from a little bit longer or medium distance into a close range. If we're already in close range, you can use it to actually separate and create some off balance and some misalignment. And that's going to precede the takedown. Speaking of takedowns, you see that segue right there? The way that you enter into this can actually initiate, it can give you the option of whatever takedown you want to do from here. So sometimes whenever we're going in, when we step in with like a split stance like this here, I have opportunities from right here. If I go to pass and I make a level change here, I can go into things like body locks. I can go into double leg takedowns off of here. You can go into single legs because you have opportunities from there. You can go into high crotch lifts and things like that. So there's lots of opportunities from that depending on if we get there and some kind of orientation like this. Likewise, you can kind of get to an outside two-on-one sometimes where you get something like an outside two-on-one here. And then this now can start leading us into different trips as well. So if I get this outside two-on-one kind of position like this, it might be something where I want to go hit inside trips like that here. Sometimes you'll go in for that inside trip over here like this. I'll miss this one. Maybe I don't get quite like an uchimata off of this, so I'll try for this ankle pick here. Sometimes I might even miss this one here and he steps back out. But if he steps back out, typically it's going to bring his nose out over his toes. And then that's going to lead us into things like snap downs and things like that. So that's a really great series that all comes straight off of an arm drag like that, almost into like a Russian tie. So that's another good way that we can do it too. What kind of kickdowns do you like? Yeah, so one of the things I really like to hit with a head out versus head inside arm drag, right? So as I'm going through is once I go to make my clear, I'm going to split the stance exactly how we've been doing. I'm going to make sure that I get my hips the whole entire way through. And I like to use this to actually go into a knee tap. So this hand that was clearing the wrist or connecting with the lower end that goes to clear this way is going to come down and it's going to make a pretty aggressive tap on the knee. Now the real key to this is I don't want to end up in a weird position if we hit the ground. And I need to be able to impact your chest essentially. So what I like to do is then come with this far side arm to the underhook. And now as I go to drive you forward and through, I have my kind of shot takedown there from there. So it's a nice quick entry into that off of your arm drag where I'm straight through and in. And in the very least, it creates a lot of scrambling, right? So even if you try to shift your way back through, then I can start tossing and moving into other things if I want to. So it's a really clean entry and it's pretty low risk, which again, I love low risk type stuff. You hit it or you don't, it's at least going to create some separation. But the key to that, which you've said numerous times, is like you have to split the stance. You have to go in or else you end up, like we talked about, in kind of like this situation where we just do-si-do and go to turn. I have to do something to impact your ability to rotate. Yeah, one of the worst things that can happen off of an arm drag is to get a redrag. And if he hits a redrag on me, then that was pretty stupid because I initiated the arm drag that actually gave him the advantage. So we don't want to do that. So whether we're splitting the stance or whether we're transitioning to an outside two-on-one, we want to make sure that we don't get ourselves stuffed up and locked into a position that he can actually take advantage of. For that reason, I like level changes a lot too off of arm drags. One of my favorite ones being a poor man's imitation of Marcelo Garcia. So if we're here like this and I get the initiation here, like on his side over here, then I'm going to either circle or snap into this. And when I drag, I'm thinking about the drag actually pulling his arm forward into this like kind of dead pocket of space. If I do that, he's typically going to have to take a step like that. So knowing that he's going to take a step, I want to put my hamstring right on that ankle right there. And the result on that, me dropping the weight in here, is going to be something along these lines. So this would be one of the better options here. If I were able to make that kind of takedown is now I'm going to wind up in an opportunity where I'm chasing his back here like this. Sometimes even this, even though it looks very committed, I don't consider this a very high risk because it's easy to recover off of it. Say that I hit this and basically it just results in him stepping over my leg whenever I don't hit it here like this. I still can follow up and bounce right back up to standing and maybe still have back exposure or come up on a single leg at very least. And then have a good back chase off of it. So that one is actually, in my opinion, one of the higher percentage ones if it's strictly a submission grappling kind of environment that we're operating in. And that's the course of this video anyway. So that's what I like that one a whole lot. Any other ones? Yeah, with like head out. So another one with head out. And, you know, in everything that we've shown to this point, I've been splitting Eli's stance or we've been splitting each other's stance with the inside leg. An interesting way to start to look at it is it takes a little bit of getting used to to kind of hit this. But if I hit this drag and as I hit this drag, I step with my outside leg to the inside, right? So even if my head is out in this direction and I split the stance where I'm squared up here, I can use this again to set up takedowns and all that kind of fun stuff. But you don't really have a choice in this position because I have your elbow across your body. You're splitting a line and this leg's kind of out. You have to essentially deal with this leg. It has to step out and around my leg. So as you start to address that to get out and around the leg, I can use that to really cleanly take into the back. Whereas if, you know, splitting here, this is all fine and dandy. But even if you start to step out around that leg this way, you can still redrag maybe quickly. It's a lot harder if I get that inside hip in. So I'll use that head out, step through the finger, and then as they go to make those kind of adjustments to get out around the hip, I can start to turn and make my drags from there. And again, super low risk. If I pull the snap and it doesn't work, at least I'm on your back. So that's always really nice. But I've seen some guys, I'm not really great at it, but I've seen some guys hit some very, very aggressive throws off of this intake. And that's not my game, but somebody out there might have that. Those can be definitely nasty though because you're in a very compromised kind of position. I think like overall though, these arm drags at very least are a good way to misalign the person. And whenever we're talking about the off balance that precedes the takedown or Kazushi as a Jiu-Jitsu or Judo principle, I think that that's a really good way to establish a Kazushi that precedes a takedown is to get the person misaligned. Anytime that I can typically get Aaron's shoulders and hips misaligned. So in the case of like dragging and splitting the stance like we were talking about, or like Aaron was talking about bringing that far side hip in. And if you look at how misaligned he is, it's not going to take a whole lot for me to dramatically off balance him. And then whatever kind of throw I fit into that, whether it's more of a hip throw or whether it's more of a drag to the floor, whether it's a single leg, double leg, all of these different things can exist off of some derivation of an arm drag. So hopefully there's some details in this video that you're able to employ. Maybe you're already using them. Maybe we pointed something out. But if you like this, make sure that you like, subscribe, share, do all those things. Make sure you're following Aaron Gennetti and Endeavor Defense and Fitness. Make sure that if you're in the San Francisco area and you want a great place to train, especially for self-defense, they've got a great program here at Forge Krav Maga. And anytime you want to learn more about knife control concepts, follow us. Knife Control Concepts all around the nation. It's a wrestling-based program that is using really good fundamental wrestling programs for standing and ground, specifically for knife defense. So that's really good. I don't recommend a seated arm drag necessarily, right, for knife defense. Maybe. I don't know. I've seen it work. That's a whole different video. It's awkward, but I've seen it work. Yeah. I mean, it's a whole different. Don't do it. You can't do it. But there's people that can. Appreciate you guys watching. Keep watching the Knight Jiu-Jitsu channel. Guys, like, subscribe, share, do all the things.