 notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch notch attacks today. So we're doing gi version on this one. There's a whole no gi series too, but a lot of these, anything you can do no gi, you can do in the gi. It just doesn't work the same in reverse. You have a lot more options typically, and whenever you're in the gi, especially when it comes to things like chokes, but we're going to look at that and kind of explore that. So let's jump right into it. We're just going to teleport to the back today. If you want to see how to get to the back, I've got other videos on that, but for today, we're just going to go from, we're going to start from the back. One thing on here is I'm going to have an overhook and an underhook, typically speaking. I'm going to have at least one hook inside, and we can talk about the back controls, but mostly I want to focus on the submissions. Whenever we get into a submission opportunity from the back, we're going to be something like this. With my bottom hook, the bottom hook is typically more important because if he clears the bottom hook, he's going to have a much easier time escaping out that way. So I want my hook up nice and high over on this side. Now we could talk about getting into body triangles and all that, but for today, we're just going to stack the feet because I want to have access to use my legs to enhance some of these submissions. So jumping right into it, I want to have not quite in line with my spine with his. What that means is like I don't want to be directly behind him because his ability to rotate and turn and face me or to get his back to the floor is going to be a lot greater if that's the case. So I want to be a little bit more perpendicular. I want my head in between his head and the floor, almost like I'm going to like kiss him on the cheek. I'm not going to do that because it'd be weird if you and your partner have a relationship like that. It's okay, but I'm going to have an under hook on the bottom side. We can have it over or under, but the under hook on the bottom side gives another layer of obstacle between him and the floor and him and his escape. So from here, we're starting from just some kind of a seatbelt, right? The seatbelt, I don't want my hands too directly in front of him because that's going to make it easier for him to strip my hands and then start escaping too. So I want to have it a little bit more off center and maybe even a little bit higher as soon as we get here. That's going to help me also get my head into place to where it's going to be harder for him to get his head to the floor and then start his escape process. So the first series of attacks that we want to start looking at here are using the collar. If you get on the back when you're in the gi and you're thinking primarily rear naked choke like you would do no gi, it's kind of, I relate it to like as if you have a gun and instead of shooting the person with the gun, you're just beating them to death with a gun. So it's not the most efficient way to use that weapon. I want to use the weapon in the most efficient way possible. So what I'm looking to do from here with my bottom hook, my under hook on this side, and the first thing I want to look to do is I'm going to peel the collar open and that's my bottom hand is peeling the collar open and I'm going to stick my thumb from the top side. My hand is waving away, not this direction like a sock puppet, but waving away like this. I'm going to peel open. I want to put my wrist against his neck and my thumb is going to insert so I have good surface area contact against his neck like this. I'm going to lay it. I'm going to put the lapel over my thumb like this here and I'll get a nice solid grip. So to finish this choke, there's a variety of different ways and those will depend on what he's doing in response with his hands to defend against this. So one of the most direct ways that we can possibly finish this is I can reach to the other side lapel like this, like I'm tightening a necktie. So I'm going to keep this one nice and tight like this. I'm pulling my tricep back toward my lat on this side and I'm pulling straight down on the other side lapel here and it makes for a nice tight choke. Sometimes his hands will come in to defend this though and depending on how they're defending, I might want to start stripping the hands away so that I have better access to be able to finish that, right? So if I don't have the secondary hand because this hand is preoccupied keeping his defense away, then something I can look to do from here is I can push his hand straight and if he wants to get his hand free at this point here, he's going to try to kick it past mine. So once he does that, my hand comes up in this karate chop fashion and I'm going to look to go spear hand right against the back of his neck like this for like kata hajime like this. So I want to spear hand toward the ceiling and I want to retract at the same time so that makes another nice tight choke like that too. Very effective choke that way. Now from here, sometimes if that's the case and he's doing a good job with the top hand defending so that I can't get a good grip and so I'm too low on here, then something I might want to do is still sell him on the idea of the choke while he's pulling away but eventually what I'm going to look to do is I'm going to give way to his pull and I want to come here, I'm going to put my knee, my leg here on top of his elbow and I want to switch my hand this direction to start peeling his top hand away. What that's going to do is create this little gap, this little wedge right here where I'm going to step over and I'm going to use my leg now to cut that arm away so now he has no arms left. He still has one more layer of defense. The last remaining layer of defense is his chin. Worst layer of defense but it's still something. So what we can look to do from there now is I'm going to go here, I call this the bird box. If you saw that shitty Sandra Bullock movie on Netflix years back then you'll understand the reference. If not, don't worry about it. I'm going to go here right across his eyebrows and I'm going to lift his chin up like this right here. From this point now, I want to save the space so whenever I get into this position here, I can release this one and come through and start going into my rear choke style like this here or I can just keep monitored on this and hopefully I can slide underneath in time to be able to get that collar. Another way that I might be able to get under that chin is to start this little knuckle of my thumb right here and start digging back by his ear and lifting like a little old school can opener right around there until I can start getting back into that choke too. Once we have this here, again, I can go here. I can maybe finish with the sliding collar or if it's accessible because I have this good perpendicular kind of off-center position on him, then I might be able to use my leg here so I'm pushing through my heel and what that's doing is it's rocking him enough for me to grab here right by his knee. So I'm getting the fingers right in that crease of his knee pit right there and then I'm going to pull this back. I'm going to pull on the leg and I'm going to push my heels toward the floor on this side to get a nice bow and arrow choke. I appreciate you watching my videos. If you feel like you're getting good information from any of my videos out there and you want me to keep making more like this, make sure you like, subscribe, turn on notifications, keep following me, check out my Patreon too. Anything like that is always a huge help. As always, I appreciate you guys. Let's get back to the video. The bow and arrow, in my opinion, is the most powerful choke from the back. So if you can get that, excellent. So this is a whole series that we can do from here, either sliding collar, single wing, bow and arrow, all those things are fantastic from here. Now sometimes though it gets into a point where whenever I go to step over here like this to cut this arm away, I may have jumped a little too high. Now that may have been on purpose or on accident. Either way, I've cut away my ability to really get good access to his collar because my own leg is in the way. But let's take advantage of what we have actually created from here instead. So one thing that I can look to do from here is I can bring this arm around and I can frame against him like this. I can start to pull here and bring my other arm back. So I've got this kind of karate chop type motion. And then now from here, I'm going to bring the leg around. When I bring the leg around, I'm not looking at the inside of my own ankle. Instead, I'm turning my heel back like I'm going to bring it toward the floor back this way. What that's going to allow me to do now is be able to pick up and go for the arm lock on the side. So you even have arm locks available from the back as well. So once the chokes are exhausted, or if I don't have good access to get a good choke, then I still have access to the arm bar. Something else that I have really good access to if I do have a nice high bite here on his shoulder like this, but I am blocking my way is from here, this underhook side, I'm going to reach up and I'm going to grab my own shin. Once I grab my own shin here this way, again, I'm going to push to this side over here to rock him over this direction. Once I rock him this direction, we land like this. I want to make sure I get my foot to the floor. I don't want my foot dangling out here so that he can reach up with his two legs and start pulling my grip apart. Instead, I want to place my foot on the floor here like this so he doesn't have access to that. This hand here is doing two things. It's picking my shin up, but it's also straightening. And look what that does to his arm, how it gets his arm closer to his head so his shoulders pressed against his face. Once I've accomplished that, now I'm going to hook this up and I'm going to lock it into place, still keeping my foot down on the side at first. Because again, if he is able to grab my leg with his legs, he's going to pull my connection apart and start escaping. So instead, once I lock this up, I still keep it in a position where he can't easily access it with his legs like that. Once I make sure that I have the clearance, then I'm going to tuck my shoelaces behind his back on the side. Now we're in a good position to be able to finish that triangle from the back. The way we finish the triangle from the back is I'm going to start scooting my hips back and away, and that's going to tighten the triangle. Something else I can do is I can use my hands. Now in a typical triangle from the guard, you pull on the head if you don't quite have the leverage to finish it. On this one, it's the opposite direction, so we're going to do the opposite and push his head away into the triangle from here as we squeeze. So that's another really powerful way to finish that. If I'm just not getting it, I can't seem to make the necessary adjustments to be able to get that triangle, then something else I can do is pick up at his hand here like this, and I'm going to go for the shoulder lock. Now it looks like I'm going for a straight arm lock, but what's actually happening here is I'm putting the back of his hand against my chest, and because of the natural bend in his arm, it actually makes more of like an Americana or shoulder lock. I'm going to hip into it and get that nice shoulder lock just like that right there. So this is by no means a comprehensive guide to everything we can do to attack from the back like this, especially with the gi. There's lots of other things, but this is a pretty good sequence that's kind of a logical progression depending on how he's reacting and how we're getting into that position. So hopefully these have some good details. If you're not already incorporating these kind of attacks into your game, then maybe, or even if you are, maybe you got a detail out of this one that you didn't have before. If I left something out or you want to see something else, or if you have any other questions about it, let me know in the comments. I'll try to address it in a video or at least in the comments themselves. Appreciate you, Ed. Make sure you follow Ed over here at Metrolina Martial Arts on his channel, on his accounts, YouTube, Instagram, all the things. And thank you for watching the Knight Jiu Jitsu channel, guys.