 So, when we're looking to set this up, right, so the basic application of the high-risk guillotine, the high-risk being because the wrist is coming up higher than the elbow, right, if it were elbow up, then it'd be high elbow guillotine. So, ġ ġ ġ ġ ġ ġ ġ ġ ġ ġ ġ ġ ġ ġ ġ over and across this way, right? And trying not to cover up my life. So I'm grabbing over here, I'm grabbing my tricep tendon or a little part of my tricep just outside of my elbow like that. And that's what's going to be one of the mechanisms for tightening it. But what I'm trying to do is get his head riding down here toward my diaphragm. This hand is coming up here in front of the shoulder. And then I'm reaching across this direction here, right? Now, while this is going on, I'm trying to be nice to rock you with this, but while this is going on, you should be driving in fairly heavy this way. Because the reaction that I want oftentimes is him overextending or him dropping back in in relationship to our force. So that that helps me elongate his neck and then stretched out neck is always easier to choke, right? So we get here and here this way. So to finish this from this position. Now, oftentimes, like just from right here, if this is tight enough, then I can probably get the squeeze and maybe get the tap. But to make it tighter, I'm going to like hold this leg inside. I want this leg sticking to the outside on the arm and I want to think here this way. And then I'm stepping up and forward and then trying to sit back as if I were going to pull guard. I shouldn't make it too terribly far into that until he's already tapping, right? If you're sitting all the way back this way and like just not happening and his head's about to pop out, then you screwed something up. We'll fix it though, right? Okay. So any questions about this so far? I'm capturing on the head and arm, right? Shooting this hand up and through, punching over and through to grab my elbow on this side. And then I'm stepping my outside leg up toward his leg here like this, his posted leg or up toward his hip in any way. And then I'm going to windshield wiper this foot to the other side. Okay. Good. Any questions? All right. Let's go strangle each other guys. A little knee tap thing like a while back. And it's useful for setting up like different threats on the neck. And then I saw recently Christos Papadillos, I think, was showing this in conjunction with this. So I thought it'd be fun to to mess with this here because I was playing with it live and I was like, oh, that's actually kind of cool because a lot of times what we'll do is kind of like sometimes when you're doing like different kind of like CLA games or whatever, then one of the games is like getting somebody's hip to touch from a quad pod or getting their hip to touch from like standing versus seated or whatever. And so this kind of like is along those lines. So if we're here and I'm in on this like front headlock, I'm monitoring the arm over on this side as well. Then something that we can look to do because he, from here, he may be hand fighting with me in a way that's like obstructing my route to get here. So I'm going to actually punch through and pass this. So if the knee is within reach now, this won't always be the case, but if it's not the case, then he's going to be probably more, unless he's in a quad potted kind of position, which is not a great prospect for him from me being on his front head and arm, then he's probably going to be overextended, which is also not a great proposition for him. So if he is in here and he's got his knees withdrawn in, then I'm going to reach over and through. So I'm punching in deep on the side. So I'm bringing my ear toward his chest, reaching my bicep and like nice and high for this, sorry, nice and deep this way. And then I want to block out here. So either I'm going to turn palm down here or just if I can use the back of my hand. So whichever one of those is comfortable for you. I'm also monitoring here on the elbow, right? So that whenever I try to hit this here, like this, I'm trying to drop him over to his side, right? Now when he drops over to his side, that was my idea, not his idea. So whenever he builds back up to get his position back, then that's when we're slipping in for this high risk guillotine here, right? So it's one of those things that if he is paying too much attention here, dropping to the lower hemisphere of the body is going to distract him. He's going to like have to divide his attentions on what he's going to prioritize. And because I knock him to his hip and now again, like that wasn't his idea, then now he's going to be like, whatever you just took away from the other guy is what he's going to most immediately try to get back, right? Just from an instinctive and sometimes even a technical standpoint. So that's what the idea behind this is operating off of. So whenever we're here like this and I'm in on this head and arm, I might be trying to funnel and feed things all through here. But if I'm having trouble getting some access here like this, or if I just want the distraction of it and want to punch in this way and try to hit that knee tap on that side, the rest of the mechanic is me blocking out here on this arm and then just punching and driving with my shoulder this way. Okay. So then as he goes to rebuild back up, that hand slips in front and then we're in on our high risk guillotine. Right. So then we're going to punch over and through and then we are back into our finishing mechanics of sitting back and down. Okay. Cool. All right. So let's just add this little knee tap to it and see how it goes. Okay. Let's go. One, two, three. Any questions up to here? Everybody feeling relatively good with this joke? Okay. Yes, sir. For the knee tap, do you keep driving and going forward or do you just hit from here and try to just control the arm? Yes. It depends on a few things. It depends on how tight in the turtle he is. Right. It depends on what kind of energy he's giving you. If he's giving you back out energy versus driving forward energy. I think the biggest thing that you can do on either side of the equation though is to keep good centralized chest pressure toward the back of his head. Right. So it's essentially, if we're here in this turtle position, I want like, I want to feel that like pressure right here with my diaphragm. Right. So whether it, I want to be able like, and again, like I was mentioning before, like I'm being nice by sitting on my knees here like this, but it should be like in this position, probably be done on active toes like this all the time. Right. So then, you know, the access to be able to get that knee tap is my sight picture right here. He has this acute angle. So I needed to recognize like whenever this angle, like how open it is or not. Right. So it's like between knee, hip to shoulder, right. Is an acute angle right now. So that means it's probably within my reach. Right. So if I'm sitting here and I'm driving forward and he's anchoring into that, then that's probably the time to start moving into it. Yeah. Right. And so like what you'll get, like if he falls to the side and he's just like, well, that's my life now, you know, and he's just going to stay on his side and just, you know, take it, you hit a knee tap. Great. Right. Or, you know, depending on how he builds back up, right. If he builds back up and he gives me access all the way through, then we can start looking at anaconda. Right. Um, when we're in this position, right. Just most basic type of anaconda is where I'm going to reach through and I'm going to fold this up and then we're going to hit the roll and all that. Right. Now, having said that though, I don't want to do that. Um, instead I want to start to already gather his head and arm up with a gable grip like this. Why? Because his ability to keep this space open is what's going to govern that choke. Right. So again, like maybe I was able to get through on the high risk guillotine, but if it happens that I don't feel like I've got the, I don't have the clearance to be able to get that hand through there, then it's something to where probably now I want to bunch up the head and arm. So if we're going to bunch up the head and arm and look to attack for the anaconda, then the first thing I want to do is get the gable grip on the outside. Outside hand is palm up orientation. This is palm down orientation. If I can get deeper into the wrist, then that's great too. Okay. Um, next I want to start getting up on active toes. I should already be on active toes, but I want to make sure I'm on active toes and cutting the corner and trying to get a little more perpendicular. Right. So what that looks like is here as I start moving around the corner and bringing my head in, I want him to feel like tapping right about here this way. Right. Okay. Uh, but beyond here, if I'm, he's not tapping yet, by the time we get to this position here, I'm going to start dropping that knee to hit that roll this way. Okay. And what that will allow me to do now is once we fall over to that side and this connection here, I want to keep that elbow down. I don't want this opened up because what he's going to start immediately looking to do is opening this arm over here. Right. So that's one of the most common reactions anyway. So I want to keep that elbow compressed in. And then as I start walking my hips in forward toward him, I want to drop my leg on the outside of his tricep over here this way. Right. And again, at that point, I shouldn't have to necessarily oftentimes switch to this, but it is a nice reinforcement. So whenever the leg comes in this way here, and then I'm going to shoot this direction, right? So that my hand winds up in the bend of my elbow. And then we wind up grabbing the lat on this side. Right. The next step is just bringing the hips in squeezing nice and tight that way. Okay. So from here, and again, you can still preface this with the knee tap if you want to. Oh, and then whenever he builds back up, then we're going to collect the head and the arm this time. Right. Again, because maybe the elbow, the high risk guillotine isn't available. Right. So once we get here and I've got this gathered up and in the next thing, I want to try to take my nose to his chin, right? Probably won't make it, but it's the goal. Right. So here I'm trying to bring my nose in to his chin this way. Right. So that whenever we come over to the side and then making sure that my elbow stays dropped down, closing, squeezing the elbows in the whole time, this leg comes over and on top. I'm going to shoot here to connect. Another good little detail from here typically is like, if you guys can see this, rather than just shooting here to bicep, this is okay. Right. Bicep's okay. Tricep is better. Yeah. Okay. The reason for that is because from here, it just the rotation, you see how my hand is on top of my arm here like this and look at where my fingers are located. Right. When we curl that way, it already tightens it. Right. So when you're doing darts, this is the same way. We'll talk about this, this concept again on the darts, but it's like, if I go here and you look at the whole opening here like this squeezing, right. But my hand kind of stays stuck on the bicep. Whereas if I go to the tricep here with the palm kind of twisted this way, that rolls it back in this way. Right. So that automatically tightens it and it tightens it in a way that I don't have to muscularly squeeze through it. Right. So it's bringing the elbows closer together. Right. Questions about this? Yes, sir. You said something about the palms the first time around. What was that again? You said palm up versus palm down. Yes. So whenever we're shooting in this way, it just doesn't make as much sense to go this way. Right. The reason for that is, well, one, it's easier for him to bust this grip this way versus here. It's a little harder for him. Right. The other thing too, is that this is a stronger orientation to be able to like tuck his arm to the inside. Right. Versus this, this is just awkward. Right. And I'm trying to, to cut his arm to the inside, like all things being equal. If he's posted out like this, I want this arm's job to be to scrape that together. Right. And then we start looking, we start peeking into the hole, cutting the corner around perpendicular, and then we hit the roll. Right. If necessary. And then the leg comes in, traps it and we make the switch off to the arms. Cool. All right. Let's try it guys. Guys, I appreciate you watching the Knight Jiu Jitsu channel. If you want me to keep making videos like this and you're getting good information from any of the videos I have out there, make sure you like subscribe, hit the notifications, share the video, do all the things, check out my Patreon, become a member of the channel. Um, anything you do to help support so that I can keep making these videos for you. I appreciate you watching as always. Let's get back to it. Um, whereas on the, um, the anaconda, the arm, the choking arm enters in by the neck and exits by the armpit. The Darce is the opposite. It enters in by the armpit and exits by the neck. Right. So when we're looking to catch this, sometimes, uh, oftentimes it'll be the result of I'll be in on my head and, uh, head and arm and I'll use this to help pull through to one side or the other. Right. So that there was space to be able to get in here. Right. Now this may be an S grip, gable grip, right? Those are typically the only ones, maybe a three finger grip. Right. Um, it gets a little more specialized after that, as long as I've got good exposure and good depth coming in by the armpit to begin with enough so that I can get my forearm on the back of his neck because I need to like, uh, you know, like spatula flip them over onto his side. Right. So from there, I'm driving down on the head and lifting up on the elbow this way. Okay. Now, um, yes, everybody is in a completely wrong position for this. So let's turn it. Right. Okay. So, uh, yeah, you guys are going to have to figure it out. So, um, when we get into this position where I flipped them over onto his side. Yeah. So at this point I need to get my arm in deeper. And this is where people have, have ostensibly a challenge in thinking that they have to go for a short arm variation of the darse and it's not wrong. Right. And if you can pull off a short arm variation, then, you know, more power to you. However, I think if we try to get better depth first before we have to just settle on the short arm variation, then I think that's not a bad idea. So the way I'm going to get extra depth here right now, I'm hovering above his shoulder from the way I flipped him over. I do want to make sure that when I flip him over, I don't continue to roll myself because oftentimes it's not going to turn out in your favor on the darse. So when we get here, I want to roll my, my ear down toward his ribs. I'm going to lift his head to try to make his ear touch his shoulder to create a space here and also to like help hinder his shoulder mobility. And then I want to punch nice and deep. So look at the extra extension I got just by doing those couple of things that seems worth it to me. Right. So now the next thing is again, same idea. I'm going to over rotate and try to grab back here. Right. Now we can do it a couple of different ways. If I can get my elbow all the way to the floor and get a nice deep darse like that, then this is great. So we'll do two different variations, right? And that's the first one. So when we go inside here like this and I can catch, I'm going to bring my elbow all the way to the floor and find my hand on my bicep to finish the choke here. I'm driving pressure, but the main mechanic is keeping my left elbow. That's the tattooed side and on the ground and taking my right elbow up into his neck. Right. All right. So I'm cutting up through the floor. What people do sometime or not, I don't want to say it like that. A common mistake that's often made is just staying right here and both arms coming in equally and trying to squeeze. Right. And the guy with a tough neck will endure that a lot more. Right. Versus if you get a good enough angle, anchoring this elbow, keeping the tricep behind his head so that his head is tucked. And then the radius of this forearm here is actually cutting up through the neck. Right. So that's like the longer, like the full expression of the darse. But say we get here and my short little stubby arms or his big massive traps are just not letting me get any deeper than this right here. Right. So again, I still want to try to grab again, over rotating, grabbing the back of my forearm here. And then this hand is I'm trying to put this hand right on his trap right over here this way. Right. And so it's going to be more part of the forearm actually tucking his head. And so whenever we get here, yeah, it's a very, it's a powerful short arm variation. Right. But for me, I feel like if I can get things locked in tighter, this is more skeletal. I feel like the short arm variation, it's hard for me to buy that that's not going to be a little more muscular oftentimes. Right. So when you see people that have a high percentage finish rate with a short arm variation, look at what they're built like. I mean, it's, it is what it is, you know, like a Kamzat, he's the one that hits it, right? Or is it a Islam? It's Islam that hits the short darse all the time. Right. He's strong as he's like, he's very strong. Like he's, he's strong and he's got a lot of length, but he's just found that ironically, I think a lot of the time, the short arm variation works well for him because he has long arms. So he's able to get things like landmarks in position to create the right kind of constriction more so like that he has long arms to be able to use parts of his forms that somebody with shorter or normal size arms wouldn't be able to get. All right. So I don't know what any of that matters, but I think it's an interesting kind of thing to observe and just kind of watch like who has a high percentage with a short arm versus the regular kind of expression of it. All right. Any questions about the darse? Yes, sir. So for the long one, in this case, we're not rotating. We're just getting the license. It is. So good, good point. I was actually going to make another point about that, but then I was like, I've been talking too long. I need to shut up. So when we get here, all right, I am, I do want to catch here like this, but what's happening is because I want to get higher up on my arm is that this is a ratcheting process, right? So this went on the first rotation here. If I grab here like this, it's, I'm planting to keep him stuck in the inside there like that. Now, if I can drop all the way in now, it's going to be super tight initially, right? Or right off the bat. So then at that point, again, anchoring the elbow down and then riding the right elbow up, right? Through the, through the neck. But yeah, if like, I can't, I don't feel like, like this is maxed out. Like I'm not dropping my elbow down. If I do, I might actually lose it, right? Then that's probably a little bit more where we would start to come in for that short arm variation of the darts, right? Sorry. Right. But it's, yeah, it's, uh, generally it's going to be a little more cranky on the short arm variation. That doesn't inherently mean that it's not a good or sometimes even superior version, right? Sometimes a cranky choke is just cranky until you get the constriction that you need and it's going to turn into a blood strangle, right? Yes, sir. When you're like lifting their head to get their ear to their shoulder, are you worried about them backing out or rolling away or is that not something that you don't get in control? It's, uh, it's very awkward, right? Because like, well, my, I can't even touch my ear to my shoulder these days, but even when you can touch your ear to your shoulder, like what that does to your mobility on your shoulder carriage, like it makes it very awkward for them to be able to pull their head out because it's, it's one thing if I'm pulling the head here and then they fight me this way, if you pull the head this way and then they try to fight you with that weird oblique angle, it's very funky, right? And that's probably some feedback with your partner, you know, like dialogue it and, and see, um, cause I may be completely wrong on that. But for me personally, I feel like that's a piece of the puzzle that really is solved by just folding their neck in half, right? A little weird. Um, the next one I want to look at from here, it's also going to take place from this back quadrant like this here. Um, and the way that I'm going to, um, I'm riding in this position will determine if this is accessible or not. So what's happening here is I want to think about, I'm posting my knee to the outside of his knee. So I'm, I'm posting right here. This is going to help to control, um, whether he picks this up, posts it, widens his base to some degree. Um, just to make sure that that's reinforced. I'm also, uh, I, I'm a big fan of using, um, rather than palming the chest because palming the chest, you're inherently going to start flirting with two things that can have bad results. One is if you get in too deep and he hits me with like a, uh, like a modified fat boy roll, right? It's not a Peterson, but a fat boy roll. And then from here, um, the other thing too, is it the deeper I go in on his chest, the more it tends to pull me over. And if I get overextended, uh, past his spine, it's again, it's going to be something where he's going to either flip me over his head or he's going to make an explosive movement and I'm going to get bucked off. So I don't want these things to happen. So I'm pinning my knee and I'm retracting my hip to help anchor that point. I'm using my elbow by his hip on this side. Right. And now you can go in by the chest. What I find if it's available is to take this Lego hand and stick it right in his armpit this way. Right. And so now like what that's doing is keeping space between his armpit and his hip and it's posting here. Um, it's anchoring the weight onto the side. So I'm kind of pulling him back and down this way. Now, all of these things, all these little fine tooth comb details are not going to be things that you're going to be able to like sit in like perfectly place, um, in real time, but it's training them in kind of a frozen snapshot of time is going to get us better access to getting those and recognizing them when they happen in real time. Right. Does that make sense? Okay. So I'm not expecting that you sit here and have all this ultimate precision. Um, from this position though, with like this ride set up on his ribs on the side and his hip and this post, this might allow me then to punch through, and this would be the first part of me starting to work into like a seatbelt kind of position here. Okay. So when I go to punch this through, I'm trying to punch this toward my, my first hand into his armpit over here on this way. Right. Now at that point here, I'm going to take this hand that was in his armpit and I want to trace it down. So it becomes a thumb post behind his tricep on this side. Okay. If he's not already posted out, right. Oftentimes he'll be on his elbows from turtle position. So it, I might already be there. So if not, regardless, it's going to be the same result. So when I come here and I'm posting out on the back of his tricep and I punched through to this side, I'm going to go in similar to that short arm darts that we did a while ago, but this combines elements of how we set up the anaconda on the roll and how we finished the darts whenever we did that. So I'm trying to get my forearm. And then this thumb post here that was saving the space is now going to cut to the outside. And I want this kind of dish here. Like that's, I'm trying to think about my pinky here, trying to cut back toward me and that's going around the outside. So this little divot right here is trying to catch on the outside of his elbow. So once I get this punched through, I'm trying to collect this up and in. Right. So it constricts all that, compresses all of that leather. Right. Now, next thing is I'm going to allow the, the bicep insertion here to try to go up to that occipital ridge on the back of his skull here. Right. I want to move myself north so that I'm shifting my ribs up his back. And then I want to post my head over on the far side over here. Right. So when we get those elements kind of put together like that, and we start to see where I start to come up here and post and walk around the corner here. Yeah. Then it starts to look a bit like a, um, uh, no-gi clock choke. Right. So it's essentially a no-gi clock choke as close as you can get to one. Right. It's kind of an oxymoron, but whatever. So I'm posted here. I've got my elbow dug in. I'm riding in the armpit over here with us, that C clamp. Right. As I go to punch through here, this direction. And then I post on the outside of the tricep here. Now at any point, the reason that I like this order of operation is that if he starts bucking and going crazy and whatever, is that I still have already established a chest to back connection and I have a seatbelt built into it. This is also monitoring his ability to like make his stance wider. If he wants to start bucking his hips up or he wants to start posturing up on me or whatever, then I have contingencies in place and safety nets to where I can be able to like pull out of position if he throws me off my course that I'm currently on. So whenever we get to this position here and I've gotten my forearm here, then I want to try to start collapsing that arm to the inside. Now I've got too much of his back showing right here. So that's why the need to come over here and put my head on the ground this way. Right now, just from right here, I don't want to just squeeze. I want to start walking my hips north. Right. So sorry. So it comes, it turns into a very similar kind of mechanic of how you would finish a clock choke in the gi. Okay. Does that make sense? Cool. Anybody can see it again. Rocky would love for me to demo it like eight more times. So it's like, you son of a... So one knee is going here by the, the, uh, geez. All right. My knee is going beside his knee on this side. Right. My elbow is coming in by his hip. I'm C clamping by the armpit over in this side. I'm punching through to start establishing my seatbelt. I'm going to slide down to post so I can get ahold of my forearm near the wrist on the outside. I want to start cupping that pressure in that way. And then from here, I'm sliding forward to get my forehead over across him from the, uh, from this direction. Right. Then I start walking up and around squeezing the whole time. Okay. Makes sense. Yeah. All right. Just one more time. All right. Let's go. One, two, three. What are we talking about? We're talking about this choke here, right? Where we're setting this up. So I'm posting first to make the space, but then I'm going to take the space away by collapsing that in. Right. So then as I'm coming here, I'm trying to get my head to the floor. I'm trying to walk around and tighten this thing up. And I just feel like this is not happening for me. And maybe he's like rotating to like turn to face me a little bit more, which is kind of messing me up here. Right. But from here, oftentimes though, if I collapse my left knee down here, this way, then we'll wind up either off of a back take this way here. Right. Or we can use this initial grip here like this, whenever I'm, I'm setting this up to start collecting his arm on this side and rolling into our crucifix. Right. So what that tends to look like from here is because you see how my knee that was back here by his push forward. And I'm going to start collecting up that arm here. Right. Now, um, at this point here, I want to like look that direction and then I want to start rolling over to take that crucifix here. Okay. Now what this winds up is with us just establishing essentially like a, uh, seatbelt, right? Because trying to finish this choke from here, it's not really a good prospect. Like I don't have good, it's going to be a lot of squeeze. Right. But it did get me into a position to where now I've established crucifix. So the adjustments that I would suggest making from here, I'm going to keep my seatbelt and I'm going to, I'm going to do a little bit of a hip escape out this way to drop him a little bit more into the noose. Right. Okay. So let's turn around here. So we've gotten ourselves seatbelt established. And this is in the crucifix, I've got a South side leg, the one that can touch his legs and a North side leg that's in relation to his head. Right. So I've captured with my North side leg here this way, and you have submission opportunities and control opportunities with either leg inserted first. So I could just as easily say from here. Right. But since we have this one, because the way we rolled into it, it provides us with a better opportunity to finish from the back. Right. The thing I will say about the difference between which leg is inserted first, if I take my South side leg in first here, I feel like I have better submission opportunities on the arm. Right. Because I have straight arm. If he muscles up on me, then I've got bent arm for Americana. If he goes down, I've got Kimura. Right. So I've got all those attacks from the South side with the North side leg. Uh, I have a straight arm. I don't really have good access to the other ones. Okay. However, this is a better one to do a direct choke from. And the reason for that being is that I have his arm captured. I want to take my leg and hook here on his, right? Hook in with that little Merkle hook right there. It doesn't look like much. It doesn't really even feel like much, but it makes it very awkward for him to try to escape now. Right. If I'm here and he wants to start dishing his hips, twisting, turning, doing stuff like, yeah, stuff like that. Then he's got a little better access to be able to do it. When I hook that Merkle in there, it's just so awkward. It's just really weird. And again, it doesn't look like a lot, but it is, especially if you can combine it here by putting the top legs shoelaces on the outside of the thigh. Right. So I've got kind of double hooks on that right now from here. I have the ability to hit this like one arm choke. It's all right. So we're going to go here like this. And when I hit this one arm choke, um, I would suggest, uh, if you can get ahold of the hand monitoring the hand this way, and then getting nice and deep here. I don't have to get that deep because the way I'm going to finish this again, not by squeezing. If I try to squeeze here, even with my massive biceps, I can't seem to get the choke just by squeezing. So instead this hand here anchors on the trap here, and then I pull my tricep back toward my lap. Yeah. Okay. And it's pretty miserable. Right. Um, this one is, is definitely a little more tracheal, but a good tracheal choke like a guillotine, um, similar to a guillotine in that regard is that it's going to compress in there on the trachea until it gets, until it closes off that, uh, what's the word for it? I know it's carotid, but, uh, exclusion or something about anybody thinks of like the medical terminology that I'm, I'm happy to accept it. So, uh, what are we talking about? We're talking about rolling into crucifix from here. Right. So while I'm over here doing this, and again, like if it's something to where I feel like, man, I really collapsed this arm in might be worth going for that no geek culture or yeah, no geek clock choke. Right. But if I'm like, I'm here, I'm like, no, no, I don't really believe it. Right. So I'm here, start gathering this leg up. Right. And then at that point here, a couple of different ways that you can get into this. Right. Um, if I just dropped my two knees to the floor right here, I may be able to dive over like we did before, or if I just start to go here, right, it's very awkward for him to resist that. Okay. And then I still got that top side leg in first. I'm going to dish my hips out and then I want to try to throw and find that merkle on this side. Okay. That point should already be transitioned to my seatbelt. I'm going to try to find that hand and then I want to anchor on the trap and pull my elbow back toward my ribs. Okay. Like my crucifix game has been based on the South side leg, which is what this one is being inserted first for so long. It's hard for me to make the transition, even though I truly believe that this one is better. It's better controlled though. Like with the merkle that I just showed, like I'm a, I'm a firm believer. That's a stronger crucifix control. Having said that, um, when we get here, so let's say he's in a turtle. If I want to like, just set this up without that whole no-gi clock choke thing that we've looked at. If I'm here, I'm starting my knee, um, in this pocket right here on this side. And then I'm scraping down his quad to expose that space. And then I want to try to touch my other heel to my knee right there. Right now at that point we could drop and I've got it hooked with my North side knee. And that's where like at that point, I'm just going to like drop over to my hip and that's going to be more of a lateral crucifix entry, right? Which is what we were doing essentially right now. Okay. Now, if though I use that entry to pass it off to my other leg, right? So I use arbitrary terms, um, North side leg to open the space, to pass it to my South side leg. This to me is where I'm probably going to like try to collapse this elbow and then roll over and across because I can push off of this one. Right. Does that make sense? Now that's not to say that you can't do a diving when it crosses back with the other leg, right? It's just, to me, it feels more natural. If my South side leg dive across, if it's my North side leg entry, then lateral. I'm using that to like help pull him over. Right. Other things you can help too, like if you have the shoulder flexibility, you can go in, like you're hitting a switch over here. I don't like that on my shoulder at all, but it's a good hook though, if you can make that happen. Right. So from here, I'm using that to open the space. And then as we fall to the side, this leg is coming up into the armpit and then switching off to there. Right. So it's another really tight triangle. Just, just a little different of an entry into it. Okay. Um, all right. We've got one to here off of this to, to me, like the, where this would come up is if he's, he's holding hands to resist, but in holding hands to resist, he's, he's allowing space here because sometimes he'll do this and it's tight. Right. And that's going to be more like Tariqa Plata area or like, um, Jeannie Kimura or whatever. But if he's holding here this way, then any allows me the ability to step through. Then when I go to step through, then two things, one, um, when I get my foot through, I'm picking up because I want to get like that established. I don't want to get my foot to his armpit. Then it becomes about the windshield wiper. But the whole time, um, during this, I'm pulling this arm because this arm pulls that arm. Like, so that's a big detail to me. So when go here, you see, I pull, I want to feel his head smack my butt almost. Right. And pull tight this way. At this point, this is where I can transition to pulling this arm because he may realize like, Oh, I'm helping him get the triangle. So I'm, I want to pull here. And this is, this is kind of that adjustment I was talking about while we go. If I try to adjust this, say I get here, right. And I want to adjust the depth of my triangle. So keep everything kind of tight. Yeah. And I go like this, that's not doing anything. It's just, it's moving something, but it's not making any space. Right. So this is where pulling in, uh, like causing separation to, to reach past that, to scrape that up is huge. Right. And then we get there and that's going to be tight. Okay. Um, this is another cool little thing. Like, um, the last few times I've gotten into this position live, like, and maybe I didn't need to do it, but I was like, um, the squeeze feels like the real angle is off a little bit here. Um, usually by that point, separation occurs with the hands, cause he's going to try to defend some other kind of way. But if this is tight enough and I have a fulcrum, like I can get a little Kimura right there and it seems like overkill, but it is nice to have that as like a little backup plan.