 mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid mid headlock escapes being like a side headlock escape more than anything and this will also venture slightly into some Keisigatami stuff. There's a lot of carryover to that and I still use these a lot of times whenever somebody does do kind of a makeshift version of a Keisigatami. Of course, whenever you get against a good wrestler, a good judoka and you're stuck in a scarf hold type position, it's going to be way more complex than that but everything is scalable. So let's start with some of the most fundamental concepts. If Aaron has put me here in a side headlock to this kind of extent like this. Now, a lot of these will boil down. My escapability from here is going to depend so much on this elbow right here. This elbow is one of the most crucial concepts. First of all, if I do find myself in a side headlock kind of situation, I don't want to be flat on my back. Life gets so much worse if he's smashing me flat on my back over here. If I can get my elbow to the floor, which hopefully I can and I'm monitoring across his body, this other arm is coming up and around his back. I'm either grabbing around his arm or in the cases if he's too wide and too big and he's got massive shoulders like Aaron does, then I might have to go to the lat sometimes instead. But I've got my kickstand up over here, my knee hip shoulder on the ground or off of the ground rather, like turning into him. And so if I can get my elbow to the ground, one of the best headlock escapes from this position, if I can do that, is to climb. So I want it to go from here. I want to throw my leg up and over to hook this leg. That leg will be available. The reason it will be available is because if he drops that leg, then he compromises his position. To make his position as strong as possible, he typically has this up as a kickstand. So whenever I go to make this climb, what I'm going to do is I'm going to hook here like this. I'm going to tuck my elbow even further. And then the next two points that I want to try to get from here are my head to the floor and my back knee, my right knee in this case, to the floor as well. So I'm going to use this hook here and my hook around his arm to start pulling myself forehead to the floor this way and start coming up. I post on my right knee and on my forehead. Now this position here, he may either hang on or let go. If he lets go, then I can continue the climb. I'll get my head out and then I'm going to be up on top, maybe even taking his back, which would be fantastic. If though, instead from here, whenever I start to climb up, if he has a connected grip around my head here like this, and he maintains the connected grip, the only way he's going to maintain that connected grip is to tuck this leg here like this and allow me to then roll him over and up onto his side. Once I roll him up onto his side, now we're in this technical kind of mount. He'll probably still have this headlock in place. So I want to make sure that I stabilize my base. I've got my good technical mount. I like for my foot to go about mid thigh on him. And I like to bring my knee up high behind his head. At this point here, I want to make sure that he doesn't re-roll me right away or do anything spastic. Once I stabilize my position, then I can start coming through, framing, driving up and forward, not like a helicopter taking off, but like an airplane taking off. So I want to make sure that I can break that frame here like this. And then I have him exposed to be able to take his back here. The arm bar, I would say, is secondary. Primarily, I would like look to take his back from here instead, right? So that's what would happen if he maintains the connected headlock. Those are both contingent, however, on me being able to tuck this elbow right here. If I'm not allowed to tuck this elbow, why would I not be allowed to tuck this elbow? Because his hip is underneath and he's doing a better job of monitoring this arm. So another option that I may have if this elbow is compromised and not able to get to the floor, I'd like to try to get to the floor. But if I can't, I'm going to frame. I'm framing with the rear arm, not the front arm, not this one here, because then he's going to tuck this over and start moving into head and arm chokes. So instead, I'm going to come over here and frame. I'm going to reinforce the frame by driving his head up and away. As I'm driving his head up and away, I'm going to retract my hip with a shrimping type motion here like this. When I feel like I have pushed him down far enough to where for my level of flexibility, I can get my leg over his head, then I'm going to use this to start pushing him away. It may happen that his grip broke. And in that case here, I can actually move into this kind of leg scissor style choke like this. This is actually a really good viable choke. I had the opportunity to come to the top position, or if I feel like I've got a good placement here, then I can actually cross my legs here. Bottom leg is going to go over in front of the top leg here, not the other way around here like this. And then I'm going to extend my legs, monitoring his arm, posting on his ribs over here like this, and then straightening my legs to keep that squeeze. And it's a nice tight choke like that. If though, during that process, whenever I am here like this, I bring the leg up and he doesn't let go quite enough for me to push him over with that. I'm just going to use this leg over his head to create a rocking motion. And then that's going to bring me back up to this top position. From here, I'm not, he'll probably still have the headlock still in place here like this. If he lets go, I'll just be on top. But if he still has the headlock in place, I'm going to first stabilize from here. What I'm not going to do is make a frame from right here because he'll roll me back onto my head. So I have to stabilize here like this. I'm going to post my hand on the floor, and then I'm going to rotate my body to allow me to step up and over. This foot is going to then come to replace my hand by his thigh. Then I slide my knee back up. And it's just like previous that we did before, where I make the frame, reinforce the frame, drive up and away this way, breaking that frame over here. He's probably going to tuck. So that's probably why I would take his back from this position. Guys, I appreciate you watching the Knight Jiu-Jitsu channel. If you want me to keep making videos like this, and you're getting good information from any of the videos I have out there, make sure you like, subscribe, hit the notifications, share the video, do all the things, check out my Patreon, become a member of the channel, anything you do to help support so that I can keep making these videos for you. I appreciate you watching as always. Let's get back to it. That's one option that I have if my elbow is not able to get to the ground, allowing me to climb. This particular case right here is one of the worst ones because he's actually monitoring my arm. I can't get my elbow to the ground and he has it actually tucked. So framing is also kind of messed up right here like this too, because I only have one arm to frame. In this case here, I'm going to need to do a bridging type motion. One of the biggest key details on the bridging type motion that we're going to look at from here is that I need to pin my head to the mat. This is the most overlooked detail of the whole thing. What I'm going to look to do is get up onto my side. I want to make this S grip here behind his shoulder. And as I go to retract my hip with a shrimping motion away, I'm actually going to push his shoulder forward. And then at that point, I'm going to bring both my feet to the floor. I'm going to push my head as hard as I can into the floor in this way. And then I want to bridge up and over, taking him across this direction. We find ourselves back into that side control type position here like this. I want to step over. It's going to be difficult from this position to step over. So what I'm going to look to do is place this hand right here by his leg. Now I'm going to turn myself more in line with him to make it easier to step over, slide into this technical mount, and then we're back into our framing position to be able to take his back just like that. The reason why I point out the detail of the head is because it traps his arm. If he has ability to slide his elbow back and forth, to be able to post that elbow and create a better kickstand like that, it's going to be more problematic for me to be able to bridge him over. And I'm going to find myself trying to pull him laterally across me, which takes a great deal of strength. I don't want that to be the case. What I would prefer instead is to bridge up in an arcing motion across my head. I think that that detail, almost more than anything else, is what makes that a viable escape or not. So if people mess it up, that's probably the detail they're leaving out. So between these things, key details, I need my elbow to the floor to create a viable climbing escape, which is going to be one of the highest percentage. If the elbow is not able to get to the floor, I have my frame escape option. With or without his connected grip, I might be able to get a leg scissor choke off of it, or I might be able to just use it as a rocking motion to get to the top position. If he's monitoring my arm really well and more of a true case of katami or scarf hold, and I can't get the elbow to the ground, I can't make a viable frame, then the bridging escape becomes one of my most viable options. Between those three categories of escape, it should be able to get you out of most headlock positions. But again, everything is scalable. These are not guaranteed like anything else, but these are some of the best options that I know. So make sure, guys, that you keep on following my channel, watching all my videos, like, subscribe to all those things that you're supposed to do on YouTube and Instagram and all the things. Make sure you follow Aaron Giannetti, Endeavor, Defense and Fitness, and this place here that we're at this weekend, Forge Krav Maga in San Francisco. They were nice enough to host us for a KCC weekend, Knife Control Concepts. If you ever catch us out anywhere in the country, anywhere in the world, and you want to take a knife control concepts course with us, please do so. Follow Knife Control Concepts online. Appreciate you guys watching. Thanks again for watching Knight Jiu Jitsu.