 Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven Raven here is I think optimal. I would call this the optimal position here. You can go just straight from the Kimura style position like a T Kimura position like this and this is a little less optimal. Controlling the head gives you better access to control the shoulders. So I'm controlling this kata, this here like the head and arm part like that. As far as what the lower body is doing, I'm keeping my hips underneath his shoulders. I don't want him to slide too far out. I don't want him to bridge too far over or backflip or twist or turn or whatever. So it's important I control the whole shoulder carriage and the head. As far as what my legs are doing to get the job done, I can either have this south side leg. I'm using his orientation. His head is north, his feet are south. The south side leg here could be hooking this way or the north side leg. And a lot of that depends on your entries and your preferences and what options you have from each of these positions. Right? Because some people are going to be better from this style of position here. Some people are going to be better from this. I'm going to show some options from both, but for me personally, I'm going to mainly focus on this leg hooking and then reinforce with the top leg. Okay? So there's limitations and there's attributes to both. So again, this is the position that we're trying to essentially like achieve whenever we're going to do this. So I'd like for you guys to just start out so we can get moving around and kind of get aware of the position and kind of just get our bodies acclimated a little bit. Start from here. And I want the person in my position, I just want to control this position. I want to mess with it a little bit, control it and see what his reaction is going to be. As far as what Donnie's going to look to do, I want the person in his position, I want them, we're not going even 20%, but I want him exploring some different options as far as how he can kind of free up the movement, see if he can get some shoulder mobility back, see if he can slip away from me, if he can bridge over, if he can twist or turn away or toward me. Right? So we're not, again, this is not terribly competitive. This is just kind of moving around, exploring for both of our sakes. Okay? Makes sense? All right, let's do it. It's on three, right? Not two. Sometimes four. Sometimes four, right? Okay. Well, they're going to three and then clap like that. Or we can do three, two, one. I've thought about messing with three, two, one. I don't know if I have the guts to do it yet, but I don't know if I'm going to start kicking it off at a seminar for the first time. You're with the right grip. You're just getting a lot. Yeah. All right, that's the mind fake right there. All right, one, two, three. So, yeah, I just kind of want to see what you guys already feel like with the position and everything, and just so we're getting to the position and understand how to kind of orient ourselves once we wind up. So, let's talk about entries to begin with. First thing, we're going to look at some of the, probably the most common way that you're going to see people get into the movie, more position. It's definitely not the only way. It can materialize a lot of different ways, and we're going to look at several. I want to start with common and then kind of move to a little less common. All right, so, turn that way up. Turtle, please. Turtle. Turtle. Yeah. Perfect. Cool. All right, so, if you need to come this way, then go for it. So, what we're going to do here is, first, we're going to ride in this turtle position. Different ways we can ride turtle for different purposes. If I've made it all the way around him, and we're going to look at it from front orientation as well as back orientation. We're going to start from here. This is one where maybe the reason that I would elect for Crucifix 1, because I'm good at it, if that's the case. I'm not saying that's the case. I'm saying if that's the case that I'm good at Crucifix. Or maybe he's denying me the host that I need to be able to successfully take his back in another method, right? So, what I'm looking to do is, whenever he's in this turtle position here, and depending on the height that he's building and everything else, I want to, we're going to assume he's got a tight turtle position to begin with. So, his elbows are going to be tucked. And so, what I'm looking for is this triangular shape between armpit, hip, and the knee-elbow connection, right? So, that appears on either side whenever he's in this position. It's just the structure of it. And in that position, I want to insert my knee in that pocket right there, high up on his thigh. Because if I insert my knee high up on his thigh, I'm going to, I want to kind of baseball slide down his quad like that to make his arm protrude forward. So, we get here, I push my knee inside like this, and I drive that knee, or that arm open, rather, like this. Okay? From this position now, I'm keeping my chest here. I don't want to slide and recline, because then I'm going to lose my balance, and if he postures or rolls, I'm going to fall over, right? So, I'm keeping kind of hovering my chest over his back in this position. As far as what this arm is doing, it's going to be under his body somehow. It's not the most important detail, as long as it's not in so far that he's, yeah, he can start to like Peterson or something like that. So, whenever this protrudes forward, my heel now is going to try to find my knee this way. Okay? And then, now that I've kind of wrapped that arm, I'm going to scrape that arm out this direction. And I'm going to pinch my knees around here this way. Okay? From this position here now, right, I'm going to establish my seat belt this way. Right? And I would like to try to get a hold of his arm here. Okay? Now, again, I kind of want him to tell me how he wants me to get into the position. From, just from this position, we can already start attacking, especially if we're using the gi, because we have collar style chokes like this. I can attack the arm and whatever. I want to get to that back crucifix. So, what we're going to look at from here, as far as transitions go, I want to get control on his arm. I think that combo grip of forearm wrist here like this, so I can kind of tuck it in nice and tight. And then from this position, I can start to like sit back. And we in here, and sometimes we can sit back into the position here. Okay? So, this is an option. Right? Sometimes, however, right? I'll catch you guys before you all move. If we get here like that, I'm sure that arm forward, I capture, I capture. Sometimes though, when I capture, it really kind of dips that shoulder. And so, it might be more efficient and effective if we roll over instead. Right? So, sometimes that's the method that is more effective. So, keeping here with my arm trapped, essentially with my front leg like this, I'm going to push off of my foot and I'm going to roll. I'm going to tuck my head over this direction. So, now we roll into this position here where we've got the back crucifix. Once we get here, it's worth taking that little extra second to hip out a bit. That's going to give me a little better chest to back connection. And that's important anytime that you're securing the back and the crucifix is no different. Right? So, I have that ramp. I don't want to scoot out so far that it allows him to slide off. But I don't want to stay under so much that it allows him to bridge effectively. Okay? So, then we wind up in this position. So, from there we have both a pulling method in the position in turno or a diving over method. Okay? Any questions about either of those two? All right? Let's mess with those a few hundred times. Ready? One, two, three. Let's get a variation on this. Let me make some more specifications about this. And these are not set in stone. These are opinions, but that's all the technique really is. The technique is just an opinion. So, it should be a good opinion. It should be an educated opinion, but it's still just an opinion. So, whenever we get into this position, so I'm going to drive my knee inside. I'm going to expose that arm. I'm going to capture it. Right? So, in this case, the orientation of this arm is branch up. So, this would be more like an American style like branch up. It may go straight. It may even curl back. Right? I may get here, capture the arm, and intentionally try to pass it off to my mat. Again, preference more than just about anything else, but he has influence over that as well. Regardless, whenever we get in this position, if he goes branch up more, so I've got this capture in my front leg. My knees are pinched. That's branch up. I could dive over from here. Right? I could roll him forward, which we'll talk about in just a second. But this is the one where I feel like I'm going to have a better opportunity to pull back. Right? Because I can fold this leg underneath, set my butt down, and I have a little bit more base and pressure to pull back. Versus if he's branch down here. That might be a little more awkward for me to do that. So, this is where I would go in this direction or that direction. Let's talk about why those two. But if I am going to dive over that direction here, I would like to really tuck his elbow deep. When you tuck his elbow deep, his shoulder is going past his elbow. So, that means he's already inclined to fall that direction. So, now he just needs a little bit of help from me. Right? So, I'm going to drive off my leg, dive over. And it's important that I face the same direction as he does. Right? Now, if I don't do that, right? If, say like I have a really, I feel solid with my connection here. And I feel confident that my shoulder can pressure his head down like I'm trying to tuck his nose into his belly button. I can actually take him more straight over, which would look a little bit more like this way. Yeah. Okay? So, that's another option as well. Right? But again, like you're going to have to get there and really feel the opportunity for that. Right? I want to make sure that things are moving as efficiently as possible because I don't want to hit that wall. Right? I don't want to hit that big speed bump. Because the worst part about that is that I've already played that card. And I kind of already knows I might try to attempt that. So, again, I can either sit back, go a dive laterally across your shoulders, or take him more forward. Right? There are prerequisites and requirements that don't necessarily have to be there, but they're going to make it more efficient or less efficient if they are. Okay? Does that make sense? No, but I just do it again. Yep. So, Cliff's notes. We go here. I capture. I'd like to get this two-on-one control. I'd like to tuck that elbow almost regardless. If he's branched down like this, then that's a time that I would probably dive this way or this way. Okay? And again, this is when, if I'm going to take him more forward, again, there's a benefit to it. We talked about this yesterday. That's kind of the back take that we need to do. But I really need to tuck his head with my shoulder. Right? You don't want to like, I prefer not to break his neck if it's, you know, especially if it's just like the open mat or something. The one he's rolling over the head sideways, you know, your neck is in danger. But the one where you're going to do it, you just give it to me. Yeah, just really make sure that you help him, you let him and help him tuck your head down. Right? But it shouldn't, if I do it well, it shouldn't really be that much of an issue. And let, cause he, this guy's probably not very likely going to be looking up like this whenever I'm on his back up. Right? Maybe if he's trying to like sit up in posture, but with this much weight, it's less likely. So we go here. That way. Okay? Make sense? Make sense? Okay. So, um, yeah, just again, safety issue. Make sure that like when you're here and you feel the person setting all this up, that you're not like doing this. So when they go rolling, face plants stop. Okay. Yes, sir. Like safety guys, it's like carrying a handgun or anything. If you know your opponent's not in position, then you need to like, look out for their safety when you're doing that technique. Because they're jamming so good over there, you think we can move it down a couple feet. I felt like it held with sound. Sure. Yeah. Yeah. Let's go down here. Let's move down here. So the, um, yeah, to that point, um, I think whenever I talk about like efficiency and appropriateness, it's not just, I mean, obviously this is important. That's what techniques are for, right? This is efficiency. Otherwise just be bigger and stronger and faster than everybody you fight. Right? That's number one. Only fight weaker, smaller, slower people. Like that's number one. But the technique should help with that. Right? The technique should help with, if there is a size and strength disparity, then that's what that's for. Um, so to that point, I don't want to just get in my head, Hey, I want to do this thing. Right? Because that's, that's where a lot of mistakes are going to be made. If I go out and I think, Oh, I want to hit this technique. Probably going to have a hard time finding that technique. Because I'm going to be missing a lot of other opportunities. If he doesn't specifically give me the opportunity or I specifically don't set that up the proper way. I'm not, and I don't have the opportunity. I might have to really force that thing to work. Right? And again, whenever you start to force something to work, instead of using the most efficient method possible, it's like trying to jam that square of egg into a round hole. We don't want to do that. Right? Kind of take what you're given, not always what you want. That's right. Yeah. Yeah. You get what you get and you, what's it? Don't try to fit. And you don't, yeah, there you go. I knew, I knew a mom would know the rest of it. Yeah. All right. Cool. Does this make sense? Let's try all three directions. Okay. Ready? Let's go. One, two, three. Okay. So, um, uh, questions about that stuff up in here. Yeah. Like feeling comfortable, at least to some degree with each of those options. Yeah. Okay. Um, so now I want to talk about different entries. So this is going to seem a little disparate and disconnected, uh, to begin with. But the thing is like, once we get into the position, there's not like a lot of movement to execute some of these submissions. They're very, because it's a target rich environment. It's great. But, um, I figure by giving it a few alternating entries to it, then whenever we're going over the submissions, each time you can practice a new entry, a different entry every time. You know what I'm saying? Yes sir. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Whenever, once we get past these entry points, then, um, we'll start looking at submissions, uh, with the lower body and the upper body. And then also some control details too. Like if you're sliding away or bridging or whatever, you know. But, um, let's talk about the entries, uh, just a little bit more to begin with. Um, the next one we'll look at from here is, let's look at a top method. Because most of the time, like, like I said, this one, like entering from turtle, if, like, overwhelmingly, if you talk about crucifix, that's the entry that everybody is going to show you. Anybody that you've placed crucifix like, oh yeah, this is how you get into it. But there's a lot of different ways to get into it. So I want to look at one from, uh, top side. So if you're on, uh, bottom side here. So we're going to start from this position now. Side control, right? And, um, what I want to do from here first, I want to isolate each of his arms, right? When we get into position, so I'm going from like, like chest to chest connection here like this, right? So, I got the time. So if, if from here, I need to first, I'm going to isolate the near side arm and then the far side arm, right? Um, how do we do that? Well, you can just teleport there, right? You should be like, okay, I got it isolated, great. Right? So if that's the case, then we just have to worry about this one. If you need some strategies of how to isolate that arm, then, um, one that I think is, is fairly effective from here. Let's get rid of this for just a second. He's going to be framing in my hip. Most everybody will be framing in there. This is kind of standard, right? So I'm going to go from this kind of cross-face position. I've got my underhook on the far side. I'm underneath his head and I want to take this knee, right? And I want to beat this frame. So I'm going to take my knee to his hip. So we're going to go for a hip switch. I'm not changing my upper body orientation. I'm just going for this hip switch here. I'm going to scrape my knee from his hip up underneath that arm here, this way. So it slides under. Now, I don't want to leave that amount of space because he'll be able to slip his hip up underneath that arm. So once I get to that position, I'm going to set my weight back and I'm going to scrape him up and tighten that space. So now it's a little tighter. It's a little harder for him to get that arm back inside. Now, again, I've removed this arm for two reasons. One, so that you could see that easier. And two, so it didn't block my microphone I'm wearing right now. If we want to... You're with the FBI or something? Yeah, I'm wiring it all the time. So if we want to isolate this arm from here, then a method that I think is pretty good for doing that is I'm going to take this one up and through here. If there's no space, I'm going to do like that. You ever see those Shaolin monks that like they would stick the spear here and they would like bend the staff of the foot? Well, that's what I think about when I'm doing this. You know? Driving here like this. So that's going to make him drive harder here and give me just a little space to slide that arm inside. And then I want to gable or S grip and drive that arm down a little tighter like this. Okay? So I'm trying to remove that crank. I'm doing a little bit of a crank on his neck, but mostly I'm just trying to get that arm off of my neck here. Now this hand here, I want to punch inside his armpit. Let's turn this over here. I want to punch this hand here to the floor and start picking him up on the other side. I'm picking him up on the side. Be cognizant of the fact that this is stressful on your neck and your shoulders. I'm very cognizant of that with my neck and shoulders, so just be aware. We get here. So then once I have this space like this, I'm going to step my leg over and through to this position. Okay? Right? Now, there's a little gap right here. And just like we were making the heel come to touch the knee on the turtle position, I'm going to slide my knee under to here. And now we're back here in this position. Okay? It's illegal in most competition circles depending on the competition. But still a submission if I'm going to pull his ear toward my chest right now. Okay? The way I would say to do that is go high up on the crown of his head. Not here. He's strong at his neck. Right? It's like Muay Thai. If you're in a Muay Thai clinch, don't go around the neck. Is there even a name on the submission or just a neck crank? I don't know. It's just a neck crank. Yeah. I'm sure there's some colorful name out there somewhere for it, but I'm not sure. But I would go palm facing away, back of the knuckles, and S-grip high up on the crown of his head. Pull his ear to your shoulder that way. If he's not dead by that point or tapping, preferably tapping before death, then you can arch your hips into it and make extra pressure. Right? Again, illegal in most circles. Usually rules against it in most training environments. I don't know how you guys do it here. Just be cognizant. Careful about it. Okay? Alright. So, again, on this one, we're going from side. Knee touches his hip, scrapes up, scoop him up underneath you. Like this. My hand's going to punch through here. I'm going to connect the two hands, drive his tricep toward the ground to clear. Okay? Now, my hand that's underneath his head is going to punch through. Right? Again, be careful with your partners. Don't break your play things. I'm going to punch my knuckles to the floor, scrape them up on the side here. Right? Okay? If there is clearance from here, I'm going to step through. That heel's going to come back and my knee is going to pop right through that little pocket of space right here. Okay? Got this. If from here, like, well, you know, choke, maybe, it's kind of an awkward angle. If you just want to go back to the regular Kimura because you don't want to break his neck, then from here, pass it around. He's not going to argue with you too much if you just want to get back to here. Okay? Make sense? Yeah. Questions? Let's try it. One, two, three. And you've got, like, small hypermobile flexibility over here and not exactly that over here, you know? So it's a… But it's… Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I'm not saying one's better or anything inherently than the other. It's just, it's different, you know? So, but the thing is, there's no real… I mean, there may be certain moves in jiu-jitsu that, like, or in grappling and fighting or anything, like, that's… That 95% of the people can do. There's going to be some that 5% of the people that can do, you know? So, but I think that it's interesting though because sometimes you don't know those things exist until you come across them. And so, sometimes you'll, like, you discover this move and it's like, oh, that's perfectly catered for me, for my build, for my flexibility, or for my whatever. And I think that that's the beautiful thing about jiu-jitsu. Because now… Now, having said that, most moves can be modified to an extent, right? But jiu-jitsu is not for everyone, no matter what Gracie Baja says. It's not for everyone. It's, like, some people are going to have a really hard time with most of the moves. So, you're going to have to make modification, modification, modification. And then it becomes like the ship of Theseus. It's like, how many parts of this boat can you replace until it's a whole new vessel, right? So, it's a whole new technique now, like, cater for me because I can't do it the way that it was taught to me. And I like to make concessions like that. It's not always, like, the happiest thing to tell somebody. It's like, dude, this is just not your move, you know? This is just not your position. You're not going to hit this. Like, it's not for you. This requires you to have, like, really flexible hips. It requires you to have really flexible shoulders, whatever. And then, the more depressing part of it… I promise I'll get back to a high note in a minute. But the more depressing part is as you get older and you've been doing jiu-jitsu for 15, 20, 30 years, and your body's falling apart and you've got compressed discs in your neck and your shoulders are jacked and your knee is shredded and this and that. Now you're doing this, like, handicapable jiu-jitsu variation that, you know, you didn't start out doing, you know? But I think if you keep the right kind of mindset to it, that can be kind of the fun part of the journey, you know? As long as you're not trying to actively compete the same way, you know, you have to make certain concessions. And you have to kind of be open to that because time can't escape that, you know? So, that didn't end on a high note like I hoped it would. But, let's get back to crucifix stuff. Questions about this entry for anybody? Like, it's reasonably trying to get there to some extent. Yeah? Yes? I have a habit of, like, and I still did it, but I was pushed on the game when I jumped shoulder roll. Yeah, yeah. If you're against that totally, if you like to say it, you can push off your toes more, or? I don't think it's inherently bad. Like, you can get away with it and still maintain control. Yeah. Especially if you've got that really winged in, you know what I mean? Here, Don, you can borrow your first thing. Yeah, like, because, like, I, and I get it, because, like, I've gone for it before and just, like, spiked my head on the ground and it sucks. So, but I think that what I would say, yeah, is this is a better time to do it than if he's branch up or straight. Because that's going to be a little harder sometimes to initiate the roll. The other thing, too, is I've really got to tuck that elbow way in there, right? Because now he's already wanting to go that direction. So, and if he's, if I'm keeping this capture with my rear leg, then I'm going to push off of my lead leg. Can you kind of attack it in the arms on the other side of the leg? Possibly, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like, from right here, like, this leg is a little more free. So I can hit a little smoother without having to go over my head. But, you know, it's a, the other aspect of it, too, though, is, like, I can probably maintain good enough control. Like, if I get this tucked really well, I can keep that false grip well enough to, if I need to put that hand down. I don't think it's wrong. And I don't, I think it's more optimal to have two-on-one, obviously. But, you know, I don't think it's wrong. Does that remotely address what you were telling me? Yeah. Okay. All right. All right. So we got on these two entries that we looked at so far. Two-ish with sub parts. Okay. This one now. We're going to look at one that I'm taking from Barrett Yoshida. Barrett Yoshida is the crucifix master. Like, these, him and Marcelo Garcia at the top of the mountain. So there's worse people to imitate whenever you're looking for crucifix material. So what's, this one is coming a little bit more from Barrett Yoshida by way of Jonathan Wilson. I like to try to give accreditation whenever I possibly can. So we're going to look at this again from Turtle, but this time we're going to look at it more from straight on. So when we get to this position here, and he's in this Turtle position. So what we're looking at now is I'm going to get a double over wrap, right? So I'm going to get wrapped around his trunk over his two arms. My chest is going to be pretty deep down on his back from here. Now, the cool thing about this is that one, I don't have to do like a go-behind to get behind him to like this back quadrant of the Turtle position. And two, this could have happened off of a sprawl. This could have happened off of a scramble or whatever. I don't have to, he doesn't necessarily have to just be hyper-defensive in this position. So if that's the case and I'm getting here, I'm going to go elbow deep on one side, right? A little bit deeper on one side with my elbow than on the other. But I am grabbing around his trunk around the rib cage. If I'm going right, this is my right arm, if I'm going right side a little deeper, my left arm is going to block out to the outside of his arm on this side here, okay? So we're here and I'm going to drop that knee block and I want to roll him to this position. Let's turn a little bit, okay? So we're going to wind up here, right? Now at this position, once we get here, because even if I'm holding tight, he still is going to have some ability to roll and I don't want that to necessarily happen, right? So you can look to control this in a few different ways. And one immediately is you can grab your thighs here, right? So once we grab and connect on the thighs here like this, right, this is kind of a save, this is kind of a checkpoint. So I roll him and then I go connect on the thighs. At that point here now, I can slip around and I can go here for this like reverse full Nelson, right? Does that make sense? Now, if we want to go into the crucifix from here, right? It's just about posting, lifting, trapping that way. And then we're in a very similar position to where we were on the previous one with that neck crank kind of intact at this point, right? But now if I slip this one out, again, we can go back to the neck crank at that position here. Or if we want to transfer back, and this was the question about transferring from here to just a more standard crucifix, right? Then I'm going to take this hand that just came out of his back here. I want that one to go in and then now I'm going to release this one. Because what's he going to do when I release that one? The natural motion of him being stretched this way if I let it go is going to go that way, right? So he'll pop back into place. But I think it's important to think about whenever we're moving segments of the body, if I have to move a post or if I have to move a connection, then I want to try to do it more, there's two ways you can do it. You can do it like Tarzan or you can do it like monkey bars, okay? And you think about Tarzan like swinging from this vine and then letting go, dive into that next one. That's not the most efficient way to do it, right? It's more like monkey bars. I want to have this connection, get that next grip, make sure that's solid before I let this one go. Boom, right? Make sure this is solid before I let this one go. It's been a while since I've done monkey bars, but that's, I'm pretty sure that's... You're going to give it a shot. Nah, I'm good, I'm good. I don't want to make y'all feel bad. So when we get... You haven't done a YouTube video of doing some Jiu Jitsu on a monkey bars yet. Not yet, no. No, I'm going to do the ramp wall first and we'll get monkey bars. So when we get here like this, right? And again, this may have come off of him like diving in or something like that and I sprawled or something like that, you know, or just off of a scramble. We get here and again, one arm is going to be a little deeper around the waist for like a gut wrench, right? I'm connecting the two hands. My leg is going to come down and block here and we're going to fall over to that side, right? This way. I want to try to catch here just to save my progress, right? We'll go in for that full Nelson here this way, right? And then if I feel like I can get away with it at that point, if the opportunity is there, we'll go into that crucifix. We can, okay? I also show some other options that don't involve the crucifix from this position because just from this reverse full Nelson, it's a pretty cool position. You can set up Darces, Anacondas and stuff like that, right? Triangles, all kinds of cool stuff. Like you could go straight to a triangle off of this here, right? So, but this is a crucifix seminar. So we're using it to set up the crucifix. Questions about this one? Nope. Let's try it. One, two, three. So the order of operation is the order of operation. So the order of operation matters. A lot of things, a lot of techniques, the order of operation is important. It's not as important as in like math class, but it's close, right? Like if you don't solve the order of operation right in math class, you're going to get the wrong answer like every time. In jiu-jitsu, you can sometimes fudge the order of operation with techniques and still come out with a pretty good answer, right? So, what am I talking about? When we get here, if I get that trunk grab, we fall over, we've still got this and we try to capture the arm still wrapped around the torso. The guy's got too much shoulder rotation still intact. So he's going to be able to slip his arm, it's going to feel funky, you're going to get in your own way. So, at least on the roll, when you roll the guy over, go to the full Nelson first, then capture the arm. You don't have to do the thigh grab. You can. I like it because it's a pit stop. It gives me... Are you doing like that full Nelson to just adjust your hip out a little bit? It's to do that, but it's also to gain control over the shoulder carriage better, right? Oh, here, Don, can I borrow you? So, like, say I don't do it. Say I do it out of order, right? So, we go here. I roll over and from right here, I try to capture... That's hard. Even if I can get it. Look how free his left arm is now. Yeah. So, he can reach to his right with his left arm. So, like, yeah. And now, yeah. So, that's a little hard. Versus, if I go here, the shoulders are already isolated. So, now, whenever I do go to capture this one, he's already stuck a little bit better. And then, if I need to make the transfer of getting this arm out, and I want to get the head and arm control differently, right? Then, now, this one can fall across, let this one go, and shoot, right? Does that make sense? Yeah. As far as the thigh grab, I like it. Doesn't mean you have to, right? Doesn't mean it has to make any sense. I find it live that if I don't do this a lot of the time, and I think I'm going to try to go straight into the Full Nelson, and his head is too tight, or it's just that it's not space or something, then I might be late, or I might screw up the whole position. Okay? So, I like that. But if this is uncomfortable, but you still would like a pit stop, instead of going into your own thighs, go to his own biceps. Here. This way. Does that make sense? So, we roll through, boom, straight to his biceps, then finds the Full Nelson. Okay? So, I would at least say, get control over the shoulder carriage with that Full Nelson before you go into it. Any issues with it that that doesn't help with? No? All right. Let's talk about submissions. And again, like, to structure this out, what I would suggest as a practice, just a suggestion, you don't have to do it, you don't have to listen to anything I say if you don't want to. But, I would say, each time you're going to practice some of these submissions that we're about to work on, look at going in with a variety of these entry points. Right? So, maybe this time it's my turn, I'm going to go in and do the submission that Eli just showed, well maybe I'll use that side control entry. Now maybe I'll use the diving over from Turtle, maybe I'll use the pullback from Turtle, maybe I'll use this high ground entry. Right? So, just so you get a variety, and that way you're building in repetitions in a progression of a linear fashion, and so you're building in kind of this, like an algorithm to it. Right? Can I just see the bicep checkpoint? No. Nope. We already showed it. Yeah. So, yes. Kind of, let me get an oaky here. Kind of bar you sir. So, when we get here, here's Turtle, let's go Turtle. Yep. So, we go here, I roll him over. This is the bicep control. Yeah. Just mainly so that I try to prevent him from, the thing I will say that the benefit of the bicep control, one, it might be more comfortable than the thigh grab, and for a checkpoint. But also, what it's doing essentially is it's spring loading him. So, it's like, if I put more tension here, I might put more tension here so that whenever I let go and he shoots across, then I can lock up a d'Arce. Right? Or vice versa on the other side. Can we see that? Can we see the verse? How you turn this? Yep. You throw me all off, Jason. Well, I'll do it though. I'll do it. So, like, if we're here and we go to here this way, right? So, say that, like, from here, I'm pulling this side, right? And I, but he leads the dance. He always has to kind of lead the dance, right? So, say that I feel he's more inclined to turn toward his right. So, I'm going to offer him resistance here, but it's like tug of war and letting go of the rope, right? So, I feel him wanting to go that side. He goes, boom, and then that way, now we can start shooting over this way. You see what I mean? So, now I can start locking up that d'Arce like that, right? Theoretically. The d'Arce is a, it is a technique that benefits long-armed people, right? It just is what it is. That's why you look at the best d'Arce chokers in the world and Rutolos. They're built like orangutans, you know? Like, they got these crazy, or spiders. If a spider, that's a spider monkey. I guess that's, yeah, that'd be it. So, what are we talking about? Submissions. Yes. Yeah. So, let's go, we're getting into this crucifix now. So, we're just going to teleport there, but again, you use a variety of different entry points. So, if we wind up in this position, and the one that I'm taking it from to begin with, first thing that I'm looking at are south side, or like leg submissions, okay? And the way that I like to approach this, if I'm attacking his arm with my legs on the south side, I want to look at rotational versus linear submissions. So, we're going to go branch up like an Americana, branch down like a Kimura, and then straight out like a Uri-Geshi, or actually be like a, what would it be? Ashigatami. That's what that would be. So, when we get here, one of the first immediate ones, regardless of which leg is over, is if his arm is straight, right? So, like if his arm is straight or straight-ish, then this bottom leg is coming through right now, which I think is, if I'm going to attack his arm with my legs, this south side leg coming up through offers me more opportunities. And this is why. Because if his arm is straight-ish, I'm going to take my other leg over until I find his wrist between my two ankles, right? So, right now, my thigh is coming under his bicep, my shin and calf is coming over his forearm, so if I step over, I know that his wrist, without even looking at it, his wrist is between my two ankles. So, that means if I curl my heels back toward my butt, and then I put my heel on the floor, and then start lifting my hip into his elbow, yeah, then I'm going to get that. Sorry, I wasn't trying to blow in your ear, it was a mosquito. So, we get here, and then I've got that straight arm bar off of that, potentially. If he doesn't like how that feels for some reason, he may go branch up or branch down. Branch down, branch up is going to be more available because of how I've got my legs crossed. When I feel that happening, I like to go false, like try to get the false grip here on the wrist, so that I have this hand available to grab his wrist. Since he's given it to me anyway, I want to secure it. I'm loosening this leg to pull it tighter here, and then I want to clamp to where his wrist is behind my top knee pit, like that. At that point, I squeeze the knees together, and I try to turn my hips up while keeping his head compressed down, for more of a shoulder lock. And there is some tension on it too, it's almost like a forearm slicer, not necessarily bicep slicer, but forearm slicer, especially depending on how tight you pull this immediately. So we can go in here, if it's not getting that, and you don't like your partner, then just go wrist lock. So then that's straight and branch up, but what if he goes branch down? Now branch down is tricky because you don't have in this position, without making some modification, you don't have the ability to rotate enough to get to Kimura. Or do you? I don't like to say I invented things, but I've never seen anybody do this, and I figured it out on my own, so I'm sharing it with you guys, and it's my favorite submission from here. And I keep his wrist tucked behind my bottom knee pit, and I take this foot and scoop it under his bicep and put it on my own thigh. Here. Now, I can get it. I don't have to have the same rotation. So I'm withdrawing my right leg under and driving my knee toward his belly button that way. Okay? So again, first thing, I catch his wrist between my ankles, retract them toward my butt, heel to the floor, hips in for the straight arm. He goes branch up. I grab. Again, make sure you're securing this, right? I would say go to the blade of the hand. The wrist is not going to be as good. The blade is better, right? I pull this nice and tight. Pinch it, his wrist behind my top knee, right? Go back, rotate that for Americana. He goes branch down, boom, here. Again, pinch the wrist in the knee pit. My foot comes back and crawls underneath this way. Okay? Unless you have, it's easier when you have scrawny thighs like I do. This is exclusively why I skip leg day at the gym. So that I can do submissions like this. Otherwise, I would have massive quads. So if we get here this way, again, retracting my right leg. It's not funny. And then driving my knee toward the belly button that way. Okay? You guys see them? All right, questions? Straight, branch up, branch down. Whenever there's a difficulty trying to finish these, we feel like it's all about the legs and association with the arms. A lot of the time, it's more about what my torso and even my hips behind them supporting them. That's what they're doing. You know, that's more of it. Because I start to get, it's easy to get target fixated whenever I'm here and I'm trying to like adjust down here like that. And in the meantime, I'm losing attention up here and they're starting to kind of slide or drift out that way or bridge or rotate or something like that. So it's important that even, and again, this is something that it's like, it's like you're cooking different components. And so like, you know, I'm focused on this while this stuff is on the back burner, but eventually you want to bring this all together. So, you know, when you get here, I want to make sure that I'm not too flat on my back. I'm not too up on my side to where he's sliding off of me. I'm just got to find that Goldilocks zone where I've got that nice ramp here like this. I'm isolating the head and the arm on this side, controlling the shoulder, keeping strong chest to back connection, and then still allowing myself the mobility and the flexibility to be able to attack the arm with the legs. And again, these are definitely not one size fits all. So from my experience and from what I've seen and what I've experienced personally, I think that in order of highest to lowest percentage, whatever that means, the Americana would probably be one of the lower percentage. The straight arm is the highest percentage. The Kimura is a little more specialized, so I would put it in a lower percentage category. But if it fits your body, it becomes a pretty high percentage. For me, like if I get there, then that Kimura variation, because I did it specifically to fit my needs, that's a higher percentage one for me if I can get to that position. But again, when you start using terms like high percentage, low percentage, that doesn't mean a whole lot. Like you'll find people that specialize in the weirdest moves. Like think about if anybody knows who Ben Eddy is. So Ben Eddy is 10th Planet Black Belt. Very, very good guy. He's a phenomenal competitor. One of his moves that he hits super consistently, a very high percentage move for him is the Hindula team. Most people can't even get there. Most people can't figure it out. Most people don't have the flexibility. Most people definitely can't functionalize at the high levels that he can. So what does that even mean? So I think that when people are using those, when I try to use those terms, I try to make sure that I put the caveat on it, that high percentage, low percentage means from a strictly mechanical standpoint, what, how much flexibility does this require? What's the timing? What's the window of opportunity that this is happening within? So I put these different metrics on it so that I can kind of quantify what exactly those, those kind of terms mean. So it's not just some kind of a theoryal thing out here. Right. Um, because I, I don't personally, I don't want to come across as saying that, um, mistaking the fact that I can do something or can't do something means that it's like universally, uh, able or unable for most people to do. So, um, that tangent aside, any other questions about the arm submissions from here? No. Okay. Uh, let's talk about the upper body submissions. So I'm isolating. Uh, let's see. Where's that in? Can I borrow you, sir? Um, when we get to this position here and again, like I'm, I've got him isolated, whether it's the top arm or, or the top leg or bottom leg. Again, I think that the, like bringing the bottom leg, uh, on top first, so under and over that way, and then reinforcing with the top. And this orientation gives me more submission opportunity with my legs versus his arm. If it's the other way around from here, I still have access to the straight arm, the Americana, not really there at all. The, uh, Kimura, it's not really there either. It's just, those are a little more awkward from there. Okay. So now the benefit though, of this, uh, orientation like this here, uh, what I would say is we do have access to, I'll throw this one out before we start talking about the upper body and the chokes and stuff, because it's kind of a funky one. So two things that I'll throw out for now. Um, if I want to still do the, the Kimura in a different way, right? Right. We can look at it this way. Um, and this will be a little bit more like a reverse omoplata than anything. So if he's going branch down, then I can pass off to here. And like, there's just no way I'm getting that foot in. Right. I can't do it. Like I just showed. So instead of that from here, I'm going to hook his leg down here this way. And I don't have to have much of a hook, right? Like this is sufficient for now. Okay. And what I'm going to do from there now is I want to pass this arm over to this side of his head. And eventually I'm going to try to reach to this direction over here. Okay. You see what's happening. So now I'm going to tuck this back just like a regular omoplata. It's just reverse orientation. I've got his wrist behind my knee and calf in this position here. And this hand is coming up under his armpit. If we're in the gi, fantastic. Cause I can grip here. If not, you can try to grab the leg or you can just plant the hand here. Okay. Since we're all have the pajamas on, let's go ahead and go from here this way. Okay. It's a really gnarly way to do this. This reverse omoplata, this Kimura style like this here, because I'm driving his hand into the ground. So it's not free floating. So it's not just a shoulder rotation. It's compounded to the fact that I have his hand kind of stapled on the floor as I start to raise my hips. So again, this one's coming over deep into the armpit here. If I need this to help pull me up, I can do that. Right. But this leg probably needs to be tucked back here. Okay. So I'm hooking it first and bringing it back here. We sit up. Boom. That direction. Okay. So again, we wind up here, this way. And he goes branch down and like that thing that I showed first is just not happening for me for some reason. Here this way. So I'm going to hook here like this first while I make the switch to this side of his head. And then when this one comes up, this hand shoots over here this way. Okay. I'm going to try to get under his arm. If it just doesn't happen that again, over his arm, he still has an arm inside here like this. It's not the end of the world. Just go lower. And if you have the grips, you can use the grips. Right. We go here, tuck the foot back. Come on. Okay. Does this make sense? Questions? No. Okay. No. Okay. The other thing that I would add if, again, going back to like what if this, what is the benefit of the top leg being over? You can, I can keep the arm isolated while I come through and try to hook his leg this way. Right. And now I've isolated his hips a little better. So if we're going to start attacking chokes, then that's a benefit of it. Another benefit of it too, is if he's sliding down off of me a little bit, then I can use this to kind of help pick him back up. And then the other orientation, not always as available. This is a little tighter and it helps to jack his shoulder up a little bit so that now I can get myself back underneath him and he doesn't slide out. Okay. So that's mostly just a tool or adjustment. And then we'll talk about the chokes on the other part of the body. But this is another way we can get into that. Kimura more like a reverse omoplata. Questions? It's so quiet in here. It's so weird. All right, let's go. One, two, three. But first, let's look at the upper body here a little bit. So again, I've captured, honestly, either leg tends to work. I think that for upper body submissions, meaning the ones that I'm using to attack from here, top leg tends to be better for some than others. And the bottom leg tends to be better for some than others. So I'm going to go top leg for right now just because we haven't given enough love yet. And we'll look at like, what can we do from here? Obviously, maybe not obviously, but obviously, I feel like being able to open the collar from here and do different chokes. So simplest of these will be like a sliding collar choke. And a sliding collar choke being where I'm going to come in, four fingers inside the collar, I'm going to peel it open. And then my hands going to release from here and go thumb inside some precision details about this. I don't want like a sock puppet grip. That's what that is. I want like a waving hand. So I'm opening, driving the snuff box to his throat, and then looping this over my thumb. And then using this hand to adjust and tighten like a slip tie, slip, like what's it called? Zip tie here. Right. Then if I have access to the second lapel, we'll just adjust it like a necktie from here. I'm pulling my elbow back here like I'm trying to do like a low row, like pulling my elbow to my spine at that point, and then expanding the chest into it this way. Okay. So that's a way to do that. Right. Additionally, maybe I don't have the best access to that one. And we can go in for like a kata hajime. Right. So this is the single wing style choke where I'm going to go here and this one's going to come behind his head. Right. When we do this one, this hand is trying to like spear hand toward the ceiling here. I'm going right down below that occipital ridge of his skull here like that while this one again pulls back. So we go here. I pull this way. Okay. For that single wing style choke. So we have a sliding collar, but we have the single wing. Okay. Those should be fairly basic. Right. You should learn those pretty early on in gi training. I feel like as far as strangles with the gi. Um, but let's get weird. Um, so from here now, um, uh, a really good choke. And we had this discussion last night. We're talking about, can you in, in IBJJF regulations, can you use your belt to strangle someone? The answer is yes and no. Yes. As long as it's still tied. Right. So, um, I don't think my belt, this belt isn't necessarily long. Uh, but it's tied right now. So if it were long enough, I could theoretically wrap this around and strangle him with it. And it's still legal in competition. Right. But let's say even if it's not, then from here, I'm in this position and I have his arm isolated. So I'm going to use his belt or his lapel here like this, if I can get it accessible. And I'm going to make this kind of sling wrap. So I'm going to staple his arm in with his own gi here. Right. I'm going to try to get it tight enough to where he can't retract that arm out of it. Yeah. Once that's established, now this hand is freed up. So I can try to go back to the collar here, or I can use my own lapel here this way. Okay. And from that position here, now we can bring this around his head and use this lapel. This is referred to as the assassin choke. Yeah. Okay. Again, another Barrett Yoshida in maybe invention. I don't know. So we can go thumb facing me, pinky away from me that way, that orientation and bring it around his head this direction, or I can go thumb up here and bring it around his head this direction, if space allows. Okay. So that's going to be gi dependent. I intentionally try to wear my gi as a size a little bit too small, just so you have less to grab onto. Right. But if you have enough length in this, you can come around, boom, this direction. Otherwise, you can bring it around this direction here like that. Okay. Very mean choke because both his arms are trapped. It's a really horrible position. So again, we get in this position here. First choke that I was mentioning is, look, see, I'm already making a mistake. Like that's not going to get in deep enough. So it's better if I use this hand first to peel this open, get my thumb inside nice and deep, find that other side lapel if it's available, and then finish the sliding collar choke. Right. If instead here, I'm like, eh, it's not really available. We can go here and I can go spear hand for that single wing choke that direction. Okay. If at that point I feel like his lapel is accessible and I want to trap this arm so he has zero ability to be able to defend his neck other than just with his chin, which is a defense, just not a good one. So, and then I can get my lapel loose here this way. Right. Bring it up around his head, finish this choke. If I have enough slack, don't think that's going to happen today. But if I have enough slack, we can go here and bring it around this direction and get that choke. Cool. Should be like four different chokes right there. Let's try it. One, two, three. So let's talk about it. I prefer this, like if I can get to this style of top crucifix, like I would prefer that over almost any type of side control. With the exception maybe of like a case of Gatami. But I don't know. Let's look at it. So if we're here, the whole thing is about how do we set this up? And it works well because like the first, one of the first, the second entry that we were talking about where we're isolating the near arm and then the far arm. And we're talking about how we scrape up underneath. Well, what will happen sometimes, let's actually turn this away. So just make sure you guys can kind of see this arm. What happens sometimes is if we get here and I've got here and I try to scrape that arm but, ah, see, that's a pain, right? Like there's no way I'm getting under that. He's staying too tight to the side. So he's doing a good job of kind of monitoring. But he's still doing it with the intention of monitoring this frame in my hip. So I know that if he wants it there, then he's not going to be inclined to move it for me, right? He's going to be inclined to keep it there. So what I'm going to look to do is I'm going to keep my underhook on the side, but I want to grab and I want to secure his hand to my hip, right? It's like you want it there, we're going to keep it there. Then I'm going to start sprawling that to the floor here, okay? I want to take this and I want to staple it. Once I get it to the floor, I'm going to staple it with my hand. And then I'm going to take this knee and I want to take it to his ribs, right? Like that. We go to the ribs first and then up over to staple, okay? I don't go straight in because if I go straight in, it just goes across his forearm. He sucks his elbow in, he gets it free, right? But if instead we get here to the ribs and then up and over, right? We're not moving linear like a rook or even diagonal like a bishop. We're doing like whatever, if there were a piece that would go like up two and then one over or like one up and then like two over and... Like a knife? I'm just tossing out there. Okay, so... Knight moves, there we go. Boom, like that, okay? So now I've got that staple on his bicep. So this is good, but it's not as good as if I use this leg, right? So we're going to make a windshield wiper move. Why is it not as good? Because if he bridges right now, here, this has to happen, right? So that means that if I want to go back here and he bridges, then I've got to pull that out to base. So I lose some control. So once we get this stapled one like that, I want a windshield wiper here now. So now, if he bridges, there's not really much of a bridge because this is up in line with his spine. You see? Okay? Thank you. I was about to say. So like, here, this is up in line with his spine, so it's preventing his bridge. I've got his biceps stapled with my shin here. I don't even necessarily have to keep much pressure on him now because he's so caged in. You see? Right? I've got my underhook on this far side. Now, if we want to do even a better job of securing this kind of... Because I would consider this a topside crucifix because I've got his arms both trapped and I'm going diagonally across the shoulder carriage. Right? At this point here, now I'm going to go to evangelist control like that. Okay? Um, so like once I have that pinned down here like this, nobody likes this. And he can't really use his hands to grab and remove it. But I know that this is kind of a pressure sensor where if I push his head down and he doesn't like it, if I let go, he typically lifts his head up a little bit. Right? So I like to push this down here. Right? And so then, when he goes to lift it up, I'm taking my knee over to the other side so I can get my leg under. You see? This way. Okay? I'm basing on my head at this point here. And I still have his arm isolated on the far side. So now what can we do as far as submissions go? I'm glad you asked. I can take this one down and start trying to fish his arm up this way. Okay? I reach behind my butt to grab his tricep. I pull it in nice and tight. Here this way. Stay on my head. Lift that ankle. And then now we can start to look for that top reverse. Not completely sure, but I think this would be Ushiro Senkaku. I'm not sure. Maybe it was Ushiro. Yeah. Okay. So, when we're here, we get all the way to here. Right? Press. Try to get that underneath. Right? You swivel. Scrape. Find that tricep. If he's got the gi, it makes it that much easier. Here this way. Right? Lift the foot. Connect. Here. And then squeeze. Right? So that's one submission. I think that's one of the best submissions from this position. We also have ways to isolate the arm on this side, especially for Kimuras. But you want to go ahead and see the Kimura so we can practice both or just stick to the triangle then come back for the Kimura. Got it. Okay. So let's go for this triangle first. So one more time through the steps. We're going to start from here. I'm assuming I've already, we're making the assumption I've already isolated this arm. If you need a refresher of how we did that before, it's just kind of the same basic thing. If he's framing in my neck here like this, you can punch through, go this way. Right? I'm going to drop my head inside. I like to go like big nose cover like this here, this way so that I can pry my head down and then start to isolate that arm. I'm going to take this hand in the hip, press it to the floor with my hip like that. And then one, two, windshield wiper. This leg goes in line with his spine above his head. Right? You don't have to do evangelist control. It's just one, it's funny and two, it's effective. Right? But I can probably go here and even if he wants his head to stay down, right? It's really hard for him to stop me from at least getting underneath. Right? I just like the forehead control method of it. There, start to scrape under. I find his tricep or at least a grip. Pulling nice and tight this way, staying posted on my head. Raise the leg under his head so I'm raising his head with it. Slide underneath, make the connection and then we get the triangle. Okay? Cool? Let's go. One, two, three. Like a way to set the Kimura up while we have that. So whether you have the triangle configuration or you just still have the shin staple in post, either way we can get to the Kimura like this. So let's see. Sir. Yeah, this is good. So I'm just going to kind of like teleport through the numbers here. Right? So I have the under hook still. Right? I get underneath here this way. Right? I try to scrape this up. Boom. It's just not happening for me because maybe he's keeping his arm away or something. He knows what's up. So MMA, punch him behind your butt. Right? That's called the Mike Pyle special. Mike Pyle, like I'd never seen anybody do that before. And apparently a lot of people hadn't seen anybody do that before exactly like that, like back in the day. And Mike got several people there from WEC. Is that WEC, right? Yeah. And then he was doing that in WEC. And then whenever he went over to UFC, he was hitting it there too. And so if you look at BJ Penn's old MMA book, like the, whatever it was called, the mixed martial arts by BJ Penn or whatever. He even calls that in his book, the Mike Pyle special, which I thought was really cool because Mike was a buddy of mine. Anyway, none of that matters, but we get here like this and I'm just not getting that. And I can't punch him in the face because it's Jiu Jitsu. Then from here, if I want to set up the Kimura, I can do it really sloppily where I just come up here. I'm like, all right, hold still while I did this. I think what's better is if I keep my head on the floor, I'm going to take this hand and I'm going to slide it under and I'm going to grab his bicep close to his elbow. Once I do that, I'm going to slide, I'm going to pull it up this way until his elbow's on the other side of my head. Now, while I'm still on my head, I can come here and I can find his wrist this way. And from that position now, like I drop my elbow, I'm going to roll to my right hip, back up and then shoot through to this position. Does that make sense? I think with that order of operation, keep staying segmented and secured the whole time pretty well. So from here, I'm pulling under and I'm going to grab and pull his elbow up a little higher. I'm going to find his wrist here, drop my elbow, start to pick up and roll to my side, and then shoot through to get the full connection. That way. Okay? Does that make sense, guys? All right. Now, because we're getting a little constrained on time, so that's there. We already have the whole setup. It's just like the extra little fundamentals to get the Kimura from that position. But I also wanted to show, like I've got several of these honorable mentions that I now want to throw out. But I wanted to show a triangle setup I like a whole lot from that is like tangentially related to the crucifix, but it's a similar entry. So if we go back to turtle, we're going to rewind all the way back to turtle position. Now, from here, we're going to do a similar entry where my knee comes in here this way, right? But the modifications we're going to make at this point though are, I'm not going to try to just isolate the near side arm. I'm going to get a little greedier, right? So this hand here, rather than just securing on the arm, we're going to go in here for like this kind of like power half. Would that be like a power half? Yeah? Okay. So it's like a power half here this way. And I'm going to step the rest of the way over here this way. When I step over, this hand is going to catch like this. Okay? Once that catches here, I'm going to start sitting back this direction, right? At that point here now, like I'm going to keep this connection where I see how my heel is touching my knee. And we're going to use this kind of like a hacky sack where I lift up his elbow so I can get a hold of his wrist or a hold of the sleeve. I want to pull it nice and tight and secure here until my calf comes behind his tricep. Yeah. It's pretty tight. I'm sorry. So, one more time here. Go in here. So the knee sliding through is a similar feature to how we set up the original crucifix, right? But instead of just going here, I'm coming this way. I want to hike and create space. I'm depressing down on the back of his neck. I'm hiking up that shoulder. I'm going to throw this leg over and catch here. Here. Okay. As we sit back, I'm trying to touch my left heel and my right knee. Alright. So we go back in this direction. Okay. And then that gives me the ability to raise that elbow enough to try to catch his wrist or sleeve. I want to pull that nice and tight across so that now whenever I connect here, one, two, my calf goes behind his tricep and squeeze that way. Okay. I know it's very tight so we won't try to hang on there too long. But we get here. This calf is behind his tricep. Still controlling his near side arm like that. And then squeeze from there. Okay. Make sense? Okay. Any questions? Alright. So we got the Kimura from that top side crucifix. And then we have this probably Gyaku triangle. Right? Gyaku, Shiro, something triangle. Let's go. One, two, three. For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For