 I either feed it up and then look for this kind of high-plot knee switch. Yeah, when they step forward, this is what I find. I can start with a pin-pangle with sweeves, dummy sweeves, and stuff like that. What's up, guys? It's Eli here with Matt Jujitsu, and I'm here with the man, Joseph Chin here. He's about to teach a seminar, but I was picking his brain on everything that I possibly can because, I mean, it's Joseph Chin. So the thing I wanted to ask him about on this video were wrestle-ups, because he's got some of those beautiful wrestle-ups I've seen in competition in a long time, and not to let Gush all over him while he's standing right next to me, but a big fan, and so I wanted him to show a couple of concepts from seated versus standing, because I find myself in that position a lot, and I need to be much better at it. So, Joseph. Generally, when I look to wrestle-up, I think some things that are very important when playing Cedar Guard is, first of all, my own posture so that I can wrestle-up, because a lot of people make the mistake of when they're seated, they play with both feet extended, and I find that this makes it harder for me to get up because it makes it a slower process, because at some point I'm always going to have to bring my heel to my butt to get up. It's very different, like, for me to sit up if I keep both feet extended. So really adjusting this, and for myself, at least, I prefer bringing my left heel to my butt and have my right leg extended. So now, from here, at whatever point I can threaten coming to my knees, which makes my ability to incorporate wrestle-ups a lot more easy, I guess. So, when I play from this type of position, this is when I can then consider what is my part of doing in terms of hand-fight to then set up my wrestle-up. So, now I'm in a posture to move, it's time to see what he does. So, oftentimes, depending on how your partner plays, assuming he's engaging with you and not just, like, running away, because if he's, like, really running away, this is when you really have to force engagement yourself. But once he's playing on me, so if your partner plays a qualified, any type of grip your partner makes on you, it's an opportunity for us to, like, basically capitalize off of this type of extension he makes to then get my own grip. Alright, so in this case, my partner plays with, like, a colored tie and he's trying to snap me. It's very important for me to use my right foot on the ground so that he just doesn't see me because I keep, like, my face in the floor. That's why I'm just here. This is probably not going to be very funny. So, I rather play with my heel. Very much, like, activate my hamstring. So, now when he tries to snap me down, I feel pretty okay. And then from here, this is what I'm going to start with, looking for elbow ties, possibly looking for elbow passes, getting two on one. And at this point, we have a good grip to work with. However, the main thing with Nohiy is that you have to make sure that you're prepared to have your grips broken and then subsequently re-grip, right? Because initially, if he doesn't do anything from here, okay, great. I have great opportunities to hit drags, hit through the legs, et cetera, et cetera. However, what's likely to happen is your partner's going to break the script. And when they do, this is when it's good for you to anticipate and then chain into other attacks. It can be, like, wrist grips. It can be variations of drags, two on one. Sometimes they play with shoulder posts, right, clearing. Sometimes they try to, like, if he breaks the script again, I can try and make my own grip. It really depends on our positioning. So, for example, let's focus on kind of a small thing that would change the grip I make. Because when your partner deals with the wrist, which is very likely to happen, if he's going below, I'm going to start looking for this drag. Just because my hand is above his hand, I find it's easier for me to bring this down, to then chain into my drag. And depending on how he plays, I'm not going to try and face in, like, opposite direction at him. I'm going to try to face towards his head. So now, when he tries to turn face to me, I try to pull and make it easier for me to get to this shot. Versus this first here, I find, if I just keep facing the opposite direction, he can kind of slide forward and expose my back. This is going to be problematic. So I want to try and tip. Versus some people will make this grip on the wrist, but instead of being below my wrist, they'll be above and pull my grip up. And in these situations, what I'm going to do instead, is actually I'm going to use this kind of V-grip and bring it up to then actually make a wrist grip instead of going for the drag. And after this wrist grip, depending on what our partner does, I either feed it up and make for this kind of high-climbing knee switch. Or from here, he breaks the grip. I can start looking to either bring him forward. Often if they don't want to expose the elbow, right, because if they're here, there's a lot of space for them to work with. This is great. They'll play with this elbow type and they'll often step forward. I just keep the elbow tight. Yeah. When they step forward, this is what I find. I can start with a pin-pangle, with sweeps, dummy sweeps and stuff like that. So it really just depends on how your partner plays. But even small things like that, understanding the difference in your partner's grip positioning on how that might affect the grips that you're going to make. Because from here, if I try to go underneath, it might be a little bit more awkward. Here, more appropriate for me to go over into the drag and so on and so on. And so when you're hand-fighting here, there's going to be a lot of situations like these where you have to think, okay, what's his positioning? What's my positioning and what options do I have? Like for a while when I started really focusing on hand-fighting, I would just do drilling, per se. And then when I was with my partner, I was like, okay, what are you going to do? And then they break the grip, and I'm thinking, okay, what are some good attacks I can do? So maybe I'd experiment with trying to pass it across. But then, okay, I'll do that again. Try to resist me a little bit. Like, what are you going to do? Okay, maybe I have to go back. And just get into the habit of constantly changing grips and being prepared to do so. So what do you think, do you think that there's some benefits to, because I mean everything like eco-games or CLA games and everything else, do you think there's a benefit to the like a combination or like a ratio of like drilling versus just like organic constraint that approach? Like how do you feel with them? Because I know probably most of the training that you do right now, I would imagine is situational, like isolated situational or just a lot of it's just me and figured out doing the rules. Yeah, so I mean what do you think? Yeah, I mean, I'm against drilling for reps. So it's like, yeah, I'm going to do this for 10, 15 times and just be brainless, in my opinion. Generally, when I like to drill, like I'll spend a fair bit of time drilling, but it's with, I'm moderating the amount of resistance I'm getting. So like I said just now, I like one of the things I'm going to put on another is drilling with a dialogue where I'm going to say, okay, what are you going to do? Oh, you're going to try break this script? Okay. What can I do to make it difficult? So if I kind of angle this down, try it again. Yeah, okay. Break it, break it. Okay, maybe you have to break it a different way or maybe then this is where you shoulder post me or maybe try to do it the other arm. I'm trying to really figure out these situations as opposed to, okay, let's just drill that a wrestle off 15 times. Okay. You know? So I'm thinking, okay, what adjustments can I make? And then, okay, if I can't deny the script break, what am I going to do? Okay, I feel like I might be a little exposed here. If you've got members of the community, I feel like that's kind of threatening. I'm going to be ready to switch that to a thumb post if necessary. And then off of this thumb post thing that I've been trying on the near side. And then I'll, okay, let's try that again. So you break the grip. Okay, play with that thumb post. What do you feel like you're going to do from here? Okay, I can try. We'll play off of this. And then I can ask them, okay, can you kind of turn it up on me a little bit? And then we kind of do the same situation. Okay, let's see how that feels. And then eventually at some point I'll be like, okay, I don't need to drill this anymore. I'll probably then try to do either a specific round or try to hit this and open. Now I like that idea though, like even with the drilling portion of it, it's like dialoguing it out. It's like, all right, what are you going to do here? So it's like a chess game. It's a discovery process in my mind, right? It's a chess game where you can go back a few steps if you need it and then keep kind of repeating the same situation. So it's like a chess game with a video game respawn points, a different chess game. Cool, all right, cool. Thank you so much. I appreciate that. Thank you for all the knowledge from earlier and during this video and then from seminars about to come. So, all right, well, you're out of luck then. If you didn't make it to Charlotte this time, we're over here at Charlotte Jujitsu. So shout out to Charlotte. Shout out to Joseph Chan. I appreciate you guys very much for watching this video and everything else. And yeah, thanks a lot, guys.