 tiii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii tii hand to make your technique sharper and that's what I do anytime I'm around this guy. So I'm going to share some of my favorite things about guillotines, about alternative grips, how you can hit them, enter into them and stuff like that. He's going to do the same and hopefully you'll get some good information to take your guillotine up to the next level out of this video. One of the first places I like to think about hitting the guillotine, so just kind of a standard application but one that's a little more functional rather than him just diving his head in here like this because obviously if he does a sloppy double leg or sloppy tackle, you can just shove his head in, get a guillotine off of it. Okay, we're not going to even have to cover that. What I like to look at on the initial intro a lot of the time for guillotines is this, is like if we're pummeled up like this, so I've got an over under and we're doing some kind of pummeling or something, we're fighting for inside position. From here, if I pop Mike and make a little bit of space with my shoulder here like that, so that pop is going to make some space. My hand from his tricep is going to ride up to the back of his iliac crest here and I'm going to tuck his head under my armpit, right? My hand is going to go here, invert and I'm going to circle through. I'm thinking about taking my hand over and kind of teacupping over on the side of his jaw on this side, right? Once that happens now, if I can get this hand to come down and grab my wrist, so initially the kind of standard application tends to be here where I'm grabbing here like this. So five fingers over grabbing there, curling in and then I want to try to get my elbow toward his back like this, right? Because if Mike can throw his arm up, it tends to change the angle and negate some of the effects of it. So I'd like to try to get this over and block that out. Now, rather than like arching here like this to finish, I'm actually going to start walking my hips in and keeping this curvature of my back so that I have that pressure going in that way so that it's not only stretching his neck, but I'm enclosing and compacting and squeezing all that together. Now, sometimes like if you get there though, and this is uncomfortable because of your wrist or your shoulder, like for me, then an inverted grip sometimes actually works a little better. So it's kind of like a power guillotine, sometimes they'll call it. So I'm going to actually go palm to palm inverted grip and I'm thinking about taking my elbow in line with his spine down here and then all the other finishing mechanics are similar. I'm still walking the hips in and I'm still like concaving and then bringing all that pressure in like that. What do you feel like, Mike? Yeah. So another grip that I like to utilize with that same kind of setup is like the okay grip, right? So I'm thinking about trying to like lock my thumb under my main kind of four fingers here. I'm looking at taking like the arc of my pinky and locking it up in that space that I've made. And that's going to allow me to like crimp and get that same kind of motion. So I have the guillotine digging it across, right? So I've dug in to the point where my hand is able to like actually peek out, right? So I have, I make that ledge and I bring that edge of that pinky in. That allows me to pull that through even more and get that high kind of elbow position that I want here. And that allows me to kind of crimp down on his shoulder as I can start to finish the guillotine there. Yeah. It's so crazy how like just the modification of that grip can make it so much tighter, right? And it's, it'll take a lot of the cranking out of it because the thing about guillotines is that they're, they're typically regarded as more of a wind choke, right? So more of a tracheal style choke. So they, they can be a little bit more inherently dangerous, but the other thing too, is that they can be a clean blood strangle because like a lot of times what I feel like is if the angle is good enough, the compression actually starts to hit in on that karate. So it is a little bit cleaner. And that's what you ultimately want because like typically a lot of guys with like bigger, stronger necks can resist the guillotine because it is more direct on. So the muscles kind of reinforce it versus whereas if you're a little bit more on the karate, you can't really have a strong neck that's going to avoid that as well. Not as easily anyway. Another one that's really good too, and this is a little bit faster, right? So this is another reason I like this and it can happen from kind of the same thing. If I ever get this kind of like collar tie on him or this kind of half clinch or, or half necktie. If I'm going to try to like make like a little circle here and I'm going to throw his head into it, but instead of like re-gripping in any of these other configurations, I'm just going to keep my hand on the back of his head. And this one is typically regarded, referred to as the handgun choke. So whenever I tuck his head down again, I'm coming in, and I'm using that goose neck here, framework like that. And what I'm going to do here, I'm going to keep my hand on the back of his head. I'm going to put my pec on top of that hand. And then this hand that's doing the choke is actually going to come under and I'm going to grab the outside of my forearm. So what you'll see happen here is whenever I come like that, and this hand's going to come up and it's going to grab this way, right? So now again, same thing, I'm still compressing in and man, it's, this one is very sharp. It's really pointing that into the trachea again, but because of that curvature, it actually kind of matches the shape of the branch into the carotid. So I feel like that can be a really clean blood choke as well. So fast, and it's actually very difficult for him to start trying to pull the hands away from it. He's got to really scramble a lot of the time to be able to defend against that choke. So that's one of my absolute favorites. You can do it from standing. You also can do it on the ground in different positions too. All right, so we're going to look at a variation of an arm and guillotine from a control position that I like in the front headlock. It's an under over grip, right? So I have my arm kind of draped across the back of his neck for my under hook here. And then I have the over hook on this side, right? I think about trying to push this across so I can start to feed my under hook hand across. I shove the tricep across, right? So now his arm is straight in that way and I have a better exposure of my hand this way. Okay. Then from here, I can grab very similar, whatever grips that you feel like you need to do. And a lot of times, like I'll just kind of bulldog them and choke them here before I even need to exchange position or go underneath in the guard, right? So I'm trying to utilize that same kind of connection on his artery, now his shoulders on the artery on this side. And I have that contained, right? And I have the ability to start to walk in, get my hips and squeeze. So I have that under over control, right? And I'm looking to start to shove that tricep across and collect, right? So I can have my grips, I can have gable grips. And I think about trying to jam him back or kind of pitch his tailbone into the floor so that I have him back on his haunches. And that way it opens up this space for my knee to start coming in. So he can't come after me on a cap the top so he can't roll through. And then from there, I'm continuing to squeeze. Yeah, it's nasty. Now, what a lot of people are going to say on this one, because I've gotten this comment before, it's like, well, that's actually more of a katakitami. It's a head and arm. It's like a more of an arm triangle. And sure, whatever. Okay, but it's guillotine adjacent. So that's why we're including it in here. And what I mean by guillotine adjacent is that just with a slip of the inside to the shoulder, it turns into a guillotine right away. So a lot of times my reaction of how I don't like this being bunched up. So if I start to expand and open up and he slides that hand aside, now all of a sudden you have a guillotine. So I would definitely put that at least in the family of guillotines for sure. And it's a nasty one. So it's really good. One I like from the turtle a whole lot. And I've heard this called the perfect guillotine, right? I've heard it called like different things. I don't know. People can't really agree on the name of this one. It seems like. And it's a variation of a high risk guillotine. And what's happening here is essentially, it looks kind of like a, almost like a rear naked choke, right? Which you can do. You can do a front rear naked choke. But what this is going to be is I'm going to go through nice and deep, almost like I'm doing that. And you'll notice this hand is actually coming over in front of his shoulder. So it's very deep like that. Now, the way that we're going to tighten this choke is the cool part though, because I'm going to go around his arm similar to what Mike was talking about before. But what I'm going to do is when I come around his arm, I'm cutting all the way through and grabbing my own tricep. So that's the mechanism that's going to make it extra tight. So whenever we get here and I put my hand here like that, and then I grab it, then I grab my own tricep and squeeze. And a lot of times just that right there is going to get it done. Now, if that's not getting it done, then similar to what Mike was talking about while ago with the head and arm version, is that if I can drive into him to make more pressure, or I can start to sit back and make more pressure off of this too. Now, he doesn't have a good way to go off of this. He rolls to either side. He's still going to get choked for his efforts because I'm also controlling the arm and the shoulder this way. So his shoulder rotation is taken out of the equation and it's going to be really nasty like that. So that one right there is really a difficult guillotine to defend against. And it's also, again, it's adjacent to the head and arm choke and it's adjacent to the darse and to the anaconda. Those are different videos you can check out on my channel, but for right now, we're just focusing on these different variations of the guillotine. The 10 finger guillotine is probably one of the fastest acting. And you can actually see some good examples of it. Dan Henderson used to hit this sometimes in MMA back in the day. And it was so fast, so sharp, just a nasty variation of a choke. What's essentially happening is, again, we're going to go from turtle on this, but what's happening is I'm actually double up my hands this way. So I want this to kind of conform to the shape of his neck. So again, with that goose neck kind of thing that we did similar to the handgun choke, but then once I come underneath, I'm crunching this up and in and I'm trying to put my diaphragm right here on the back of his neck. So that's going to give me pressure to be able to tuck his head and fold him around my hands. So as far as doubling up on the grip, the other side is going to come in and I'm going to grab here. I'm going to fold the elbows toward each other and I'm going to curl and scoop back this way. So when we get into that position, I'm going to try to get up on active toes to do it. I shouldn't have to do a whole lot, but I'm curling in and then it's nasty. Like it's such a fast, sharp choke because this is the choking mechanism. Whenever I curl in like that, driving the pressure in to fold his head around it, that's going to be a really fast acting one. So another good option from the turtle, like if he sprawled on the guy or he tried to, he tried to come up or whatever, that's another good way to do it. From the guard position, this could also probably be from the butterfly guard, but a lot of times from the guard position, say that I'm getting kind of a standard guillotine, similar to the ones that we showed either from standing or turtle. I'm getting in here and it may be that this is the arm end guillotine, which is going to be another functional one. Actually, we didn't even talk about that, did we? Let me talk about it. Let me break it down. All right. So now we're going from the closed guard, right? This is still a position that still exists. And so like from here, when I come up, I'm going to make a hip bump sweep. And as I try to go to make a hip bump sweep here like this, if Mike doesn't want me to sweep him, he's got to kind of tackle back into me. As he tackles back into me, if I leave my hips attached to him, he's going to put me back on my back, right? And I don't want that. So instead, if I feel him driving back into me, I'm actually going to kind of scoot out, like I'm taking a charge. And so now once I scoot out like that, notice I'm keeping my pec here toward the base of his neck. This hand is going to rotate over. I'm going to shoot in for my guillotine. I could go in front of the shoulder, but most likely I'm thinking if he tackled into me, his shoulder is going to be too tight against me anyway. So I'm going to have to go around and inside. Once that happens here, because I'm going around and his arm is staying inside toward my shoulder, I'm collecting again with this kind of grip. I'm cupping in. I'm going to scoop and I'm going to go toward this side over here and try to drive his head into the floor. Kind of like an old school WWE DDT style move here, right? So we go here and I tuck him toward the floor. I circle the legs back up. And what I would like to try to do, I want to try to get my chin toward this logo right here on his back. So whenever we cut back like that here, I want to get my chin in nice and tight and then squeeze and pull in that way. And it should be a very sharp one because a couple of things are happening. One, I'm cupping through, I'm using this curling and compressing like that. Once my legs get over and I keep that crunch activated like that, I'm pulling him into the choke. So it helps to fold his hand in with that brace in there on his neck. So it's making the guillotine extra sharp, extra powerful. Now, sometimes if we get into that position here, he goes to the immediate source of the problem, which is my hand that's on his throat. So he's going to go here and he's going to start trying to pull on that. So you've seen me show this in other videos. If you watch, like if he's pulling on that here, I'm going to play tug of war, then let go of the rope. So as he pulls, I'm going to go here, I'm going to punch this one through. So now I've got essentially this under hook on this side. Now, at that point, I can come here and collect with a gable grip like this, or if I've got the flexibility and the length, I can actually go full into almost a rear naked choke style grip. What I'm going to use that for is I'm going to turn, I'm going to drive his shoulder over this direction, and I'm going to use my hand or my foot rather to go into the guard. Now, from here, if we want to stay on that guillotine theme, I can circle straight back and go here, post on my head and get a mounted guillotine here like that. If we get here though, and he starts to tuck his arm through because that's the only place he has like real freedom from, then I can use this to now start to pick him up, slide in, and now I'm looking at taking his back. So I use that whole guillotine sequence there essentially to get to his back off of that, what they would call a hundred percent type move like that. So it starts with the threat of the suite into the guillotine, turning the guy over, and eventually taking his back. If I don't get the guillotine either from the guard or the mount somewhere in that progression. All right guys, I hope that this gave you some details that you can incorporate into your pre-existing guillotine game or to establish a guillotine game if you didn't have one already. And Mike, as always, I appreciate your input and all your details that you helped me with. And if you're ever in the Hilliard, Ohio, Columbus, Ohio kind of area, come out here, train at Endeavor Defense and Fitness with Aaron Giannetti and Mike Chaney. It's one of the best places you can possibly train around here and appreciate you guys having me. Thanks again. Keep watching, like, subscribe, share, do all the things.