 this video is designed to help you improve your katakatami or your head and arm choke. I'm gonna try to get my head between my legs. It's not gonna happen, but that's the intent. I'm gonna put my fist inside there, this one here, and then modify my head and arm choke with a punch choke, where I put his hand on the ground, and I put my, his elbow on my throat, and I'll get the wrist locked that way. What's up, guys? It's Eli here with Nite Shijitsu. I'm here with my good friend Jeremy Berg. You might recognize him from some old videos we did, like, with ten years of age. Yeah, it's been nine and a half years of that. It's been a long time. Since then, this gentleman has moved to Ocala, Florida, and opened up probably the most successful Jujitsu school in the area. Not just Jujitsu, MMA, submission grappling, like, he's got a great kickboxing program. This dude's doing everything, and he's doing it great, so that's where we are here. He was kind enough to have me down this weekend. I did the seminar today. We're going to some fights tonight to watch his guys represent. And anything else you wanna say about your place where we get started on this? I started at 31 years old, and Paduk and Kentucky under Eli. Fortunately, I've been standing on the shoulders of giants ever since. With Eli being my first coach and instructor, I've had a few others, obviously, Heath Pettigo. And the whole Pettigo team is like my home guys, and that's who I love and who I'm with now. But Eli started this whole venture out for me, and for him to be back here today, and him to watch fights with us. Big deal for me, and I really love it. Yeah, so, all of that. And then, but also, we're gonna do actually technique discussion on this. Anytime that I get around this guy, I always wanna pick his brain. He's always got a really cool perspective on something. He always has a great group, and he's got a brilliant acumen for Jiu-Jitsu. So, it's my duty to steal whatever I can from him detail-wise. And the things that I'm gonna steal from him today is his perspective on the katakata, the head and arm choke. So, one of the big things for me is like, in general, to control mount, we always generally like having one elbow above the shoulder line at minimal. Both hands down, even if I do have an underhook, is not good enough for control. You can often get both hands to my hips, and still make it work, even if it's on the over, if it's over time, this is still too much a lot of time. So, building off this, I like keeping the elbow above the shoulder line the entire time. If I can, I will do the combination of Paul and Carl, Paul and Carl. Once I get here, to a certain point, once this has went up far enough, I'm gonna punch it across. And instead of me going right to the head and arm choke, I still like to get my grips on the armpit. But I like to wrap around, grab my own elbow, pull myself up, I get my chest on his face, and now as he moves and bucks around, I'm wide-based, and I'm gonna be very hard to move off. So, as he settles, let's buck one more time, as he bucks, bucks, bucks, bucks, bucks, he stops. Immediately, now I've punched the floor one last time, and I trapped his tricep with my chin. If I don't do this, he will just take the arm around, and it's gone. So, I have to use my chin, I have a good connection, I bite on it, I hold it. Now, I'm gonna hand it off to this one, as my whole body goes low. I wanna try to get my head, I wanna try to get my head between my legs. It's not gonna happen, but that's the intent. Now that I get here, he's gonna always wanna try to keep his arm back in the loop. He's gonna wanna try to swim this back in. My head is gonna go into the floor, and it's gonna stay in the floor, and I'm gonna push through the floor with my head, all the way until I get to ear-to-ear connection. So, as I go down, I'm now gonna drag my head through the armpit. I'll use my hand here. Also note, I'm gonna get a really wide knee, and take all my weight this way. I'm gonna use my hand, I'm gonna keep scraping my head. If he has pressure down on the elbow, I'm gonna just hold off. If he's doing that, I'm just gonna wait. Whenever he backs off again, I'm gonna go. Whenever he pushes down again, I'm gonna wait. And I just continue on that until I get here. Now look at him. And I just squeeze my bicep. Yeah, still alive and barely. That's very tight. That's so very tight. And excellent points on that. I love how low Jeremy's keeping his head. So the things I picked up from whenever we were having this discussion before this video even started, the things I picked up from him is where his head position goes, the depth of it, how he gets under the chin. All those things are such crucial details, because those are the big things that people always have trouble with. A lot of the time, the struggle on this head and arm choke is where people are... They tend to drive forward too much. They tend to make too much pressure in the jaw and the face. It sucks, but if you're tough, you're just gonna tough that out. I almost like TPN through somebody's face, and it's not about that at all. No, it's not. I'm gonna show a couple things that I like. And again, from Mount, the way I would prioritize it positionally as far as finishing it, you can finish the head and arm choke from side control. You can finish it from a shin ride, neon belly type position. You can finish it from Mount. You can finish it from bottom guard, even bottom half guard. These are all possible, but in my opinion, Mount is the best place to finish it from for several different reasons. Mostly because it's controlling his hip line, it's controlling his ability to bridge, twist, turn, shrimp, anything like that. So I think that's one of the most valuable positions that we can do it from. So I'm gonna do some similar things to what Jeremy was talking about. Now, a couple of things that I think about maybe a little differently, but it doesn't make it better or worse or anything else, is that whenever we get here, and again, I'm walking this up, I like the idea, like the concept of that walk pole, walk pole. I think about the spider crawl, and then I think about wedge, spider crawl, wedge, until I can get my fingers into that armpit. A good landmark that I think about is, one, is whenever we're here like this, I want to try to get my hand as deep under his shoulder blade as possible. So I try to put my wrist under his shoulder blade right here. Now, as far as getting my head to the outside, what common problem that people run into is, from here, they know they want to get their head to the outside of the arm. So when they go to do it, they do this, and his arm just follows. The problem is, I was moving here. So I like to use landmarks in my own body. I think about putting my chin on my own bicep right here. So whenever that happens now, I'm going to put my chin here, and then I use what my fiancee refers to as the puppy nozzle. The puppy nozzle is where you do this, and you just wedge down the arm that way. Now, here's the thing. I'm not just trying to get my shoulder under his jawline. Obviously, that's where it has to go, but I'm thinking about going deeper. I want to take my shoulder to his heart. So I'm going to pull my shoulder as low down as possible here this way. So similar to what Jeremy was talking about, how he was taking his head between his legs. I'm trying to get my head down like that, but I'm also trying to get my shoulder to his chest. And then we're going to melt off to that left side, turn and face him here this way, squeeze, and then hopefully get the tap that way. It should be pretty miserable, yeah? Now, if you need the help, so you notice like I just kept this arm posted out to the side. If you need the help, then at that point, you can come in and connect the two hands here, again to the outside. Both of us are saying that something similar in certain regards as far as bringing the chin over toward the temple this way. What that does is it keeps the arm in the right orientation around his closer to his neck. If he takes his arm above his head, it actually gives him kind of a little bit more breathability down here sometimes. So we don't want that necessarily. So using the chin and taking your chin toward his temple like that, then melting off to the side, especially with that low hand, that can really get it good. Then you can sprawl out on that left side. Now, again, if you need to connect the hands, fine. If you need to push manually with the shoulder, that's also fine. Now, let's talk about a couple of troubleshooting things. What do people do in defense to this? One of the common old school things is answering the phone. Not a real thing. It shouldn't be if you've got a decent head and arm choke. This should not stop it, in my opinion. But a couple of things. One, just have a better head and arm choke and you'll still get it. But people will still try this. If this is actually giving you defensive trouble and he is stopping that, the reason he's doing this and the reason this is somewhat successful is because he's creating this pocket that allows blood flow on that side of his neck. I've got the other side shut off. I've got my arm behind his head here. And so I'm doing pretty good, but he created this little pocket of blood flow. So if I need to, again, should just have a better head and arm choke, I can manually plug what he just opened with my fist. I'm going to put my fist inside there this way here and then modify my head and arm choke with a punch choke. Lower percentage stuff that people like because it looks cool from here. You can hang the phone up. Hanging up the phone is where I try to take his form behind my head this way. Shouldn't go, right? Even lower percentage, but again, people like it, is the wrist lock right here where I put his hand on the ground. And I put my elbow on my throat. And get the wrist lock that way. Again, I don't put a lot of stock into those, but you know, they're cheeky little tricks more than anything. So, you know, they can work if he is giving you defensive problems. Would you do those movements just to make them give that up and make that end win that space? Yeah. Yeah. I think that that's probably the best use of it. And that's a great point, right? Because instead of just really putting a lot of stock in the finishing, hanging up the phone or the punch choke or whatever, it's going to make them react. They're going to be like, okay, this is a problem. It's a new problem. Obviously, my head and arm defense is not doing this great job. Hanging up the phone is not doing a good job. Then they have to move on and do something else, right? Now, I do think though, there is a modified way of doing that same kind of concept that is better. So, my old judo coach from years and years ago showed me this as a defense to the katakata, to the head and arm choke. And I think it's a little more valid. So, if Jeremy gets me here and he has me followed up into this position, even from the mount, it can still work, right? Because again, like, mount is better. But if I want to do that, rather than just coming here and hanging up the phone or trying to answer the phone like this, because if he's got a decent squeeze, he's still going to beat this, or he's going to do one of those other things that I was talking about, instead of that, I'm going to make a C-clamp here, and I want to put that into the wedge of his elbow this way. When I do that instead, now my other hand here is going to pull my elbow down this direction. Now, when he goes to try to finish the head and arm, structurally, it's almost a pop. He'd have to break some bones in my arm to finish the choke now. Now, of course, this is just plugging the hole in the dam. This is just a band aid. This is not an active defense. So I'm hoping that at this point he switches off to something else, or at very minimal, maybe I can start scraping and looking to start escaping the position and getting to a place where I can alleviate more pressure and then start to escape. But this is not an escape video. This is more of a finishing detail, it's troubleshooting for the head and arm choke. And so that's, I think, a more beneficial thing. I do have other videos on how to defend against the head and arm choke. In fact, I actually have a whole instructional from BJJ Fanatics called Deconstructing for Defense, where Jared Jessup and I go through a lot of head and arm chokes in different styles of guillotines, reenactments, everything else, and teach you not only defenses to them, but how to construct the defenses by deconstructing and reverse engineering the position. So it's more like teaching you how to think about it. So key takeaways for the katakitami or the head and arm choke, I think, is getting the arm in the head funneled up, getting the right orientation of the arm, like you were talking about taking space away, creating space, what were you saying on that? So, I mean, generally, you know, on most chokes, you want to take away all the space before you start squeezing. So, especially in this one, at least for me, I want to get every little bit pushed into that elbow that I'm driving into, try to take away all the space, and then I'll give it a little gentle squeeze. If I feel like I can cook them there, I'll cook them there. If I feel like the choke's really not going to be there, then it would be where I go to lock hands, wide elbow, and then I go pressure on my hip and everything towards that lock, and then I can squeeze everything together instead of it just being like just a little bit of bicep pressure. I think some of the best head and arm chokes I've ever felt on my end, it actually wasn't even about squeezing. Like, it felt like a squeeze, but what the person was really doing, it was all structural. So I think the more structural that you can make the choke, and what I mean by that is more bones rather than muscles. So if you feel like you're actively squeezing and it's not really getting the job done, don't burn yourself out. Adjust the position, try to get into a more structurally sound position, taking that space away, and then cooking the person longer. And I think that that's a really important thing too. The head and arm choke, this orientation especially, is not something you're going to get a really fast, immediate tap. You're going to have to cook most people there for a few seconds at least. I really enjoy the way that Jeremy showed his details. I've got a couple of things that I'm taking away because I'm creating this Frankenstein model of a head and arm choke. And one day it's going to be so good. And by stealing details from this guy and from a lot of other really great people that I train with, and my own little special sauce on it too. So thank you guys. I hope this is helpful for your head and arm choke. If you have other questions, leave them in the comments. I'll try to address them with either other videos or try to address your comment directly. Jeremy Byrd, I appreciate it. If you are in Ocala, Florida, this is the place to train, the Byrd House. Two locations now. That's crazy. All kinds of people that train here. He's got a great stable of fighters, but it's also welcoming to all levels. So it's not something you have to walk into this gym and be intimidated because it's like a fighter stable. It does accommodate that, but it also accommodates people from all levels, from all walks of life, abilities and disabilities. And that's what I'm really proud to see what this guy has accomplished over these years. It really makes me bubble up with pride because I know how it was when we started together and we used to train and we used to stay after class. And he was so enthusiastic about it. So to see what all he's accomplished and what all he's built, that is absolutely fantastic to me. So PSFO Cala, Pedagos Mission Fighting Ocala, the Byrd House, Jeremy Byrd. That's where you need to train in Ocala, Florida. I appreciate you guys watching this video. Hope to help. Keep watching Night Jiu Jitsu Channel. Like, subscribe, share, do all the things. Thanks again. Thank you.