 n weltsin,uments uncertain, numents,uments uncertain, uncertains, uncertains, uncertains, uncertains, uncertains, uncertains, uncertains, uncertains, uncertains, uncertains, uncertains, uncertains, uncertains, uncertains, uncertains, uncertains, uncertains, uncertains, uncertains, uncertains, uncertains, uncertains, uncertains, uncertains, uncertains, uncertains, uncertains, uncertains, uncertains, uncertains, uncertains, uncertains, uncertains, uncertains, uncertains, uncertains uncertains, uncertains uncertains, uncertains uncertains uncertains uncertains uncertains uncertains uncertains uncertains uncertains uncertains uncertains uncertains uncertains uncertains uncertains uncertains uncertains uncertains uncertains uncertains uncertains uncertains uncertains uncertains uncertains uncertains uncertains uncertains uncertains uncertains uncertains uncertains uncertains uncertain uncertains uncertains uncertains uncertain uncertains uncertain uncertain uncertain uncertain uncertain uncertain uncertain uncertain uncertain uncertain uncertain uncertain uncertain uncertain uncertain uncertain into a transitional element. So whenever you can see opportunities like that, this stood out to me with Omoplata, which is in the same neighborhood or vicinity of Kimura because it's still a rotational arm attack. And what happens is once, if I'm being attacked like this and I'm looking to defend this somehow, I have to defend in a way that moves me around the threat of the submission. Now, if I'm attacking with the Kimura trap, then, perfect rash guard for today, if I'm attacking with that, then I, and I know the different angles, the only different angles that my opponent is really gonna be able to move in, then I can cut them off in the pass, right? So it's like the idea in Jiu Jitsu a lot of the time is I'm closing these doors and leading this person down this hallway exactly where I want them to go, but I'd like for them to feel like it's their idea because then the deception starts to set in and I'm truly like manipulating this person, right? And Jiu Jitsu is all about just manipulation of other people. So let's talk about how we're setting this up from knee shield. So what we're looking to do from here first is at this position, I've got my knee shield established. I wanna make sure that I've got a pretty nice deep hook here. My knee is between his knees. So I'm hooking back behind between his hamstring and his calf, my top leg. Like I said before, my femur is trying to stab him and impale him in the chest here like this. From here again, like if I overextend, he's gonna start looking to move my arms out of the way, passing and all that, right? And we'll talk about, maybe talk about that. But sometimes what I can do though is as I'm going to sit up and I'm putting my head and my neck within reach, I can get this guy sometimes, sometimes he'll push me back down because it was my idea, but sometimes he'll start overextending and reaching here. And you'll find people do this a lot. And not just from knee shield, but close guard, different variations of half guard. And when this starts to happen here like this, what I want to start to look to do is I'm gonna take my radius toward my snuff box here this way. And I want to start feeding up here, right? So I'm sliding up by the tricep above his elbow here. And I want to go in for this arm crunch. And when I go in for the arm crunch here, what's happening is like I'm rolling over because I don't want him to retract his arm down this way. Right? I don't want him to get like spooked that I'm attacking it and then retract his arm branch down. I want him to keep it straight so I can just break it right here, right? That'd be great. When I get to this position now here this way, then sometimes just from right here, I can hit that. Cause it's a pretty quick when it sets on pretty fast. And you hit this a lot of the time. I'm not going like a razor lock. A razor lock is where you're going with the bone through here like this. I don't think that offers as much control as it does if I get all the way to the well of the elbow or the antecubital space. So the elbow here like this, above his lequeron process to the tricep tendon like that. And then from here, I keep the knee shield. I pinch his wrist between my ear and my shoulder here and I'm going to crunch down this way. So I'm trying to push the well of his elbow to my chest. Yeah? So again, however I get him to overextend like that, right? So if I'm sitting up doing something like this here and he reaches to the back of my neck, then I'm going to come back down. As I'm coming down, I'm already pinching the ear and shoulder around the wrist. And this one's going to hug up this way. Again, punching up at least gable, if not wrist to wrist, butterfly style grip here. Right? And then a hug and crunch. Okay? So pretty simple to start out with, I think. Any questions about this one? So I find myself in this position a lot. Right? I know the Kimura Trap from here. I love this one. This is awesome. Yeah, yeah. He's a huge rolling toehold fan, as am I. Yeah. So when I know that he's playing back here and he's eventually going to turn the issue and attack my foot, oftentimes I feel like I'm just stuck in limbo waiting for him. Right. Is there anything I should be aware of when he's playing back? Hopefully some of the stuff we'll talk about today will help with that. Okay. Because it's always a concern about this guy. Because I like that too. I like to attack the legs from here personally. Yeah, absolutely. I'm not a big rolling toehold guy because I'm not terribly athletic. No, I meant from his position. Yeah, no. Either way, honestly. But knowing that though, then I know, I feel like any time that I'm like that and I have the threat of somebody I know is going to go for things like that, then I have early, middle, and late prevention steps. So in the late stage of it, the early stage obviously is like you just want to monitor and be aware of what he's doing and the energy he's giving you. Late stage is if he's going for it, you want him to overshoot the target. Okay. Because what we- Does it consist of in that rotation? To a degree, right? So I mean, and this is a very generic thing of what I mean here, because I don't know exactly like what all he's thinking and going for here. But if he's giving me the look like he's thinking about going for that, right? So he's starting to turn and face that direction. Right. Yeah. And especially if he's reaching, right? If he touches my foot, I'm like, fuck that dude. Like, so what I would say do from here is if I don't want to bail on the position is use this as a frame and try to like, you see what I mean? Because now he, if he wants to stay holding my foot at that point, then he's going to fall over probably. So he had to post in base, right? Now, when we come back, I can kind of figure out what's going to happen next, right? And a lot of the time, that's a good time to attack forward that arm. Okay. Because as he comes back, his attention is still on that side of his body, right? So now if I want to start scooping it and attacking, right, either from just right now or from like previous experience with this position is that whenever you get here like this, like sometimes I feel like I'm kind of fighting against myself, trying to keep this knee frame in the proper location while trying to attack this arm. And size varies and different things, energies, all that kind of stuff varies. If you need a new place to, to put this knee, what I would suggest is rather than going below the arm, I would say, try to stay above the arm. Right? So if I'm here like this, I'm like, oh, that's not quite working out for me. This can hold it in a place long enough for me to post on his head to get my shin inside. If you give a little less of a, um, there are kids around. It's a cursing. Okay. If you don't give a shit about, uh, his, uh, your opponent as much. And he's like turning the face and you just want to jam that knee in there and you don't care if you need him in the face because it's competition and you want to win, then that's fine here like that. Right? It's not very nice, but it's fine. But you know, a little more polite post, get that knee inside there. Right? And then finish from here. Right? So that's what I would recommend and different things can happen. Now let's look at a reaction though, because again, we're talking about the Kimura trap. This is not a Kimura. So, um, anybody speak Japanese? Awesome. So, uh, so either way in Japanese, either way on a bent arm lock branch up or branch down as Urigarami. And I think one would probably be like Yoko or something. I don't know, but, um, the straight arm would be like Urigashi typically. So when we get here, a reaction he may have, if now he may, it may be that he goes to branch up. It's a little more difficult. Yeah. Like this way, it's a little more difficult and it's a little very awkward. So it's a very rare kind of reaction. And we, you know, you can have answers for it, but the one we're focused on today is if he goes branch down, this is a little more common because it's strong. When you go branch down and do that, like Arnold flex to the side like that. Now you're activating lat, delt, all this stuff, right? Probably bicep. I don't have those, but those probably was activated on a normal person right now. When he gets here now from this position again. And like, so I'm, I'm still attacking this arm just in a different way. That's when I definitely would be a proponent of keeping this cup and then shoving my knee inside this way here. Okay. And then now from that position, we'll go back here. Right. If I want to finish out the submission on this one, then we'll swap hands here this way. Okay. And as I swap hands, we'll come through and we'll find that Kimura setup. Right. So now on the mechanics of the Kimura, they can vary. You can go double thumbless, right? Or double thumb or mix and match. Right. So if I want to go monkey hand and Lego hand, that's fine. The reason that typically works is because when I'm connecting to my own wrist, I want to go over as far as possible and a thumb gets in the way. Right. When I go here like this, this is more for pushing away. And rotating. So that makes more sense on the wrist. But again, sometimes this is not quite getting the job done and I need to be a little more cupped in. So I might go double thumbless. Right. So when you hear people tell you like it has to be this way, they're probably wrong, but they're also right. So when we get here, what are we talking about? I get like this straight arm first here and he's goes, he goes branch down. I want to hug in, try to get my shin inside if it's not already. So I'll post on the head here this way. And then when we go to swap. So to be particular about this, I'm hugging his elbow to my chest. And when I swap the arms, the outside arm, we'll call this inside this outside. The outside arm is going to go under the inside arm. Does that make sense? So here, here to swap. And we start to go and retract. And then we find here. Okay. If you're like, I don't know if I can, this is awkward for me here this way. Then when you weave the second hand in the side, if you want to use that to open the space to make it more reachable, that's a helpful little tool. And we'll talk about that again in a different position. Okay. So again, arm crunch here like this. Right. I start to, he goes branch down. Right. Pull and post. Swap the arms out. Right. Open to get the space to get the wrist here. Right. And then we're not doing Kimura out here. This one retracts, hugs his elbow tight as I try to put this pinky finger in that ear. Okay. It shouldn't make it. Try to switch out here. Right. Don't be like, oh yeah, I'm going to do that. No, that's not going to happen. What will happen though, like if he goes branch down, hug tight. That's how I should get that shin in there is just with that. You know, if I need to, I can frame, but I'd rather just get it there just with the hug. Right. And keeping this tight. Then make that switch while maintaining that tight. Again, if you want to use that wrist grip to open up space. Cool. See, and look, I went thumbless that time. It's okay. I got permission. So like here, right. Or here. But what's he going to do? Right. He's going to resist some kind of way. And there's two main ways that he will resist posture or pressure. Most of the time that you have someone inside your guard and you're attacking them or they're trying to set up some kind of passing procedure. Those concepts, like the energies are going to be either posture or pressure most of the time. Right. Now that will be coupled with like rotational or linear force and yada, yada. But it's like most of the time posture or pressure. Because he's either going to try to pressure down on me by clearing the knee shield or compressing the knee shield. He has to do that to free his arm up because he's off center. And that's what's going to square him back up to me. Right. Or he'll try to posture up and just rip his arm away. And if it's, I mean, you guys will probably make that work on me, but it's normal humans. Then that's not a good idea. A lot of the time. Right. So what are we talking about? We get here. He goes branch down. I hug tight, get my shield in like that. And he really buries that arm. Right. If you still think, man, I just, if I could just turn on the afterburners right here, I could probably still finish this. Here's how you turn on the afterburner. I need to pummel my left leg, my left foot to his hip. That's what I'm going to do. I'm not that flexible. So I'm going to take my knee and I'm going to compress his shoulder down. You see what I did and then we can, now my leg is free and I can come through and I can step and then rip his arm off. Okay. Does this make sense? That might work. Cool. So again, if you need a little extra help, I'm like, he's just strong, but it's not, it's like he's strong, but it's just one arm strong. Then I'm like, I still want to try to finish this. So again, I'm going to curve my knee in and down to compress his shoulder down. And then pummel over across his back, step on the hip and then push away. Like I'm kind of doing a weird deadlift here. Right. So pull to expose the arm. Now we finish. Okay. Does that make sense? Now. Yeah. You handle a little bit more than that. Yeah. A little, little secondary option. Cause I don't, I don't, I need to fit a lot of stuff in this time. So secondary. All right. We're here like this. And it, wait, with, with him defending with one arm, something else that he may look to try to do is to try to come like clear the knee shield to the inside. Yeah. Ah, see now I may still be able to finish it from bottom half, but it's less likely because he's really compressed the space that I need. And it's going to be harder for me. And I can't pummel my leg over like I did before. So if I can't go over it, I got to go under it. So with this knee shield cleared, I'm going to put that foot on the floor. I'm going to hip out to make some space. And I want to put my shoelaces on the inside of this thigh for this butterfly hook here like this. Okay. So this is my secondary position that we might go to for a different option. Okay. I'm keeping this nice and tight, compressed. My butterfly hook is inserted. So let's do those two things. One will finish by pummeling the leg over to the hip, finish with that kind of power kimura. Or if he clears the knee shield, I'm going to pummel in for the butterfly hook and that will set us up in the next chain of events that we're going to follow. Questions? Can I see it one more time? Absolutely. Full speed. No. So we're here, right? He goes branch down, hug tight, get the shin and the frame of the neck, swapping out on the arms, get my kimura. Everything is the same to here. First thing is like, I need a little extra help. So again, like this is curving in and down. I'm trying to press the inside of my knee on the back of his delt to get him bent down like that. And then pummel over his head, step on the hip. Boom. Try to get that hand free. And then I know I can finish the kimura, right? Secondary, he clears the knee shield here. As soon as he does, I'm going to hip to make space. So I shrimp out, pummel my foot in. So I feel my shoelaces on the inside of his thigh. Okay. Let's do it. One, two. That's okay. Right. Whenever you start to lose shoulder and hip alignment, your core has a lot more trouble engaging. And then your limbs by association become weaker. I don't know. I didn't like study anatomy in school. So I don't know if that's correct, but it seems like it's right. Okay. So I'm going to keep saying it until I have somebody more knowledgeable be like, no, that's not right at all. And here's why nobody's done that yet. So I'm going to keep spreading this potential disinformation. So, um, but try to stay in line when you can, because it is going to offer you a stronger structure. It's going to offer you more control over your limbs. You're going to be able to like use more core strength to be able to keep yourself in alignment and all that stuff. When we get here and we're going through this progression. So again, we go on arm crunch. He folds down, right? Just want to start here at this point. Fine. It's like those video games where you can like start at save points or something. Um, when we get here now, right? Again, I could try a pummel over, but he clears the, now wait, let's go back one sec. We get here and I've started to attack. I'd like to go in this order here. One switch attack. The Kimura. He defends. Then he clears the leg. Clearing the leg is part of the defense of the Kimura. It's not, uh, at this point, an arbitrary movement because I'm hugging his arm. All right. So we get here. And again, like I can't get my butterfly hook in very well unless I shrimp out a bit to make space and pummel this leg to the inside. As much as I can, I like to use references, like landmark references of my own body rather than his, because I have more control over my own body than I do over his body. So rather than thinking, I'm going to, where's that space? You know what I'm saying? I'm going to kick myself in the, uh, there's no kids. I'm going to kick myself like in the, the taint essentially. And now it goes pretty much where I needed to go. Right. Just be careful. You know, you don't want to like sit here and be like, okay, dude, I'm sorry. I'm, I got to tap because I just kicked myself in the balls. No, like you don't want to do that. Like, but it's, that's the trajectory you typically want to follow now. So what will happen here sometimes is that if he's still wanting to pressure down and drive into you, right? What he's doing essentially is he's taking the center of his mass, which is like usually the space just below your belly button. And he's putting it more over my hips and center. Right. So then as he's driving in while still keeping his arm protected, that's crucial. Right. He has to maintain that. Then he's, he's driving his hip and shoulder more toward me. Right. So as he continues to do that here, then I'm going to use this butterfly hook to do a couple of things. One to open the space. If he's not doing it already, which a lot of times he will, cause he's driving forward and allowing my bottom hook to come out here. Right. And then from there now, I want to kick him over my shoulder. What I would suggest for your partner is to look away from me. Right. You can look toward your partner. Probably only going to do it one time. Okay. So as he looks away here like this, and then I go to kick him up and over this direction. Right. As soon as that happens, I'm using my Kimura connection that I still have, almost as if it were like a Kimura trap. And then from here, I want to drive my hips in and give him like a pillow at this point. Okay. Make sense. So again, we are here. I did all this kind of stuff. Attacking the Kimura. He's like, nah, son. And I'm like, yeah, son. Here like this. And so then he starts driving forward on this reaction. So look, I use a butterfly hook to elevate, to clear my bottom hook. And then from there now, right. I want to turn more square and I'm pressing with T-Rex arms. I'm still trying to press his wrist up into his lower abdomen and elevate him over my left shoulder. This is my left over my top shoulder here this way. Right. Okay. Drive the hips in. Pretty immediate. Okay. Question. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's what I'm teaching in two weeks. Any of non-flexible tips? Yeah. I like to make those two sessions. Zero flexibility. Bro, like the, as the years wear on me, like, cause when I started, I was like, you know, teenage kid and a hundred and maybe 30 pounds soaking wet. And like, I would just let people fold me into a pretzel and I was made out of rubber. Oh, I see what you mean. So a couple of things are happening when you're sweeping him, the arms free. Yeah. Just break his arm. Like don't, don't, I don't, I don't have to sweep him with a free floating arm. Just break that right there. Right. What's happening though. Like the, the, so what you're, when your partner's on top, what's happening is he's burying that arm and you can't free it. And so you're doing the sweep essentially as, um, uh, to be able to get to a position where you can continue to attack. So you, you're using it as a position instead. If, if you, at any point during this, the arm comes free, just go back to the attack and make him either make him hide it or break his arm. Yeah. Butterfly hook. But now I'm going to press, like, I'm, I'm not going to pull him forward. Cause that's not where he's going. Right. I don't want to fight opposing energies because he's bigger and stronger and less handsome than I am. So whenever I get here, instead, I'm going to use that to start kicking my, my leg free. You see? So I remove the bottom hook. Right. And then now I'm going to remove the top hook. Right. So we go there. I keep this pressed into him. Right. That's a big thing. I don't want to get loose and light with my arms and then just allow him to escape. So I'm keeping the configuration. My elbows are compressed. His triceps are trying to reach my ribs and I'm pressing his hand into him at that point here. Now, both legs essentially free. I'm going to keep those two legs together and I'm going to spin around this way. Okay. Does this make sense? So again, I'm using the threat of the Kimura and his defense and reaction to that to give me the opportunity to stay tethered and rotate around the threat. Right. So, yeah, we find ourselves here. If you just want to truncate the prefix to this and then like just get start from right here with the butterfly hook inserted and he sets the weight back this time. Yeah. So I'm going to use that to start trying to clear my bottom leg and then the top leg here and then legs are going to pendulum together. I don't want my head to run into his knee. So I'm keeping compressed away from me. Spin. Then as that knee comes in, oftentimes he'll fall over like that. If he doesn't climb up to the back. Right. If he falls over, you don't have to climb. Okay. Makes sense. I'm it'll wind up resulting in a back take. Awesome. Okay. Sometimes he's too low this way. Okay. If he's too low, instead of inserting the hook by his hip, I'll go over the shoulder. Yeah. Now look at this hand here. You guys see this hand? There's no way you guys see that hand. So when we're here like this, you see this hand. Now this hand is going to come up and it's going to grab my shin here. Okay. I'm going to air guitar. Right. I'm going this way to start trying to take him over this direction. Right. So I drop him on this leg here. Okay. Once I drop him on that leg, this arm is compressing to keep his arm pinned up this direction. Here. This leg comes in, smashes everything nice and tight. And then I'm going to put my shoelaces behind his back here. Squeeze and get the tap. Not getting the tap, straighten the arm out and get a shoulder lock. Okay. What was all that? So one more time. We start with the Kimura Threat. Butterfly hook pummels inside, sets his weight back. I use the butterfly hook to escape my bottom leg. Then my top leg comes out and I make a big spin this way. Okay. Maybe it results in a back take. Maybe he's too low. So I come here. Okay. Rotate him over. Drop him on the leg that's on his neck here. Right. Cross here. One. Two. Put the shoelaces behind his back as much as possible. And then squeeze. If you need help, press his head and shoulder away from you. Or put the back of his hand on your chest here. The shoulder lock. Okay. Make sense? Let's go. One, two. This guy can fall different ways. Right. And that will be determined by a lot of things. His size. The way he distributes his weight. His balance. His base. His awareness of the position. Right. People with a lack of awareness of the position can do some funky things sometimes. Right. But almost any way that he falls, if he does fall at all, he's going to give you an opportunity. It might be the back take. It might be this triangle that we're looking at. It might be an arm bar. It might be a crucifix. It might be something else. Right. And so I want to keep in mind, we're not going to go through every single possible iteration of how you can fall. But almost every way is an opportunity for you on the attacking end. And he is playing heavy defense because he's late into this game. Okay. Again, I don't want to oversimplify it. But it's just be aware and make sure that you're putting the peg in the right hole. You know, you got to go with what he's giving you to be the most efficient way possible. Right. All right. What else was it? The... Oh, so this arm thing. I do want to address this because like you guys brought it up and it's a legitimate concern. And I had troubles with this whenever I started doing the spinny thing. I was telling Lynn, it's like whenever I first learned this move, like I don't remember who I even learned it from like 100 years ago. But it was like, oh, that's going to look cool on Instagram. You know? And then... But then I started like trying it live and I'm like, oh shit, it actually works. Like this isn't just a pretty flashy move, but it's... It really works. And it's positionally sound. Like fundamentally, it's a sound position. The problem I was running into, one of the problems was what you guys were talking about is that other arm. That other arm can post. Yeah. So here's something that I had to figure out about that. So we get here. I get this pummeled in. He sets his weight back. But in doing so, right? He's like... His arm behind my back and my hips is a restriction for me, right? So it's going to be difficult for him though. I feel most of the time for him to prevent my shrimp with his arm, right? Now again, like some of you guys in here are big and strong enough to where like you 100% can do it. But when I go here this way, I still have space to clear, right? Now here's the thing though. The harder he posts his arm, the stronger he posts it. What is he doing, right? Now his weight is... He's actually... Yeah, he's got to bring his weight over me. So we go back to that first thing, right? If not, he's pushing his weight back. He's overextending his arm. His arm can't be that strong. You see what I'm saying? So like this... I can't pin my wrist that much. This is going to be strong because like I'm driving it straight down. The angle is strong. The more I start to move it away from my body and open my armpit, so that space, this is getting weaker. It's going to be a lot easier to knock that post out of the way than it will be if I have weight centered over it, okay? So does that kind of make sense? So if you're running into that or if you run into that later, then that's a concept to kind of keep in mind, right? You're not going to think about that live, right? You're not going to think about any principles and concepts and overarching things live. But that's why it's important to think about those when you're training and drilling. And that's why I think it's important to go from a completely non-resistant partner and then build up levels of difficulty and add pressure and add resistance as you go, right? It's no different than like lifting weights, right? I mean, if you never bench pressed before, you might want to start with the bar, you know? And then like you add weights as your form gets better and then test yourself out like that. So, and then also if you screw something up in a live role or in a competition or in a fight or whatever, the principles work as a grading rubric to apply to your performance to be able to really pick out what it was you actually did wrong, right? On a fundamental level, you know? It's just like, oh man, that's where I screwed up right there. Try not to do that again. I was like, what does that mean? You screwed up, right? Okay, well, I'm out of alignment. You know, my shoulders and hips are out of alignment. My foundation is off. My weight distribution was wrong, blah, blah, blah. Then that gives you something tangible you can go and work with. All right, so I'll shut up about all that stuff, but those things are important. It's really one of the more important thing than any technique is the principle behind it. But you can't principle into principle. That's just philosophy, right? That's Aikido, okay? So if you haven't heard me say this before, Aikido is the highest level of martial art that you can reach. Or Tai Chi, both of those, right? Hi, Aikido and Tai Chi. Problem is, you can't Aikido your way to Aikido. You've got to Jiu-Jitsu your way to Aikido, right? And you'll never get there. But it's a good kind of North Star to aim for, right? If you want to talk more about that, then we'll go have some drinks after. So when we're here like this, what the fuck am I talking about at this point? So regardless, regardless if I do the spinny thing or the flippy thing, right, I'm going to wind up in one of these. We'll do the flippy thing. So he's driving his weight forward here like before. I go clear here like this. I'm going to kick him up and over, this way. And we wind up in this T-frame. This may also be one of the results you encountered whenever you did the spinny thing, right? Those are the technical names for these. When we get here, maybe my hips came completely out from underneath him on the spin. And now we're in this T-frame position, okay? So from this T-frame position, what are the options from here, okay? I'm glad you brought that up. At this point, I might be able to like come up and clear over to side control to finish this Kimura. I find that fairly awkward sometimes, right? So something else that we can kind of look to do is keep this. Again, I want to keep this connection strong and he's going to help me. That's the cool thing about this is he's going to help me. Why is he going to help me? Because he doesn't want his arm floating out here so I can break it. So he's going to keep it compressed a lot of the time, right? Now he may not. He may try some kind of fancy escape where he extends his arms. But for the most part, this is the most common reaction. So now I'm going to shrimp away from him and start going like a belly down kind of position here, okay? From there now, I can start building up to my knees and elbows to make this a little more manageable. If you're more athletic than me, and a lot of people are, then maybe you can do this without those little incremental movements, right? But as we do this here, now, once I come up, I'm pressing harder his wrist into his stomach and I'm going to lift my left elbow off of the ground this way here. I'm going to slide my knee up behind his back and this knee I'm going to bring over to his chest here. Both knees can be down. Left one can be up, right one down. Right one can be up, left one down. I will argue that fact with almost anybody in the world. So when we get here, though, I'm sitting essentially on his head. I've got the Kimura configuration still here. I would like to be able to, if I can, free it now and finish the Kimura, okay? So what we're doing, though, from here, well, couldn't you go into, like, crucifix and do all this kind of stuff? Absolutely. You can go into, like, Japanese leg scissors, all that kind of stuff. But if he's really doing a good job keeping his arms compressed, a lot of those options are not existent, right? Or they're not as efficient, at least to get to. So I'm going to shrimp away. Here, go Bentley down. This way. I'm going to use my elbows and my grip to pull me up to my knees. Slide that knee up behind his back. Compress his torso with my knees through like this. Here, okay? Try to rip that free and finish. You might not be able to, and then we'll look at an option if you can't, okay? Again, like, sometimes it's difficult to finish that from there because he's still strong, you know? He's still hugging that in. So let's talk about a couple different options for finishes off of that. One, let's look at this here. So we'll go ahead and start from that north-south kind of position that we wound up in this last time just for time's sakes. And we get here. He's up on his side. And again, like, if one knee down, one knee up. Like, I personally, I like my knee down behind him that wedges it under his back to save that space. And then this knee, I like it to be up. Some of the reasons for that is, I don't know, I just like it. But I feel like I can squeeze more when I do that. And I can sit down better and all that. So it's just, it's a little bit of a personal preference. I also got into that habit because I used to like to do that leg scissor choke. And this is right around the corner from it. Because like, if I just windshield with this windshield wiper, this one underneath him, and then pull him over here, then now we've got that leg scissor choke. And it's, I think, an underutilized movement in today's modern BJJ scene. But the people who do use it finish matches with it, right? Go watch like Nikki Sullivan is like a master at that. She's like, she's brilliant with that move. And she's like, she's won high level black belt competition with that move. Whatever. It doesn't matter. But that's an option. Like just nothing's happening to free this arm. That's an option, right? Or we can go Jeannie Kimura. If you don't know what Jeannie Kimura is, it's from here. Like I'm like, uh, uh. He's like, no. And so I'm going to take my hand that's on his wrist, and I'm going to punch it here, this way behind his back. Okay? So I'm sliding from the grip on my wrist or forearm down, or up rather, to my bicep. And I'm putting the back of my, my fist on the floor, back of my hand toward the mat like this. Okay? Now at that point here, this way, now I'm going to drop to the elbow. While I've got this one still in place, I'm going to drop to that elbow here and sprawl. Last piece here, I'm going to sit my right leg through. So I'm going to open, sit through, sorry. Here. Yeah. It's really nasty. So we're finishing on the wrong side with that Jeannie style Kimura. Okay? So, again, sorry. It's not good, man. This is, there's not a real easy way to do this one. So we're here like this. He's resisting. I'm going to punch, put my hand, fist on the floor, back of my hand toward him like this. That seems to be the strongest structure, right? And then from that position now, I'm going to start dropping to my elbow here. It's hard to finish from north-south. I open my left knee here, post, and then start sliding through. So I'm going to, I'm going to let go, pretend that I'm still holding the arm. But as I go to sit through, dropping my ribs and rotating. You shouldn't make it that far, right? Like, if you make it that far, like you're a mean person because his arm broke a while back and you're just, like, locked in on it. So that's, that's, but I wanted to emphasize the rotational force that we're using for it. So you got, now there's two options there, yeah? So we've got those two. If you want a fancier option, because why not? You can go Tariqa Plata with it, right? Essentially, Tariqa Plata, the way we'll get to it from this position here, a way we can get to it from this position, depending on your level of flexibility. I'm going to keep my, the hand that's inserted by the elbow. I'm going to switch that out and try to get this false grip on his wrist. My second hand here, I want to try to get his leg. Oftentimes, it'll be reachable. If it's not, you don't need to do that, right? And that's an important thing in Jiu-Jitsu. Like, if you need something to happen for a technique to work, it'll be there, unless it's not. And if it's not, then you didn't need it, because there's something better to do, okay? So I'm going to push the leg down, get that little false grip here, make sure the legs are clear. Throw this over here this way, okay? If this is still comfortable here, you don't have to make that switch, but I'm giving you that option just to see if it's better for you, right? Post, turn to face here this way, okay? Three or another, I go in to attack here for the straight arm crunch. Again, mechanics of this, ear to shoulder pinch. I'm above the elbow here, hugging him, butterfly grip. If I can, I'd like to try to get this shin beside his neck for a frame to expose his arm and keep him off center better, right? His reaction here today is going to be, he goes branch down, I'm going to hug this nice and tight, it's going to stay tight the whole time, right? From that position, while it's still staying tight, I'm going to take my outside arm under my inside arm here this way. I'm going to flare the wrist to try to create space and opportunity to be able to get the Kimura configuration here, right? If I can finish from here, finish from here. Anytime the hand comes free, finish from there. If though, like, I'm neat, I'm like, I can almost get it, I'm going to pummel that knee down, pop it over, step on the hip, pull to get it free, finish, right? Sometimes what will happen from here as he's burying his hand, he'll clear the leg out, boom, that way I start to shrimp away. Here this way, get my butterfly hook inserted like that. I'm going to continue to like shrimp away from him to keep him committed about driving his weight forward. As he's driving his weight forward here like this, I keep the hands underneath his foundation and I'm going to use my butterfly hook to elevate him up and over and across. We wind up in this T-frame position from here, right? Now, the last thing that we're looking at doing was from this T-frame position here, I need to try to get to the top position. So I'm actually shrimping my hips away. I'm coming up on my elbows, knees, driving the knee behind his back as a wedge. I come in for the pinch, seated headlock here. Maybe I get the finish from there. Not getting finished, then maybe we can go to Jeannie Kimura, right? So Jeannie Kimura is where I'm going to punch behind the back here. Now I'm going to drop my elbow to the floor, head to the floor. I'm going to start moving my head, my legs rather, to the side. Finish the wrong side, Jeannie Kimura, like that, okay? I don't feel like that opportunity is going to work for me, so maybe the Tarika Plata is a better option. So on the Tarika Plata, again, false grip on the wrist. I'm going to push the legs down to make sure I can clear it. Toss the leg over to the side. Post on the floor. Finish the Tarika Plata, okay? I get here, and I'm like, there's no way in hell I'm getting either of those options. I'm just going to say screw it. Go to the Japanese leg scissors here like this. Crunch to the side. Extend. Squeeze. Okay? The other opportunity that we started to set things in motion was whenever we got to this position, and instead of him driving that forward here, right, he started to set his weight back. Yeah, so we're here like this. He starts to set his weight back. Again, butterfly hook comes in. I'm clearing my leg out to the side, but this time with the intention of spinning here this way. Maybe this results in a back take. Maybe he's too low for the back take, so we come inside here like this instead, and then I start setting up here for the triangle, okay? On the triangle, pulling this in nice and tight, pinching his arm toward his ear here. Triangle from here. Not getting the triangle. Go back. Finish with the arm lock from there, right? Or, let's see. Also from that position, if we are more shallow, we wind up in that T-frame position. Same thing as before when we kicked him over. Go belly down, build up to the elbows and the knees, and then we're in that seated north-south Kimura position with all those other options, okay? Anything else? Anything else?