 So, um, um, we're gonna talk about kimura stuff, today, and, and, and specifically kimura trap, and the concept behind kimura trap, and the concept behind kimura trap, as a term coined to my knowledge by david avalon years back and he did a lot of work on it still is doing a lot of work on it that guy's phenomenal. Um, but the concept behind the kimura trap is that like, when you establish the kimura as a position and not just a submission, then you're both kind of tethered to that connection that you've made, So it's a double wrist lock kind of configuration. It's a branch down, uh, arm bar threat, but it's the threat that can lead to exposing a lot of other really cool positions and transitional elements, and so that's kind of what I want the focus to be here. I'm just gonna kind of go through a few different entries of how we can get a look at it. And, um, the first one, I think I want to start from bottom though, right? So we're gonna start from like a knee shield position. Brady, cut, bargy, please. So, I'm gonna start like this. I'm gonna start from knee shield, right? Um, I've spent a good portion of my life in this position here, uh, cause I don't know if you've noticed how big I am. But, uh, if I'm gonna like support the weight and the pressure of somebody coming forward, if they're trying to pass, especially outside passing, which tends to be one of the most popular passing styles these days, then, um, I need a structure like this to really help support that weight. So, the elements of the knee shield position, if you guys play it or even if you don't play it, um, basically what I'm trying to look to do from here is this is a support beam in the center of his torso here. And you can play it, you can play it with different levels. You can play a low knee shield or a high knee shield. I tend to prefer high knee shield just depending on how they're looking to pass. It also helps to prevent a little bit of the, like, split squat where this knee is starting to protrude through, which is what he wants. I'm trying to keep that knee on the floor. Um, I'm monitoring in here. So, this gives me a good look at an initial Kimura threat right off the bat. Right? Now, as far as setting this up, the problem with, with attacking Kimura from here is that, uh, a couple of things. One, if I'm gonna try to come up and attack for the Kimura, my knee is gonna get in my way. If I lose the knee, he's gonna be able to pressure me down better. Right? And then we have to go into some different, some different stuff, right? Um, so, a way that I've gotten to, uh, liking, like to, to set up the threat here is the same way to set up the threat. Right here is the same way to set up a choy bar. And we're gonna talk about that too. So, I'm gonna get a double grip down here on the wrist. And I want, he wants his hand here, maybe. Uh, so I don't want it to be where he wants it to be. I want it to be here. Right? Why? Because I've taken him past his foundation a little bit. And now that leg's gotten a little bit lighter. Right? So, that's, that's kind of one of the initial things to start. Right? So, I'm gonna keep my top hand here that way. And then my bottom hand is gonna go, uh, this way here. I'm gonna use two different, um, my terminology that I use for the hand orientation rather than pronated and supinated. I like to use, uh, the John Cena or the Beyonce. Right? So, I'm gonna go, uh, Beyonce grip down here. John Cena grip is gonna go high. And I'm gonna pull, like I'm gonna try to eat his elbow. Right? So, I'm getting the initial bend right here. As I'm doing that and I'm pulling this, I'm gonna allow my, my shin to come up here and become a frame against his neck. This way. At that point, I'm just gonna hug this arm. Okay? Because now I'll see like what opportunities I have. And if I have good exposure and I have good separation right here, then that's, that's a position now where I can start to weave through. And then I can adjust my hands and go for that Kimura right off the bat. Okay? So, that's the initial threat that I want to start to set up. So, again, I'm taking him just outside of where he wants to go. I'm gonna leave my top hand on the wrist, thumb posting. And then I'm gonna bring my bottom hand up to get that little bend right here in the arm. Right? As I'm scooping and pulling that in, I'm gonna allow my shin to come up toward his neck. And then we're gonna get in this configuration. You could theoretically finish it with this weird kind of a folded arm grip configuration here. Perfectly fine. Right? But if you want to get a more traditional grip, then we can swap the hands out. Okay? So, let's, let's start with this one and then we'll see where it goes. I'm gonna stay up on my side though. So, I want knee, hip, shoulder all off the ground on this side. So, I have this bladed angle. And then that's gonna be the best kind of support structure for me. Right? So, then by the time we get here, like I'm, I'm doing two things. I'm pulling his elbow to me, but I'm also kind of going to the elbow as well. Right? So, when we get here, there's a, we, this is where options start to happen. Again, right here, I could possibly get the finish with this folded arm kind of weird configuration. It's almost like a genie version. We'll talk about that later. Or, I can swap out and get the more standardized version. Right? What will tend to happen though is like, he's got to do something. Right? Because this is creating a lot of separation. It's putting a lot of torque on his shoulder. And it's really keeping his arm exposed. So, he's got to protect it somehow. Ways he may protect it. He may try to grab hands. Or he may try to grab the inside of his leg. Like that. Those are two, gonna be two of the main ways he'll immediately try to rescue this arm if I get it exposed. And that'll be the most urgent thing for him to do. So, if he starts to, yeah, he starts to grab hands this way. Right? Then, from here now, right? Sometimes just pulling this apart. But if I can't pull it apart. Ways that we can look to get that grip broken. I can pummel over here and step on his hip for extra leverage to pull apart. So, I'm using a little deadlift kind of energy like that. Do I? Do I? Do I pummel over here? Yeah, absolutely. If you do pummel over like that, the thing that you... Because I'm not just retracting. Like, I can't get that leg out. Because there's... It's a friend. He's stuck here, right? So, the pummel is the inside of my knee depressing his shoulder down. And see how that levers my foot out? Now, it's free to pummel over that way. Okay? And that may work. Or it might not. No. When we get here, I can use this sometimes to help try to pull and separate that out. Right? Or sometimes, you can just pummel all the way through to here. Right? If you pummel all the way through to there, this is also really powerful. Because now, as I'm coming down, it makes extra pressure on his shoulder. And then, that'll help to expose that. But you'll probably wind up getting more into a straight arm bar. So, this is a choy bar. It's the colloquial term for it. Right? So, that's an option from there. So, play with that. But I'm going to give you another thing to play with as well. Right? And, I'm trying to get this. But he's burying that hand. And my knee shield is failing. I'm going to pummel to the inside over here like this. Right? And the first scenario, he's going to drive the weight into me. Yeah. So, he beats my knee shield. He's here. He's driving the weight in. So, I'm going to keep my configuration. I'm going to scoot myself underneath him more. And take the pressure he's driving in on top of me. And I want to lift. So, what I'm doing with the bottom leg here, this way, because when he drives, he's not, he doesn't have weight trapping this leg. This leg being my one that's between his legs. So, I can keep that on the floor. And then I can use that to help elevate him up and over this direction. And then slide into position here. Okay? Cool? So, let's make this transition here. And if you have any questions, let me know. Ready? One, two, three. I have this connection. I have this butterfly hook. And he drives forward. Then he's allowing separation here. And then that's where, I didn't really mention this before very much, but this can become a bridge halfway through. Initially, I'm pulling myself underneath him. So, I'm getting more rooted under his foundation. This provides me leverage enough to start the pressure up combined with the butterfly hook. Now, I've got increased leverage. And then finally, my right leg, the one that's between his is going to act as a like half bridge. Okay? So, that's one reaction of him driving the weight forward. What if he gives me the opposite reaction and he sets his weight back? Yeah. So, he's like burying his weight back this way. So, now, he's anchored. He's defending the arm. Right? And I'm not going to be able to pull him up and over. Not without a ton of strength. Right? So, the butterfly hook now, it serves another purpose. Right? And the purpose it's going to serve now is that it's going to be a little shovel to dig my right leg out from underneath him. Right? So, as he's setting that weight back this way and anchoring himself, now, he has to stay heavy back. Yeah. Like, yes. Here. Like this. And this is especially whenever he's, a lot of times he'll be posting on my hip here. Yeah. Like this. Because he's trying to like, he's trying to get his arm back under his control. If he gets his arm closer to his body, he's stronger. If I get his arm closer to my body, I'm stronger. Right? So, if we're like this, I'm going to use this now to dig my leg out from underneath him this way. Okay? And now that I've created that separation, I'm not going to do it this slowly. I'm just stopping here as a talking point. But once this leg gets free, I need to go. And I want to hit a spin right here. Right? So, what I'm looking to do from here, I'm going to bring my two legs together and I want to pendulum them around this direction here. Okay? And then that's going to get me back exposure. All right? Let's keep this PG. All right. So, we're here like this. Okay? So, now, once we hit that, a lot of times he'll topple over this way. Most, I feel like most of the time if you hit that successfully, he'll topple over this direction. Sometimes he'll still be rooted and you can climb or maybe even expose the arm for an arm lock. But if I do hit this position here, right? I might be able to get the hook inside and finish rotating him over to continue the back take. Right? But oftentimes what happens is he's so low down on me from here that I wound up pummeling over this direction. Okay? I think, for me personally, I like this even better. Because like, he's right in the back triangle from here. So, rather than just trying to be like, how do I finish this key more? It's like, no, there's better opportunities for different things here. Right? Like, one is just extending the arm out and trying for the arm lock. But even better, I think, is taking this bottom arm, grabbing that top shin. And then here, let's rotate this way. Okay? So, I take him to that side. The scoot isn't part of it. That was just a change of perspective. But from here, once I have him isolated in this triangle, I'm going to step one to the floor first to lock it up. And then, when I feel like I make the adjustments, I'm going to scoot back a little bit. I'm keeping this arm levering his arm toward his head. And then, we'll flip this to the back. Right? The reason for a two-step process in that is because I don't want to go here and then he reaches his legs up and he pulls it apart. Okay? So, whenever we're here, one, he doesn't have the opportunity. Coast is clear. Two. Okay? Shoelaces to the back. Right? You want to put your shoelaces right where he has that butterfly tattoo right here with the tribal and the flowers. You guys have seen it, right? He'll show you later. He'll show you later. He'll show you later. So, one more time. What was all that we were talking about? So, we wind up in this butterfly half. Yeah? With the Kimura connection. He's posting back. He's anchored back like that. So, I'm using my butterfly hook to get my leg out. And then, I'm going to pendulum both my two legs this way to take the back. Right? That time, I'm a little lower. So, I might have a back take opportunity. But, still, I still had the triangle opportunity too. Right? So, we go here. There will be one that's going to be better than the other. Right? I don't feel like scooting. You guys come over here. So, we're here like this. Right? Okay? And again, this, that pry bar right there is helping to like get the closure that I need. Right? And then, I'm going to step one. Try to get that to the floor. Two. Back this way to lock it. How do you... I'm squeezing. It's not quite getting the job done. Right? So, two things. Scoot back. Right? That helps. Okay? Yeah, almost there. If you need to, you can push the head into it. Still not getting it for some reason. Your angle's off. Go to the arm lock. Okay? Cool. To set this up, in my opinion, I like to grab the two feet and not just pick up, but pull and pick up this way. Right? I want to... You hear that sound? That's what I want to hear. Right? I want him to wind up with a wedgie off of it. Right? So, then from here, he's typically going to... He may resign himself to play from this position, but supine is not going to be as effective from this position. So, and this was my idea, not his. That means, generally speaking, he's going to weeble wobble and bounce right back up. Right? So, I'll put him on his back. He sits right back up this way. Okay? Right? So, I'm going to go sup this way here. As he goes to sit back up, I'm going to club and look what happens. That's a thing of beauty right there. It worked out just like I wanted it to. From there, I'm going to slide off this collar tie. I get him to post and then I want to slide right over there. Okay? At that point, I want to roll over this shoulder. This way. Okay? So, this, I just need that do-si-do grip to begin with. Here. Right? Now, once I complete the roll, this hand is going to come into capture and I want to compress it toward him. And I want to start... Automatically, I want to start scooting my pelvis toward his head. Okay? And we're winding up in this T-frame Kimura position like we did a while ago. Right? You guys remember when we did that? Yeah? Okay. So, let's get here and then we'll talk about the next thing. So, one more time. We're here like this. We're playing here. I go swoop like this. He goes to sit back up. I club to get him to pose. I roll straight over and then baseball slide back in. Okay? So, we wind up with this Kimura kind of grip. Questions? All right. Be careful. Watch your space. One, two, three. We're going here. I'm pulling. Boom. He sits back up immediately on the club to get him to pose like this. Right? So, as we go over, boom. Boom. And I wind up in this T-frame Kimura position here like this. Okay? Everybody is already thinking, I want that crucifix. Give me that arm for the crucifix over here like this. And fantastic. That's great. Okay? However, I want to talk about like the main reactions that we're likely to encounter right here. Rather than compression, so hugging the arm up, I think this is one of the instances where this two-on-one connection, this Kimura kind of connection is better served compressed this way. Right? Or I'm sorry, extended, not compressed. This way. Okay? So, Brady could turn and face me right now. If he turns to face me, then yeah, keep going. Yeah. You see what's happening. So, he's exposing his back. So, I'm going to drive the knee in. I'm going to hook the hip here this way. I'm going to flex my toes back that way to try to get better back exposure. And then finish the back take. Right? That's one way we could do it. Two. He may try to turn away from me. That's a weird response. Right? If he turns away from me, we're going to build up to this. I don't have a good PG name for this, but this position. So, we'll wind up here and we can talk about this one because there's some cool stuff from here. Three. He may try to tabletop and drive himself up on top of me. Right? Which I, yeah. So, like bridge up on. Yeah. Like, yeah. Like this. Right? To get weight on me so that I lose mobility. If that's the case, keep going. Yeah. If that's the case, he's generally going to give me clearance to take his back. Right? So, you have great options from here. This is a nice little headquarters type position. Because sometimes, like if I can fish for this arm, for the crucifix, then this is good. Sorry if I spit on you. Right? So, from here, we capture for the crucifix like this. Okay? Now, different configurations in the crucifix. I don't think that this is the best configuration for a crucifix. And a crucifix, I would prefer to have this instead. Okay? And it's a fairly simple fix. Simple distinguishes from easy, but simple fix. Just loop back around. This is a better crucifix. Okay? Now, to keep with the theme of what we're talking about today, Kimuras and back attacks, this kind of checks both boxes. Right? Kimura attacks plus back attacks equals crucifix. Follow me. So, if from here, different ways that we can attack the Kimura. Well, I'm not going to talk about like everything else that we can do from here, but we have a way that we can attack the Kimura. Well, how, Eli? I'm glad you asked. I think that pummeling the bottom leg. So, I have a north side leg and a south side leg. Right? I think that south side leg in is better to attack for all the arm stuff on this side. If I pummel south side leg in. Right? First. When I pummel my north leg in, I have the straight arm bar. Right here. Okay? If he muscles up on me, so he bicep flexes on me like this. We have Americana. Here. If he Arnold flexes down on me like that. This is the trickier one. Right? But it's a Kimura seminar. So, let's talk about it. When he pummels down like that, his wrist tends to go behind my knee. And I don't quite have the leverage unless, here's a fix. I want to put my shoelaces under his bicep here. Right? Okay? And that's how we can attack the Kimura from there. Okay? Make sense? So, let's go ahead and get into this crucifix position. How did we get here? We started from the T-frame Kimura like this. I scoot it up. Right? I'm going to take top leg. My north leg here is going to open space to pummel south side leg. Okay? Right? Again, this is better. Right? Let me rewind. Because once we pummel here like this, I want to capture the head so I have a better seatbelt connection. Right? We're going to open space to pummel the south side leg. We can attack straight arm. Right? If he bicep flexes up, we can attack Americana. He flexes down. Attack Kimura. Got it? That's like a whole crucifix seminar in like seven minutes. Okay. All right. Let's go. One, two, three. Other things that we can look to do from here. Again, like we got a back take opportunity off of it. We have a crucifix opportunity potentially from here. Right? I will say that I, again, like I think that I have more submission opportunities with my legs versus his arm with the south side leg pummeled in. Having said that, the north side leg pummeling first is better. It's a little disappointing. Right? For me, it is. Right? But with the north side leg pummeling, and I don't want to turn this into a crucifix thing, but like there is a sub head of like Kimura trap and back attacks. So we're still talking about it a little bit. I think one of the best things that you can do from crucifix, in my opinion, and it's right, is the north side leg pummeled over here, got the seat belt, and I'm going to get a Merkel over here. Right? This is a game changer. Like this right here is huge. Like him trying to get out of this position now just got significantly harder. Without it, still difficult, but now very difficult. And it changes my alignment better to be able to come in for the choke. Right? So this is, in my opinion, like one of the best expressions of the crucifix. Right? So take that for what it's worth, but we're going to, and you can try that. Whenever we go back, try it on your own. That's fine. But let's also talk though about like, what if we wind up in this position? I don't have access to this arm. Right? And he's not necessarily exposing this. So what his strategy here is, is to like stay in this position, sorry, in this position, until he can start to work out of this trap that I have on him here. Okay? So if from here we want to come to the top position, and there's going to be typically two expression, three expressions of it, we can go one to a true side control where I come over to the top. Right? And that's going to consist of like compressing, posting, and turning. Right? So we have that. Or if from here, I can post up and get to this configuration, then we have the seated Kimura type finish here like this. Okay? Or we also have the genie. So from here, the way that we're going to enter into the genie Kimura is I'm going to, I like personally to switch off to this false grip here like that. So then as I start to post up on this elbow, this hand from the wrist can start to punch over. Right? Let's see. So coming up here, square. I can't really get the rotation that I need for the genie Kimura like this. So I'm going to finish it on the same side. So I'm going to walk post here and then start to sit through this direction. And then I'm just going to open my chest toward Jared over there. Okay? Does that make sense guys? Questions? Let's try it. One, two, three. And it shares a commonality with the trikaplata, which we can talk about that too. The trikaplata is not going to be for everyone. But if you can find it, same way with the barataplata, it's got a ton of leverage because you're combining elements of the upper and lower body. So you're using a leg and an arm combined. So, I mean, think just from a strictly anatomy perspective, then a leg plus an arm is going to be better than an arm plus an arm. I would think. The math seems to work out. When we're here and he is actively resisting, he may be grabbing hands. He may be grabbing the inside of his thigh. Right? But whatever it is, we're going to talk first about what if he is grabbing hands. And I'm not here. If I'm here and he's grabbing hands, that's fantastic. We'll talk about that next. But for right now, he's here. Different things that we can do. S-grip is extremely common of a defense here. It's also the weakest defense. Right? Simplest answer is not the coolest, but the simplest answer is just punch it down like that. Right? So if he's holding, pulling here, punch, unlock it because it's a hook. Okay? However, let's say that, yeah, maybe gable grip. Now that's a little bit trickier maybe. Right? So, different things that we can do. One thing that I like is the Tarika Plata, if you can get it. So I'm going to punch this hand in a little deeper and I want to try to get my false grip. False grip being, I'm using the same side here like we were talking about on that one-handed one. Okay? But I don't have, I can't create separation like that. But that frees this one up to compress his leg down to get me the clearance I need to step over and across. And then this hand can grab my own leg. Okay? When that hand grabs my leg, I'm going to take this hand now and I'm going to put it behind his back here. And then I want to start driving this knee that way. And my left knee is going to open and I'm going to turn to face the back of his head. Okay? So if we're, if from here, right, we're in this position and I'm fighting to try to get this free. Right? He's got a strong grip. I'm going to come over. I'm going to try to get that false grip somehow on his wrist. Right? He's doing most of the work for me. This is just kind of like insurance. I want to post here because I know, I know how high I can raise my leg. Right? So I know how low I need to push his leg down or make sure his leg stays that low. As I step over this way, punching up and through to my thigh, this hand goes to the small of his back. I rotate to face that way. Okay? Cool. Let's try it. One, two, three. Here. I'm in this position. I'm fighting, but he leaves me enough space to step into the armpit. So my heel's in the armpit like that. I'm going to windshield wiper my leg over and through. I'm going to pull him this way. I want to make sure that I'm really pulling that arm. I'm going to extend to get a better bite here on his tricep and shoulder with my leg. And then I want to figure four to try to get the triangle. Right? If for some reason I'm not getting that triangle here and I can cause separation, then we can look here that way. Right? Or wrist lock. That would just be ridiculous. If you got in that position just for a wrist lock, that'd be so stupid. But do it. I mean... I'm like... I'm like... I'm like... Hmmmm... Hmmmm... Hmmmm... Hmmmm... Hmmmm... Hmmmm... Hmmmm... Hmmmm... Hmmmm... Hmmmm... Hmmmm...