 and then maybe get the tap. If I don't get the tap, I can post here, I'm gonna post behind the knee, I'm gonna punch underneath this way, and I'm gonna reach across his waist as I extend my leg, losing his foot, and then from there now, I can start coming up, and then passing here like this, maybe chasing his back off of it too here like that. What's up guys, it's Eli here with Nitesh Jitsu, and I am down here in Ocala, Florida at the Bird House. The Bird House is my buddy Jeremy Bird, it's his place, he's put a ton of work in here, he's got a great student base here, it's a pedagos submission fighting affiliate, and these guys are training right now, you see them, getting ready for some fights tonight, there's a big fight event in town, Jeremy is warming these guys up, getting ready for the venue, and I'm here with my man Bjorn. Bjorn over here has, I just finished a seminar, and we were talking about some different technique stuff, I thought I would film a video. What I wanna talk about today is the bear trap. The bear trap is, in my opinion, a very almost overpowered kind of connection, position kind of thing that can lead to a lot of submissions, back take sweeps, a lot of cool stuff. So what I thought I would do is I'm gonna show entries for it, I'm gonna show transitional movements off of it, control points, I'm gonna show finishing options. So one of the entries that I think is fairly simple of an entry is from the seated position. What I'm gonna look to do is I'm gonna try to put him on his back here like this, so I'm gonna pick up, he's gonna rock back up to the seated position. When he does this, I'm gonna step, I'm posting, I'm gonna pick up this back leg, I'm doing a little back step here to pick this up, and I'm gonna scrape this and put it in my hip pocket. So my shin is in the bend of his knee, and then his shin is coming across here. It's essentially like I'm giving him a daily heeva type hook here like this. The next piece of this here, though, is I'm gonna compress this, keep this locked up, and I'm gonna lift, I'm gonna pass my head under his leg on this side, and then we wind up here in this kind of position, right? So when we wind up in this position here, this is the bear trap. The bear trap is where I have my shin compressing behind his knee, it's a compression lock. It can, in a ham sandwich, like a hamstring slicer, it might be a calf slicer, might even attack the knee. So if I wanted to try to finish from here, I'll just stay hugging above the knee around the thigh, and I'm gonna extend my knees away from my shoulders, here like this, and then maybe get the tap. If I don't get the tap, I can post here, I'm gonna post behind the knee, I'm gonna punch underneath this way, and I'm gonna reach across his waist as I extend my leg, losing his foot, and then from there now, I can start coming up, and then passing here like this, maybe chasing his back off of it too, here like that. So there's a lot of really good transitional options off of there, as well as submission opportunities too. That's just one entry though of how we can get into it. Another way we could do it, from the bottom, let's say, is if he's standing up, I might go from a shin to shin type position. If I'm looking at entering into a shin to shin type position, then I need to bridge this gap. I don't wanna overreach, but something I can do is I can hook here like this, I always call it pirouette control, I don't know. But as I start to do that, now I use this to come in. This hand is blocking to make sure he doesn't do anything crazy with his hands while I'm in this position, and I've got this shin to shin, but my foot is passing through to the outside. If I wanna enter into the bear trap from this position, I'm gonna sprawl this leg out, I'm gonna post over on this side, this leg is gonna slide up above his knee line, and then as I retract my bottom leg here this way, then we start to go here, and then now I'm back into that bear trap position. So as you can see, my shin is going into the bend of his leg here, putting pressure on the calf and the hamstring over here, and I'm hugging up, tied on his leg. I might be able, again, to maybe get the submission, but even if I don't, then from here, I might be able to go in and start attacking the legs here, or I might pass and try to come up here like this to chase his back off of this position, or if I keep his foot stuck, I might be able to even drive forward here like this, compressing him all the way down to his hip and getting the submission here like that. So again, might be pressure on the calf, knee, hamstring, something's gonna give off of that bear trap. One of the other entries I really like a whole lot off of this here is from Deep Half Guard. Deep Half Guard is a passion of mine, I absolutely love this position. So if we start here from the kind of a kneeling position, just sort of kneeling, that's fine. If we start from like a kneeling position here, then the entry I like to use to get the Deep Half off of this knee shield is like this. I wanna catch his wrist here, I wanna catch his armpit. So these two connection points, and once I do, I'm gonna take this knee shield leg and kick it up toward his armpit, well, that way. What that does is it takes weight off of this leg, and now I have a clearance to put my hand in and scoop to this Deep Half position. Now that I'm in this Deep Half position here like this, so what's happening is I'm essentially facing the same way that he's facing. I'm directly under his foundation, so it's a really powerful position because I can keep him destabilized the whole time. Now I'm gonna pummel this foot inside. Once I do that here like this, then now he's really kinda locked in position, and it's kinda hard for him to start moving around. I'm gonna elevate his leg. I have sweeps from here, I have backtake opportunities, and I have a bear trap entry. The bear trap entry is here, I raise my leg, I pummel my second leg inside behind his knee, and then this leg is gonna shoot in to pull back, and I'm gonna either figure four or push my knee against my ankle, right? Big thing here is making sure that from here, let's move the hand a little bit, is that I'm hiding my elbow. I don't want him to be able to dig an underhook at any point in this, so I'm hiding my elbow here. I've got the bear trap set up. Again, the way I did that bear trap set up from Deep Half is I got here, lift, pummel here, and then either use just my leg, or I can even use my hand to pull this ankle to my pocket here. At this point, I'm gonna tuck my elbow, try to connect above the hip like this, palm to palm, push my knees away here, maybe get the tap right there. If he wants to relieve the pressure, he may start driving his weight that direction over here this way. So the big thing here is I need to make sure I keep his knee line captured here, and then I'm gonna start pummeling my leg over possibly here, driving his knee to the floor, finishing either with this kind of Mikey lock there, or to the outside heel hook that direction. If I feel like on that position here, if I don't feel like I've got good control over his knee and he's slipping away from me, then we'll just, again, we'll start coming up, lose that, and we're chasing his back. So again, so many different opportunities from it, and I'm gonna show one that I didn't show. We went over several of these today at the seminar that I taught here at the birdhouse, but one I didn't show, really weird, but it's a little bonus technique. If from here, he's on his back, and we're essentially here, he's playing like a De La Hiva. Here's a weird thing. If he's playing De La Hiva here, and I took his leg, we're almost mirror image. If I do this, we're almost mirror image, okay? That's weird, but it gets weirder. So what I wanna look to do from here is I'm gonna grab behind here like this, and it's like I'm hiking a football and driving my knee over. When I do that here, and I start to dive through on this direction, then look at what happens. I catch his knee, I pull, and lock up the bear trap. This is a super overpowered bear trap because I have his secondary leg also stuck. He's in a horrible position, gonna be very hard to get out of, especially before I can drive my knee, and I'm gonna get him completely prone belly down off of this here like that. So it's a ton of pressure off of there. Even if I lose it at this point here, then I can still come up, and I've got an inside hook to chase his back. So there are probably a hundred other uses, ways to get there, ways to control it, ways to submit with it, ways to transition out of it into sweeps or whatever, for the bear trap, but these are some of my favorite ones. So we went over a lot of this stuff here at the birdhouse today down in Ocala, Florida. If you're ever in Ocala, Florida, this is the place to train. It's a pedagos submission fighting affiliate. Jeremy Byrd is the man, long time a good friend, one of my students back in the day, and he's since gone on to build a huge wonderful things and a great team with a great atmosphere and great attitude. This over here, Bjorn Weber, what's your socials here? You can follow me on Instagram at superhyperfocused. Superhyperfocused on Instagram, if you didn't hear that, because I've got the microphone, he doesn't, follow Bjorn over here, superhyperfocused, and hopefully we'll get some techniques filmed for his thing over there. Make sure you're following me, make sure you like, subscribe, share this video, do all the things, and I appreciate you guys watching as always. Love you, see you next time, my night's your get to.