 to get my hips up in the air, I want to get out to a position that I can get good head position, and this is straight out of the KCC handbook, which is part of the reason I love it so much. I'll chase that outside 2-1-1 position, we'll use so much in KCC 1-2, and then from here now I can attack his turtle from either top or side position. And the key to this is I need to pull his elbow and his knee both to the floor, I'm going to look away from it here this way, and then I'm going to roll up and over this direction. What's up guys, it's Eli here with Night Jujutsu, and I am back up here at Valance Point, Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu up here in Milford, New Hampshire with the man himself who owns this place. And your name, sir? Shelby Young. Yeah. So, we were talking about this. I've been up here a few times now. We just finished KCC course, Knife Control Concepts course. But I've been up here for Jiu-Jitsu seminars and Knife Control Concepts stuff. And we were talking, I was asking him anything that cool that he's been working on and that he uses sometimes, that's kind of unique. And he is really good at hitting this certain arm bar from this turtle position. I got a couple of things from Turtle Bottom and people are always asking about turtle bottom options because there's lots of ways to attack the turtle position, but not as many that are as prevalent and useful sometimes as the top positions getting out from the bottom. So, we're going to show a few of those. So, you want to start this out, sir? So, yours are more from front facing, yeah? Yeah. So, we're going to start off with just, this is a really basic escape that I learned from Roberto Maya a bunch of years ago. A phenomenal Jiu-Jitsu guy up here in New England. And it seems too simple to work, but that a lot of times is some of the best techniques. Absolutely. So, we're going to start up here in front, headlock position. So, where he's got one hand around my neck, he's got one hand that's trying to control my tricep around to my arm. So, my primary focus right now is going to be to not get choked. So, I'm going to get two on one grip on his choke hand. So, using a baseball bat type grip. And I want to plant his hand to the ground. He can use his palm or his fist to help protect his wrist. But the main thing is I can't let him get this arm up around my neck. I can't let his other hand come in. And I can't let him get around my back. Those are kind of my main objectives here. So, to accomplish all of that, again, I got control of the choke hand. I'm kind of monitoring this. I'm not going to hang out here for more than a little bit of time. But I want to start to get my hips up in the air. I want to get out to a position that I can get good head position. And this is straight out of the KCC handbook, which is part of the reason I love it so much, is to make sure that he can't follow me. I keep driving my forehead up into his chin. I'll chase that outside two on one position. We'll use so much in KCC one and two. And then from here, now I can attack his turtle from either top or side position. So, all the way through. We start off again. He's got his front headlock. I screwed up enough to get here. But I got to make sure that I get out safely. So I get nice strong baseball bat grip on his choke hand. I'm going to get up on my toes, get my butt in the air. I'm going to start driving up so I get my forehead up into the side of his neck. And then I'm going to melt my way around the outside to get to an outside two on one, control the wrist. Maybe we go over to Kamora here, or we just go for regular topside back control. Yeah, I love that a lot. Creating that anchor point on my limb, like now we're both tethered to that kind of point. And so whenever you start moving around. And like you said, this is straight out of directly applicable to the KCC stuff. So whether it's just a strictly grappling based or more fighty stuff like more MMA or weapons based environment, that's all can, that can all be very applicable to that. So that's awesome too. And you had also mentioned another little cool cheeky arm lock one too. I like this one a lot. Check this out guys. Yeah. So this is, I've affectionately dubbed it the ninja arm bar. And you can hit this from a bunch of different positions. The main concept is I got to get a fulcrum behind his elbow and I need to have control of his wrist on that side. So in this case again, and I'm making sure that I'm not getting choked, but his arm that's trying to get behind my arm over here to set up, whether it's his head and arm guillotine, his anaconda, his dars, anything like that. I want to get my arm wrapped around it up above his elbow. And I'm going to pin my fist up into my chest to make sure that it can't easily retract it out. Now, if he does manage to pull his arm out, well, then at that point I can just pull guard or get back on top or just clear out. I've accomplished my job of not getting submitted into that position. I'd like to submit him instead. Give him the old Uno reverse card here. So again, I'm going to grab a hold of his wrist. I want to get my arm up above his elbow. And I think about using the blade of my forearm just above his elbow. And now from here, he's probably traditionally expecting me to do an old school wrestling sitout, which again, there's nothing wrong with that. If you've got a good wrestling sitout, that's great. Where I can grab the hip, come all the way through and escape that way. The problem is if you've been going with good guys for a while, as soon as I clamp this, he's probably going to start to shift his weight this way a little bit. And now that sitout on this side is not going to be an option, but I still have his arm. And if there's weight on this knee, he's got nothing to base with. So I grab a hold of his wrist. I step up on my outside foot and I'm going to drive the back of my head into his chest to flip him down to his side. I get out to this kind of based out scarf type position. I'm still clamping his elbow and bringing my fist up into my chest. I get that Lego man grip over his wrist. And as I pull my blade up into my chest, I push down till I get that tap. There's also a cheeky wrist lock here if you're a wrist lock type guy, but we'll go through that all again. So again, he's got me in the front headlock position. I'm controlling his wrist. Again, still making sure I'm not getting choked at any point along the way here. I grab a hold of the arm. If the sitout is there, I'll go for it. But if this case he's, he detects I'm going for the sitout, so he shifts his weight more towards this control side away from the choke side. I'm going to step up on my outside leg. I'm going to drive the back of my head up and into him. And I go for the arm bar. And the great thing about this as well. So let's say I get the arm bar. That's great. But let's say that he's, you know, I don't maintain enough tension here and he just pulls his elbow clear of my arm. Because all he needs to do is get his elbow clear. Now there's no arm bar, but I still got on top. I still survived the position and now I've got a reversal. And that, that one, I like a lot. It works really well from guys that have that show you the inclination to go for the darts. Because I want to feed this arm in deep by your armpit and come out for that darts choke like that or for like a mars choke even. And it's just playing right into your hands. And like you said, you've got it, you're forking me. You're creating this dilemma between the traditional sitout or the fat boy role or like a Peterson. And then also between the arm lock because I've got to kind of, I've got to elicit one of those responses. And that's the best kind of jujitsu right there is like whenever you have him mapped in this position where it's a lose, lose situation. That's awesome. So these were both from more front facing. I want to show a couple of my favorites from the rear facing because this is also a dangerous situation. Whenever he's playing more to this rear quadrant like this, like I've got to be very careful here. Right. My neck is exposed. He's going to be looking, even if he's just a wrestler, like being in this referee's position, he spent a lot of time here. So being able to escape this position is very important. So what I'm looking for here now, this, this is actually a direct correlation to a technique from when he's threatening like a clock choke. So it's about this arm coming across. So when that arm is looking to feed across, what I'm going to do is I'm going to overreach. And what I mean by overreach is I want to try to get his arm into my far side armpit like this. Now this is again, admittedly a dangerous situation, but what I'm trying to do is get two points of control on his arm. So I've got a really strong connection. I'm getting his wrist on my armpit, my hand on his elbow. Now this is the part that right here where I'm going to start moving my hips away from him. Right. Now I'm not moving my hips away with necessarily the intention that that's going to be my full escape. That might be, but most likely he's going to try to, like if I take create space, he's going to try to collapse space. So keeping that here, I'm going to take my hand to the outside of his leg here like this. It's very important. I don't go inside. That's going to get me in a crucifix. So instead I'm going to go here and the key to this is I need to pull his elbow and his knee both to the floor. I'm going to look away from it here this way. And then I'm going to roll up and over this direction. So now once we I hit that roll, it's very important that I make sure to get my legs to the outside. So I don't wind up just rolling and giving him my back. I'd be incredibly stupid. So I'm not going to do that. But once we hit here, I'm already in a modified kind of reverse scarf position. But very important once we hit, though, because I am low on him is that I walk my hips back up toward his shoulder. And then I find myself in a stronger reverse scarf kind of position. Good, high, tight, side control variation on top of him like this. So one more time on that escape like that is whenever he's here. He's from this back quadrant as he's reaching over and across. At least I want to get his wrist. If not get his elbow, I'm going to reach to the outside of his leg here and I'm pulling his knee while I'm looking and facing to my left. While I roll over my right shoulder here this direction. Very important that I clear both of his two legs and then I start walking myself back nice and high and tight right off about as soon as we hit that there. Now, sometimes what will happen is and this is where we kind of come up with the the second variation here is at this point. Sometimes he'll go here and I'll reach across, but like I don't feel as if I can pull this down or he's got a really good base. If he's based, then what that's actually doing is that prop here. I can't get his knee to the floor. That means he's actually pushing into me. So if he's pushing into me, then what I'm going to actually do here is I'm going to take my leg closest to him, my right leg in this case. And I'm going to step it up across his body this way. And then from there, I'm going to let my second leg slide and it's going to actually my knee is going to hit his knee on the bottom and I'm going to pull him up over and across this direction. And then we land essentially in the same position. So I still have that reverse scarf. I still want to work myself up nice and high, but I just came to it more direct rather than the full roll over. But between those two energies, I'm going to find the opportunity oftentimes to be able to hit that roll or at least hit that reversal like that. So he can't the idea across all of these is we want to create a situation where I based on what he's doing, the way he's trying to attack me, I'm going to fork him into a decision that he has to make. Is he going to drive harder this way or is he going to drive harder the other way? And based on that, I'm going to take him the way that where he's weakest in his structure to be able to roll him or be able to escape. Or in Shelby's case, the way that he structured that as far as the front headlock, if I allow him to make that initial movement, then he's going to roll me. If I try to block that initial movement, you're going to arm lock me. So it's like that's the best kind of you just like make the guy choose how he loses all the time. Right. So great turtle options for you for the bottom person here, how to get out from turtle safely and maybe even wind up with a submission of your own. If you're ever in the Milford, New Hampshire area, make sure you come train at balance point BJJ up here. And this, this facility is phenomenal. So I highly recommend it. This guy is always awesome. His phenomenal teacher, great black belt always has the goods, students, great environment, no douche baggery going on up here. And that's what I always appreciate about being up here. So thank you again, brother. Appreciate you. And of course, keep watching the Natchez-Yitsu channel guys. Like, subscribe, share, do all that stuff. If you want to check out the knife control concepts course with me, Aaron Janetti and Mike Cheney, make sure you catch one of those somewhere around the world. Appreciate you guys watching.