 SiƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳƻƳ do that because I'm on YouTube. And one that I wanted to go back and readdress, one that I made a long time ago and probably a couple of different iterations, but now I have some good updates and good details and some good additions is strangle setups from the front headlock. If Aaron is here in this turtle position like this, then I can monitor this position a variety of different ways. I usually would like to either start front facing off to an angle from the front quadrants or off to an angle from the rear quadrants, not typically too perpendicular, not typically directly behind. There are exceptions, but that's typically how we would like to start addressing this position. One of the first strangles that we'll look to get into from here is as simple as just going in for like a 10 finger choke or a 10 finger guillotine. Essentially what that means is this is what it winds up looking like. I'm bringing my elbows in nice and tight. I'm stacking my two hands. These little knobs, these little knuckle to knuckle areas of my thumbs are typically going to wind up being part of the strangle itself. So whenever we're here, I want to make sure that I've got good weight on the back of Aaron's neck. So my torso, essentially my diaphragm is going toward the base of his neck and I'm scooping. So this is going to be a consistent feature. A lot of the time, wherever I'm coming through and I'm getting this chin strap, trying to touch his jaw all the way through. Second hand is going to stack just like that. And I'm going to use active toes to drive myself in and curl. So what's happening with my hands, you notice he already tapped, is I'm scooping and curling so that that's coming right under the base of his jaw lining. And so it's going to be very tracheal, but it's very sharp and you'll get a quick tap off of this if you get it at all. So it's going to be kind of a panic tap sometimes. So just be cognizant of that. It's not the nicest choke in the world, but none of them really are. So we get here for that 10 finger guillotine. I walk it forward, drive in heavy and I get the squeeze like that. By extension, sometimes we'll look at a front naked choke. This is different than a ninja choke. There's a slight variation of a ninja choke, which a video I made recently that got a lot of, a lot of views to it. So I appreciate you guys doing that. What the front naked choke is going to look like as opposed to a rear naked choke is that my arm is still going to make the same similar V that it would on a rear naked choke. The arm configuration is going to be very similar, but I, instead I'm approaching it from this, this more chest to back style. So again, I'm trying to get my diaphragm toward that ridge of his skull here, the occipital ridge. And once this arm is all the way over and through, I'm going to connect the same way. So my hand is coming up high on my chest near my collarbone and the second hand is going to slide over and through. And then again, driving forward and expanding, squeezing, constricting my elbows and getting that front naked choke like that. Now we're going to look at a guillotine from the front facing, right? From the front facing rather than just the 10 finger or five finger, all the different variations you can do. This style of guillotine, in my opinion, is one of the strongest. And what's going to happen off of that is that I'm going to start this like a head and arm configuration. So I'm monitoring here on the tricep area. Um, this is a really good kind of control because this also sets me up for different, like head and arm strangles, but also for like go behinds and things like that. When we get into this position, I'm shooting through similar to how I did the front naked choke, but the enhancement that this the super guillotine or power guillotine starts to put on it is this hand here is going to slide through and I'm going to grab my own tricep area here. So you can kind of see it and I'll, I'll take it out and show you exactly what I'm doing in this case here. Um, and which is I'm coming through catching the grip for like that, almost like that rear naked choke or the front rear naked choke style. And then the second arm is coming around and under his is actually coming here and grabbing my own tricep or tricep tendon in that direction. Now, the ways that we can finish that, we can use that to continue the constriction. I can drive into him or to make it as bad as possible, like as sharp as possible, um, is actually where we'll start to sit back with it. So I'll get into that position and then I'll start to actually sit back to collect him up. Yes. And that's going to be a lot of strain on the neck. I shouldn't probably even get to a seated butterfly guard position, but, uh, if I do, his head is likely to pop completely off of his body. So, uh, just be cognizant of that, but it's a very powerful choke and it also chains and combines very well with different head and arm choke setups, right? So speaking of those, the, one of the first ones that I like to look at is the anaconda choke. The anaconda choke can happen in a variety of different ways. The way that I like to set it up, the identifying feature of the anaconda is entering my arm by his neck and exiting by his armpit. We'll talk about how the darse is the opposite of that and the Peruvian necktie, how that varies. But for right now, the anaconda enters by his neck and out by his armpit. I'm going to put the back of my hand over here and I'm going to collect here with a nice gable grip or almost a wrist to wrist grip here like this. Different ways that we can look to finish it. Sometimes you can just dump the guy over on his side, but you typically the, for it to be a true anaconda, it needs the anaconda roll because when an anaconda bites somebody, they start to spiral around him. I think that's how it works. Don't quote me on that. Once we get to this position, I want him to feel like tapping before I ever even make that roll because the pressure of how it's going to start to come in is I'm going to start looking at this shape here from hip to armpit to knee elbow connection. And my head is going to try to look inside that hole as I walk around the side. So I'm using a Dave Schultz headlock style setup for this particular choke. We get into this position. I start scraping this together and I start pushing my head over into the hole this direction. At this point here, he should be about ready to tap. If he's not, then now we can start to complete that roll over this way. As soon as we get the roll over, I'm bringing my leg in and up. I'm keeping his head down toward my diaphragm, which is a consistent feature of most of these chokes. And I'm keeping my leg here so that he doesn't start winging his arm out and opening that space. So now that my arm is in place here, I can start locking up this particular style grip here like that. So it's again, similar to that rear naked choke style grip. I get that there. I keep my leg on top the entire time and squeeze here like this and get the tap. So to the kind of the opposite in a lot of ways of the anaconda, which is the darts. The reason that I say it's opposite, it's not really the reason I say that though, is because instead of entering by the neck and exiting by the armpit for the darts choke, we're actually going to enter in by the armpit and exit by the neck. Now, from this position, you can from here, as soon as I exit through, I'm going to get my gable grip on, put my forearm on the back of his head. Now, at this point here, it may be possible if I can get his arm and his neck bunched up just from right here to start shooting in and finishing the darts from underneath. Now, I'm going to use my torso to shove his arm inside like that. And then we'll finish the darts from underneath like that. Now, what I would prefer though, if I have him in this turtle position and I'm setting up the opportunity for the stars is rather than shooting myself underneath and taking the chance of him driving over and getting on top of me, freeing his arm. And then I put myself underneath the guy. I would rather suple him over like this. So once we get into this kind of position here, I'm going to use either my gable or S grip, whichever one fits the context. And I want to use the pressure here, like on the back of his neck and lift my other arm under his armpit and dump him over on the side this way. Now, once we have him over on the side, I'm going to pick up and put his ear on his shoulder, right? What that's going to allow me to do is to get my arm in nice and deep over here. Now we can go full expression of a deep darts choke where I go in hand to elbow all the way again, like that rear naked choke style grip, squeeze, drive. And then to make the pressure for the choke, I'm raising my right elbow back here. This is my left elbow. My right elbow is going to cut up into his neck that direction. So I'm pulling up that way to get the choke. Okay. Now, sometimes the one of the most common questions is I have short arms. How can I do a short arm variation of this choke? Here's a short arm variation, right? This is not the standard and it's not typically as strong, but it's a good short arm variation. So from here, once we cut through, I'm still lifting, I'm still getting inside, but my arm is a little too short like that. So instead I'm going to grab just at my forearm, just grabbing at the forearm here. I'm going to hold on right there to his shoulder. And then at that point here, now I'm going to get a little bit more North South and still finish the choke the same kind of way that direction. So that gives you a little bit better of an option for a short arm variation where I don't have to go completely here this way. I'm going here into the forearm and I'm bracing this more on the back of his shoulder or his trap. And then this arm is still coming up underneath. So I still like to try to get that radius for that cutting bone up into the neck, that direction. Next, we're going to look at the Peruvian necktie. From the Peruvian necktie, I think that this gives us a decent option as far as whenever maybe I can't get quite deep enough for the darts choke or the anaconda. So rather than trying to force it to happen, I'm going to take the halfway point and then we'll look at how we do it from here. So I'm starting it similar to how we would do a darts choke. I'm trying to get all the way through here like this, but my hands are going to connect and they can connect in different ways. You can connect it more of a guillotine style grip, which is one that I typically prefer. You can go S grip, which is another really good grip here. You can even do gable and butterfly, anything like that. But typically what I find that allows my wrists, the strongest connection while maintaining good flexion in my wrists is either an S grip here like this, because I can flex my wrist pretty good. Gable is okay too. Three finger grip is really good. Or again, like I said, the guillotine style grip where that bend of the wrist is going to go under his throat and I'm going to reinforce with the other hand. Whatever grip that I select in that process, whatever it is, I get it into place right around his neck. I have his arm bunched up. And then as I go to set up the rest of the choke that what the rest of my body is doing is I'm stepping up and over this direction. And then as I go to sit down, my second leg back here is going to hop up and it's going to step over the back here. So now at this point, I'm pushing through my heels like this and I'm pulling up through his neck. I'm trying to be polite to Aaron, but what will happen is squeezing up that direction here. I'm pulling and pressing to slice up and through the neck like that. So it's a very sharp, very painful choke, but it's also a clean strangle by the time it's completed because it is fully encapsulating the neck and getting that good compression all the way around. There's different variations in neckties. There's the Peruvian, which is the one most famous, but then probably the Japanese necktie is right there in the same level of popularity pretty close. Anyway, the way that it's going to start out is very similar to how we did the DARS previously, but it's going to be kind of a blend between the DARS and the Peruvian with a little bit of extra nastiness to it. So again, we start in nice and deep over here. I get my S grip or my gable grip, and I want to start looking at setting him over and off to the side. So once I go to flip him over onto the side, I might not feel as if I have enough opportunity to get the depth that I need to be able to finish the DARS choke. So what will happen instead whenever I get into that position is I'm going to keep everything squeezed in nice and tight. So at this current point, I have an S grip, the different grips work. And then I want to put a couple things that are going to happen. I'm going to swap my legs. I want to capture either his top or bottom leg. Either one can work, but I want to capture a leg. And then I'm going to put my torso, my diaphragm on the back of his head. As I go to do that, and we fall down here, this direction, I'm pulling his leg in, I'm squeezing and I'm twisting and turning up toward the ceiling while keeping his leg captured so that he can't scramble and get to the top position. That's going to apply a lot, not only the same kind of strangle force as the Peruvian necktie or similar to a DARS, but it's also going to add, it's got the added feature of taking his hips and shoulders out of alignment and causing that twist. So it's got a ringing out kind of feature. And it's pretty nasty for that reason. When we're here in this position, the way that I want to start setting this up is I'm going to set my leg very similar to how we would start setting up a crucifix. I want to find, again, that pocket, a really important feature to identify whenever someone's in turtle position is that space between armpit to hip to knee elbow connection. So there's this triangular shape in there. I want to increase that space. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to take my knee and make like a shin ride across his thigh to slice down and end behind his arm. What that does is kind of makes his arm protrude forward. While I'm doing that, you notice on the other side here, I've already hooked in this way. So my elbow is back by his hip. This hand is coming up and I'm going to put this hand palm facing up on the other side. I want to get in on this little, we're going to create like a power half over here on this side. So I'm pressing and lifting that shoulder. What I want to do with that space that I've created, now that you see my knee here, I'm going to try to touch my knee with my other heel. So that one's going to start, it's going to come over and step in that direction. Once I create that step here now, and I'm lifting up on his shoulder, I want to capture my shin here like this. And then as I go here, now I'm going to start sitting back. You can collect up the arm if you want. And as we go to sit back this direction, what's happening here is now I want to start lifting and picking up here like this. You see how my shin is blocking his arm so he doesn't try to take his arm away from me. I'm still keeping hold of my shin. Now I'm going to use this to reach and try to grab and pull tighter on his arm. Now I'm trying to figure four my legs and get my leg, this outside leg on the back of his triceps so that again, it's locked into place this direction. At this point here, now we should just be able to finish the squeeze here like this to get that triangle. Might be a little bit cranky, but it should still get the job done, especially if I still have the ability to pull here. If for some reason I'm not getting it, then at that point, we can start wrapping this over and through. And then this creates nasty shoulder pressure on top of the strangle. So really strong control over that for that reverse side triangle like that. So this one here is, in my opinion, about the closest you can probably get to a clock choke without the use of the gi. The clock choke is a powerful gi choke where essentially if he's in turtle position, then if he had the collar, then I would reach my thumb inside the collar here like this for the grip, and my second hand would come over and grab the opposite side lapel. And then we would start walking around and pulling that to strangle him around his neck. Now, obviously I can't grab the material whenever it's in a no-gi situation and he might not even have a shirt to use for that. So what I'm looking to do from here to set that choke up to mimic that clock choke without the use of the gi is I'm going to post behind the tricep here like this. And as this hand punches in, it's going to come behind that armpit. Once that comes inside here, I'm going to make, I want to catch at my forearm. And now this hand over here is going to collect to the outside of his arm. The job of this one is to scrape his elbow inside. If there's too much weight on it, make a little pickup, tuck that in nice and tight over here. So now this double wrist configuration, trapping his arm on the inside, now puts me in a position where if I drive my shoulder, it's already going to create a strangle. But to make maximum pressure on this, I want to take my head to the floor over on this side here. So once my head hits the floor, I'm going to start walking in that clock choke fashion and squeezing in nice and tight that way. So I'm here on the outside of his arm. I'm connected to my forearm on the other side. I'm going to post on my head here. And I want to walk, walk, walk as I keep constricting in with the grip that I have around his neck. It's a very powerful variation of a head and arm choke. And it closely resembles, if not mimics, the clock choke, except without the use of the key. All right, guys. So I hope that those give you some creative and helpful, useful kind of tools and techniques to be able to hit some front strangles from that front headlock kind of position. Let me know if you like these, let me know what I left out and what I can make a video all about in the future. And as always, I appreciate you guys watching the Nike Jiu Jitsu channel, like, subscribe, share all the things.