 andxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx Right then come up to the chase the back where he steps out of that here Then we come it into the single leg and then we finish the single leg he goes to clear right this way and Then from there we wrestle up to the inside here this way right stacking up posting here this way I'm going to reach to the far outside of the leg here double up on that Keep the legs together. I take him forward. Maybe there's a little more weight on this leg So then we come up to the outside and we chase the back God, he is my even a whistle Gets louder every time And never learn how to do that 30 years training under that man never taught me how to whistle is that it's really showing kind of the integration between Wrestling and Jiu-jitsu which I think jiu-jitsu borrows a lot from wrestling anyway, right? You jiu-jitsu is not it's not kind of in a vacuum In my opinion jiu-jitsu over the years over time has borrowed from a lot of other Places and pieces from different things and to me. That's the beauty of it I don't think that detracts from it and I'll talk in a minute about a little bit more about that concept But I'm not going to ramble on for a very long time off the beginning because I hate when I go to seminars and somebody gets up Here and blow v8s and pumps up their own ego Just talking like everybody's here just to hear you talk You're here to move you're here to learn some stuff. So we're going to jump right into it We're gonna start with a simple game with your partner Joe me. I use you please professor So he's gonna sit on his butt Like how all fights start right here by the way this this section here There's gonna be there's gonna be some overlap like there always is some concepts some some technical aspects and yada yada That will apply across the board I consider jujitsu to exist in four basic modalities From most rule restrictive to least rule restrictive Gee grappling that's the most rule restrictive No, gee grappling right submission grappling that is less rule restrictive, but still fairly rule restrictive MMA right or that hybrid kind of like a combat jujitsu And then finally street fights which have less rules so plenty of rules and street fights Yeah, but that's I I don't like when you hear People in the self-defense industry say no rules in the street. There's a lot of rules in the street. They're called laws and Those are kind of the most important rules. So anyway When you see me showing something today like if you have a question about yeah Well, what if the guy did this or that? What if like right here? Why would I just kick Jared in the face or something? It's like well, I get this qualified for that they had this frowned upon in submission grappling tournaments is the answer to that Okay, so From here the game that we're starting with is my objective is to put Jared's back on the mat That's it If I succeed in that right and it can be sideways like I can put him on a shoulder Boom that I win right here I win all right we go here. I Win okay his objective. Don't let me do that. Okay can't stand up. He has to fight from here He can make some attachments But he can't make such attachments that are so restrictive that I can't even have access to put his back on the mat He has to figure out structurally how to prevent me from putting his back on the mat. Does this make sense? It's continuous We're not switching roles if I put his back on the mat fine reset start same roles here I'll tell you when to switch top to bottom player. Does this make sense? Super simple underthink it. Okay Good switch top to bottom switch roles Now the objective is You cannot he cannot run away from me, right? Can't run away from me. All right. So from here my objective is to I'm gonna Get myself in this position. I want to put myself underneath EJ like this This arm I'm wrapping one ankle as if I were gonna do an ankle lock and this knee is coming in the middle Okay, this is your starting position Okay, everybody good with this right you will be When we are here my objective from here is to get EJ's Hands to the touch the floor right so I make him touch a hand. I can make him touch a his butt or his back right Even a knee even if he drops a knee to the floor, right? But I'm gonna make I want to make one of those things touch the floor Okay, I guess his face like if he just like puts his hands I'm not touching my hands the mat and then wait don't do that, but it would count to Make it create a condition where I have to touch a hand or my butt or fall or whatever, right? But he has to do this without touching his back to the ground because if he touches back to the ground That's a point for me. All right. He makes me touch something or fall down. It's point for him. Okay, so this makes sense So this is gonna get a little weird, right? Because one of the easiest ways for him like we just saw to make me touch something to the ground is to create the platform of Putting his back on the floor so he has all four of his tools to be able to off balance and Disrupt my base and uproot me and everything like that, right? And then as soon as I start to make a connection to him here like this then now he's in a compromised position I'm still trying to make his back touch the floor. He's still trying to make me touch something to the floor, okay? It's about Understanding how body mechanics work so understanding weight distribution. It's understanding structure It's understanding how to corrupt or build structures Understanding how to pin somebody down or it's understanding how to get out of somebody pinning you down. It's about understanding Different ways to submit or should do another person, right? So the techniques are just techniques, right? Jason's very fond of saying techniques are just opinions and I I agree with that It took me a while. I didn't necessarily agree with that at first. I was like, no, that can't be right But I think it is I think it's right So we're gonna look at some techniques that are completely arbitrary and don't matter except that they do the only reason techniques matter is If they're good delivery vehicles for a deeper underlying principle, okay, so alright All that rambling aside. We're gonna start from here. Just chill out. No, you stand up. That's okay. Just Can I get a different ookey over here? Well, we'll make it work. We'll make it work. Alright, so first thing I want to look to establish from this position here is I'm gonna get a connection to EJ. So first we're gonna establish connection Right now I want to establish connection in a way that causes some kind of reaction from him anytime that I do something To my opponent I'm gonna get typically two energetic reactions two common energetic reactions One is going to be direct opposition or it's going to be some kind of technical response that kind of goes with the energy that I'm Like exerting on him. Okay, so he's either gonna have more technical response or a more instinctive response So when we get to this position here if I'm pulling down on him, he typically is going to resist back Okay, so I'm gonna use this initial connection here this baseball bat style grip on his wrist to be able to get me into a position To where I can make another connection, right? So we're gonna go from here this way, right and then I'm gonna get I'm gonna climb myself into connection So what I'm doing is I'm putting a hook here behind his acubus tendon And I'm grabbing here behind his knee as I'm doing this I want to try to close this space Anytime Jared will talk in way more eloquent detail about this probably at some point But anytime he sees triangular spaces around my body There's good opportunity for him to take advantage of that and upgrade his position So triangular spaces that exist right now This is one of the more functional spaces that he should be looking at as well as this route over here when I make this connection Like this here. I'm still get still exerting like a pull on him So I get resistance and in response, right at that point here I'm gonna try to pull to get him to step Yes, he steps so he doesn't fall and then but that wasn't that wasn't really his idea. That was my gear Right, so he didn't like that. I made him do something. He didn't think of doing on his own, right? That's how his brain works. So I'm gonna go like that here pull and then he's gonna step back, right? Get that pull I want to get him to step back, right? That's what I want to see happen So that I know that I'm doing it right ish enough to get here like this and then get that little trip right there You see that's what I'm looking for So when I pull get him like here I want to make that connection like this and when I go to hook just so he doesn't step higher than I want him to wait Then this hand is gonna leave his wrist and it's gonna palm the inside of this here, right? So we hit this way as soon as he falls I'm swiveling underneath to come up to this position. Okay, make sense super simple, right? We typically call this a dummy sweep in the old-school days Nowadays people want to make it sound more jiu-jitsuy. So they call it a double double coachy, right? So here I make the hook here like this. I know he's about to step back I'm gonna hook on this side and I'm gonna push the inside of that knee I'm gonna post up to top position. Okay, make sense, right? I'm creating two points of contact on it and that's usually the gold standard when you hear things like two on one When you're making two-on-one connections the the value of that Anatomically comes from the fact that you're bisecting that limb in some way, right? And you can bisect it all the way up the chain But I mean you sisterly have like three points of articulation on a limb whether it's the upper body or the lower body You have this like rotational ball and socket joint like a shoulder or a hip You have a hinge joint like a knee or an elbow and then you have like a condyloid Synovial joint like the wrist, right? That's a real thing. I looked it up and So when you when you know that those kind of things exist and you understand the range is emotion then you you start to Have a little bit more inside of how you can restrict a lot of that range of motion And then that way you can start manipulating somebody's movement, right? So you can start inhibiting or you can start enticing enticing them to move a certain direction. Okay, so So we'll look at another little variation here before we get into the really cool stuff So we're making this connection. Yeah, and this could be just the standard kind of like Burrito grip here. This is this is how I hold a burrito like one of the big ones like Chipotle or something But like here this way or it could be from here. It could be from here. There's lots of different variations There's pros and cons to each, right? But for right now, I'm just trying to create a polling kind of connection that gets me to Close the distance a little bit enough to make this shin to shin Connection so we're going shin to shin low ankle here shin Position like this and then grabbing behind the knee here this way Now this gives me a really good two on one connection over here And again, I'm maintaining this grip so that I can see if I can pull him right if I pull him and he stays here like this Right like well, that's not doing a whole lot Okay, he put weight on that. I wouldn't expect it now I was hoping he was gonna step back so I do my cool sweep. I just learned right didn't happen though, right? So now I'm disappointed but you know when life hands you Lemons do something so when when we're here now though, and I see this So this is the sight picture that I have right here from ankle to knee. I see the inside so I see this oblique angle So I need different kind of leverage points. I'm gonna maintain this here And I'm gonna tuck my leg right it's not useful as as a sweep right now So I'm gonna tuck it here this way my elbow is gonna go right in front of my knee my hand is gonna go right behind his ankle Hopefully it's close enough that this works right and then my my head this that's what this is It's gonna go right on the inside of that knee here this way Yeah, you see your head is a lever to do you know that so when we or it's a limb rather We go here like this and I push pull here this way and again bring myself up into this position Okay, make sense and we rip the heel hook now. Don't do that. So Here Yeah, get my burrito grip like this here I use this to climb make my connection again shen to shen flexed foot Don't drop your foot here flex it because this is a little hook and then I'm cupping behind the knee Elbow is going inside. I know this seems very particular Might not make that much of a difference, but if this is too exposed here I'm offering him the under hook and he's gonna slice right through my guard. All right. Don't let this happen to you Okay, it's shameful. So when we're here like this and I make that pull here He plants weight on that I tuck my foot right? What does that mean? How far do I tuck my foot as far as you can as far as your knees will allow? All right, we go here. I drop to the inside here and I'm gonna push my head right here I'm not head butting his knee. Okay. Please don't do this If you see his kneecap, don't ram your head into his kneecap. It's not fun on either side of this Okay, we're going to the inside. This is a low inside single right? John Smith style all right when the if you don't know who John Smith is look up John Smith wrestling when the greatest Rest of all time do your homework here this way right? I make it here this way, okay, and then I come up When I come up, this is a this is a nice Thing if it happens it doesn't have to happen as long as you knock him down and you come up to the top position But if you can trap his leg here like this or shelf We're not saying I say trap will say shelf the leg like this then this is nice because it's going to help to prevent him immediately From putting me into some kind of a guard system. Okay, and then possibly help me get past his legs All right, so this makes sense guys So let's look at two contingencies since EJ screwed up our entire plan for the day, okay? No tomato tomorrow, so when we get here like this So first contingency is like I was lazy with my hook here this way, right? So he almost has led to the inside Why would he do this because owning inside space can be inhibiting to me? It also sets him up for passing that doesn't exist the exact same way whenever I have this barrier right here And I have these two hooked connections like this So if he goes to promo his leg to the inside here like this then let's you know make lemonade right so when we get here Then I need to figure out new leverage points, but he's very bladed to me, right? So we have this very like you know more 90 degree type of a relationship now, right? So where are his weak points anytime that I want to sweep or wrestle up? I need to think about where? His invisible third point of base is going to be right because the strongest Typically the strongest structure that you can create whenever we're in grappling situations from the top position is like a triangular base It's like a pyramid structure, right? So you have three points of base with like different weight distribution between those three points Typically 33.333% of your weight is distributed between those three points and then your foundation or your center is Directly in the middle of that that's how you're going to have the most perfect structure So if I want to corrupt that structure that I need especially from a bipedal position I had to figure out where that next point of base is going to be so think about if you've ever heard the Analogy that walking is just a series of controlled falls. Does anybody ever heard that? It's a thing And that's exactly what you're doing you fall forward you place that foot so you don't fall on your face Right. That's why whenever you run into something you trip. Okay, very simple, right now in execution It's not as exactly that simple So I know that his point his base right now from the bipedal structure is going to be weak back here It's gonna be weak up here this way now because So I could choose to face either those directions and influence his base one of those two directions The one I'm gonna select here because this leg is already active and probably because I already post on here And he stepped to the inside is now I'm gonna pull myself into this position Okay, so we were here. He pummeled his leg to the inside. I'm gonna pull for a new connection So now his ankle is behind my knee this way All right at that point here now this hand that was behind his knee is now gonna go across This direction here, okay So now be careful on this one because we are we are putting a little bit of lateral pressure on his on this knee During this one, but hey, I mean If you've been grappling this long and you have your knees are okay, then you're not doing it, right? So when we're here this way I'm gonna start to retract this and if you've ever heard the term standing up in base or a technical stand-up That's kind of what's gonna happen here is I'm posting between my right Hand is what that is on my foot I'm blocking here, and I'm driving my shoulder behind his hamstring. All right as we go to do that here Yes, you see how he's already starting to fall forward. All right come back So we go there and then I'll also remove this leg here Okay, so that we can get to this top position. This makes sense. So what was that whole sequence? Starting from beginning we're here like this right? I'm going to make my shin to shin connection here like this He goes to pommel to the inside so I swap I turn the corner So we're facing the same direction this hand is going to reach over and across to the top of his knee this direction here Okay, I'm scooping this leg back. I'm retracting this knee here I'm driving my shoulder to his hamstring, and I'm blocking out on this knee over here this way I would like to scoop this foot off the floor if I don't he's gonna quad pod on me, and then we have a new fight Okay, so we'll go here this way right and we're gonna try What position should I wind up in? I don't know but I do know That I would like to have my hips over his hips Okay, if we're gonna make something generic of what position to come up in I want my hips over his hips somehow So that's where I'm moving to okay past his legs Hopefully all right any questions here in this position sometimes as we're coming up in here He knows that he doesn't want to be stuck like this. He knows this is not good I've got an anchor point so that means that he has to kind of pivot around this. He doesn't like it That's why this can be effective right? However, sometimes whenever we go here, and I go to reap this back to pull that out He will step out of that here. Ah Yeah, that's not good right or is it? So when we get here Suspense when we get here like this and I feel as I'm building up to that position here Right, and I feel his foot slip out. I'm switching from here here and getting that leg Okay, so now as we go to build right stepping behind him here. I'm building up this hand that goes to the ankle I'm tucking it like I'm trying to make him kick me in the groin right Don't do that too hard, but like you know we get here a pinch This hand here that came back should be palm facing down I'm gonna go wrist to wrist at least gable if not wrist to wrist here this way What about my head my head is trying to headbutt him in the liver over here. That's the right side, right? Okay, so we get here this way Okay, and then from there now we can just look to finish a single Everybody knows how to finish a single leg. No, okay. Let's talk about it So I'm gonna be fairly high up on his hamstring. I've got the pinch going here Different ways that we can look to finish this here I'll give you a couple of options that you can play with just give it for our time restrictions One we run the pipe running the pipe amounts to going from hamstring to knee this way And as I do that my back leg steps back Yeah, we go here And we finish this way, okay I'm not Circling him around down the drain. Okay, I don't want to get him hopping on that foot Okay, it might happen try not to let it right we get here and on the single and get my head to the inside No right still no Yes, okay No Yes, okay, make sense Here which hand is palm down this one right looking at the one coming from behind palm down gable Wrist to wrist here either works Right as I step my left leg my outside my back leg here It slides back and I shuck here like I'm hiking a football Right until his knee pit the public heel fossa. Where'd Ted go? Damn he left. Okay. He'll be so proud of me. So I shuck back here this way Head stays neutral if your head drifts to the outside here, right? It's perfectly fine The reason I say it like that is because Coming up. We're like, oh, don't ever put your hand on the outside on a single leg. You're gonna get guillotine. All right, it's not a real thing Here this way and shut My head comes the outside. It's okay. I'm not aiming to do it. That's okay if it slips Right, we should wind up in this kind of headquarters position like this make sense Of course it does I explained it perfectly watch this here We're in this position right and again what created this I went to my shen to shen he pummeled his leg to the inside Right, I switched around the corner. I'm coming up to hike that here. He brings a leg out I hike up here right tucking his ankle between my two legs Here palm down this way. Okay. There's two orientations Sometimes you call it pronated or supinated I tend to refer to it as John Cena or Beyonce So the Cena hand is where it's palm up this way the Beyonce hand is this way. Okay, so that's the orientation So bottom hand is Beyonce right need that there that also gets your head in the right place too When you single ladies it like here this way and then the Cena hand comes up and again Palm to palms fine wrist to wrist a little better. I go back to shuck here this way. Okay, cool Again, watch your space be aware of your surroundings on this one any questions Let's go one two three Depending on the quality of connection that I make and the separation that we have so I don't have a lot of connection right here As far as actual physical connection. I've got two points essentially maybe three But there's a lot of space and space equals opportunity. Okay So what does that mean for me? It means that I need to be very active in those situations, right? the more connection I have I can Theoretically spend a little bit more time if you're in a tight top pin or you're in a tight connection chest to chest or chest to back Then you can spend a little more time cooking the other person right or surviving if you're on the receiving end right here Action needs to take place. Okay, because until action takes place doubt exists. All right, so whenever we're here like this What are we talking about? Oh, so from here another way that we can use this here And I'm gonna grab this way too is I'm gonna pull his knee toward me and I'm gonna extend this This is nothing's happening over here. This leg is being problematic. He's being a pain in my butt So like from this position here, I'm going to bring my head toward this ankle over here, right now EJ is gonna probably be a Compliant slash complacent partner for me and he's probably gonna fall in a weird way. So let's see what happens. We go here this way Yeah, not too bad, right, that's not gonna happen, but right so When we get here, he's gonna remain standing for the sake of this because likely he'll remain standing anyway When we go here again, I'm not falling straight back. I fall straight back. I pull him past my guard, right? It's really stupid, right? So instead from here I'm falling this direction if you want to let go of the hand and post on the knee perfectly fine But the main thing is that I'm pulling his knee toward me and extending my shin Through his ankle the result of that if we do super slow motion here this way stay up stay up stay up is That I put his ankle in my hip pocket, right? Now I'm not done I don't want to stay flat on my back and try to wrap my legs around him because this is nothing Right might be less than nothing. So instead I need to get my hips I'm trying to put my crotch on the back of his hamstring. Don't make it weird. We go here this way I'm trying to touch my anaconda brace, which for a limited time only you can get two for $59 when you use my discount code So we're here. I'm trying to touch my knee to the ankle laces out, right? This foot is hooking behind his butt on this side. You see so we establish this kind of connection, right? From here different off balancing kind of things Will happen sometimes right now? EJ probably doesn't like this feeling it feels like he's kind of stepping in quicksand right here, right? He knows something's up feels like I might start attacking his legs or something crazy So he's gonna try to get rid of my connections one of the best ways to do that is to go to the foot Here not the heel though the heels can work, but I'm very strong I don't know if you saw the size of my quads, but come on But if you go to the end of the lever of the foot here and try us to twist my toes back that way I don't like that and that will typically start to remove my foot here Once that happens my hips drop back down. Okay, so that's when I'm gonna kick him in the butt and make him fall forward this way Okay, so let's rewind what all just happened. There's too much talking All right, we get here I go in I pull and I establish this position here. He doesn't like it He pushes that off. I kick him forward here this way. Okay We go to here Everybody good to hear Now my legs here Remember in the 80s when you used to break dance, right? We're gonna do that We're gonna create this little windmill spin like that. Okay, and I'm gonna circle back to here Okay, I put my ear on his thigh this way I build up to my knee here post to my hand and I keep driving and then eventually This hand leaves the near leg and goes to the far leg Okay Then your microphone comes off So from here I don't know if that will pick up look here I Enter he strips I kick forward post up this way, right? Shelfing the leg holding here to the hip and leaves the near leg finds the far leg here, right? Drive Keep the legs together Otherwise you're gonna wind up either in his garden or maybe a triangle Or maybe just eat the knee to your face because you let separation What is your goal in training? Jiu-jitsu, right? What are you trying to do? What are you trying to accomplish? What's the end goal and then I think these are things you need to ask yourself personally Because it's gonna be different for different people You know some people and a lot of people what they start with in mind is not what keeps them around, right? You may have walked in to training initially because you wanted Fitness or you wanted a hobby or you wanted self-defense or you wanted to be the next UFC champion You wanted to do something, right? But oftentimes what keeps you around is a lot of other stuff, right? It's the camaraderie. It's the challenges that you you start to find out so things you start to find out about yourself through training We used to use the the phrase here. I really like this one of my favorite three rivers Like models or slogans or whatever? Awaken your potential, right? Because that like it sounds positive sounds like a good little marketing phrase, right sounds like waking your potential That doesn't mean anything positive necessarily, right? Sometimes that can mean something like really negative. It's like, oh, this was my potential. Yeah, I don't like that about myself Right, but I think it's really cool when you can find something that helps you reveal something about yourself that you didn't know was in there You know good or bad right because I mean you I Think probably it's more valuable to find out the bad things sometimes and Maybe you can work through it, right? So there's a therapeutic aspect to shi shi too too. All right So I don't keep brambling on about stuff that I want to talk about Let's open up the last piece here to any kind of questions if it can be completely unrelated to anything that we worked on today But if you think that I might have some kind of opinion on it because I've been doing this stuff for a little while Then I'm happy to try to address it for you. Yeah, sir Hmm Well again depends on your goal, you know, but you want to get better at jujitsu, right?  allow yourself to get into bad positions. I say that to everybody, like from day one, you don't really have much of an option in the early days. You're going to get in bad positions whether you want to or not, right? But later, like later on, you start getting better, and you don't really have to get in those bad positions anymore, right? So then maybe deliberately start in those bad positions, because you're going to understand, I think, a lot by finding those bad spots and not just learning technical responses that you're having to be spoon-fed, because, again, techniques are techniques are techniques, right? But they should be delivery vehicles for underlying principles, and the way that you're going to uncover those yourself is you want to develop the ability to be able to get into a foreign position that you're not really sure of the technical right curriculum way to get out of it, and you're going to have to figure your way out of that thing, right? So a lot of that comes from reverse engineering things, right? If you know the offensive aspect of it, maybe reverse engineering or deconstruct it, and then you come up with the defense for it, right? So there's a lot that can be learned through bad positions, reverse engineering, deconstructing, and then come up with the offense yourself, right? In fact, Jared Jessup and I made a whole instructional that today is on sale for the daily deal 50% off at BJJ Fanatics called... Like, I'm not even making that up. They sent me a message that's like, hey, you're a daily deal today, so it's 50% off. But now, that was the concept of it, though, specifically addressed chokes, right? We looked at different styles of chokes, head and arm chokes, different kind of kata kata means and everything else. And then the goal of it, though, we were trying to do something that's a little more concept and principle-based to be able to show people not just these are the answers, but these are how you can come up with the answers on your own. Then let's go through and look at the things that we covered today, okay? So it was the first thing that we were talking about. Man, I don't even remember. I don't remember the exact details, right? Yeah, well, the game's a side. We started out with this two-on-one kind of connection here like this, right? And when I used this to start making my hook, getting my connection to his knee so I have this shindish in position, I make him step forward here. Because I know he's going to step back, or I assume he's going to step back, but I'm hooking and I'm hitting the inside and I'm using that to get myself to the top position. So we make that double kochi right there, right? From there, we started to look at this here. I made him step with a little more weight this time. So then we tuck the leg here and I go to the ankle. The head goes to the inside of the knee here like this. I maintain control over here. And then as we come up here this way, then now we're to the top position again, okay? What do we do beyond that? Then I toss the foot of the middle. Right, yeah, then EJ screwed everything up by then pummeling his foot to the inside. So then that's whenever we looked at hitting around the corner. We blocked out on the knee and then the first thing was making the trip off of here this direction, right? Then come up to the chase the back, right? We plugged in the last thing that we were doing. We plugged in to where if he steps out of that, where he steps out of that here, then we come into the single leg and then we finish the single leg, right? When we started looking at pummeling in on the shin to shin, here like this, and how we could look to sitting in, getting to the single leg X, he goes to clear, right, this way, and then from there, we wrestle up to the inside here this way, right? Stacking up, posting here this way. I'm going to reach to the far outside of the leg here, double up on that, keep the legs together and make the take down that way, right? We also looked at what if instead we go in to a similar position from here, he clears this way. I take him forward, maybe there's a little more weight on this leg, so then we come up to the outside and we chase the back, okay? I leave anything out. I feel like I did, but let's find out, okay? Let's run through that one time each, guys. If you have any questions, let me know. One, two, three.