So now that we've talked about you, we can talk a little bit about me. My name is Teresa Shaheen and I'm the Sheila and Ron 92BA Marcelo lecturer in social entrepreneurship at the Yale School of Management. I know it's an incredibly long title. My training is in public health and my work background is in community- based action. I've worked with communities around the world in different capacities. My work has taken me to different parts of the US, UK, Brazil, India, China, Malaysia, Mexico, Bangladesh, Egypt, Tunisia, Lebanon, and even Kazakhstan. I've had the opportunity to work in government, private sector, and grassroots setting. One of the endeavors I'm most proud of in my career is Alfanadar Venture Philanthropy, which I helped launch in my home country of Lebanon. Alfanadar means lighthouse in Arabic and we support social enterprises serving the most marginalized populations through tailored financing and technical support. A lot of the tools and templates I use in my course are based on my work experience with these social enterprises. Today I teach at Yale School of Management. My students come from across campus. Some are undergraduates, others are pursuing professional degrees in management, global affairs, public health, divinity, arts and sciences, and the environment. I teach to learn, and I created my first course in 2012 at the Harvard Thchan School of Public Health, where I had completed my doctorate degree two years prior in social and environmental determinance of health. I felt frustrated that I had spent five years at Harvard and was fully trained in studying problems but not in creating solutions. I wanted to figure out how I might go about organizing information about a topic of my choice and creating some kind of offering that I could implement to start taking action. That's how I came up with the framework in this course, which is a 10-stage framework to building impact. I now teach this course at Yale and I'm so excited to be able to share it with you.