Hi, I'm Peter Boyd, Yale lecturer and founder of Time for Good. Welcome to the hunt, a course designed to help you job search with purpose and take ownership of your career journey with purpose, strategy, and clarity. Whether you're actively job searching, considering switching directions, or aiming higher where you are now, The Hunt gives you the tools to reflect deeply, act intentionally, and move forward confidently toward your next opportunity. This course is grounded in three core ideas for you. First, your job search isn't just about getting a job. It's about finding a better fit for who you are and who you're becoming. The harder the internal work to connect with what you uniquely want and what you uniquely can bring, the more lifeaffirming, likely more fun, and maybe even a bit easier the search will be. Second, great careers over the long run. and the next job move in the short term are best built through building real human connections especially in a world which can feel increasingly transactional automated and AIdriven third there are learnable tools and tactics to help increase your effective activity on outreach networking and interviewing and ultimately landing the job and with these tools you can and indeed need to hustle as Kevin Buchanan's book title reads the world needs your hustle. If you've taken my other Cressera course, Connect to Leadership, you'll find this course builds on that content, focusing on aligning your purpose, priorities, potential, and tracking your progress. We'll be using this connection of the four Ps is a structure, but the hunt is intentionally shorter as a course, more tactical, and can be taken on its own. It's geared for you to take immediate action to help you find that next step. In addition to connected leadership, this course has other sources of inspiration. So much wisdom on this important task is already out there. Like many, I've been inspired by others who have essential and useful tips for those looking for their next step. Examples that I refer to but also recommend you explore on your own include term Tim Urban from wait but why Phil Terry author of never search alone and Zoe Chance amazing professor at the school of management here at Yale and author of influence is your superpower Chris Freighic on networking and many more so by the end of this course you'll be working with a clearly articulated purpose and the impact you aspire to make a sharp personal pitch and suite of stories that resonate with potential employers, collaborators, and supporters. Strong networking tactics to build meaningful, high benefit connections that suit your personal style, and practical tools to navigate career options aligned with your values, strengths, and goals. I cover what I call helping you with three levels, two triangles, and a square, resulting in your own personalized hunt dashboard, a sheet that makes your search clear, purposeful, and actionable, and helps you hold yourself to account for making progress. While I cover triangles and a square later, the three levels is the frame for this introduction. The best job hunt starts with your personal work looking inward. From there, you craft your stories, the things you want the hiring and helping world to know about what you're looking for and what you bring. And then on top, you can build the hustle and build the cell. I used to think of the hunt as a solo activity. The cover page of my workshops at the time was even of a leopard known for this hunting strategy. I've come to understand that hunting for the next job is much better done with others. Even when ultimately the role is only yours to take on, you can recruit many people to help you from a personal advisory board to a job search council invoking Phil Terry's work to the network that could introduce you to the hiring team. And through this course, we encourage you to engage with other hunters online, on discussion boards, and peer-reviewed assignments, and in person, as we nudge you to find others in your community to help you with your search. We believe, like Phil and many others, that you should never hunt alone. Before we go any further on the course itself, let's you and I reflect on the moments we're in. A time of rapid change. A vaua world prone to volatility, uncertainty, complexity, and ambiguity. Though coined in a 1990s postcold war military context, this term's use was broadened across sectors from the postfinancial crisis of 2008. And now as we experience the technology advances, the political instability and huge challenges facing the planet and society of just this last year, we have taken VUA to a whole new level. This brings significant challenges as well as opportunities. Either way, it is not an easy time to be job searching. But it is important to remember you were not alone in these challenges. Both across the world right now and across generations, we've been going through these challenges. Many others are experiencing similar situations. This is a time of opportunity and deep need as well as difficulty and scarcity. Many have found their calling in similar times of change and strife. While it might not feel like it, it can actually be a good time to move if you're ready. In addition to the external world exerting profound change on us, we also have our internal world that shapes our view, especially in the job search. I like this illustration from Tim Urban in Wait, But why to remind us that though we had many options in the past, we ultimately took one path, however twisted and winding, it is looking forward now that is more important than contemplating the dead, dark branches of what could have been.