I've got an exercise for you at this early stage to help anchor your head and heart in these times you find yourself in. I also wrote a short piece about this that you can find in the course notes. The exercise is called sketching your spheres. Job searching and figuring out your next career move can be incredibly stressful. It is strengthening to acknowledge that stress and the underlying causes. Know that you're not alone and know there are tools to help you. Nyber's serenity prayer, asking for the wisdom to know the difference, grounds us in a good tool to consider our spheres of concern, influence, and control. I recommend thinking and jotting down some notes on the outer sphere, largest one first. This outer sphere of concern can capture our angst on paper. Think about all your thinking and feeling about your job search, life outside work. And you may also include thoughts about the wider world in your country. Then come right in and focus on what you can really control. What are those things that are in that sphere of control? James Clear in his book Atomic Habits said, "Your outcomes are lagging indicators of your habits. You get what you repeat. The area in the middle is a good place to ponder. Third, what could you help change with concerted effort, positively influencing what's around you, and working with others to do more than you could do alone? This could be closing a big deal at work, creating an inclusive community in your neighborhood, and indeed landing that great job you had in mind when you signed up for this course. that actually may be something that is between concern and control. Please locate the our spheres page in your workbook. Once you've paused this video to write down what came to mind, now match your thoughts and feelings with actions you know you can take and for each sphere. For the outer sphere of concern, your to-do can be as simple as choosing not to focus on a particular negative influence or circumstance. Or it could be other forms of self-care, like being in nature or yoga. For areas in your control, you can certainly decide how many leads to pursue, even if you can't control if and when they respond. The last part of this exercise is to then star or asterisk the one to three actions that could make the most positive difference to you right now. We'll return to your spheres later in the course and sharpen these actions over time.