Let me tell you a bit of my story and how this course fits in. As I said, I'm Peter Boyd. I'm a lecturer at the Yale School of the Environment. I'm also resident fellow at the Yale Center for Business and the Environment and founder and CEO of Time for Good. I have coached hundreds of students, entry- levelvel job seekers, mid-level managers, senior executives, exiting founders on how to excel in the job they have. and when appropriate find their next step in their career. I'm passionate about helping everyone find their purpose and be the best leader that they can be. My own career has taken a nonlinear path across sectors from consulting at McKenzie after studying philosophy, politics and economics at Oxford to holding 10 roles in 12 years at the Virgin Group including CEO of Virgin Mobile in South Africa. I've also worked in the nonprofit space, helping to launch and lead the carbon war room with Sir Richard Branson and have served as a government adviser on both sides of the Atlantic in the UK government as chair of the energy efficiency deployment office and in the USA advising the loan programs office of the US Department of Energy. I tried to volunteer both at the global level such as with the UN high level champions race to zero campaign and locally on the board of the sustainability charity in Westport, my hometown in Connecticut, USA. At each turn or major fork in the road, I've always try to pick the roles that connect what I really think I want to and should be doing next and what I could uniquely bring to the tasks at hand. As I've done more and more one-on-one coaching and teaching, I found I was reusing the same advice for job seekers again and again. So, started to formalize those tips as in-person workshops at Yale. Over the years, I've toured with that workshop in and outside Yale and integrated it into leadership curriculum as well as learn from so many that I've spoken to. So in addition to my day jobs of teaching and coaching that have exposed me to a lot of different career paths and frameworks and tools on how to help those hunting, I think my own international nonlinear cross- sector working life has also informed the content you'll get on this course. Outside of work, I like many try to carve out time for family, friends, and neighbors and fitness. For many years, I've tried to take on endurance challenges, running marathons and ultramarathons like the Marathon Dabla. Marathon Dabla is a multi-stage race across a corner of the Sahara in Morocco, averaging a marathon a day for six days. I completed it just before I turned 30 and then went back again last year when I turned 50. From something obviously this physical, there were leadership and mental wellness lessons I think could help any hunter. First, we are strong. We can take on hard goals if we align our head and heart to achieve them. Second, that we are even stronger in community. A challenge like that made me realize how much we rely on so many people to accomplish anything hard worth doing. In this case, it goes way beyond my core running and tentmates in the desert and my family at home supporting. It extends to the volunteers along the route, the professional medical staff and so many more. Third, that the admin is vital. Just as ensuring the hour before dawn that sand will not get into my feet and all the food for the week has been vacuum sealed and calorie counted to the ounce or the gram in the job search. Keeping on top of the admin is everything too where they're tracking your warm leads to thanking the people you've just met and loads more besides. Fourth, that the mental is at least as important as the physical and vice versa. Out in the desert, I had to keep focused enough on the goal, but trust the process and the training, not getting too attached to the outcome that I could never 100% control. Just like searching for a job where you are seldom in control of the outcome, but you are in control of the training, the hustle, and more. Through all these experiences, I've always been fascinated by what makes leaders great. How do we connect with ourselves, others, and the world around us to do truly meaningful work? This fascination is at the heart of this course. The Hunt is about helping you take ownership of your career path. Whether you're looking for your next opportunity or trying to build a more fulfilling, purpose-aligned life. During the course, you'll be crafting a succinct impact statement, vision, or mission if you will. Think a guiding thought on what you want to contribute and who you want to help. Before you begin, here's the current version of my own mission statement. My vision is of a world that learns to live and lead for good. My mission is to uplift leaders wherever they are to maximize their time for good. It's why I'm excited to help you on this course. Let's get started and help you find your next job.