As we end module one and dive into the content, let's explore a simple but powerful framework I developed called connected leadership. The connected leadership framework is a useful tool to help you gain clarity and make decisions with confidence. You can rely on it as you navigate all kinds of life decisions. But let's relate it to your career for now. I love physical analogies as they help us internalize and remember. You could think of connected leadership as a rope made of four fibers. Our ability to thrive as a purpose-driven leader is only at its strongest when all the fibers are strong. Being present and intentional across all four of these Ps makes the strongest possible rope. So these four Ps apply to ourselves, but also to the team and the system. In addition to physical analogies, I'm also a big fan of quotes as there are so many brilliant people that have come before us that we can learn from and be inspired by. And so as we work on the four Ps of the self, I'm inspired by channeling Maya Angelos's be yourself only better. At the team level, I'm inspired by the African proverb that says, "If you want to go fast, go alone. If you want to go far, go together. And finally, at the system level and planning for system, knowledge and positive change indeed be the change you wish to see in the world as attributed to Gandhi. This twodimensional connection from purpose to progress and self to team to system is covered in depth in the connected leadership course. Links to enroll are in the course notes. But when we apply the same framework and logic flow to the hunt, it's about knowing what really gets you excited, articulating what's important to you, but also what makes you important to others and then driving your hunt from those first two things and working off one spreadsheet. So by each P, you will have purpose clarified why you're here, what you really want and gets you going, what's important and what's not. priorities. Highly personalized, organized suite of stories around what you're looking for and what you bring. Potential vividly imagine what success looks like. Personalized lists of opportunities and allies and progress. A multi-tab dashboard spreadsheet that keeps you focused, hustling, honest with yourself, and improving. This framework in essence is scaffolding. I wrap it around just about um any person looking for a job. Um and it works. It allows you to build with both hands. But the genius, the hard part, the hard work is in the building itself. That's where the complexity is and the rewards. So, wherever you are on your career path, these four Ps offer structure to help you reflect, reset, and move forward with confidence and purpose. So, let's get going. We've got exercises and tools for each of these four Ps. But to close this first module, let's turn to some of Hunt alums that have used this framework to find their next steps.