The approach we are using has three main components that all work together to develop behavior. One part is called antecedance and refers to what we can do before a behavior takes place to make the desired behaviors more likely to occur. Another part is the behaviors and refers to what you can do to get the specific behaviors you wish. The third part is consequences or what we do after the behavior is completed. Remember the ABCs. This lesson focuses on a the antecedants. Anticedants and their role in changing behavior are less familiar than consequences, but they are critical to developing behavior. So what are antecedants? Well, antecedants are various things you can say and do that increase the likelihood the behavior will occur. Actually antecedants can make behavior more or less likely depending on the delivery. Let us consider an example of antecedants from everyday life that influence our behavior. Have you ever said to your partner the following statement in a very sweet and innocent manner? If you really loved me, you would go to this family event with me. The if you really loved me part along with your tone and expression are antecedants that you hope will increase the likelihood of going to the family event. Of course, the wise partner may respond with his or her own anticedent and say, "If you really loved me, you would not even ask me to go to another one of those family events." Whether that particular scenario is familiar or not, you get the idea. Anticcedants or setting events which I will go into later are all around us and are used routinely but they are rarely used strategically in special ways to develop behavior and build the beha the habits you would like in your child. So there are three types of antecedants that can play a huge role in changing behavior. The first type is easy and is referred to as prompts. Prompts are direct ways to guide behavior. Typically, they take the form of instructions that ask or tell someone to do something. Usually, prompts are verbal statements like, "Please put away your toys." But prompts can be physical and visual to directly guide the behavior you want your child to do. For example, you might say to your child, "Please brush your teeth before bed." This is a verbal prompt which states exactly what to do. After the verbal prompt, you could walk your child to the bathroom, maybe holding his or her hand, and that would be a physical prompt. Now, depending on the situation, you may want to use modeling as a visual prompt by saying something like this. Here, let me show you how to brush your teeth. And you slowly model putting toothpaste on the brush and actually brushing. And that would be a visual prompt. In everyday child hearing, verbal prompts are used all the time in statements like go to your room, start your homework. Now prompts are probably familiar to you. So let us move on to the other two types of antecedants that are less familiar but really interesting. The second type of anticedants are referred to as positive setting events. These are indirect antecedants that greatly increase the likelihood of a behavior. They are called setting events because they set the stage for the behavior you want. Now, business and industry have grasped the power of positive setting events in many ways. Specific scents and fragrances are often introduced into hotel lobbies and hospitals, airplanes, and homes that are for sale to influence our reaction. In child rearing and developing behavior in children, setting events usually have to do with how something is said or presented. We know that the same request may or may not lead to compliance based on how it is delivered. I will give you some examples of positive setting events and different ways of saying things in just a few minutes. This brings us to the third type of antecedent event which is called negative setting events. And negative setting events are those indirect antecedines that decrease the likelihood of a behavior or increase some behavior you really don't want. These are often subtle like your tone of voice and how you phrase something. A harsh tone alone is enough to make your child not likely to follow your instructions. On top of that, limiting a child's choice with phrases like, "Do it because I said so," or, "I'm the parent and you have to do this." Those negative setting events really decrease the likelihood that the behavior that you want will occur and increase the likelihood of non-compliance. Adding pressure and threats such as, "You better do this now," will also not help you get the behaviors you want. Aggressive orders do not make the behavior more likely in the short or long term. Such orders are definitely not the way to build habits. So, let me summarize. I've mentioned prompts, positive setting events, and negative setting events. What you say and how you say it can either be a positive setting event or a negative setting event. and changes in your delivery in tone, volume, body language can greatly increase or decrease the chances of getting the behaviors you would like to see in your child. Now that we have covered the definition of these terms, let us go into the specific key ingredients of helpful antecedants. You can increase the odds of compliance by using clear and specific prompts. Most prompts are too general and ant makes them less effective. For example, go clean your room. That's too general and it's not as good as saying, "Pick up all of the clothes on the floor and put them in the laundry hamper." Or, "Pick up five pieces of clothing from the floor before you come down to dinner." You will not have to spell out all the little details all of the time, but when you are trying to develop a new behavior, it is good idea to start out breaking it down exactly into the parts you would like to see. When giving a prompt, consider how you are making a request, how you are setting the event. What is the tone of voice or your facial expression? Whenever you can use a gentle tone of voice, saying to a child, "Put on your coat," is much more likely to get compliance if the tone is gentle and the facial expression matches that. In contrast, ordering your child to put on the coat, pointing and frowning is a bit more harsh, and that delivery alone will increase the likelihood that your child does not comply with your request. Remember, that is a negative setting event. Another positive setting event is to offer choices whenever possible. When humans have choices, they are much more likely to comply. So maybe the behavior you want can occur now or maybe later. Maybe it can be done in one way or another. These are choices. For example, you could say to your child, "We are going outside. Please put on your green sweater or your red coat." The choice greatly increases the likelihood that the child would put on something right away. If you just said, "Put on your green sweater," you may still get the behavior. Gentle request may be enough for your child. However, if you're having any problems with compliance by adding choice, it'll increase the impact. Another antecedent that helps increase compliance is to add the word please to your prompt. Of course, you don't have to run around the house saying please all day. Here is the rationale for saying please. First, the tone of voice of the parent tends to be more gentle when the request begins with please. And second, please implies choice even though choice is not stated. So based on what we have covered so far, saying please is essentially two antecedants for the effort of one. Let me clarify. Please usually helps but is not a magic word. So saying an exasperated please with your eyes rolled back would not work. Your frustration would be a negative setting event. Now, not all parents are comfortable saying please to their child and that is fine. I mention the use of please because it is one positive setting event that can increase compliance. It should be in your toolbox but of course you can choose not to use it. Another anthine would be offering assistance or a little help to start the behavior. Offering assistance increases the chances that your child will engage in the behavior you would like to see. For example, if you are trying to get your child to begin homework, say, "Please get started on your homework." Bring out your notebook and bring it to the table and I can help with the assignment. Extending help conveys a gentle mindset that you are willing to be there and can attend to your child. Also, starting a behavior sometimes is the most difficult part. Providing brief assistance to your child can start the activity or behavior and we can withdraw the assistance pretty soon and praise starting the behavior without any assistance. Another positive setting event that is actually fun for the child is using a playful challenge. A playful challenge can help get the behavior to occur and even to occur a couple of times in a row. Remember the goal with anticedants, including the challenge, we are trying to get repeated practice of a behavior. So it becomes completely routine and automatic. Here's how the challenge helps to do that. When a child does a behavior you wish, you say something like this with a very mischievous smile. I bet you can't do that again. I I bet you can't do that twice in a row. No child could do that twice in a row until they're all grown up. Again, we're not just throwing out some random challenge, but using this for a behavior you want to develop. The more times the child actually does the behavior you want, the more habitual that becomes and the sooner we can stop the program. So, when you say, "I'll bet you cannot do that again." Most children will respond, "Oh yes, I I can I can do that again." And they'll smile and they'll try to persuade you to let them try. You let them do the behavior again. And remember to praise that effusively to lock in that behavior. So let me recap the antecedence you have in your toolkit. Let me use getting your child to go outside as our scenario. So to get that behavior to occur, use a clear prompt to outline exactly what you want to be done. So get ready to go outside might imply you want your child to wear a jacket and boots, but be more specific. You could revise that to say, "We are going outside. Put on your coat and your boots and please meet me on the front door." Notice how calm and as a matter of fact the delivery was. When you are trying to get a behavior and to develop a habit of doing that behavior, try to speak to your child in a calm, gentle tone with a facial expression that matches. Instead of projecting your voice to yell the prompt across the room, get closer to the child. Even bend down to his or her level to increase the likelihood of compliance. If gentle requests are not enough, try making a choice as part of that. You could say to your child, "We are going outside. Put on your boots and green sweater or your red coat. It's up to you. Saying please might not be your style, but try adding please to your request and see if your child is more likely to follow your instructions. Going back over our example, you could say, "Please put on your coat and your boots because we're going outside." Now again, we want the behavior to occur so it can be praised and be locked in. An antecedent is like like please can help get the behavior to occur. Similarly, the situation might not call for it, but try offering assistance if your child has not been complying with a particular behavior. Again, using our example, you could offer to help find the jacket in the closet or offer assistance in zipping up the jacket. Another antecedent you could try is a playful challenge to start the behavior to get him or her to do the behavior again. For example, you could say to your child, "I bet you can't get your jacket and boots on in under two minutes." No child your age could ever do that. You'd have to be a superhero to get your jacket and your boots on. All these are anticedants, things that you can do and say before a behavior, and they've been shown to increase the likelihood that the behavior will occur. Again, the purpose in mentioning all of this is not to change all of your prompts and setting events at home, but if you're having difficulty in getting the behavior you want, the use of anticedants can really help. Please also note that you do not have to use all of the anticedants at once. You can experiment with these different strategies to see which one works for you and your child. As with any of the tools we have discussed, there are questions that may arise. For antecedants, here are the most common questions. First, parents sometimes say, "I give prompts all day, and trust me, they do not work." Common phrases parents use are, "If I've told you once, I've told you a thousand times." Or, "You know what to do, just do it." Both of those prompts are extremely ineffective. Parents often give too many prompts too often, and that is called nagging. You may feel that you have to nag otherwise your child will not do what you ask. If you tend to nag as a parent, well, that's called normal. But if you find yourself nagging your child, consider following more of what we have covered in this video. Gentle tone of voice, adding choice, and other positive setting events. Remember, prompts get the behavior going, but to get the behavior consistently, it has to be praised when it occurs. This is the critical consequence. A second question that comes up is why do I need to use anticedants in this special way at all. Remember for all of the videos, if your current child rearing practices are working the way you like and you're getting all the behaviors you want from your child, there's no need to use special techniques. You can keep the behavior change tools we have discussed in the toolbox. All of the videos are about situations in which you would like to be more effective in changing particular child behaviors. When you want help to instill a particular behavior, you can pull one of these tools from your behavior change toolkit. These tools are different ways of applying antecedance, crafting the behaviors, and providing consequences. The ABCs. For example, saying please or adding a playful challenge might not be intuitive, but these prompts and positive setting events can be extremely powerful in initiating the desired behavior. Finally, parents often ask, "How long do I have to keep giving these special prompts?" Of course, at some point, we want our children to do the behaviors without having to be there or give any prompts or reminders. If you prompt the behaviors to get it going and praise the behavior when it occurs, you'll eventually establish the positive habit. There is no way to say exactly how long you'll have to use these prompts and the consequences for any given behavior. The key is how often you can praise the behavior. More practice locks in the behavior. If you see the behavior when the prompt is given, be sure to praise that. If you see the behavior when the prompt wasn't given, really praise that. I did not even ask you to do that, and you started your homework right away. That is great. Depending on the behavior, the unique features of your child, and the opportunities for praise, the need for more special prompts could be between one and three weeks. It's hard to say. The tools are designed for short-term use. but they lead to long-term change. Let me close by commenting on the use of the tools we are discussing in this course. Each video discusses a tool to change behavior, but more than one tool can be used to make the changes you want. Anticedants can be extremely effective in getting the behaviors to occur and that is one set of tools. Yet, they are rarely used in a systematic or special way that will develop longlasting new behaviors. I hope you practice using antecedants. So the special prompts and positive setting events become more natural for you. I will outline a practice exercise in the next video so you can work on effective anticedants. You will hear this many times in this course. Remember to practice praising behavior that you want whenever you can. You might be surprised at the result. Combining anticedants and consequences and using them consistently will get the behavior you wish to be practiced repeatedly. We are discussing a temporary procedure and you use them for a little while to get the behaviors of the child that you seek. The behaviors continue after you stop. We will have more tools in other videos.