Hello, my name is Ben Sult. I am the ecosystem builder and entrepreneur and residence at the Martin Trust Center for MIT entrepreneurship. I was previously an environmental innovation fellow at CBE and Sci City and I am also an alum of the Yale School of Environment as well as the Yale School of Management graduating in 2019. Yes, I have used many tools from the hunt in my job searching process, including the practical and tactical ones that uh were provided by by the hunt. I would have a spreadsheet where I would keep track of everyone I talked to and all of the opportunities that I was considering. Having a structured process and keeping track of that information in something that was simple but comprehensive was incredibly useful uh in knowing where to circle back on an opportunity, how to compare different opportunities and just how to remember. I was in very professionally oriented graduate programs where people are looking at a lot of opportunities. they're coming through in formal ways and informal ways and it was always really helpful just to click open that spreadsheet and anytime new information or new touch point uh came out a new opportunity I just add it into the spreadsheet uh and there are a lot of things that I was able to capture that way and having the spreadsheet also encouraged me to seek out more information where it was needed and fill in some of those gaps. It was also really helpful to use structured analysis when comparing between different opportunities. This is something that came from the Hunt resources and also a lot of my direct conversations with Peter. Uh actually list out what my criteria were, weight those criteria and score those criteria. Now deciding on different job opportunities has this sense of urgency because there's real people, real opportunities, and it's often multiple years of your life you're committing to to the job. Uh so it feels weighty and heavy and they may not really be apples to apples. They may be on different timelines. They may entail all of these factors in terms of location and compensation and impact and uh colleagues. And so actually writing those things out was very helpful and Peter really pushed me to quantify them and it feels like these things are unquantifiable because it's not like you can directly measure them. But I think one of the great parts of the hunt is that it it pushes you to quantify things because sometimes it's better to have something than nothing even if the numbers aren't perfect. And that exercise of quantifying, you know, of course it's all subjective. uh you can't quantify these things with 100% accuracy, but just that exercise of trying to quantify the different factors was so so helpful in helping me to decide. And it's not just, you know, what do the numbers say at the end, it's how do you feel about the numbers? Because sometimes if you see one thing rank highly than another and it doesn't sit right, you can question that feeling. Well, okay, this one comes out higher on paper in my quantification, but it doesn't feel right that it's this much higher than the other one. Why is that? Maybe I'm not including certain criteria that I feel and understand but haven't articulated, or maybe I'm not waiting things correctly. Maybe I'm not truly understanding what's important to me. So, I think you can do artificial quantification where you put numbers to things and you you put your your heart aside. You let your head take over. But I think what's great about these kinds of exercises and this kind of structure is that it actually allows your heart and your head to work together. And there's reinforcement and feedback between them. And that's the important part is the process of how do you get those things to work together and how do you read and understand the feedback that's happening between those mechanisms? Uh what you feel, what you think. Uh putting it all on paper helps you to actually make decisions in an intentional way. uh and really better understand yourself and what you care about and that is what I love about the tools in the hunt. >> Hi, my name is Farzana Mubashira. I'm originally from Bangladesh and I just graduated from uh the Yale School of Environment with a Master of Environmental Management specializing in business and energy. Um before coming to Yale I worked as a consultant as an energy consultant with an MFI and I also have my own startup. It's a clean energy startup based in South Asia. We provide clean alternative fuel to uh slum users at a low cost. And that's actually where my love for renewable energy came in because before that I was in petroleum engineer which we call the dark side. So, I've made a 182 shift and uh yes, I recently got hired as a clean a senior clean energy specialist with Con Edison. So, I will be now definitely working on the clean energy aspect of things. >> Great. And the exciting other link is you're also a teaching fellow on this very course. >> Yes, I am. So, it's good to be behind the behind the scene. >> Behind the scenes and in front of camera >> and in front of camera >> and in front of camera. Initially when I was scanning I honestly did not have a system because I knew the end goal that I wanted to work in clean energy space but I had no specific role in mind. So it made my search process very chaotic because I was applying left and right to whatever energy related role I could find and that was not a good system because I was not getting any call backs and I also was not sure what to highlight on my resume because I wasn't sure what roles to apply to. So the hunt was very helpful in that regard because it really helped me narrow down what I bring to the table but also what I want in the workspace and in the role. So having that visualized piece in front of me really helped me then a figure out what are the main points I want to highlight on my resume but also what are the roles that align best with what I bring and what is the what what is it that I want out of that role. So initially I was only using the triangles to focus on myself and build myself. what my resume should look like instead of you know highlighting all 10 different skills narrowing it down to the main two or three that I really want them to notice. But during the process I realized that the other triangle which we usually overlook which is what we want from them what I am looking for piece because it's a competitive job market and we nowadays take what we get but then you start resenting that role or resenting that position because it's not aligned. So fortunately for me I also did uh try to align the role with what I wanted not just with what I was bringing. So it helped to filter out first from my end what I bring. So my resume it helped me tailor my resume helped me look for jobs that I wanted but also it helped me narrow down and filter out what company was the right fit for me. So when I had multiple offers, it then helped me narrow it down to which company I wanted to sign with. So that triangle I feel like is something we all overlook initially when we're on the hunt. But that piece is really important, >> especially as an international student in today's job market. I also had to think about, you know, >> sponsorships and visa and all of those additional factors. Uh my role had to be aligned with my STEM. So even with those restrictions um initially when I was just applying without any strategy without any filters I think that's why I was not getting any calls because you can tell when you read my older resumeumés that this is all over the place >> uh you know this is like all over the place where's what's your mo like you cannot tell what what was my main selling point >> once I figured out what I wanted and where I want to go that allowed me to then uh create my selling story what I am bringing like what's my pitch >> so the more with more time and with these tools of the hunt I actually prepared you know my selling pitch >> and that really then helped me well two things again going back to the same thing that it helped me then be more picky with what where I was applying instead of just applying everywhere >> and also how I was presenting myself. So all of the roles that I started getting calls for that all happened like they started simultaneously. I think it's only after I did put in the effort to filter out both my uh job search, my resume and also the kind of roles and places I was applying for. Hello everyone, my name is Xiao and I graduated from Yo School of the Environment YC in 2024. I was on the job market for 21 months and I just got off market recently. I was a student of Peter's perspectives class and I watched the video of the hunt play around with a tool and had a one-on-one conversation with Peter that eventually led to my current job. I really appreciate the framework of the connected heart as a YSC student. Uh we also did a similar exercise with the whole connected leadership framework. I think those mind exercises really helped me organize, verbalize and put into language what I really want in my career and life. And that later helped me narrow down what my dream job actually looks like. Um, for example, my four rocks are myself, independence, human connection, growth and progress, and fun. Uh, it's never easy to make decisions, but knowing my my priorities make it easier. The triangle exercise is also helpful in two ways. Um, it is critical to understand what aspects of my dream job draw me and what I bring to the table because these are literally the first and second questions you get asked in an interview. Um, it is also because when you have to make tradeoff especially when the job market is awful, you know where to start. Let's say if I can't have my dream job right now, if I can have all four aspects of my dream job, would a combination of only three of them be the second best option? What about the third best option? Right? And if there's no opportunity out there right now that allows me to tap into my full potential, is there a chance where I can use 80% of my potential or I don't know 60 60% 70%. And I think with that I was able to come up with a hierarchy of jobs and having that also informs of the level of investment so that my time and energy can be spent in the right place and on the right connection.