Welcome to module two of the hunt on purpose. Confirming your why. As described in the connected leadership framework, knowing your purpose is essential to your career and journey as a leader. Let's start this part of the course with a question. Why are you here? You're standing at a new fork in the road with life events and choices taken behind you and new choices and circumstances facing you ahead. Maybe you're in the middle of a career pivot, coming out of a big life event, or just feeling the need to realign. For many, in these times, you may be in the job search position for circumstances outside your control. Whatever it is, you're here for good reason. And now is an excellent time to zoom in on your personal why. What matters most to you, not just at work, but in life, and how what matters in life and work connect. We'll guide you through some simple but powerful tools, starting with a worksheet to help question and confirm purpose. This first sheet is from my connected leadership course. So, if you've taken that course, you can start with your draft to update or completely start a fresh. It's up to you. It's just one page, but it covers a lot of ground. It's the base foundation layer that I mentioned in module one. From knowing ourselves, we can then select and edit our important stories to tell. and from there sell communicate what we have to offer. From human hiring managers to AI screeners, being able to authentically communicate your why is often key to securing the role. But well before that, the clearer you are about your purpose, the more intentional and impactful your next steps can be to find the right role in the first place. Once you've completed a good first draft of your purpose worksheet, we will supplement it with a more focused set of questions regarding your career. This career purpose worksheet asks three sets of questions that have come up many times over the years of coaching executives and students. I hope they can stimulate your thinking and further guide your job search. I encourage you to thoughtfully engage with the worksheets and revisit whenever you feel answers are changing and that's of course completely okay to evolve and change. I suggest dating the top of each page and replacing it with subsequent versions. So let's dive in to your life's purpose. This section guides you to explore and confirm what matters most to you. As you work through your purpose worksheet, you'll draw upon the essence of your motivations and priorities at this point in life. Find the purpose worksheet in your hunt workbook. As I mentioned, if you've completed the connected leadership course, you may want to bring over your draft, but I'm assuming for most of you that this sheet is new. It's divided into three sections. Your fork in the road, your horizons as you see them, and your inner engine. It finishes with a prompt to consider a consolidated impact statement. Let's begin assessing this moment or fork in the road. I think of this as the place you've arrived due to a number of decisions you've made. Sometimes creating the opportunities, sometimes reacting to the circumstances you found yourself in. You might be at a major professional or personal crossroads. Or perhaps you're navigating a subtler shift. You've almost certainly worked hard to get here with choices behind you and now choices ahead you want help figuring out. Question 1A of the worksheet asks, "What decisions and choices led you to be at this point in your journey?" When you answer this, think not just why you're in this course, but more broadly, how did you get to this fork or moment in life or career? Your answer to this question is your anchor. Own the choices you made that led you to this current fork in the road. Why are you here at this moment? For some that are here, the main forks in the road as you perceive them in the past, including very recent past, may be forced upon you. Feel free to include those external circumstances. But if you can, also think about the choices you made next. One of my top recommendations of all time must-read books is Victor Frankle's A Man's Search for Meaning. In the space between stimulus and response is our freedom to choose. If there is ever a powerful messenger to deliver that message, it is Franco, an Austrian neurologist, psychologist, philosopher, and Holocaust survivor. Question 1B asks, what personal attributes brought you here? Think of your skills, traits, experiences that you have brought to this fork in the road and make you well suited to face the moment. What's in your knapsack of strengths that you bring to this point in your journey? Try writing this answer to the question when you're feeling relatively confident and energetic so you can come back to it as a reminder when you're feeling less so. Especially when navigating uncertainty, writing down your unique attributes ahead of time gives you a clear, grounded message to express later. What would or do in fact your colleagues say about what you're good at? Next on the worksheet, let's explore your horizons. Question 2A of the worksheet is artificially long, but that's good in the hunt as it prompts us to look over the visible horizon, well past this current job search to consider the long term, 10 years out. What gets your heart beating about who you might become? Go beyond maybe surface level goals like titles, compensation, and think why am I excited about the 10 years older me? What is true about life and work? If 2 A provided a long time horizon, question 2B's is artificially short. Let's imagine you only had a few months left in your working life, indeed on the planet. What would you absolutely want to get done before that happens? The third section is about your inner engine. What makes up the essential you? For question 3A, we ask, when are you in flow? What activities cause you to forget to eat and drink across work, leisure, and back in childhood. This draws on chicks sent mihi's work on flow state and identifies moments when there is a balance of challenge and skill such that there is deep engagement and often an absorption in the task. You lose track of time. You might forget to eat and drink. You're fully alive in what you're doing. First, describe what flow looks like for you in the workplace. If you're hunting for a job that doesn't include what puts you in flow, should you be confronting yourself about why not? The goal of your hunt is to land somewhere in a role where you're regularly doing what lights you up. Whether it's brainstorming, writing, coding, managing people, building things. George and Grummet in his book, The Purpose Code, distinguishes between little P and big P purpose. This question is asking for those little P moments at work. The next part of question 3A asks what creates flow for you outside work pre during and post job search in your new role. You're going to want to recharge during the month outside work. How do you do that? The last part of the flow question asks you to reflect on childhood manifestations of flow. It can be surprisingly powerful which we'll cover as those activities are so deeply anchored in who we are. Finally, question 3B asks the big why. What do you want to do with your one wild and precious life? This beautiful question from poet Mary Oliver captures for me the big why as well as the precious impermanent nature of our lives and careers. The philosophical comedian Michael Jr. adds another perspective that I also found helpful and thoughtprovoking. As you consider purpose, that big why. Rather than ask, "What do I want to do?" Try asking, "Who do I want to serve?" Check out this link from Michael Junior's very powerful video in the resources. Do not worry if what you write for 3B seems like it could have been written by many over the years. We have been thinking and writing about our purpose as a race for thousands of years. It's enough and important if it resonates with you as yours. And does your sense of big purpose align with what you're doing right now or where you're headed? Please take a pause here and complete these six questions on the worksheet. Once done, as a page, circle or mark the question that got you thinking in a new way today. What did you mark and what did you answer and why? And now at the bottom of the page, there is space for you to consider and develop an impact statement or career mission statement. Can you condense the essence of the answers to the six questions above, those three sections in two parts, into one coherent mission statement? I actually provided mine at the very start of the course. I want to uplift leaders wherever they are to help maximize their time for good. But yours yours is going to be completely different. So what do you want to create or do and who for? One format might be I believe in X and want to bring it to life by doing why 4 Z. The resulting statement however much a scratch draft can become a guiding light for your actions and your job search and can also evolve over time. Don't worry if you write more than one draft or if a clear idea does not yet come to mind. Here are some examples to get you thinking from guests on our connected leadership podcast. John Duffield, a double open heart surgery survivor and innovation strategist, talked powerfully about wanting to quote transform the patient experience, leveraging my own experience as a patient and my expertise in AI. Shaw, clean energy visionary, states his as something like accelerating capital to the clean energy transition. Indeed, as per his book of the same title, it's about creating climate wealth. Amy Gallow, workplace expert and contributing editor to Harvard Business Review says, "I want to make more positive relationships at work through tools to normalize good conflict." And Jana Enbe, a truly inspiring leader in the humanitarian space, said she wants to help Africans to use what they have to rise to their potential and live a life of dignity. Give yourself the grace to draft as many or as little thoughts as come to mind and aim to periodically reflect. Whenever you work on your purpose worksheet, jot down the date at the top and try your best to capture your first reaction responses and no need for crafted essays. This is about the essence of who you are and what you want to be. It's a snapshot in time that you can revisit as you grow and evolve. It's not your resume for forwarding to employers. It's a flexible space to gather your hypothesis, curiosities, purpose anchors, and only share with those that you want to. Your hunt is not a solo endeavor. And the purpose worksheet is not just for you. This is part of the process of learning from others. That's what makes the worksheet different from a journal. It's forward- facing, sharable, and you select what you can use to help you. If you haven't already, complete your worksheet before I explain in the next video why we ask these specific questions.