Before we move on to the careerpecific questions of purpose and flow, I'd like to go through the questions of why I asked those why questions so that you can self-correct and truly reflect on what's most important to you, what do you want your days to feel like, and how do you want to contribute and make a positive impact. Let's now revisit those worksheet questions and go section by section. On the first two questions concerning your fork in the road, your answer to 1A hopefully helps you as an anchor in the storm. After, because, andor despite all that has happened to you, you have made choices. You have the power to make new choices to influence and in many ways determine your future. As per your answer to 1B, you've also affirmed how much you've brought to this fork in the road at which you now stand. You're an exceptionally good person to have around and what you have written here is a summary of what you know is true and what you may have been told by those you trust. It's your boost in times of trial and uncertainty and it's the basis of your pitch as you tell people what skills and attributes you're excited to bring. The first two questions about this moment of change or choice allows you to make the connection or note the lack of connection between your sense of purpose and your current status. This is why I'm here. These are the key choices that led me here, including my choices of how to react to things I couldn't control. If processing your life up to this point is important and feels like it needs further work for you, I've included an optional not for submission exercise to create your life map. It's a visual representation of your life journey so far, letting you unpack the key points in your journey, life events, countries, jobs, milestones, relationships, and more. Moving on to the horizon section of the purpose worksheet, you can look to your response to 2A as the current set of actions and choices allow you to achieve your vision of the future. Your response to 2A reminds you where to keep your focus, your eye, or the prize, and it allows you to consider whether your current life is aligned with your held priorities. Do your activities today advance you in the direction to achieve this vision of the older you you're excited about. If there is a large divergence between your current state and that vision, and you feel off track from heading in that direction, I would like you to explore what might be causing that disconnect. The job search you are contemplating should help you progress towards what you wrote down here. Might also consider other potential disconnects. If you work in a fast-paced, high pressure environment and want to move to a better known, even higher pressure organization in the same field for increased pay and prestige, but also want to spend more time on voluntary work in your family, your search might be misaligned. If there's one sneaky question on the purpose worksheet, it is 2B about what you would do if you only had a few months left. You might have heard of the Eisenhower matrix summarized in the quote, "What is important is seldom urgent and what is urgent is seldom important." This question helps you concentrate on the high important non-urgent quadrant and ignore the urgent important fires of the day. Many of us find ourselves caught up in urgent tasks and putting off things that are truly important. The answers you wrote down here for this question are normally the really high importance, low urgency elements of your life. Your answer to this question is extremely useful to determining your priorities. I found these long and short views on your future help clarify your big picture priorities. They help you identify what matters enough that you'd prioritize it. no matter the time frame. On to inner engine for 3A. Over the years, I've heard fascinating and lifeaffirming conversations and insights that can flow from all three sub questions about flow state. First, with work, do your regular tasks at work include these flow state activities? And if so, do you have sufficient time blocked off on your calendar for you to find flow while doing them? Whether it's coding, writing, coaching, developing others, you'll want to have sufficient time to be immersed in it. And you may not have that time set aside. The intention here is to make sure you recognize the ideal work state and intentionally create opportunities to include more of that kind of work into your weekly schedule. If your current or sought-after job doesn't involve these flowinducing tasks, there's an opportunity for you to do some job crafting, which channels Professor Amy Resneski's work. Make your ability to have these flow state activities on your weekly calendar part of your job search, either by crafting it that into the roles you're discussing or identifying new roles where they are possible. When job hunting, evaluate each role for the opportunities it might provide you to work in that flow state. Being in a playful flow state is also important. Responses to the second question on flow highlight activities you'll want to ensure also make it into your calendar, but across the whole month, including outside working hours and on weekends. Ask yourself whether you have those leisure activities across the whole week. and will the jobs you're looking for have ways for you to weave enough of these into your calendar. These are the activities that bring you to life so you'll be a better person and feel better at home and work if you're giving them enough time across the month. On youth, you may be surprised why I asked this one. Childhood flow states are especially helpful tools, I think, when embarking on a new challenge because they can become powerful analogies that are personal to you. If you loved being in nature, building imaginary worlds or communities in Roblox, exploring new worlds and books, jumping into the pool or the ocean, whatever it is, that activity could become a metaphor of how you approach a change like job searching and navigating a challenge. You could, for example, see starting a new company as that flow activity of building an imaginary world or jumping into something exciting. This power of analogy is applied differently for everyone. So, pick your unique source of flow and strength to frame your challenges, not somebody else's. Finally, 3B, the big question posed to us by Mary Oliver on our wild and precious life and the mission statements you've generated help you reflect on whether or not your purpose and actions are aligning over time. Do your responses match what you're currently doing or the direction you're currently headed in? It gives you the opportunity to identify if you need to course correct and where you might set your sights for the hunt.