Welcome to Roman architecture. I'm Professor Kleiner. And what I'd like to do today is to uh give you a sense of some of the great buildings and some of the themes that we will be studying together this semester. I think it's important to note um from the outset that Roman architecture is primarily an architecture of cities. The Romans structured a man-made worldwide empire out of architectural forms and those architectural forms revolutionized the ancient world and exerted a lasting influence on the architecture and the architects of postclass times. This semester we will be consi concerned primarily with urban communities with urban communities and we will in the first half of the semester we will focus on the city of Rome. Uh and in the second and and also central Italy including Pompei. Uh and I wanted to show you at the outset an aerial view of Rome. You see it over here on the left hand side of the screen. Uh that situates us in the very core of the ancient city. You see the famous coliseum, the very icon of Rome at the upper right. Uh you see the Roman forum as it looks today. Uh and you see a a part of the capital line hill transformed by Micholangelo into the famous complio as well as the via deori imperiali of Mussolini built by Mussolini and the imperial fora. So the city of Rome again we'll be concentrating on at the beginning of the semester as well as the city of Pompei an aerial view of Pompei as it looks today. You can see many of the buildings of the city uh including the houses and the shops uh and also the entertainment district. This is the theater and the music hall of ancient Pompei. The amphitheater is over here. And you can see of course looming up in the background uh the uh Mount Vuvius uh the mountain that caused all that trouble in 79 AD. So that's the first half of the semester. The second half of the semester uh we are going to be going out into the provinces into the Roman provinces and that is going to take us and we're going to look at the provinces both in the eastern and the western part of the empire and that will take us to Roman Greece. Uh it will take us to uh Asia Minor uh Asia Minor which of course is modern Turkey. It will take us to North Africa. It will take us to the Middle East uh in what's now Jordan and Syria. Uh and it will also take us to Europe to Western Europe uh to cities to cities in uh France and to cities in Spain. Uh and let me just show you an example of some of the buildings that we'll look at as we travel to the provinces. This is the library of Kelsus in Ephesus on the uh western coast of uh Turkey. Uh this the theater, a spectacularly wellpreserved theater at Sabraa. uh you see in the upper right hand side and down here a restored view of the masterful uh palace of Dialesian, one of the late Roman emperors uh in a place called Split which is in uh Croatia along the fabulously gorgeous uh Dalmatian coast today. So those are just a sampling of the kinds of buildings that we'll look at in the provinces. We're going to be uh seeing uh we'll be concentrating on the ways in which the Romans planned and built their cities. Uh and it's important to note from the very outset that Rome itself grew in a very ad hoc way. Uh and we can tell that here's a Google Earth image uh showing uh that core of Rome with the coliseum uh with the famous uh Vic modern Victor Emanuel monument that looks either like a wedding cake or a typewriter. It's very white and it's it's called the wedding cake by a lot of the locals. You see that here, but it's a landmark in Rome. uh and uh the Capitol Hill Compado over here, the forum, the Roman Forum, the imperial fora on on this side. But you can see from the relatively crooked uh and narrow streets of the city of Rome, as they look from above today, uh you can see that again the city grew in a fairly ad hoc way. As I mentioned, it wasn't planned all at once. It just grew up over time beginning uh in the 8th century BC. Now, this is interesting because what we know about the Romans is when they were left to their own devices uh and they could build a city from scratch, they didn't let it grow in an ad hoc way. They they structured it in a in a very uh care very methodical way that was basically based on military strategy, military planning. The Romans, they couldn't have conquered the world without obviously having a masterful uh military enterprise. uh and they uh everywhere they went on their various campaigns, their various military campaigns, they would build uh build camps and those camps were always laid out in a very geometric plan along a grid uh usually square or rectangular. So when we begin to see the Romans building their ideal Roman city, they turn to that so-called or military camp design and they build their cities that way. And I show you here one example. We're using Google Earth here again. Another example of or an example of a city uh called Timgad T- which is in modern Algeria. Uh and the ancient city still survives. Uh and if we look at this Google uh earth image of it, you can see there's no later accretions as we have in Rome, no later civilizations built on top of it. You can see the ideal Roman plan which as I said is usually either a square or a rectangle. It has in the center the two main streets of the city. The north south street is called the cardo c a r d o. Uh the east west street is called the decummanis. D cu ma n u s. We'll go back to all of this in the future so you don't have to worry about it today. Uh the cardo and the decummanis. And you can see that they cross exactly they intersect exactly at the center of the city. Uh and then the rest of the city is arranged in blocks very regular blocks. This grid plan that I mentioned before and then some of the major monuments whether it's the theater or the forum you know are arranged in different parts of the city. Uh and then these blocks uh constitute essentially the housing and the shops and so on and so forth. This is a city that was planned in around 100 AD under the emperor Trajan. Uh and again it gives us an inkling of what the Romans when the Romans thought about ideal Roman town planning it was this grid plan not Rome but this grid plan uh that they had very much in mind. Cities like Rome, like Timgad, uh, and most of the others that we'll look at in the course of the semester were surrounded by defensive walls. Uh, as a mass as a major military machine in its own right, Rome was only too aware of the dangers of of attack from others and consequently they walled their cities. And we will look at the two major walls in Rome as well as walls in other parts of the Roman world. I promise not to spend too much time on walls uh because they're essentially piles of stone, but but they're they're important in their own right and I will speak to them on occasion and especially the two in Rome. You see them here. This is the first wall uh in Rome, the so-called Servian walls which was built in the republic in the Roman Republic to uh to to um to uh s to to surround uh the city the Republican city and essentially the seven hills the famous seven hills of Rome to surround the seven hills of Rome uh in the 4th century BC. You see a section of it here. Uh this wall. Any of you who've come to Rome by train in the Station Tony uh see a very extensive section of the Servian walls as you get I don't know if you've noticed it but you should see an extensive section of the Serbian walls right outside uh the train station. This is a different section than I a picture I took on the Aventine Hill uh showing uh part of that wall and that was eventually replaced by later walls. The city grew over time. it needed a a a a more extensive broader uh wall system. Uh and in the late 3rd century AD under the emperor Aurelian, the famous Aurelian walls were built. Uh the Aurelian walls, as you know, I there's no way you've missed those. I'm sure if you've been in Rome, you've seen the Aurelian walls. They're there. They're very much there. Uh at least if you've left the city. Maybe if you've just gone into the core of a city and haven't gone beyond that, you might not have seen them. If you've left the city, you've seen the Aurelium walls, a very impressive uh set of walls that that encircled the later city. One thing that's apparent to you as you look at these, even if you have no knowledge whatsoever of Roman architecture, is these are made of very different kinds of materials. Uh so technical issues come to the four right away as one analyzes this sort of thing. In the early period, essentially blocks of stone piled one on top of the other for the wall. here a more sophisticated use later on in the empire of a new technology that we're going to talk about a lot this semester and that is concrete and what concrete did to revolutionize Roman architecture. Concrete in this particular case uh faced with brick. We talked about regular town planning uh and uh the location of the cardo and the decummanas. I want to show you just an example of this. This is you know of a city in Italy. Uh in this case the city of Pompei. You see it here in plan. This is a plan of Pompei as it looked uh just at the moment that Vuvius erupted. So in August of 79 AD this was uh the way Pompei was at that particular time. Uh you can see it's not really a rectangle. It's a kind of elongated sort of an oval kind of an oval and irregular oval. Uh but it has this sense, you know, I think it has this sense. It shows you that again even for um for it even even though the Romans were thinking in with with to to try to create their cities in a very regular way, you know, it didn't always work out exactly that way depending on the terrain and so on and so forth. But this is a rough it's sort of an irregular uh rectangle as you can see here. But if you look very carefully, you sort of say to yourself like where's the cardo? Where's the deck? He's just told us the card on the decimatus intersect in the center. Like where are they? Why aren't they intersecting in the center? Well, surprise surprise, maybe not such a surprise. If you look over here at the bottom left, you will actually see the original city of Pompei in the 4th century BC, the 3rd century BC, the 2nd century BC. Pompei didn't look like this. Pompei looked like like this. Uh and if you look very carefully at just this section where we have the buildings and the various colors, you will see that there is indeed a cardo and a decummanis that intersect exactly at the uh at the center of this roughly square. So this was actually pretty regular originally this roughly square city of Pompei. At three we find the forum because the forum is always at the intersection. The Romans try, they're very careful about this sort of thing. tried to put uh their um their forum right at the intersection of the cardo and the decummanis. You see that here and then you see a lot of other buildings played off to either side the law court or the basilica another a temple here the main temple of Jupiter uh the senate house or cora and a series of other religious and uh comparable structures on the right hand side. So it began as a quite regular plan. Cardo and Decimanis intersecting at the se the center uh Forum uh right at the intersection of those two and then over time it grew. It grew and expanded and the streets the same street the card you know expanded although it was no longer exactly at the center of the city. This is a view from Google Earth that shows you just pretty much I tried to angle it in such a way that it looks that it's exactly the same angle or close to exactly the same angle as the plan that we just looked at before. Uh and you can see over here the amphitheater. Uh you can see um uh many of the streets including the uh the shops and the houses and you can see over here uh the forum uh as it looks today uh from the air and again it shows you how helpful Google and of course as you know using Google Earth yourselves uh for other purposes you know that you can go way down I mean you can find the entire city and then you can go and explore uh each individual building uh on your own and in your own time. In fact, that's what I've done here. Here you see a closer view of the forum in Pompei as it looks today from the air via Google Earth here at the left. And I compare it to this plan that comes from your textbook, one of your two textbooks, the book by uh JV Ward Perkins. Uh we which is the of the two the more well they're both important but and they both do different things, but one of the two important books that we'll be look using this semester. uh here is the plan from that book and you can see the way in which this forum and this forum is very important at Pompei because it's very early in date and consequently uh we will talk about it a fair amount. Uh we see this the way Roman forums were usually arranged was to have one general open rectangular space open to the sky surrounded by columns uh with a temple the key the most important temple the chief temple uh pushed up against one of the short back walls and dominating the space in front of it. This is a capoleium. We'll talk about what a capoleium is in a future lecture but it is a temple to Jupiter and others as we shall see. Temple of Apollo over here, the Basilica or law courts over here. And you can see, interestingly enough, they have essentially the same shape as the central forum proper uh a rectang rectangular with a colonade in the center and then something uh on one side. It's not another temple, but rather a tribunal uh a place from which the judge would try uh the cases in the law courts. We see the uh senate house over here and a series of other buildings including a marketplace and some other buildings here on the right hand side. Uh so a typical Roman forum at its earliest. It dates very early on 2nd century BC and is therefore an extremely important building uh for us. Just so that you get a sense of what some of these look like in actuality. This is the basilica or the law court of the forum of Pompei or as part of which is part of the forum of Pompei. And we see that tribunal that I mentioned before, a two-story tribunal uh from which the judge would try the cases. The building isn't as well preserved as we'd like, although there's quite a bit there. And what is there allows us to uh to create this kind of reconstruction drawing where we can get a very good sense of what this building actually looked like in antiquity. You see the tribunal over there. Uh you see that there are double stories with columns on either side. Uh you see these colossal columns along the aisle. But most importantly, unlike the forum which was open to the sky, this is roofed and it had a flat roof with what's called a coffford ceiling. We'll talk about that later in the term. But then a sloping roof from the outside. And basilas were always roofed. That's what distinguishes them from a lot of other Roman buildings. Roman temple architecture, the temple of the temples of Jupiter and Apollo at Pompei are not that well preserved. But some Roman temples are magnificently preserved. I mean, look at this one. It's pristine. It's like it was was created uh yesterday as a as a as a duplicate of what a Roman temple or a restoration of what a Roman temple might have of have looked like. You could you could put this in Memphis or somewhere like that and uh think that you had a nice replica of a Roman temple. That's how well preserved it is. It's an amazing temple. It's just happens to be well preserved in part because it was reused over time, most recently as a small archaeological museum. This is the famous Maison Cal or squarehouse for obvious reasons. Uh that is in the uh beautiful u French town of Nee, south of France. Uh and you see it here in all its glory. And think as you look about this, look at this. how many banks were based on this plan. I mean, you can go to almost any small city in America and see a bank that looks something like this, which just gives you some sense of again how influential uh Roman architecture has been over time. It's a quite traditional temple. We'll talk about the difference between traditional temple architecture and more innovative temple architecture in the course of the semester. And as innovative as it gets is what is one of the key buildings of Roman architecture, which is of course the famous Pantheon in Rome. I'm sure there's none of you who's been in Rome who hasn't been inside. Uh the Pantheon, it is an incredible building. This is a Google map. It was done during the um the building was put up during the reign of the very important from the architectural standpoint and many other standpoints, very important Emperor Hadrien. Uh, and we see this is again one of the um one of the wonderful things about Google Earth because you're seeing here the modern city uh but you're also seeing in 3D uh the I mean the building still stands and is in incredible condition but you're also seeing the building almost as it would have been in ancient uh times surrounded by its modern environment. It's a temple. It's a very distinctive and innovative temple because when you look at it from the front you see it has a kind of traditional porch that is not unlike the one in the maison car with columns that support a pediment and looks like earlier Greek or Truscan architecture. Uh but what's very innovative about it is that once you go into the building uh you see that this is not about this is this is all about an interior space an extraordinary interior space that is shaped by light uh that is shaped by uh genius essentially and this this image is actually one of those that gives you a sense of of of the kind of thing that I've been able to incorporate into this course that I didn't always use before which includes many many many of my own images and this one I'm particularly proud of. It's a very atmospheric view of the uh of the dome of the Pantheon and I think really gives you almost more than anything else gives you a sense almost more than anything else that I can show you today of of Rome at its best of the power and glory of of Rome and of Roman architecture. I'm very biased, but as far as I'm concerned, this is the greatest building ever conceived by by man. So there you are. We'll see by the end of the semester whether you agree with me or you think I'm absolutely wrong about that. Uh this is uh another extraordinary structure and one that enables me to say something that you'll hear me say more than once and I know I'm biased but say more than once in the course of the semester is and that is that there isn't much that the Romans didn't discover, didn't create uh and not just in architecture in all kinds of ways. Uh and this is a good example of that. This is the so-called the famous markets of Trajan in Rome. Part of the great forum of the emperor Trajan in Rome. And you can see that what the Romans have done is taken a hill, one of the famous seven hills, the quiral hill, taken that hill, cut it back, poured concrete on it, and created this incredible shopping center uh on the side of the hill. If this isn't the beginning of mall architecture, I don't know what is shopping mall architecture. It's right here already. You can shop. There are over 150 shops. You can shop on a variety of levels. You can shop in the hemicycle. You can shop along the Via Beratica. Uh you can shop, you know, shop till you drop uh in this in this in this incredible mall. Uh and as one looks at it in detail, one sees amazing things. Uh this is a view of one of the shopping streets. Uh you can see the typical polygonal masonry that is so characteristic of Roman street design here along it. some of the individual shops. Need to think that away at the top. That was added later. But you see some of the individual shops here. And look how how ingenious the Romans have been to provide not only a ramp but also a series of of stairs, flat uh area stairs and so on. This has all been very very carefully orchestrated uh by the designers in a way that is not only utilitarian but also very attractive. And then there's this. This is the great hall of the uh of the markets of Trajan and Rome. A kind of bizaar uh which also has a series of shops and also attic windows as you can see above. Uh but then the g the the particular marvel of this space is look what they've done above. They have taken they using concrete once again and this gives you some sense of the miracle of Roman concrete. using concrete they have created a new kind of vault which we call the groin vault uh which is a which is a ribbed vault and you can see the ribs very clearly here and they have lifted that ribbed vault on top of peers that have that have been attenuated uh narrowed to the point uh to a very s in a very sophisticated way much more than was true up to this moment so that they have been able to lift those groin vaults in a way that always reminds me it's as if you went and opened a series of umbrellas over a space, you know, lifted uh the space up in a truly miraculous way. And as an example again of the fact that the Romans, there's nothing the Romans didn't do or didn't invent. Uh here you see the well-known marketplace in San Francisco, uh where you see essentially the same idea, a series of shops down below and then this this magnificently lifted uh ceiling up above. So Roman architecture as I said in the very beginning really had a huge impact on later architecture. The b the markets of Trajan were part of the forum complex the forum of Trajan which you see uh part of here. Uh the forum itself was really quite conventional. This is an interesting building because we have a fairly convent traditional uh approach to the forum itself and then an innovative approach uh to the markets. Uh this is a restored view of the basilica or law court of the forum of Trajan. Uh you see that it's very traditional with columns and marble uh and this flat ceiling with coffers. Uh and uh that's what most of the uh temp most of the forum looks like. The markets are done in a very different style as we saw. And this particular forum uh was not only a meeting in a marketplace or a place where uh cases could be tried uh but was also a uh a monument in stone to the military victories of Trajan. Trejan was uh the emp emperor who extended the borders of the empire to their furthest reaches. And uh the monument is a is a testament to uh what his accomplishes accomplishments were militarily. And the famous column of Trajan, which still stands and is in magnificent condition, as you can see here, uh is a monument that is wrapped with a spiral freeze that uh that purports to describe uh from bottom to top all of the exploits, all of the military exploits of Trajan's two military campaigns in Dea. It also served as the emperor's tomb. There was a burial chamber down below uh for erns of Trajan and his wife Platina. Uh so it served not only as a as a commemoration of his military victory over Deia which by the way is modern Romania today uh but also to victory over death for the emperor. Every Roman city has it had its bath buildings. Most of the houses did not have running water. Uh so baths were extremely important obviously. So most cities had more than one. In fact, most cities, Pompei, for example, seems to have had about three uh bath buildings. They're very important uh both in terms of their social their need, you know, their practical needs and also as a place for social interaction. Uh but also because there are some very interesting architectural experiments that took place in them. I'm going to show you in the course of the semester the development from the simplest bath buildings such as the ones in Pompei to the most elaborate. Those of you who visit Baz of Carakala in Rome, that's an example of one of the huge and and and most elaborate uh bath buildings. I show you here on the left hand side of the screen just as an example a view of uh one of the rooms of the forum baths in Pompei, the calarium or warm room. Uh all of these baths had multiple spaces within them. One of the distinctions of the earlier baths uh was that um that the men's sections and the women's sections were separate uh from one another. And I hate to say it, but the men had all the great rooms. Uh they were bigger and they were more ornately decorated as this one is the warm room of the men's baths uh at Pompei. But you can see here even in much smaller scale than a building like the Pantheon and much earlier than the Pantheon uh they're beginning to explore uh the curvatures of the wall the the um semi-dome there and the way in which you can create light effects by putting holes or what what's called an oculus a round hole uh in the in part of the ceiling uh and other rectangular holes in the ceiling to create fantastic light effects. So they're already exploring that here in Pompei. When we look at some of the larger bathing establishments, the Baz of Caracala uh still look well they're they're a hulk. They're essentially a pile of of concrete based with brick today as any of you who've seen it uh know. But the scale is truly colossal and and one is very impressed when one wanders around the baz of Caracala. Some of the others for example the baz of dialesian have been reused in modern times and it's one of the reasons that so many Roman buildings survive is because of this kind of reuse over the centuries uh this the uh baths of dialesian part of which was transformed into a church uh at first by decorated at one point in part by Michelangelo and what we're looking at here the church of Santa Maria de leangelie St. Mary of the Angels. What we're looking at here is a view into what was the cold room or the frigidarium of the baths of uh Dialesian uh but transformed into a church used as the nave of the church of St. Mary of the angels. But if you look very closely, you'll see those same cross or groin vaults uh that we saw in the markets of Trajan uh that are also used here to lift the ceiling in a very effective way. And then all these multicolored columns that you see are actually the columns from the ancient buildings. So even in this interior of Santa Maria Deleani, we can get a sense of how ornate uh some of the decorations of some of these bath buildings were. We're going to look at Roman theaters uh this semester. Uh this is an example of one, the spectacular Roman theater at Orange in the south of France. Uh you see it here. I'm not going to go into the parts of a of a of a theater or its relationship to earlier Greek theatrical architecture, but you can see the stair, you can see the seats, uh you can see the orchestra, you can see the stage building, a stage building that initially was decorated with a forest of columns, only a couple of which survive, as well as a lot of sculptural decoration. Uh again, most of which does not uh survive. But one of the one of the points I want to make today is that the Greeks tended to build the Greeks always built their theaters on hillsides. They used the natural hill to support the seats. Uh and that's true at Orange as well. But the Romans were not content to build their to build their um their theaters only on hillsides. They wanted to build their theaters where they wanted to build their theaters. And if they wanted to build a theater in downtown Rome, they wanted to build a theater in downtown Rome. Uh so what they did was that they used concrete again uh to build a hill to build a hill upon which they could support uh those same seats and that's again an innovation that we'll talk about. Uh this is the uh theater of Marcelus in Rome the earliest surviving stone theater in Rome in the age that dates to the age of Augustus. But I show it to you again just to show you the wonders of Google Earth. I've looked at this building a zillion times. I've wandered around it. Uh it is most of the ancient part is over on this side and I'll show that to you in another lecture. Uh but over time this is one of those buildings that was transformed into all sorts of things most recently into a fabulous condominium. Uh but as you wander around it today you can't you get a sense of some of the high-rise apartments that have been added to the original theater. But you can't get a full sense of it unless you go up above it. And so here's where again Google Earth is so helpful because we can look down on the entire complex, see the gardens, see some of the apartments, see the circular driveway and so on and so forth, which gives us information that it would be pos possible to glean anywhere else. And here is if you let that that that that transformation from modern Rome to ancient Rome take place on Google Earth, this is what you're going to get for that same theater of Marcellus. We just saw it and it's what it looks like today in Google Earth. Here's what it looks like when you let it transform completely uh into the uh theater of Marcellis from ancient times. The coliseum, the very icon of Rome. Uh Roman, no no Roman city was without its amphitheater, its place for gladiatorial and animal combat. Uh and Rome was no exception. The most famous uh surviving Roman amphitheater is the coliseum. Uh I show it to you here from the inside rather than the outside initially because I can it allows me to illustrate the places where the animals were kept down below. Uh but also to show you that that building has been used as a quarry. It was used by the popes and the princes of later Italy as a as a stone quarry. They would take essentially they took all they stripped it of all its interior marble to use that in a variety of buildings of Rome in Rome. and some some of those we know their identification even today. Here's a view of one of the carters where you can see once again those those groin vaults or ribbed vaults uh that the Romans popularized connecting all these cities with one another were the streets of the city. We'll look at streets especially in Pompei where they are extremely well preserved. Uh and these streets look very modern. You see the polygonal stones but very modern in the use of the sidewalks. the sidewalks. There are drains as well along the sidewalks. And then you can see see these very deep rut marks where the uh where the wheels of the carts uh used to used they they they over time obviously they made these ruts in the pavement. And then over here a small uh fountain a fountain um blessed by Hermes or Mercury. You can see him there with his wings and his kaducious. uh a small uh small um fountain important obviously again because most of the houses did not have running water and there had to be a place that you could go to collect water uh for household use. Uh one of the great things about Pompei of course is it gives us a sense of um of what life was like in ancient Roman times. daily life was like and we'll look at millstones for bake and and for b that are part of bakeries as well as ovens that look again the Romans invented everything look very much like a modern pizza oven you go over to bar you'll see one of those uh over here uh wine shops we've lots of wine shops in these Roman cities and they're particularly well preserved in Herculanium and and in Pompei uh with these clay amperai that were used to hold wines that were brought to Italy and also sometimes oils that were brought to Italy from different parts of the world. Uh, every Roman city had its McDonald's or its Wendy's or its Burger King. Uh, and I show one of those to you here. It's called a thermopoleium as you can see down below. Thermopolium. Uh, a thermopoleium was essentially I mean what it was made up of is a um uh is a series of a counter a counter with a series of recesses. Uh and each day uh those who those who uh ran this thermopoleium put different food in there and so when you got hungry again the whole sort of fast food idea you just walk walk by like in the cafeteria point out what you wanted they'd serve it to you and you'd be on your way. Uh so very much fast food so we see lots of them in Pompei and Herculanium. We'll look at Roman houses. This is one example the house of the vet in Pompei. spectacularly preserved househ where we can see a pool that was actually used for collecting water hole in the ceiling but a view from the atrium of the house into the garden the garden over here you get a sense of it the greenery the marble furniture the fountains and then the uh paintings on the walls I mentioned at the beginning we'll spend a fair amount of time we'll spend a few lectures on Roman painting and the reason that I do that is is be it's absolutely gorgeous and it's fascinating uh but it als also allows us to get a better understanding of interior decoration among the Romans, how they decorated their walls, but also because as you can see from this one example from Bosorali, now in the Metropolitan Museum, the famous Met Kubiculum uh which is decorated with second style Roman wall painting that these paintings often depict buildings. They they are architectural paintings and they are very important in that regard because we see we often see uh experimentation in painting before we see it in architecture there. So there going to be some things for example this broken triangular pediment that we're going to see first in painting and then in built architecture. So painting extremely important for us. We'll also go to the city of Austia, the port of Rome, which is a city very different from uh Pompei because it is essentially a second century Roman city rather than a first century Roman city. Uh the the construction technique is uh concrete faced with brick. I show you one example of that. But what's most interesting about the houses in in uh Austia has to do with the kind of city it was. Again, the port of Rome, a commercial city. Uh it was very congested. people were not as wealthy as those in the resort town of Pompei. Uh and consequently, they needed people didn't have singlestory houses like the one in Pompei that I just showed you before, but rather apartment houses with multi-stories, a kind of condominium idea. Uh and these are fascinating in their difference from those in Pompei. And that's a difference that we will surely explore. The very wellto-do lived in very wellto-d do had villas. The emperors had villas all along what is now the Amalfi coast. Capri, the island of Capri. The emperor Augustus and Tiberius had 12 villas on the island of Capri. The most extraordinary villa, Hadrien's Villa at Tivoli, which I show you here from the air. uh a a a kind of microcosm of the empire at that particular time with extraordinary buildings with pools uh decorated with sculpture that show the eclectic taste of the emperor who liked things Roman, like things Greek, like things Egyptian uh and uh statues of he he was married, but he also had a beloved young boy uh whom he met in Bethnia. Antininois, the famous Antinois uh that he met in Bethnia and who became the love of his life. And when Antinuis died, he he created all kinds of shrines for Antinuis. I this is very important architecturally because all these interesting shrines. But in each of those shrines, he created statues of Antinuis. And this is one showing Antinuis as an Egyptian pharaoh, which was perfect for this particular local uh because it was meant to conjure up a canal in Egypt. We're going to look at tomb architecture. I want to show you this very quickly, but we're going to look at a lot of tomb architecture because tomb architecture is particularly interesting because the only practical consideration for a tomb, it had to house the remains of the deceased. That's it. Uh so you could you could be very whimsical and personal personal about the kind of tomb you wanted to be buried in. This is a series at Pompei. Uh but we're going to look at those of the emperor Augustus who was buried in a mausoleum that went back to those of the earlier at Trescans kings who ruled uh ruled Rome before uh the emperors did. Uh and he built a round tomb with an earthn mound very similar uh to that of the Atruscans. Hadrien uh the famous emperor Hadrien was also buried in a round tomb. the the well-known castle San Angelo in Rome today with its uh beautiful Bernini bridge the angels the Bernini's angels on the bridge also a round tomb in its current form transformed into a fortress that was used by the popes when they needed to hide out during times of trouble very whimsical tombs including uh this pyramid of uh a man by the name of Cestus uh and he built this tomb uh during a time of um when a wave of things Egyptian came into Rome uh at the time that um Cleop Augustus defeated Cleopatra and Antony and then even these uh communal tombs uh communal uh burial places for the less wellto-do uh where their remains were placed in urns. We'll also look at tombs in other parts of the um Roman world. This is a famous tomb, a rock cut tomb in Petra in what is now uh Jordan uh where and you can see that the uh that the tomb is essentially the rock. In fact, the burial chamber is inside the rock and the facade has been carved out of the rock. We're going to talk about uh about aqueducts in the course of the semester just fleetingly show you two uh way the ways in which the Romans brought for those they conquered. They provided amenities including water that was brought from a great distance. This is the famous pondar at neem. And this the one I showed you before on Google Earth, the fabulous aqueduct at Siggoia that marches its way through the city. I have just a couple of minutes and I basically wanted to close just making two very quick points about the difference between traditional Roman architecture and innovative Roman architecture. I'm not going to go into that in any detail here. It's going to be the topic of one of our lectures very soon. But this transformation from temples that are based on Greek and Atruscan prototypes like that one here to something like the Pantheon. I also want to mention from the start that unlike other courses in architecture where you may have been studying Frank Lidd Wright or Boramini Franchesco Boramini or Frank Garry uh we have very few names of architects preserved from Roman times uh because it was a patron who was all not the architect and I'll explain that in a future lecture. uh but we have some and we'll talk about them when we do. Uh we will also see and I just want to end up where I began which is to say again that Roman architecture had a huge impact on architecture of postclass times. The Roman basilica became the Christian church. The round tomb of Rome became the round church uh in the early medieval and Byzantine periods. uh tombs like the one in Jordan that I showed you just before which form what I call a kind of baroque phase of Roman architecture were the models for uh 17th century Baroque architecture in Rome for example Boramini's son Carino uh the Pantheon uh had you all know what this is UVA the Pantheon had a huge impact there are many pantheons everywhere including in this country banks and the like Thomas Jefferson looked to the Pantheon to design his rotunda at the University of Virginia and the lawn that lay beyond. Uh but from for us in this classroom at this particular time, the most important impact as far as I'm concerned of Roman architecture on more modern architecture has to do with the amphitheater at Pompei, which you see here, my favorite amphitheater. The ro the coliseum is more famous. The the amphitheater at Pompei is earlier in date. And what's significant for us in this classroom at this particular time is that the amphitheater at Pompei and I kid you not is the model for our own amphitheater and that is the Yale Bowl and it is the model. This is the building and you see it here from the air, the amphitheater in Pompei on which the Yale Bowl uh was based. Uh so again the Romans have clearly had a huge impact on architecture worldwide on our own architecture on we think we live on a Gothic campus but I'll show you in the course of the semester how much Roman uh how many Roman buildings there are. In fact we had a post and just to get you inspired we had a post in an earlier year in which uh we people went around uh the campus to take pictures and then post them online of buildings that they thought were influenced uh by those of the Roman past. At any rate, that's it for today. Uh, great to see you, meet you all. If any of you have any questions at all, I'm happy to answer them. As are the uh, teaching fellows.