Welcome to module one. This module will help you answer the question, why should I care about patients with substance use disorders? Let's start with an exercise. Take in a big breath and hold it. Now, I'm going to believe and trust you are holding your breath right now. At this point, it's easy to listen, pay attention, and even wonder why I'm asking you to do this. But at some point you will start to get uncomfortable. You will think about and strongly even urgently desire oxygen. And eventually, maybe it's now, you will need oxygen. Your brain will demand it. You won't be listening to me at all. It doesn't matter what I'm saying. You have to take a breath. Well, if you're still holding your breath, that's impressive, but it's hard. and for all of us eventually impossible. Now imagine that the only way for you to get oxygen would be to steal money from your family to buy the oxygen or spend so much time trying to find oxygen that you lose your job and distance yourself from friends. You may not want to do these things, but in order to take that breath, you have to. And you can't think about anything else until you do. It becomes about survival. You'll quit your job, steal, and sacrifice relationships to get oxygen. You know, you don't want to do those things, but you are in a situation where that breath is really the only important thing. And when you finally did take that breath of oxygen, I bet you didn't feel high or on top of the world or anything like that, did you? Instead, you probably felt normal again, like a huge stressor was relieved. This is the process of addiction with craving and time spent getting the next use despite negative consequences. This example is meant to momentarily put you in the shoes of someone with a substance use disorder which in essence is the very definition of empathy. Right? Please remember this analogy as you go through this course. gaining both understanding of the clinical concepts about substance use disorders and greater compassion for the people who live with them. Module one seeks to reframe some assumptions you might have about addiction and put you in the right mindset to treat this patient population. By going through the lessons, you will learn how to conceptualize addiction, avoid stigmatizing language, and apply motivational interviewing techniques to guide your patients through behavior change. We hope to see you in the next lesson.