Welcome to week one of our introduction to medical software class. Here we will set up the sta set the stage for what will come up for the next 11 weeks or so. This week we'll introduce what medical software is. We'll discuss relevant reg relevant regulatory issues and then Dr. Likolai my colleague will come in and talk to you about this opportunities in medical software and digital health and that will be the stage setter and then over the next few weeks we'll take each of these topics and go into more detail. So we have a number of videos. We have seven segments for you this week. The first three are just an introduction to the class and a guided tour of the medical soft medical software in two parts. We'll look at each of the stages of the process. Then we'll introduce the regulatory process. The last three segments will be from Dr. Likolai. First he talk to about the US healthcare environment, how it works, why it's so expensive. And the last segment he's going to talk about the promise of the digital transformation of healthcare. This is where medical software's potential to redefine how we use healthcare, how we run healthcare right now in the United States and around the world comes in. As I mentioned in every one of these lectures and you'll see this slide over and over again where this class is based on a textbook. You can see the picture of it there. And the this week's material is based on chapters one and seven of the textbook. Okay. So we'll start with segment one. We're going to give you an introduction to this class and tell you what this class is all about and what medical software is. So if you came to the world, if you looked at medical software, I don't know, 20 years ago, you will see medical software living in a device like this is radiation treatment machine. So this is a device that shoots high energy radiation into a patient's body to cure cancer. If we have a tumor there, this device you would send high energy X-ray beams or other kind of radiation in focus over many days with the idea of you know killing the tumor, shrinking the tumor and providing treatment to the patient. So this is a software that's part of a device and this is medical device software and this is the traditional setting for medical software. So in until about 15 years ago, this is most of what we would have thought of medical software was. The next example is what we call software as a medical device. So here there is no hardware. This is just a piece of software that's running on a standard PC. This is a piece of software called Profuse from a company called IEN. We'll hear from their director of research and development later in this class. He's one of the guests we interviewed. And this is a piece of software which analyzes medical images in preparation for prostate biopsies. There is no hardware attached. This is running on generic computer hardware. And the device is the software itself. And we call it a device because medical software when it's regulated it falls under the category of medical devices. It's not a drug, it's a device. So the software itself is the device. A third kind of application you will see is a mobile application or a web-based application. This is my chart from Epic. This is an electronic health record. This is the userfacing side of electronic health records which is in the hospital. And this allows a patient to get their own personal health information, make appointments, you know, message their providers. Now you can see that we hid here the names of the physicians and the name of the patient just to pro promote the privacy of the patient but that's what these things look like. So this is a third category third example. Now our objectives for this class first we want to understand the regulatory process governing medical software because this drives a lot of how we do things. We are in a regulated process a regular environment. So the laws are important. We want to learn about the larger environment which medical software lives. How hospitals operate. where the data privacy regulations the other part of the legislative and environmental aspect of this process. We want to understand the organizational constraints inherent in medical software. You don't write medical software in your garage. You have to have a company that's organized a certain way with a quality management system. And so we'll talk about that. We'll learn about critical technical background material. And here we'll talk about material from both computer science and math, statistics, probability, machine learning that will help you understand the fundamentals underlying this process. And we'll spend most of our time in number five. We'll learn about the medical software life cycle in some detail. And in fact, we'll spend weeks five to 10 of this class mostly working through the software life cycle. Our target audience here primarily we're thinking about students in computer science or engineering with some programming background. Our goal is not really to teach programming here, but to teach you how software is developed in this medical context. And of course, current aspiring junior software engineers in the medical software medical device industry who have the technical skill but do not understand why things are done the way they're done. It we'll have a video in the next slide that illustrates this point. In addition to that, people who might find this class useful may be entrepreneurs who are starting a business in this area who want to understand the technical details at least at a high level so they know how their business is operating or people who senior managers who manage people who manage medical software. People at a higher level whether it's in industry, academia or government, we need to have some sense of what this process is and what the pitfalls are, things they need to be careful about. We're not really targeting somebody who's in charge of a medical software project here. This class would be a good introduction to the topic, but somebody like that will need to follow with up with more training, you know, more studying on their own, help with consulting, consultants who are experts in particular details. So these are the audience that we're looking for. This is what we will cover. Just to reiterate, we'll talk about the relegatory background. We'll talk about the clinical and business environment. We'll talk about quality management system. This is how companies like that are organized. We'll spend a lot of time visiting and revisiting risk management the process of ensuring that we do not cause harm to a patient either through the use of our device or through misuse of the device. We'll spend a fair amount of time and this is the heart of this class talking about software life cycle processes everything from understanding the needs of the user to developing the software testing the software installing it at the user sites all the way to retirement. Then we'll spend week 11 reviewing all of those topics within the context of this emerging issues in artificial intelligence, machine learning. This is an area extremely hot right now and it's redefining how we develop medical software. If we taught this class five years ago, it would be a very different class but these technologies are changing how things are. And then underlying a lot of this is how medical software is different from regular software. So if your experience is working in a company that does internet work or web pages or business software, there are some differences in medical software you have to be aware of. And to just illustrate these points, we had a video clip and we'll see a number of these clips from guest experts that we have interviewed. You'll find the full the whole interviews on YouTube, but we'll have clips accepted from those interviews in the slides to just make the point. So I have a clip here from Dr. Dr. Saradas Sarka who will talk about his experience starting out in the medical device industry. >> Joined the company in California and I walked in the first day all ready to impress. I I I was ready to write as many lines of code as they needed me to write. I was all ready to go, all ready to impress. And uh so imagine my surprise. I instead of getting even one single piece of code to write what I got was one one thick binder uh full of SOPs standard operating procedures uh I opened them up tried to read them they were completely esoteric I didn't understand like one single word of what was written in them or why we even needed to do this I felt ally so so that's that's my first day at work and and um every serious software development that is done in the medical device industry uh happens under the umbrella of a quality management system. So, so there's there's a QM to follow, there are standards to follow, there are procedures to follow. Uh it's not about sitting and writing a piece of code on in front of the computer. Um that that that probably does work out in academia because you know the sort of the scope is different. Uh but that's not how it is definitely in the industry and um definitely like like a lot of the serious work that happens for developing any software program u or or or software medical software device happens even without line writing a single piece of code. A lot of it happens sort of behind the scenes trying to understand what the user requirements are and all. >> So if you remember anything from this video and from this slide is there's a lot of underlying infrastructure that goes into support the creation of medical software. I always tell students what to code is a lot harder than coding. Figuring out what to code is actually the hard part and the environment in which this happens. The quality management system, the risk management, the life cycle process are all the supporting infrastructure that will ensure that our code is both of high quality, safe and it does what it's supposed to do. So when we look at the life cycle process, we'll see a number of steps. So this is my list there. You'll see different versions, but we start with the user environment, formal use cases down to implementation. And this is where the coding happens, the testing phase and the deployment and ultimately maintenance retirement. So this is a set of steps and how these are combined is a software life cycle. There are different ways to organize this and we'll talk about this more in week five. What I want you to see is one illustration here. So if we take the downward slope here, we're starting from the user and we've worked out all the way to designing our software. So the bottom of this ladder is the implementation. This is where we actually code. And now if we arrange the steps in a V-like shape, you see that we're going up the ladder here. We're doing testing, verification, validation, deployment. We'll talk what those words mean. And this is the origin of the so-called VOD. This is a slide you'll see many times in this class as we walk through these steps. And here in the V model, the downward steps and the outward steps are paired. So the software design is checked by low-level testing. The systems requirements are checked by a process called verification that our software is operating as we designed it. The use cases are paired with validation. Our software even though it's been designed correctly, we also have to check if it meets the needs of the user. If it doesn't, we have a perfectly good but useless piece of software. And then the user environment, we'll go back to it and talk about deployment, maintenance, and retirement. And this is the essence of it. This is an adapted version from original work from Forsber and Moose back in 91. So you'll see this picture many times during this class as we walk through the step in the process. The other last parts of this introduction here is that we're going to use a lot of primary sources and these are primarily regulators from the US Food and Drug Administration, the FDA, the International Medical Advised Regulators Forum, the IMDRF. We'll introduce both of those organizations next week and others the European Union regulations, Chinese regulations and some regulations from Singapore and the UK as well. In addition to the regulatory documents, the government documents, we'll also look at documents from industry standards. These are from international standards organization, the primary tubing, the international standards organization, the ISO and the international electrototechnical commission, the IC. But you'll see others here, NCAI, NIST, ITLE E, and even the German Institute for Standardization at the bottom of that list. In general, if we can do it, we're going to follow more of the regular documents and the standards. standards are expensive and often inaccessible to students whereas the regulatory documents are freely available for download. So we'll try to use the regulatory documents primarily just to give you an example this is if you want to buy ISO 901 this is a 40page PDF that's a primary standard for quality management systems and this will set you back $175 at this point. So in general, we'll try to use the regulatory documents instead of standards. And if you wanted to read the primary standards involved in this field, you're looking of upwards of $1,000 to purchase them. So this concludes our introduction to this class. In the next segment now, we'll take a more detailed look at the process for doing a guided tour of medical software. We'll take a more detailed look at the process step by step. Thank you.