Natural selection is the central process in evolution. It is a process that can be misunderstood. And what I'm now going to do is say a few very apparently simple things about it. But these very simple things are quite important. And you can always return to them if you would like to check whether or not something actually has occurred by natural selection. It is the motor of evolution and the fuel that runs that motor is genetic variation. Natural selection confronts a puzzle and that puzzle basically is that we see a lot of stuff out there that's been produced by evolution that has the appearance of design. However, there isn't any agent that is designing things. There is no engineer that is perfecting the machine. So, how does natural selection manage to produce the appearance of design by a conscious mind without there being anyone there actually planning or designing the thing? Well, and here are the basic conditions. Natural selection will occur whenever four things are present. First, there has to be some variation in reproductive success. What does that mean? That means that there is variation in the number of offspring that individuals have. If you're a single child and you know someone who has had two children or three children, that's an example of variation. Those parents had different numbers of children. Then there's variation in the trait that you're interested in. And I think that if you look around, you'll see that most traits do vary. Height, weight, speed, blood pressure, total cholesterol, all sorts of traits vary. So that variation has to be there. Then there has to be some correlation between reproductive success and the trait. And that's actually where the center of the natural selection machine is to be found. It's in that correlation between a trait and reproductive success. And then the state of the trait has to be heritable. That means essentially that tall parents have tall children and short parents have short children. That's a rough meaning of heritability. Now, if you're ever in doubt about the action of natural selection, you can always return to these basic conditions and see if they're satisfied. Let's try to go through and look at each of them in a bit more detail. So, first variation in reproductive success. As I've said, in humans, this is roughly completed family size, lifetime reproductive success, the number of children ever born. In bacteria, it would be variation in time and survival between cell divisions. So each individual kind of organism is probably going to have slight variations on this. Now, in order to reproduce, one must survive. You may recall that in the 19th century, people talked about the survival of the fittest. Well, it's actually not correct. Natural selection is about the increased representation of the more reproductively successful and reproductive success is a comp is a composite of both survival and reproductions. It's it's essentially the probability of surviving times the expectation of reproductive success. Now you can see from that that selection is acting indirectly through survival and directly on reproductive success. Now that means that survival is only important to the extent that it contributes to reproductive success. This will become a very key statement when we get to the evolution of aging. Now how much variation in reproductive success is there? Let's take a look at these two graphs. On the left we have monogous pitaren islanders and on the right we have polygynous Doon and Mali. So two different human populations. And you can see that on the y-axis we have the number of people who had on the x-axis a certain number of offspring. And uh in these graphs the red bars are male offspring and the yellow bars are female offspring. And you can see that the most frequent family size in Pit Karen was about eight and the most frequent family size in Mali was about three or four. And basically this spread on the X axis is the feature we're looking at. Okay, that means that completed family size or our proxy for fitness varied between zero and more than 14 in pit karen and between zero and 16 in Molly. There's tremendous variation in reproductive success in these populations and then any trait that is correlating with these reproductive success is experiencing selection. Now whether it responds to selection depends on whether it's heritable. So let's take a look at that condition. The variation must exist first in the trait and then in the genes that underly the trait. The trait could be anything. It could be eye color, height, temperature dependence of enzyatic function, structure of a ribosome or susceptibility to disease. If there's no variation in the trait in the population, there cannot be any competition for improved reproductive performance and natural selection can't operate. So a basic condition is variation in the trait because natural selection will not operate on things that don't vary. Most traits vary among individuals. Most traits potentially experience natural selection. Let's take a look at variation in a trait in a little bit more detail. In this case, it's variation in resistance to malaria. And if we focus in on this table here, you can see that data was gathered on 10 different populations in Uganda and Kenya, Ghana, Nigeria, Tangana and so forth. Uh and what we see in the table are the number of individuals who have either the cickle cell alil or the homozygous non-ickled al and the number who were infected and uninfected. And then these are the percentages here of infected and uninfected. And you can see here that the cickle cell carriers were 6.2% less likely to be infected by malaria than the normal homozygot. The cickle homozygot suffer from complications of anemia. they are included here. So these are both homozygot and hetereroygot SS and SA and without treatment the SS individuals have increased mortality. They have a rough life and without medical treatment they're not likely to survive to reproduce. In the presence of malaria, the SA hetereroygot have the highest fitness. They can have children who are either SS and who suffer from anemia or who are AA and suffer from malaria. The details of this are now quite well understood. The Svariant is caused by a single mutation in the sixth position of the betalobin gene and that results in the replacement of hydrophilic glutamic hydrophilic glutamic acid by hydrophobic veene. So the molecular underpinnings of this are now pretty clear. We then have the issue of the correlation between reproductive success and the trait. Okay, that must be non zero. Even if there's variation in reproductive success and there's variation in the trait, that doesn't mean that natural selection is operating. Those are necessary conditions, but they're not sufficient. There must also be a correlation between the value of the trait and reproductive success. So, for example, patients who re resist disease reproduce more often than patients who do not. That's a pretty straightforward correlation. Now, what in general generates those correlations? After all, this is the core of natural selection. You would think there might be some general law operating here. Well, there isn't. They are produced by myriad circumstances in the biology and also for us humans in the culture of the organisms. An important element of human culture is medicine. So medicine is actually one of the cultural factors that is affecting the correlation between reproductive success and traits. When medicine saves patients, it increases their reproductive success. There is thus not a single general cause of selection. Selection occurs for a huge variety of reasons and they include anything that causes variation in reproductive success. Let's take a look at a few such associations in humans. These are results of an analysis of the Framingham Heart Study, one of the longestr running large-scale medical studies. And in that population in Framingham which consists of 14,500 people who have now been followed for over 60 years. We can calculate the correlation of various traits with reproductive success. Now what you see in this graph is a column of traits then the sample size. So you can see that in these cases we had between about 1500 and 2200 people. Beta is not the correlation coefficient. It's a selection gradient, but it has the same sign as the correlation coefficient. So when it's positive, the correlation is positive and when it's negative, the correlation is negative. And then the p value is an indication of statistical significance. And all of these are highly statistically significant. So these things really do appear to be real associations. And from this we can see that selection in this population was acting to decrease total cholesterol to increase height to increase weight to decrease age at first birth and to increase age at menopause. In other words, natural selection is acting at the level of traits in this human population. Now the final condition is that the state of the trait must be heritable. This is the critical genetic condition that allows what has worked in the past to be remembered in the population. That means improvements, things that have worked can accumulate and because of that the selection of these improvements generates order out of disorder. So it is the combination of a correlation of reproductive success with the memory of what has worked in the past that causes natural selection to incrementally improve populations. This inheritance, however, can't be 100% perfect. And this is a fundamental issue and a fundamental trade-off. If it were 100% perfect, genetic variation could not originate. That is, there wouldn't be any mutations. And if for some reason genetic variation already existed, natural selection would eliminate it very quickly by selecting the best variants. Therefore, there must be some mutation to create the genetic variation which is the fuel on which the motor of natural selection runs but not so much mutation that it destroys the useful information on what has worked in the past and that balance must be maintained. However, it opens a door because it means that there must be some mutation and that is we will see in future lectures means that we cannot avoid one of the processes that leads to cancer. Now, what are some of the heritabilities of human traits? How likely is it that things have enough of this genetic variation to actually fuel the process? Well, there have been many studies of this in humans and we know for age at first birth the heritability is about 0.1. For blood traits that would be things like cholesterol and and uh high density low density lipoproteins things like that it's about 36. For age at menopause it's about 6. For height it's about 75. So all of these traits will respond to selection. And what these numbers mean by the way they can run between zero and one. Zero would mean there's no resemblance between parent and offspring. and one would mean offspring are exactly like their parents. What these traits uh these values mean is that height is going to respond more rapidly than age at first birth to selection because there's more variation for height than there is for age at first birth. So to re to reinforce that that message these are measures that can vary between zero and one. Zero means there isn't any variation present on which natural selection can operate. One means that uh parents and offspring are exactly like each other. And this is a way of estimating how much genetic variation is available for a phenotypic trait. Now let's take a look at natural selection in action. And this is probably the paradigm within evolutionary medicine for rapid evolutionary response and strong selection. antibiotic resistance and the uh one of the classical cases is with stafylocus orius. In this case uh it started evolving resistance to penicellin very shortly after penicellin became commercially available within four years that caused a switch to treating staff with methasylin in the 1960s. Then methasylan resistance evolved by the 1990s. There was a switch to venkcomyosin. Venkcomyosin resistance was reported in the '9s. Then linazolids were introduced to deal with the resistant bacteria and within a few years linolid resistance was reported. This is a standard pattern. The reason for it is that there's great genetic variation in the population. There is strong selection and bacteria have huge populations and a reasonable mutation rate which means that they are capable of rapidly responding to natural selection. The result is something that many experts fear is an epidemic of antibiotic resistance that is going to greatly complicate medical efforts in the future. It's caused by natural selection. The reason is that bacterial populations are huge. They're on the order of 10 to the 13th to 10 to the 17th. Not only do they contain large numbers of genetic variants that are generated by mutation, bacteria are also capable of horizontal gene transfer. And so they contain a library that they can share with each other of ways to resist antibiotics. The antibiotic use creates huge differences in the reproductive success of resistant and non-resistant clones. The trait that varies is resistance. That variation has a genetic basis. Antibiotics select resistant clones and those clones have greater reproductive success. The pro this process is extremely rapid. If a new antibiotic is introduced in a hospital in the United Kingdom, normally resistance is appearing throughout the United Kingdom within 6 months and it's in Hong Kong within two years because of jet travel. Every new antibiotic has generated the evolution of resistance within a few years of its introduction and we're starting to run out of antibiotics. Here are a few other examples of places where natural selection is an important issue in medicine and public health. One is the evolution of metastatic cancer. Competition among cancer clones for resources is what drives the evolution of metastasis and the evolution of resistance to chemotherapy. Pathogens under the force of natural selection are co-evolving with host defenses. That's one of the things that HIV is doing when it is co-evolving with the adaptive immune system. Pathogen virilence evolves at the epidemiological scale in the population in dependence uh on transmission mode and multiplicity of infections and a number of other things. We'll go into that in some detail later. and medical practice is actually shaping natural selection as it operates on the human population. So this is not an exhaustive list but it does indicate that natural selection is an issue that comes up repeatedly in many places. So to summarize, selection occurs whenever variation in a trait is correlated with reproductive success. However, a response to selection only occurs when the variation in the trait is heritable. Selection produces a significant response when the events that generate it happen frequently and consistently. If they're infrequent or if they're inconsistent, then the response will be weak uh and possibly not significant. This process of natural selection efficiently creates order out of disorder and it is what produces the appearance of design that we call adaptation. Nothing is actively selecting. The process is implicit in any set of circumstances that correlate heritable variation in traits with reproductive success. And that is both the simplicity and the puzzling part of natural selection because it is something that appears to be very simple and yet it has created the brain, the kidney and all of the biodiversity on the planet.