In this second segment, we'll begin our guided tour of medical software. We're going to do the first half in this segment and the second half in the following segment. And we're going to walk through the process and give you some highlights. These are all topics that we will revisit in the remainder of this class. So we will start as all of the things start with the regulatory process. And in the regulatory process, this is a figure from the IMDRF, the international medical device regular forum. We have a classification of software from class one to class 4 depending on the risk involved. So if you take the software and we classify according to two variables, it's the importance of the information that the software provides to the doctor. So is it actually immediately affecting diagnosis up here or is it simply informing clinical management down the road and the severity of the situation of the patient. Are we talking about somebody who's in non-serious situation or some talking about somebody who's in a very critical condition? So if the software is the further you go to the upper left the classification goes from one to four and the regulatory process will change as you move from a lowrisk piece of software class one to a higher risk piece of software class 4 and this affects everything we will talk about. So the risk classification of the software defines the rest of the process and we'll come back to risk classification multiple times. which are slightly different systems 1 to three 1 to 4 A, blast and cruise but the fundamental principle is the same low risk low requirements higher risk high requirements. The next step in addition to the regulatory environment in week three here we will talk about the healthcare environment and data privacy and security. So in the healthcare environment we have all these players that are involved in the delivery of healthcare. We have points of care, doctors, hospitals. We have payers, whether it's insurance companies or governments, clinical support, business associates, IT services, others, potentially law firms, life insurance companies. All of those people may be your customers, maybe your users when you work in medical software. So keep that in mind. It's not just doctors and nurses. There's a lot more. And the second part is the data privacy and security issues that happen in a medical space. So these five points are the five steps in the NIS framework for cyber security. Identify, protect, detect, respond, cover. And we'll talk about data, privacy security, cyber security, and that will come in week three of this class. With that, we're ready to start now thinking about how to organize a process. And the next step is a quality management system. This is the rule book for a company. And this divides into three levels. The discussion of the leadership of the company and the support, personnel, infrastructure, work environment. The second level is the support processes. how the company does planning, measurements, configuration, documentation, all of those are processes that are the same for all software projects. And then the inner loop is a processor specific to our specific software projects. So requirements, deployment, maintenance, retirement, design, all of that above. And again, this comes from a regulatory document from the international medical device regulators forum. The QM is what defines how a company operates. And remember, we're doing serious projects, often dealing with people who are very sick and serious software requires serious processes. And this is our rule book. The next step, and we're still in week four of the class, is the other part of the management standards of what's called the management standards is the risk management process. And anytime you see this symbol here, the radiation symbol there, we're going to be talking about risk management, and it will be a companion throughout this class. So we'll talk about risk analysis, identifying what can go wrong, evaluating how bad can it get, risk control, what can we do to reduce the level to reduce how bad it could be and then evaluation of what's the risk that's left after we taken our measures. So anytime you see this icon up there, we'll be talking about risk management and risk management will be our everpresent companion in this class. We'll be talking about risk management, we design our software. We'll be talking about risk management when we code our software. We're talking about risk management. We test our software. When we install our software, when we retire software, every step of the process, we'll always ask the question, what can go wrong here? And at that point, we'll engage in a risk management process because that's how serious projects work. We'll talk about the medical software life cycle. We'll begin this process in week five and work our way down this vodel. And each of those things that you see here, each of those circle things will be a week of this class. So we'll talk about user needs and system requirements, software design, implementation and testing, validation, deployment, maintenance, retirement and this will stay with us. Now underlying this process of course is the quality management system and the risk management. Those are the supporting infrastructure that allow this to happen. Outside of a quality management systems and the risk management system, this life cycle makes no sense. And this is what's known by the standards. To illustrate the process, we'll do a case study and we'll use it to explain how software is designed and to some extent implemented. And we're going to use this case study of image G neurosarch is an area I've worked a little bit before and think about an image guard and neurosurgery system as a GPS type system for brain surgery. It allows the surgeon to see images of the patients at the same time as when they're operating. So here's what the system looks like. It's a picture of a brain lab system from Y New Heaven Hospital. You can see the screens here. So this is the software. At the top we have these cameras that will be looking at the surgical tools. So here's a zuma picture of our surgeon. He's holding a tool in his hand here. This is a patient. This an exposed brain. If you've never seen exposed brain, that's an exposed brain. This is a surgical pointer. So when he touches the pointer, these sensors here are tracked by the camera and the position of this pointer is shown on the screen. So the surgeon knows where they are at any given point. And this allows them to organize the surgery to know how far they are to the left or to the right or any kinds. So this is our case study. We'll use it to identify user needs, requirements to design our software and this will follow us for a few of the weeks of this class. So the first step of the process is to figure out what our users need. Now you can go and talk to your users and they might tell you what they need or they might tell you what they think they need and most of the time that you're going to get the immediate information. This is what's bothering me right now. This is what I think my problem is. Your job now as a designer is to take that information and abstract it and figure out what is it that they really need. So if we look at this chart and this comes from a book by Robertson and Robertson on the requirements process you'll see that the process starts with this thing called how now we are at the bottom of this pile scale. How are the users doing what they're doing right now? So you go you observe them you look at what they do you ask them questions but really your challenge is to go from how now to what now. So you want to move from this concrete face down here. This is the concrete to the abstract. If we take a simple example that I will return to multiple times in this class, how now maybe that they're using a lawnmower to cut their grass. But really what now? They just want their grass to be short. So if they had another way to keep their grass short, maybe they'll be just as happy. So we're moving from how now, the details of what's going on, what you can observe to what now. Getting an understanding of what's going on. And then what now becomes to what future? What more would they like to be able to do? Again, at this abstract level, not only do I want my grass to be short, but I want to look a certain way. I want to have a certain color. And then we use that information to go back to the real world into the concrete space to think about how future what are we going to design, how's our design going to develop to allow our user not only do what they need to do now, but what they would like to do in the future. And so we are going to have this constant interplay between the concrete and the abstract in this business. Embedded in this problem is this challenge of communication. And the way to I understand this the an easiest way to explain it is this children's game called telephone. You may have played it as children yourselves. We have four children in a row as illustrated in this picture. And the first child whispers something in the ear of the second child say computer pack. The second child tries to whisper to the sec third child what they heard. Tumor slack computer pass river mug. And at the end of the game, the last child tells the first child what they heard and they compare and they all have a good laugh and it's all very funny and leads to lots of amusement. But let's transpose that now into our world. The first child here might be a user. This is what they need. The second child here is our analyst. The person who goes and talks to the user and trying to figure out what the user needs. The third user might be a senior software engineer who has to design the software. And maybe a fourth user is a programmer who has to implement the software. The challenge in this process is that what the programmer produces should match what the user needs. Obviously, if we end up in a situation like the game of telephone where what the programmer produces only vaguely resemble what the user needs, we have failed. So, this is part of this problem of checks and balances of documentation of reviews of written documents, written designs that are necessary to ensure that our final piece of software meets the needs of our user. Because if it doesn't, we may have a perfectly good piece of software that's utterly useless for the needs of our user. So an example that people give is our user wanted a car and we've designed the best bicycle in the world, still not a car. So we have to be careful. So these issues of communication are critical and they will it's a challenge in any multi-disiplinary setting, any place that where lots of people involved. The way we think about the needs of the user is through the use of usage scenarios. And a way to understand usage scenarios, again to use another children's game, this is a game Clue or Cludo that some of you may have played as children. It's a family favorite in our family, is to think about this game where the goal is to figure out who performed a mer in which room with what type of weapon. And so people navigate across this board. They get to check, they ask questions, and it goes on and on. So here's a classic solution. Here the solution is that Colonel Mustard did the murder in the ballroom with a rope. So this is the proposed solution to this problem. Now if you look at this example you're seeing who where and with what. Now the missing aspect of this is the what what did Colonel Master do? Well Colonel Master of course did a murder but this is the basis of us understanding usage scenario in the real world. A neurosurgeon would like to be able to do tumor resection in the operating room and they're using a touchscreen computer in addition to their assertical tools. Who, what, where and with what. Those are the basic questions that we use to identify what are usage scenario. This is the basis for our software design. So in the beginning you have to identify who your users are, what they want to do, where are they doing it, what tools do they need to use, what are the constraints they are under. And that's incredibly important. So to just make it more concrete, who what where and with what back to clue a user is a neurosurgeon the what to navigate during a brain epilepsy neurosurgery procedure. This means being able to see the position of the surgical pointer on the anatomical MRI image of the patient the intended use environment in the operating room using a task computer mounted at eye level. So this defines the usage scenario and from here now we can think about designing our software. So what do we need to do in order to accomplish to implement this usage scenario? Well, one of the things we need to be able to do is get the anatomic images, right? They're part of the description. And so the usage scenario naturally lead us to the requirement. So here's the first requirement. The system shall, this is the magic formulation. It's like the ten commandments shall be able to successfully import images from the hospital database service called the packs. If you need to navigate on top of images, you need the images. So a requirement the thing that the software must do and we'll have a long list of these requirements. One of them is they have to be able to get an image. So this concludes the first half of the medical software tour. We've gotten up to the point of what does our software need to do in an abstract sense. In the next segment we'll take a look at the back end of this process and from what the software needs to be able to do. We figure out how it will be do it, how we'll test it and all the other things that are involved in this process.