The third major evolutionary concept that's useful in evolutionary medicine is mismatch. It is a major cause of maladaptation or disease states. Mismatch is often invoked and it's frequently misused. One has to be careful in thinking about causes of mismatch. There was not a single environment of evolutionary adaptation. Our ancestors had many different diets and lifestyles. So any argument that invokes an imagined past to support a favored hypothesis is suspect. It's biased. The Paleo diet movement is guilty of suspect certainty on this point. However, mismatch is real and it occurs in two ways. In time, the environment is changing faster than the population can adapt. The human examples include the agricultural revolution, urbanization, hygiene, all producing mismatch to evolve biology. And in space, organisms can move from environments where they were well adapted to environments where they're not. And the human examples would be migration and immigration. So let's first consider mismatches in time. Our diet before agriculture certainly was higher in lean meat, fruit, roots, nuts, and seeds, and had less sugar, no refined starch, less salt, and there was no milk after weaning. Our microbiota before hygiene and antibiotics, was more diverse, almost everyone had worms, and our gut flora was diverse and was often helpful. Addictive substances and technologies were rare or absent. There was no tobacco, alcohol, heroin, or cocaine. There was no television, email, Twitter, or Facebook. There were no horses to ride, no bicycles, cars, or planes. So, those are all things that have happened, some of them quite recently, and others within the last 10 or 20,000 years. There was also more movement and less sitting around. So we had a different diet and we exercised more. Let's take the example of milk. This one has been particularly well investigated. Evolution takes hundreds of generations to adjust traits to new conditions. That lag produces serious mismatches in our reactions to novel conditions. What was novel about milk? Well, lactase persistence in adults, the ability to digest milk as adults, is something that only happened after the agricultural revolution domesticated dairy cattle and goats and sheep. If we look at the selection pressure that might be required to produce the change observed, we can see that a mutation that enabled adults to digest lactose and gave them a selective advantage of 5%, which is a big selective advantage, would take about 8,000 years to increase from 1% up to 90% in the population. So that's a theoretical example. What actually happened was a bit more complicated. There were both local responses to selection and there was immigration from areas where lactase persistence had already started to evolve. Depending on the region and the level of immigration, the selective advantage of drinking milk would actually have to have been between about half a percent and 3% to account for the patterns that we see both today and in the archaeological record. only a few populations are now 90% tolerant. So what is the point of that example? The first point is that the current prevalence of primary lactose tolerance ranges from 95 to 97% in Scandinavia to 0 to 10% in East Asia. Not everyone on the planet can digest milk as nettle. strong selection and 8,000 years was not enough to fix the trait. Now that means that mismatches to modernity are plausible for many traits, not just lactose tolerance in adults. So it gives us an example with a timeline and a dynamic rate that shows us that these lags in biology are real. What about mismasters in space? Well, migrants introduced new diseases. So, Columbus's sailors brought syphilis back to Europe, where it was initially highly virilent, spreading from Naples, and routing the French army that was invading Italy. Europeans on the other hand introduced measles, smallpox, bubonic plague, influenza, typhus, dtheria and scarlet fever to the new world and to Polynesia causing epidemics that killed from 20% to over 90% of the natives. So here is an example of tertiary syphilis from the musea law in Paris. Here is an infant with measles rash and here is scarlet fever. Okay, so these are all things that were moved by migration. Now, immigrants also leave pathogens and symbiants behind. So when African-Americans came to North America, they continue to suffer from cickle cell anemia and that has compensating advantages only when malaria is present. Also, immigrants that are currently coming to developed countries suffer from attopies that may be related to shifts in their microbiomes. International adopes and children born in Sweden to foreignb born parents used asthma medication three to four times as often as did foreignb born children. So, immigration also involves a switch in the microbiota and that cascades through communication with the immune systems. And if the immune system is mismatched to the microbiota or getting the wrong signal, then you can have one of the diseases that result from immune malfunction. There is a general lesson in this. We are adapted to things that happened frequently in our past. Reproductive success occurs much more frequently in the young than in the old and in supportive environments and in healthy bodies than in threatening environments and in sick bodies. That means that the you the young are better adapted and that healthy bodies are better adapted than our sick bodies. We are adapted to circumstances that frequently led to reproductive success in the past. We are not adapted to circumstances that we did not encounter in the past. So things that happen very frequently with small effects can accumulate to have large effects. That is another uh thing about the numbers game of evolution. For example, anything involved in protein synthesis is going to be very finely adjusted because that's something that is going on in every cell in the body. So that by the time reproduction actually occurs, there has been a history in that individual organism of trillions of protein synthesis events. That that's something that can be extremely finely adjusted. We're mismatched to things that happened rarely or never before and we are well matched to things that happen frequently. So in summary, although the concept of mismatch is often misused, mismatch is real. The evolution of lactase persistence shows that mismatches in time are real. We are mismatched to conditions that are encountered rarely or never before. And we can also be mismatched to things that happen in other environments but not in this one. So migration and immigration are also sources of mismatch.