So in this segment we'll talk about the beginnings of the regulatory process and understand what this is and how it impacts how we develop and design and develop software. So this is we're going to talk a lot more about the details of the regulatory process next week but this week we'll just give you an introduction to this process. So a common myth misconception here of how the regulatory process for medical software works is as follows. You code your software however you like. At the end, you perform a validation study. You submit the results to the FDA and you get approval. This is not how the process works. Okay, we're going to cross that out. This is how the process actually works. You establish a quality process for creating software. So, your organization has a set of rules, standard operating procedures. We now have a quality process in place. We design the software and we document that design. We perform risk analysis to see what could go wrong and what changes need to happen to that design. We may optionally meet with the FDA to review the pros ahead of time to ask them questions. It has there's a process for doing that. We'll implement our software and document. We'll perform a prespecified validation study is a study that we designed at the beginning of the process. Hopefully, by the time we met with the FDA, if we choose to do that, we'll submit the entire process to the FDA. And this is where all these words document, document come in. All of those are documented. We'll get approval or more likely clearance. Those are terms we'll describe more next week. But even at that point we have to have a pl system in place for postmarket monitoring figuring out getting inputs from our customers if things are going wrong to maintain to support our software. So as you can see the process starts a lot earlier than coding the software. In fact if you look at the steps in the slide before you'll see that half the steps happen before you even start coding. And it doesn't even end with approval. You don't just release a piece of soft medical software in the wild. You have to monitor it. You have to perform maintenance. You have to receive inputs from your customers because it's performing a critical function. So your company has to stand behind its product for a specific period of time. So to give a more humorous perhaps example, if the FDA were a restaurant reviewer, it will not only taste the food. In fact, as you'll discover at the end, we might not even taste the food. But it would be interesting how drostanolone organiz how how the rest of the the restaurants organization and how it selects recipes, trains staff, manages cooking, tests for quality, how it performs risk management, how it ensures the customers stay healthy, that they don't serve bad ingredients or food that may cause health issues to the customers, a million other little things. And it will really rely on customer service to see if the food is good. It will not really taste your food in the same way that the FDA will not actually run your software. It will rely on documented results to do that. So the goal of this process if I were to summarize it is that you have to do the right thing the right way by following an explicit plan in an appropriate environment and that is the summary of how this process works. Now what is a medical device? So if our software falls under the purview of the FDA in it's a medical device. It will be classified as a medical device. So let's see what the rules of what medical devices are and then in the next slide we'll talk about what is not a medical device as a point of comparison. So I apologize for the details. It's sometimes worth seeing some of this language just so you understand what these documents look like. So we'll go through this definition slowly. It's an instrument apparatus implement machine contrivance implant in vitro agent or other similar or related article including a component part or accessory which is recognized in the official national formula. has a list of things that qualifies devices intended for use in the diagnosis of disease or other conditions or in the cure, medication, treatment of prevention of disease in man or other animals and is intended to affect the structure or any function of the body of man or other manos and it does not achieve the primary intended purposes through chemical action within or on the body of man or other animals and which is not dependent upon being metabolized for the achievement of his primary intended purposes. So that's a mouthful, but basically it's not a drug. It's something that's meant to be used for the diagnosis, cure, medication, treatment of prevention of disease in man and animal. And it works external to the body. It doesn't get metabolized. That is what the definition of a medical device is. And when we talk about software, our software comes to the regulatory process as a medical device. In fact, all of the rules we have for software are simply slight modification of rules that we have for things like surgical tools or other hardware devices. So it's not a drug basically says a device. So if your software meets the definition of a medical device before you can take it to market, you are responsible for meeting certain regular requirements which may involve a review process or at the very least just registering with the appropriate regulatory agency. Not every piece of and regulatory review as I mentioned before is required if the software qualifies as medical device. Now not every piece of software you will meet in the health care sector is in fact a medical device. Some software does not need to be reg is not regulated that way. So here's a list from the FDA. Software that get used for administrative support of a healthcare facility. The accounting software they use in the hospital is not a medical device. The FDA doesn't regulate that. Software for maintaining or encouraging a healthy lifestyle. All the apps that you see in the app store for wellness, those are not medical devices right now. Things that serve as databases, generic software for electronic patient records. This a critical piece of software in a hospital, but it's outside the FDA's perview here. It's not a medical device. Software that does basic processing task, transferring, storing, converting, and displaying data. And finally, software that's very peripherally used for medical purposes for limited clinical decision support. All of those are not medical devices. So you look at that list and if you if what you're trying to do does not qualify as a medical device, you say fine, I don't care about the rest of the rest of this class. I'm going home. I'm going to implement things the way I want. And I would caution you here. There are two things that we have to be careful about. One is what is now not a medical device may actually become a medical device. For example, take the wellness apps. If those end up becoming a source of problem that people have health problems for using wellness apps, all of a sudden those may become regulated. they may actually come under the umbrella and you want to follow the proper process because if the status quo changes you may find yourself in a regular environment very quickly. The second reason is that the suggestions the guidelines the rules of the regulated process for medical software development actually represents some of the best practices for doing software and this is the right way to do it. Your software that serves as electronic patient records may not be regulated the same way but if something goes wrong it could cause serious harms to people and you may be liable. So following a proper process is the best way to both do things the right way and if something goes wrong to have a defense that said well we did things the right way and if there something went wrong it may be the fault of somebody else. So it's both a self-defense and the engineering responsible way to do things the right way. So we have a video clip here that discusses what is not a medical device from Mr. Michael Nalo from the company NLo Medical Consulting >> and this is a lot of current on the app store. You figure you know a lot of your fitness trackers and things like that fall under or sleep trackers fall under general wellness and there's a guidance that's related to that and provides a lot of good examples of functions that are general wellness and not regulated by the FDA. you know, they're going to say while they might seem like health related applications, the FDA is kind of going, you know what, this is not um a treatment or mitigation or something for a disease or condition. We're going to step back and say this is just promoting good health for the users. That line like you mentioned has been fuzzy and sometimes gets clearer and then sometimes gets fuzzier again as software becomes more sophisticated and the FDA will always and regulation in general not just medical devices but you know think EPA and everything like that will always be a little bit behind the cutting edge. It just they can't make laws about something that hasn't come out yet. So yeah, so I think you should be prepared for that and as a digital health company, you need to have someone who is going to be monitoring those changes at least on an occasional basis so that you don't, you know, something that was true in 2020 might not be true in 2024 and you don't want to have your company be in trouble because of that shift. The same type of rationale is used in the European Union to decide what a medical device is. This is from one of the guidance documents and there's this flowchart. We'll zoom in here and just look at steps three and four. So in step three we asked is a software performing an action data different from storage archival communication or simple search. So if it's doing this things is not a medical device it's doing something different then we move on and we get to step four that says is the action for the benefit of individual patients. So if this is yes now we may be meeting the definition of a medical device. So something else does simple storage or is for public health is not a medical device it's just software used in the healthare system. If it's doing something that affects the patient an individual patient and their health directly it may meet the definition of a medical device and may be regulated in that way. So we've used these words regulations and things like that. So let's get a little bit more formal and let's talk about three words here law regulation and guidance. And these are key words as we talk about the legal apparatus behind this field. So we have law. Law leads to regulation. Regulation leads to guidance. So what are these things? Law in the United States for example in the medical space is a federal food drug and cosmetic act. And this is a federal law enacted by Congress signed by the president. This is what you have learned in civics 101. This is how laws are passed in this country. Laws operate at a very high level. the expertise simply does not exist in legislative bodies to get into the details of medical devices to give an example. So the the authority to specify what the law means becomes a responsibility of the agencies such as the FDA which develops regulations based on this act and other applicable laws and this sets out what the actual detailed law is in this case. Regulations have the force of law in the United States. Of course they can be challenged in court like any other law but regulations have the force of law. Regulations are also often at a high level. They don't get into super high detail. As we'll see next week, the regulation driving all medical software is seven pages long. But the agencies then move on to create guidance documents. So guidance documents describe the agency's current thinking on a regulatory issue. So you'll see a guidance on cyber security. This is what we think best practices are. Guidance is not legally binding either on the public or on the agency. But in the same way that a professor tells you, you know, take this seriously, you take it seriously because it just explains you how they're thinking about a particular issue. So let's look at some examples of this. So regulation to guidance is the United States. The regulation governing medical software is a quality system regulation code of federal regulations 820. This is a cover the PDF and an example guidance is the general principles of software validation. This is a guidance document and we'll discuss both of these documents in some detail next week. The same process applies in the European Union. The regulation is the medical device regulation 2017 745 that just came into effect in May of 2021. Here's an example guidance. It's a guidance from the European Union on cyber security and medical devices. In the introduction to the guidance, it makes the point about not being binding very clear and it says that it cannot be regarded as reflecting the official position of the European Commission. any views expressed in this document are not legally binding and only the court of justice of the European Union can give binding interpretation of union law. So the guidance is not legally binding but it does reflect the agency's current thinking on the issue and as such is pointing you to the right direction a little bit. So we'll end this lecture by giving you some list of documents that we'll use as a basis for the remainings of this class. The first is a list of key regulatory documents. These are the original regulations. This is the US regulation. the call system regulation of 1995. This is the medical device regulation of the European Union. This is a 2017 745 that just came into effect. We have the guidance from the FDA, the old guidance, the general principal software validation. We'll discuss in some detail next week. We'll have documents from the international medical device regulators forum. This last one says FDA, but it's really an issue of an IMDRF document. And this is all on this new area of software as a medical device. And we'll talk a little bit about that next week and then throughout the rest of the week. And then the final two are documents that pertain to artificial intelligence machine learning, the draft guidance from the FDA and a very interesting document from Singapore actually that talks about the entire process. But we'll zoom in on the aspect of it that talks about artificial intelligence and machine learning. And this will come in week 11 of this class. In addition to regulatory documents, we have international standards. And to define internal standard from the ISOL internal standard organization of the main bodies a standard is a formula describes the best way of doing something. Standards are the distilled wisdom of people with expertise in the subject matter and we know the needs of their organizations represent people such as manufacturers, sellers, buyers, customers, trade associations, users or regulators. So international standards are documents that written by committees from various sources from industry, government and others and they try to express the best way of doing something. So these are often known as soft law. Companies follow them and adhere to them. They're not really law that's passed by government, but they're what's called soft law. They represent best practices and they show that your company is following the best way of doing something. And just to discuss this a little bit more, I have a click from S. Alka Menon sociologist at Yale will talk about this topic to us. >> When we think of regulations and hard law, that's the the sort of power of the Food and Drug Administration or acts passed by the United States Congress. So they're they're legal instruments that have some sort of teeth to them, even if it's just that they can be, you know, sued for enforcement in court and might have to pay a civil fine. So what ends up being really important for for organizations that are engaged in really complex technical um kinds of product development is softw you know hard law is something that is dependent on the jurisdiction in which the company or the organization is chartered but soft law is designed to coordinate across these kinds of hard law jurisdictions. So it just escapes the question of jurisdiction and courts altogether and thinks at this higher level of what is the the best way to do something. So you can think of it as best practices of standards um of of sort of guidelines of how so you don't have to reinvent the wheel every time that you're going to show what good documentation is. So that's something that um if you want to make a product um or an organizational goal that extends across multiple national boundaries, you you want to think about investing in um a soft law component, compliance component. >> So the most important standards in medical software are these four ISO 13485. This is the quality management systems description for medical devices. ISO 49721 this is the application of risk management to medical devices. These two are known as so-called management standards. IC62304 this is the system life cycle processes. This is going to be our guide for much of this course. And finally I 62366. This is usability engineering. How we design software to avoid user errors and keep them safe. And again these are what professor Menon said are called soft law. They do not have the force of law but the regulatory agencies look at compliance with the standards if you follow the procedures laid out in the standards as evidence of good work. And the standards are recognized and so you have a much easier time at many regulatory people say well our software process follows IC62304. The agent knows exactly what you're doing and they're very happy when you say something like that. the standards may not be 100% in in fulfilling the needs for a particular jurisdiction. So ISO 13485 as we'll talk later is not one for one the same as what the FDA would look for in a quality system but it's close and it gets you most of the way there. So this ends this discussion our introduction to regulatory process. In the next three segment professor Leola will come in and he'll talk to you about the health care system the current state of the US healthare system why it's so expensive and the opportunities for software to transform how we think about healthare. Thank you.