This is Greg Lai. In this segment, I'd like to talk about the US healthcare landscape and its systemic challenges. The state of the US health care system has been frequently described as dangerous, choppy waters, as illustrated in this beautiful picture by Winsslow Homer. And indeed, there are systemic challenges, especially when it comes to cost and quality. Yet these challenges also create significant opportunities. Health care costs in the United States have been drastically increasing. You can see in this graph how it costs will continue to increase and projected to increase over 20% of gross domestic product in the next several years. So where does this money flow? The vast majority of health care costs are allocated towards hospital care as well as uh physician services and physician salaries as well as a number of other things like pharmaceuticals and drugs. However, the significant challenge is that healthc care spending in the United States is significantly greater than other industrialized nations. And in the on this graph you can see how the red line which represents the United States is significantly higher than our peer group of industrialized nations. Also healthc care spending per capita meaning healthcare spending per person is significantly higher in the United States than our peer- industrialized nations as illustrated on on this graph in red. Despite the spending, health care quality in the United States is really unexpectedly poor. So here, for example, health uh uh medical error rates in the United States are significantly above the uh average of 12% where we're approaching 20% again compared to our peer group of nations. Additionally, the infant mortality rate in the United States is surprisingly low. Uh, excuse me, surprisingly high compared to our peer nations. This presents a paradox. How is it that despite the fact that we're spending so much money on healthcare in the United States, our level of quality, our error rates, our in mortality is all unexpectedly poor. We'll explore this further in our next segment.