This is Greg Lle. In this segment, we'll look at why is US health care so expensive. As we said previously, there's a paradox in US healthcare spending in that we spend more than our peer industrialized nations approaching 20% of our gross domestic product. Yet our quality, our error rates and other indicators are surprisingly poor. So let's step back and ask the question, who has the power in this kind of health care system? If we just think of a simple model of the patient, the provider meaning the physicians and doctors who provide care and the payers meaning insurance companies or the government that pays for care. Who has the power in this simple model? Well, of course, uh this simple model is an oversimplification, but it does illustrate several points which are described as the principal agent problem and the access problem. The nature of these problems is that each one of these entities has their own unique incentives that create struggle with the other entities. So for example, the patient wants the highest quality of care despite the cost. The payer wants of course to save money and pay as low as possible. and the provider wants to control uh the way health care is delivered as well as get adequate reimbursement. This creates destortions in incentives, information in asymmetry as well as power struggles between the entities. Well, that simple triangle doesn't represent reality. And if we think of the other entities that are exist in the health care system, uh each one has their own incentives that creates further distortions, further incentives issues, further asymmetry problems. And this entire web has been called the healthc care hassle map, which is one reason why it often is so difficult to get well-coordinated care as well as access to highquality care despite the costs that we're putting into the system. This paradox has been looked at by researchers. And here's an example of uh a research study that examines specifically how is the United States has such high spending despite the low quality of care. And in this study, the researchers examined not just the spending on health care, but also spending on social services. And in their analysis, what they found is that if you combine social service spending plus health care expenditures, the United States actually is about the middle of the of the list, as indicated here where the arrows are. Indeed, if you look at the blue bars, health care spending is higher in the United States, as we've said previously. However, if you combine health care spending with the relatively lower amount of social service spending in the United States, that combined amount is relatively in the middle of the pack compared to our peers. So perhaps this begins to explain how it's not just looking at the spending, but look at looking at the percent of spending that's allocated to health care versus social services that puts us in a unique place that does create some of the distortions that we see in the US healthcare system.