This is Greg Llay. In this segment, we'll talk about the digital transformation of healthcare. Healthcare is undergoing tremendous changes as illustrated in this picture where these sailors are navigating choppy waters but working towards a goal in the distance. In this segment, we'll look at several areas which are undergoing rapid transformation particularly with the introduction of technology and digital services. Uh we'll look at electronic medical records, tele medicine, digital medicine, imaging, digital biomarkers and healthcare data. The definition of electronic medical records are the use of patient and population data that's stored electronically and can be shared. The benefits of such EMRs are to improve quality, improve management and reduce medical errors. However, there are challenges in using ER EMR systems, particularly around training and user acceptance, especially with providers and physicians who complain that they're spending up to a third to half of their time doing medical record recordkeeping. Despite these complaints, the use of electronic medical records has been rapidly growing, especially in the United States. Uh on this graph you can see how the use of EMRs in uh uh both certified as well as any EMRs has dramatically increased in the past decade or so. Tele medicine tele medicine is defined as the use of telecommunication systems to connect uh providers with patients. There are many benefits from using tele medicine such as reduction in transportation time and costs not needing to take time away from work and overall reduction in costs and increase of access to health care. There are some challenges to tele medicine particularly around reimbursement which may be problematic as well as integrating new types of technologies and perhaps for some patients having difficult access to technology. Again, despite these tech uh some of these challenges, the use of tele medicine has been growing very rapidly. And here we see the uh hospitals implementing many tele medicine systems uh as well as individual physicians and practices. And here we see in this graph how the percent of us uh of adults in the United States also has dramatically increased particularly in the last couple of years. Next, let's consider digital medicine. Digital medicine and therapeutics. The definition of digital medicine is the use of technologies for research, treatment, uh recovery as well as dis disease prevention. Um the benefits of these types of digital medicine and digital therapeutics are improved access, broader distribution of health care services um especially to underserved areas. However, there are challenges with uh the implementation of digital medicine particularly around the perception of uh uh questionable clinical efficacy or scientific validity. Digital medicine has been also dramatically increasing uh particularly in the last few years and much of this is being driven by the amount of funding that has been going into digital medicine specifically. So uh uh many billions of dollars have been have been going in from venture investors and public markets which will be explored later in the course. Digital medical imaging is another important area that's been undergoing technological changes. So the definition here is you use of uh uh digital techniques for clinical analysis and medical intervention of images that are collected uh uh uh for around patients. The benefits here are easier, quicker file sharing, being able to use artificial intelligence and machine learning for improved accuracy and diagnosis. However, there are significant challenges here. Some of those are around the high storage requirements and data requirements as the amount of information is increasing around uh digital the creation and storage of digital imaging data and the need for greater bandwidth and faster networks. Again digital imaging software market has been dramatically increasing and this uh illustrates the uh growth rates that are approaching four to 5% per year. Next let's talk about digital biomarkers. The definition of digital biomarkers are objective quantifiable physiological and behavioral data that's collected from wearables or devices uh and stored electronically so that can be analyzed. Um some of the benefits here are better and more accurate representation of patient information especially around diseases that create a better impression around uh diagnosis and disease management. Challenges exist in a collection of digital biomarkers particularly around adoption of new technology and using these uh in a way that seamlessly integrates with the patient experience. Digital biomarkers have been dramatically growing and will are projected to continue to grow in a number of different areas such as the delivery of insulin, uh, blood pressure monitoring, glucose monitoring, and the ability to monitor patient activity. Let's take a look at healthcare data, one of the areas that has been growing most dramatically in recent years. So the broad definition of healthcare data is data collected to any related health condition uh including outcomes uh uh uh quality of of medical intervention causes of death etc. Um the benefits of collecting and analyzing health care data is to uh more effectively and efficiently understand what is driving patient disease and what is driving their improved outcomes that lead to better medical decisionmaking. There are challenges around this particularly around privacy issues that needs to be uh maintained. The sharing of data needs to be done securely and patient confidential confidentiality and privacy needs to be maintained. Healthcare data has been greatly increasing in recent years. So a well-known analysis that came out a few years ago has uh looked at the doubling rate of healthcare data and healthcare information and that has dramatically increased since the 1950s. It was estimated that it took about 50 years for health care data to double. Now in the year uh 2020 it was estimated that health care all healthc care data doubles every 73 days which means that three times a year the entire amount of healthcare data doubles which is a dramatic increase. This has led to growth in big data research. Uh and this graph illustrates just the number of cumulative publications focused on healthcare big data data analytics for the benefit of more efficient and accurate diagnosis and and treatment. And these papers uh and this research is done in a number of different areas such as bioinformatics, health informatics, uh imaging etc. The growth of healthcare data is uh expected to exceed many exabytes of data which creates another problem around storage and analysis of this data. This challenge does introduce significant opportunities particularly for uh writers of software and those creating technology systems to both analyze and use this type of data.