Probably one of the most effective behavior change tools you have to influence the behavior of your child is the attention you provide. Like many other tools we have discussed, you already are familiar with the overall concept. So just paying attention to what your children are doing is hardly new. Yet research provides some guidelines to make attending quite effective if done in some special ways. and the special ways are rather different from how attention is used routinely. In this video, I outline two techniques that go together. They are called attending and planned ignoring. They go together because they are opposite sides of the same coin. One is paying attention in special ways to develop behavior and the other is ignoring or not paying attention to reduce or eliminate some other behavior. They work together to get the behavior change you would like in your child. Let me highlight attending and planned ignoring one at a time and then put them together. What is the definition of attending? Well, attending is noticing when someone is doing some behavior that you wish to increase and then providing attention by praising, smiling, asking pleasant questions, talking nicely, hugging or giving the child a pat on the back. I have discussed the power of praise in a separate video. Attending is a much broader category that includes praise but more. Also, attention can be more subtle than praise. Simply paying attention to something can foster behavior, both desirable and undesirable behavior. That is, we can attend to behavior we really want to get rid of and without knowing it actually maintain that undesirable behavior. So, it is important to distinguish attention from praise because the effects of attention can be positive or negative. For example, let's say you are paying close attention while your child is talking about her day at school. As you listen to your daughter, it seems as if you are only in the moment and paying attention to what she is saying. Actually, the effects go way beyond that. When you pay attention, that can have a really great positive effect on her talking and confiding to you more in the future. This means that attending can work against us too. Many times we give attention to behaviors we do not want and these can increase as well. For example, your child may be complaining about a chore or something else you asked him to do. You could continue talking and explaining that attention action can maintain complaining and increase the likelihood of complaining in the future. Of course, we want to be sensitive to complaints and concerns, but one also has to be cautious if you are accidentally contributing to the increase of a problem in the future. If you want to change some behavior, then attention has to be used very carefully and in special ways. What we used to practice and become aware of in giving attention only to approve behavior. ones we want to increase essentially consist of catch your child being good with your attention. Attending is pretty unsistatic in everyday life. We attend to all sorts of things that merely draw our attention in the in the moment. As I've noted earlier in other videos, our brains are hardwired to pick out negative things in the environment. This is called a negativity bias. What this means is that when children are playing together nicely, we tend to let that go. But once they start arguing or fighting, that gets our attention and we run in, provide that attention and say, "Why can't you two get along?" Well, first, reprimands like that are not likely to work at all in developing cooperative behavior. Second, even though the attention seems negative, it could easily maintain their fighting. Attention from parents can be a great reward even though we usually do not think of it that way. Attention can be used in a more planned way to have the effect that we want on changing behavior. So here's how to make attending effective. The effectiveness of attending depends actually on four conditions. First, define the behavior you want to increase. It is always a good idea to write that down just to be sure it is really clear. Second, decide on the type of attention you're going to use. This is usually praise, but you can use other things as well. Anything you do that will pay attention to the child. For example, you might even say, "I notice that you practice your music or that you put away your clothes." If this attention is provided systematically and often rather than just on a oneshot basis, the effects can be great. Third, make sure the attention is provided immediately after the behavior. Immediiacy is very important. The effects of attending are diluted or lost if there is a delay. So, for example, at dinnertime, if you say, "I liked how you got ready for school this morning." That will not be very effective in changing getting ready for school in the morning and developing the habit. It is better and much more effective if you say something when the child comes down to breakfast. Something like, "You just got ready for school so nicely this morning." That's really great. Delayed attention conveys that some behavior is important or important to you. And that's valuable. But for building in practice and repetition, the longer the delay and providing attention for behavior, the less effective that attention is. So the fourth condition is to attend to the behavior you want often. If you are using attention to change behavior then we need this connection between the behavior and attention to occur frequently. Each time is a practice opportunity that will help lock in the habit. That is the big difference between effective attention as a behavior change tool and how attention is usually used in everyday life. The usual use is fine. We attend to things all of the time. But to change behavior, we need to have the child behavior connected with immediate attention several times. That is the part that develops the habit you'd like. In other words, making attention an effective behavior change technique depends on providing immediate attention and often attention. Let us go through the same example considering how to use attending effectively. First, you have selected playing cooperatively as the behavior you want to increase in your children. Well, what does playing cooperatively look like? You need to define playing cooperatively. That might be playing in a calm, peaceful manner and with no bickering. Second, we need to select what kind of attention to use. You could praise, hug, look at them, or ask them questions about what they did and give them some high fives. You do not have to use just one kind of attention, and you do not need to use the same one each time. That part's very flexible. Now, you actually provide attention while they are playing cooperatively and give the attention immediately. That is the third ingredient. Going back to our pre-dinner playtime scenario, if you acknowledge your child for playing nicely right when you notice it, then you could prevent bickering from occurring later. Catching your children being good is difficult to do. But if your children tend to argue, tease, or fight when they are together, be sure to rush in once in a while when they are not doing that. Which brings us to number four. Attend to the behaviors you want to increase. playing nicely. Attend to it as often as you can. It seems counterintuitive, but the best way to get rid of arguing, teasing, and fighting is to attend to the cooperative behavior you want to see. That is the positive opposite behavior. I mentioned that attending has a sister tool and by that I mean there are two tools that are used together. This additional tool is called planned ignoring. As with attending, you know about this in everyday life, but it is used a little differently to make it effective. Before defining it, let me note that this tool does not work well by itself. I will explain that in a few moments, but the key is to be sure planned ignoring is used with attending. So, what is planned ignoring? Well, it's when you do not give attention to a behavior. You deliberately ignore an undesirable behavior in order to decrease it. To use ignoring, you would not look at the person, not talk to them, and not smile at them. Maybe even turn away or talk to someone else or just leave the room. It is a good idea to avoid attending to behaviors you want to decrease because your attention could maintain some behavior you do not want to continue. This is not easy to do. In fact, when I work with parents, we usually have them come in and practice walking away when they are attempted to give further attention to some behavior like a tantrum or some argument or something. This is absolutely critical point about planned ignoring. Remember, even your negative attention like reprimands or arguing with your child can have the effect of maintaining some behavior you want to get rid of like arguing. Planned ignoring does not develop the behaviors that you wish. It just ensures that you're not accidentally rewarding the behaviors by attending to it. So, how to make planned ignoring effective? Well, the effectiveness depends on four conditions. First, define the behavior you will be ignoring. This is the behavior you want to decrease. As always, it's a good idea to write it down to make sure it's very clear. Second, decide what kind of planned ignoring to use when that behavior occurs. There are many options and any of these would be fine. You could look away to try to avoid facial expressions to convey a reaction. You could not talk to the child. You could ignore all requests. And of course, you can leave the room. Third, try to be consistent and use planned ignoring whenever that specific behavior occurs that you wish to decrease. Sometimes you might you might not be able to do that. things might just get out of hand or you've reached your point where you can no longer tolerate and have to say something. That is fine, but get back on track as soon as you can and resume ignoring that behavior. Finally, be sure to attend to the positive behavior because ignoring by itself is not likely to work. Let us walk through an example. Let us say your child whines when he wants something. First, select the behavior you want to decrease. In this case, we have chosen whining. We must define what we mean by whining. We will say asking for something in a whining tone of voice and repeated requests a few times in a row. Second, select what kind of ignoring to use. Walk away from your child, look away, talk to another person, and so on. It is important to have a strategy in mind ahead of time so you know what you will do in the moment when the behavior occurs. You might even want to practice what you will do with your partner or a friend. Third, ignore the behavior as often and as consistently as possible. When your child escalates and continues to whine, nag, and maybe even yell, it will be hard not to reprimmend. But try to ignore inappropriate behavior whenever you can. And if you can, just walk away. The fourth ingredient is absolutely critical. Attend to the positive opposite. Using our example, be sure to praise your child when not complaining or whining. So if your child asks for something politely in a calm voice and says, "Please, praise and attend to that." Even even if your child is being non-compliant but in a calm way you can even acknowledge that to shape that behavior without attending planned ignoring by itself will just not work. So I mentioned before that there are limits to planned ignoring and by itself don't depend on it to change behavior. We know a lot about this and we know a lot about why it's ineffective. Here are some of the reasons. First planned ignoring would have to be absolutely perfect for it to be effective. all by itself. That means the behavior would have to occur and be ignored every single time. If there's a little attention, even just a tiny bit, just once in a while, the behavior you want to get rid of will continue for a long time. That research finding is used by gambling casinos. One reason that people play slot machines and continue to play even without winning is that the winning occurs just once in a while and is unpredictable. When a reward occurs once in a while and is unpredictable, behavior continues for a very long time and will not drop out quickly. So the same thing happens in childbearing. Ignoring will not be very effective by itself because attention occurs once in a while that will keep the behavior going a long time. We also know that planned ignoring if used by itself can have an odd effect at the beginning. Behavior sometimes gets much worse just for a brief period. For example, if your child is having a tantrum when going to bed, you decide, "We've been attending to this tantrum. We're going to just do this ignoring." So, you start ignoring the tantrum. Sounds good. But what happens when you start ignoring a behavior very early, there is an increase in the intensity of behavior. It's called a burst. Just for a very short time, it's likely this tantrum is going to get much worse. It'll be brief, one or two nights, but when you see that, you're going to say, "Oh, this plans ignoring isn't working." Actually, it is, but it's better to just go in there and uh try to attend to the good nights and try to ignore the bad ones. But planned ignoring by itself, sometimes things get a little worse before they get better. Most parents would say, "I can't do this. It's just not working." It will work if you put plans ignoring with attending to the positive behavior. Finally, planned ignoring all by itself does not teach appropriate behavior. You might ask, why is it even needed if it doesn't teach what we should be doing? Well, it does work. It just has to be combined with attention for the behavior you want to develop. That is the key, developing the behavior with both of those. Some questions come up when talking about attending and planned ignoring. And here's the most frequent one. Most parents feel they're already using attending and planned ignoring all the time and wonder if there's anything new here. It is true. On a given day with your child, you are attending to some behaviors and ignoring others. That's just routine life and normal interaction. Of all the tools we have discussed, attending and ignoring may even seem to be the closest to your daily experience. And it's understandable to wonder what is here that's new and improved. Yet, how attention is provided and how ignoring is done make the procedures of this video very different from everyday life. And in the process, those differences make them much more effective in changing behavior. In this case, attending has to be immediate and frequently. That's not everyday life. And follow specific behaviors that we're trying to change. That is much more systematic. And add to that, now we're putting in planned ignoring for the behaviors you want to get rid of. And these ways are very different from how we do this in everyday life. So, let me close by noting that attending and ignoring are useful set of tools. you might use systematically. They need to be combined. We reinforce or attend to the behaviors you wish and ignore the ones you wish to eliminate. If there is no behavior you wish to reduce, attending is a systematic way and can be effective all by itself. This is a case where attending is close to other videos we talked about developing positive opposites and you might want to take a look at that video. While attending can be used and effective all by itself, planned ignoring rarely works by itself. So if you believe that just ignoring something it'll go away, this is generally false. There are many reasons, but the main one is the behavior you want to get rid of or ignore has to be replaced with some positive behavior. So attention or praise are needed to develop that positive behavior. Remember, each video discusses a tool to change behavior. This video combines two tools that complement each other. As always, our goal is to get the behavior to occur repeatedly and to be locked in as a habit. Attention can really do that, but it has to be applied systematically, immediately, and frequently for the specific behaviors you want to develop. We'll have some more tools in other videos.