So, welcome to week 10 of our medical software class. Today, we're going to finish off the medical software life cycle. We're going to spend most of our time talking about validation, but then we'll have short segments on the bug end of the cycle, deployment, maintenance, and retirement as well. So, the goals of this week's class are to talk about software validation. We'll introduce clinical trials. to talk and then we'll have some short segments at the end to talk about deployment, maintenance and retirement. These are the back ends of the medical software life cycle. So we have five segments. The first two we'll do an introduction to validation and then an introduction to clinical trials. In the third segment we give some concrete advice for creating a validation plan and then we'll do the back parts of the psychology. In segment four we'll talk about deployment and segment five will at least highlight some issues involved in the maintenance and retirement of software. All of those last topics, deployment, maintenance, and deployment are huge topics in their own right, but really beyond the scope of the sin introductory class. This week's material is based on chapters 15 and 16 of the textbook. And we've been following this throughout this course. So, let's start with validation. And we're going to talk about the process of validation. Just remember that validation is a process of establishing that our software meets the needs of our user. Not that the software works correctly, but it meets the needs of the user. So working correctly is a prerequisite for validation but not sufficient. It is necessary but not sufficient. Fundamentally we're interested in does this software allow our user to do what they need to do. Not what we thought they needed to do that's verification but what they actually need to do that is validation. So here's the V model and we're climbing up the back end of the V and we're here with validation and this corresponds to the needs of our user captured in use cases. That is called the V the symmetric concept of V. Again, if we go back to the FDA's own mission statement, we're talking about efficacy, safety, and security. I bold tier efficacy because that's going to be the emphasis here. So, in this lecture, we'll focus on efficacy. When it comes to safety and software, a primary consideration is usability and we're going to talk about that in week seven. When it comes to security, a lot of the interesting work, a lot of the effort, a lot of the problems come from cyber security and we discussed that in week three. So primarily here we'll focus on efficacy. What does efficacy mean? Well, if this is a first of its kind device, a first kind software, efficacy of means good enough, better than some kind of standard of care that is currently in the field. If there's a competing technology, efficacy means better or just as good but cheaper or requires less skill to use. And these terms are subjective qualitative. We have to figure out how to make numbers out of them to have quantitative criteria so we can demonstrate that. So that's the fundamental problem to prove efficacy. What we really need are objective quantitative criteria. Objective meaning that they would stand an external evaluation and they have to be quantitative so we can measure something and demonstrate efficacy. The key discussion that we're going to follow here comes from this document created originally by the international medical device regulations forum on the clinical evaluation of sound software as a medical device. This was issued in June of 2017 and reissued by the FDA in December of 2017 was just an additional cover. It's the same exact document and this is where the guid this is where our discussion is going to be based on this is the guidance we will follow. The guidance defines clinical evaluation as having three components valid clinical association analytical validation and clinical validation. So let me summarize what these three things are now and we'll pick them up each in his own slides later. Valid clinical association means we measure something relevant to the disease. If our software measures tumor volume and our disease is brain cancer, we need to demonstrate that tumor volume is somehow related to brain cancer. Okay? And this may sound obvious here, but imagine if we're measuring tumor shape. We have to demonstrate that that predicts something. Analytical validation means that our software does what it does well. If we're measuring tumor volume, we're measuring it accurately. That is analytical validation. And clinical validation means that the thing we measure helps our clinical users do something do something better than they were able to do before. So we're measuring something relevant. We're measuring it accurately and what we're measuring helps our users. That is the three pillars of this document here. So let's take them each one at a time. So valid clinical association and the table you see above is straight out of the document, a screenshot of the document. The question asks is is there a valid clinical association between your sums your software output and your sums targeted clinical condition. So we have to answer the question how much meaning and confidence can be assigned to the clinical significance of the sums output. So what does this process involve? It may involve something as simple as literature searches. You know we're measuring tumor volume. We want to look up and say to demonstrate that tumor volume is a good predictor of outcome in cancer. It's irrelevant. We may have to do some original research. We may have to look at professional psych guidelines that establish that these things are true. And we may need to create new evidence in terms of secondary data analysis using existing data to generate some new results. Or we may have to go all the way to performing clinical trials to demonstrate the thing we're trying to measure is actually relevant to the disease. So this is valid clinical association. The second step is analytical validation. And the question we are asked here is does your sum correctly process input data to generate accurate reliable and precise output data. So does your sum meet technical requirements and you know this is sort of the software was constructly correctly constructed. It misses specifications and conforms to the needs of the user and the evidence generation for this step is the standard process of verification and validation. Right? What we've always talked so far this the software is accurate and it meets the needs of our users. The third step is the clinical validation. This is the final step of the process. Does the use of your sums accurate, reliable and precise output data achieve your intended purpose in your target population in the context of clinical care. So we have to answer the question, does your sum achieve the intended clinical purpose? And part of this involves showing that the software has been tested in the target population for your intended use and that the users achieve clinically meaningful outcomes. So that final heritage, not only is our software producing relevant output, not only is the output accurate, but does actually help our users produce clinically meaningful outcomes. Does it help with the diagnosis of patients? Does it help with the outcomes of patients? Ultimately, that is a final hurdle. So let's take an example for computer diagnosis. For computer diagnosis, we have two basic types of validation testing. We have standalone testing where we validate the performance of the software. So in computer diagnosis, let's say we have an image and we're trying to detect whether we see cancer in that image. We have a piece of software that says okay the probability of having a cancer in this image is some percentage. It highlights some cancer. This is standalone testing. It gets used in a computer diagnosis when it functions as an aid to an expert. So we get the result from the software an expert uses that as an input or as a sidebyside or as a second vote to their own diagnosis. And there we have the user plus system testing that is the actual clinical performance. So the next step here is reader the user plus software testing. This measures the performance of the solution as opposed to the software alone. And to discuss this we have a clip from an interview from Dr. Nicholas Patrick of the FDA that's going to walk us through this type of example. >> We're again talking about a computer a say detection so assist device. So the clinician still involved in the diagnostics. We would follow a similar pathway. We would do that standalone testing. Um because what we want to do with that testing is to benchmark the performance and make sure it meets its its um performance criteria. So there's some criteria that set out we think it can produce this amount of sensitivity or this number of false positives um and meet those criteria. So we do the standalone testing to benchmark performance. Um the other reason we do standalone testing is because when you put it out in the clinic, what the clinicians want to know is how well should I expect this to perform? how many marks should I expect to see on a case or what's the sensitivity specificity of this device? The second phase is then that clinical um assessment and what we want to do is get now is assess not the device itself but the clinician. How well does a clinician perform when they use that device? And so again, we would use as we talked about before some usually a type of multi-reader multicase study design where we would, you know, acquire data. The clinicians would read it um without the aid and then with the aid. Um and that could be in in different sessions. It could be within the same session depending on the type of AI that it's being implemented or and the actually how it's supposed to be applied. Is it a second reader or is it a concurrent read? is it a first read type of device and so forth. Um and then once we do that clinical study, the goal would be to show typically that it's better than standard of care that's happening now. So how well do those clinicians perform um in standard of care? And when you add this a do they do better than that standard of care in a statistical and clinically significant way. Again, those are the two main pieces of the types of studies we would do. There's lots of details and nuances of how you would set those up and what's appropriate the references and how you truth things and things along those lines that are really important. But the basic concepts are those two basic studies are used as the main data sources for determining whether it's a safe and effective product. The final concept we'll touch on here is this concept of independence of review. And this is a title of a slide graphic that comes from the MDF guidance and it is the highlight here. The important point here is it's best for software to be evaluated by a team independent of the team that created. This assures that the reviews performed appropriately. It mimics really the perspective of a user. And a key consideration here is that the reviewer should have nothing to gain from the success of the sum. So it should be often a separate company and get contracted out or a hospital gets contracted out to do the evaluation. They have nothing to gain if this succeeds or fails. And this gives you an objective assessment. What the graph shows is remember that the four risk categories from the IMDRF classes one to four and the independence of review gets more important as we get towards these higher classes and we get to situations where it is more critical for the patient it's more useful it's more important to have this kind of extra level as the software gets more critical finally we're going to talk a little bit about the issues to do with artificial intelligence machine learning there's some extra complications here in in we have to do have independence of performance validation for these algorithms. So what this means is that the data used for testing should ideally be completely different from that used for training a model. Ideally the testers should also be separate entities not the same people created the model and they should bring their own data. And we're going to have a lot more to say about this in the next week. And when it comes to this machine learning and artificial intelligence algorithms it is very easy to get artificially inflated results if one is not careful and we contaminate the data. If the data sets are the same that we use for testing and training, we're going to get artificially high performance. But in so that's something to be very careful about and we'll touch a lot more on this in the discussion of those topics in next week's lecture. So this concludes this introduction to validation. In the next segment, we'll take a slight detour to talk about clinical trials in their organization and the segment after that we'll discuss the creation of a validation plan. Thank you.