In this segment, we'll give you a brief introduction to clinical trials. We already discussed some of the math underlying the design of this last week, but here we're going to look at the actual design and implementation of this type of studies. So, all clinical trials in the United States have to be pre-registered on this web page that the NIH runs called clinical trials.gov and you can search for what trials are ongoing. This is useful for patients who are interested in participating if they have some disease for which there's no treatment. You may be able to enroll in a clinical trial and potentially get access to some therapy ahead of time. But part of the reason for this pre-registration here is this issue of Phiking. So you imagine that you have a situation where a company is going to do four clinical trials for its own drug. In the old days, you could do those four trials and only report the results of a successful clinical trial and just hide the other three. By pre-registering, by being forced to declare the trial, what trial you're going to do ahead of time and register on the NIH web page, somebody can find out exactly how many trials were ongoing and ask you, well, what happened to the other three? Why you only reporting this one? So, this creates some more integrity into the system. So the formal definition of a clinical trial is a research study in which one or more human subjects are prospectively assigned to one or more interventions which may include placebo or other control to evaluate the effects of those interventions on health related biomedical or behavioral outcomes. Okay. So this is the core of it. We're going to walk through a little bit of the terms and especially the words prospective and the word randomized in the next slide. So what is prospective and what is randomized? A prospective clinical trial is where the study design, the outcome specification, the analysis plan are fully defined prior to any data collection. The plan is created, it's reviewed and it's set in stone. And this avoids the temptation to adjust the conditions once experimental process underway which may introduce biases in the process. So we set out the conditions and we just follow the plan and that's it. And randomization and we talked about this last week. The subjects must be randomly assigned to each group to avoid biases in subject assignment. So this is the two pillars. So when you have a randomized prospective clinical trial, that is the gold standard. So how do we test medical devices on patients? We have a chicken and egg problem. We need approval prior to clinical use and we need clinical testing prior to approval. So somehow we have to break this chain and the solution is a clinical trial which involves experimental use of the device under either an institutional review board approval or an investigational device exemption ID from the FDA. So if you're trying a device that has doesn't have clearance for use in clinical settings, you either go to an institutional review board. Every major hospital has one of these things. You submit your study and you specify these are the risks and they're well controlled a small number of patients. we know what we're doing and you know the risks we have specified them we have all the checks in place please approve it if the level of risk rises above a certain level you need to go to the FDA itself and to gain to get an investigational event exception granted to you to be able to perform the studies with this device the same applies to drugs the same applies to all kinds of things here so an ID is required for US human studies that have not been approved for the proposed task which is all of them of course here and they post significant risk to the patients where the institution isn't willing to take the risk to approve it effectively and you need to go through a regulatory approval process. There are two kinds of ideas. There's what's called a physibility study. This is a small study to establish the safety of the device and the potential for effectiveness. So safety first this thing is safe and it's likely to work and this should follow the usual preclinical studies for example animal studies, phantom studies, all the things you do before you think about going to humans. And the next step is a pivotal study. This is a larger study and this really serves as a primary clinical support for the full FD application. And this is used to demonstrate reasonable assurance of safety and effectiveness. And the end points and the numbers of subjects are driven by prior analysis. This is the power analysis we talked about last week. And the FDA review of this is more involved. Effectively when you apply for a pivot health study you set the numbers in place the setup in place such that if it succeeds then from here it's a straightforward process for the FD to give you approval for the device to be used in clinical care. This is the last step prior to approval. Now in this pandemic era you may have followed the drug studies and the vaccines and studies and how the review of those has happened. So the process the FDA uses is similar for drug studies. We have a phase one study. This a safety testing in a small group. We give the drug to a small number of people. Make sure there are no side effects. This is phase one. Phase two, we have a larger group divided into a control and experimental group. And here we determine safety and at least an initial hint of effectiveness. So this is a phase two. At the end of phase two, if successful, you go to a phase three. This a large and multicight trial and this is the last step prior to requesting approval from the FDA to introduce a drug to the market. And those of you who followed the vaccine trials, you'll hear, you know, Fiser announced the results of his phase three trial sometime in November and then FDA at least initial approval followed later that month. So the phase three is the large step before getting approval. But drugs can we can have issues with drugs later and there are postmarket trials that can be performed later to evaluate long-term safety and this is the next part that sometimes happens. So this is a process for drug studies and it's very similar to devices and remember software is a device. As we sort of think about testing things on people, we have to worry about the ethical side of things and what does it involve and one of the key documents. This is Helsinki declaration of 1964. We're going to read a couple of paragraphs. This sets out some of the principles used when we test new things on people. Medical research. This goes a declaration is subject to ethical standards that promote and ensure respect for all human subjects and protect their health and rights. While the primary purpose of medical research to generate new knowledge, this goal can never take precedence over the rights and interests of individual research subjects. The declaration here and you hear the echoes of this comes after World War II where we had this horrific scientific experiments done in Nazi concentration camps. I had the privilege to visit Taka concentration camp outside of Munich and if you visit and hear about what was done in the name of science. You appreciate why we had the need to develop this type of documents and why these type of statements are there. And again remember that in every case the the need for new knowledge can never take precedence over the rights and interests of individual research subjects. That is a fundamental constraint. And this by the way was issued by the World Medical Association. That is their logo on the top left of this slide. So what does this mean in practice? There are two components. The first one is consent. We must ensure that the subjects have provided informed consent that they know what risk they're entering into and that they approve they understand what they're getting into. So it involves clearly explaining to the potential risk if and benefits if there are any benefits to the patient and the informed consent forms are required to be signed by the patients after detailed explanation is provided by the study investigators. So we don't take advantage of our patients and ask them to undergo some experimental procedure without explaining to them in language they can understand both the actual language English whatever is appropriate and the simplicity of the language you have to be able to appreciate what they're getting into that is a critical component. The second ethical consideration when it comes to subject recruitment is diversity and we have to consider the ethical considerations in the determination of the study population. This may be because we want to protect certain groups from harm. For example, we may not include children in some studies and to ensure that the study populations are diverse enough to ensure applicability to both sexes, multiple ethnic groups, different groups as appropriate. This is particularly important when validating a IML modules that are very sensitive to the data. And this type of diversity is also needed to be able to identify and quantify differential performance in different groups. So for example, you have a software that detects skin cancer from images. We may if the software has worse performance in people with darker skin. At the very least, we need to be able to inform patients and doctors that this is the case. So be careful with people from a particular ethnic group. Our tool doesn't work as well on them. This is something you need to do extra examinations on. The other reason the ethical component that comes here of course is to avoid targeting people for high risk operations particularly you know there's a large sort sorry s sorry s sorry s sorry s sorry s sorry s sorry s sorry s sorry s sorry s sorry history of targeting particular ethnic groups for experimentation in the United States and elsewhere over the past few years. So this concludes our discussion of the introduction to clinical trials. In the next segment we'll take a look at a little bit more of the nuts and bolts of what it takes to design a validation plan. Thank you.