So in this segment we'll give you at least an outline of the procedure to create a validation plan. This is not meant to be exhaustive. Please do not use the instructions and go to a regulatory agency and said we followed this. Why isn't this not good enough? The goal here is to cover the principles involved. And of course you have to study the particular documents that part to your that relate to your application as you go through designing a validation study. Again the usual disclaimer this is a simp one possible method for how to do it and it's a simplified recipe tuned for the needs of an undergraduate class to illustrate the principles not to give you every possible detail that you need to know. So here are some key questions to ask as you start creating a validation plan. The first one is is there a current solution? Are we trying to do something better, cheaper, something that requires less expertise or it's just our goal to create something that's substantially equivalent? This is often what's required for the 510K process in the FDA. We talked about this in week two where we find a predicate and would demonstrate that our solution is about the same, equally good, substantially equivalent. Same performance but cheaper is the easiest. We show that our performance is the same and our device cost less. That's a very easy test to do. How does one measure better performance is a critical question. This is where we get into this hypothesis testing that we discussed in the previous week's lectures in mathematics and if we have a new solution is this good enough is this a good enough new solution and how does one measure good enough and often this means involves a comparison to the current standard of care. So if there is no algorithm, there's no software for doing this specific task, we have to ask well how are this is this condition diagnosed or treated right now given the lack of tools. What is the standard of care? Can we improve on the standard of care? So we're not competing against an existing tool. We're existing competing against clinical standard of care as is practiced right now. So before we start validation, the job of validation begins at the need finding phase. You have to ask your users what it would take for them to believe that your software work. What type of evidence evidence would they need to be convinced to buy your software? And you want to start beginning to convert this qualitative and subjective statements into justified objective and qualitative criteria. So if your user tells you, well, I need accurate high performance. I need the soft to be accurate. You have to start thinking, okay, what does accurate mean? 80%, 90%, 95%, those are questions you have to start thinking about. And then you design a set of experiments to acquire the necessary measurements. And this may involve the power analysis and the randomization and the statistical techniques we talked about in the previous segment. In software validation, there are some additional constraints. In software validation, we use the finished software package as the input. We're not using code anymore. We're using the black box, the finished final product. We're testing the software from the perspective of the user. And ideally the validation team remember we talked about the separation having a separate validation team ought not to have been involved in the implementation of the software. These are people who have nothing to gain ideally from that and we want to test the software in an environment that matches the usuals the user's actual environment. Remember here we're testing the solution not the code. If you remember from the clip from Dr. Patrick may need to test how the alken performs, how the doctor performs when the use software is used as an A. We're testing the whole process here, the actual software in as real environment as possible and it how it helps an actual doctor clinician to do their task or any other user depending on what the situation we're dealing with is. So let's give a couple of examples. The first example here, our goal is to enable a user to perform a standard task accurately and efficiently. So we have to define the task precisely so it becomes a repeatable procedure. We get an image we look at it we draw a circle computer a volume something like that we define accurately quantitatively we have to get a number here 80%. Now for some things there are benchmarks accepted out there previous devices there are guidelines but we need to get a number there's no way around this and we need to define efficiently quantitatively less than two minutes less than a minute what would be acceptable those are things we have to figure out let's continue here we define the user in more detail it's a nurse with some computential experience using a standard PC a very concrete example we rec recruit a set of representative users we ask the user to perform the task in a simulated but a very realistic environment as close to as possible. We analyze the data and we show that the software meets or exceeds the expectations or needs of our users. That is one example. A second example, the goal is to perform a certain task better than a standard or existing method. Again, we do a randomized study. We divide into two groups. We have a group that performs a task using a standard method, a group that uses a task using their own method. And then we have some kind of hypothesis testing that says that our new method outperforms the standard method in accuracy by more than 20%. That's the effect we're looking for and the improvements will be statistically significant at some level of significance. So these are the kinds of examples that are often useful as templates for people to think about. These are very similar to how we design scientific studies. And you know here's one example of a new thing and one example of an improvement of a comparison to something that exists. So, we're going to walk through a template here and walk through the steps in more detail in the next few slides. So, let's look at what a template looks like. And what I'm going to present here applies to each question we need to answer. We need to provide objective evidence for. So, we have five intended uses. You're going to repeat this five times. So, this would be for each combination of user and use case. This is the user scenario or however you break your studies up to be. And the subsections will answer the questions. What? This is our goal, our hypothesis. You see the flowchart build at the bottom. Why? Why are we doing this? This was called the rationale. How the experimental procedure and finally how will you know the statistical data analysis. So let's examine each of these four steps in turn. Next. So the goal of the hypothesis, the what you start with a statement or a goal to demonstrate that the new technique significantly outperforms an existing technique by improving accuracy by 30%. That is our goal. This is our hypothesis effectively here. It must be specific and quantitative which makes it testable. Okay? If you don't have this number 30%, the rest of the vocabulary in that sentence is useless for your purpose. We need to come up with a number. We need to define what exactly we're trying to do. This is the goal or the hypothesis. The next step is the rational. It's a statement of why. Why is this a good thing? Why is 30% the number we're going for? and maybe with something like improving accuracy by 30% allows us to perform certain procedures, allows us to do diagnosis more accurate. This is critical it feels like an afterthought but unless you justify why you set the bar at that level. So think about this an experiment as high jump you decide to set the bar and you have to clear it and I as your judge judge whether the bar is high enough and whether you've cleared it. So the 30% is how high the bar is in your high jump experiment here if you wish. So justify why 30% is the right number. You have to perhaps study what the errors are in procedures, what the downstream effects are of using this type of software. If only we get the accuracy within 10% we'll be able to tell which treatment method we use after that. So you need to do your work here to figure out why 30%. Or it may be that that's an established benchmark in the field and you can just site that and continue. The next step is the methods. How will this be done? And so this is what experiments would you perform. This is a detailed procedure. It's a recipe of the experimental procedure that leads to a set of quantitative measurements. You may use a flowchart to illustrate the procedure. And this will include of course the subject, the user recruitment details. This will give you the full specification that if you hand it to somebody, they can follow the instructions and generate a set of measurements for you. This is the recipe. This is how you cook the food. This is how the procedure will happen. And finally the data analysis the statistical data analysis. How will we know that we have succeeded? How will we analyze our measurements? What are the procedures to be followed? And this should also be boring recipe like okay you take the input you perform this. It should be enough instructions so that somebody could follow them and come up with the result. So let's talk a little bit about some statistical techniques for demonstrating differences. You'll see things like t test, pair t test, anovas for demonstrating similarity agreement. You'll see things like correlations, coins, kapa, planoma plots. I'm just listing names here for you to look up. I'm not pretending to. We're going to cover them. The most important statement, if you remember nothing else from this segment, that you want to talk to your favorite statistician ahead of time. So the statistical analysis remember the power analysis from week nine the number of subjects needs to be specified before as part of the procedure because if you don't have enough subjects to demonstrate statistical significance you can spend a lot of money and time and have something that you cannot use to prove that your device works in some way. I joke sometimes with students that find a friendly statistician and he'll help you guide you through the process and then the statistician will not be so friendly if you don't talk to them ahead of time. If you just give them results at the end and say please analyze that they may not be particularly friendly because it's too late for them to be helpful. You didn't acquire the data that you need for the statistical analysis. So this concludes our discussion of validation. In the remaining two segments of this week's lectures we'll look at the back end of the software life cycle. We'll look at delivery of the software installation of the software. That's the process of moving the software from the lab to the user sites and then the final two steps maintenance and retirement. Thank you.