In this final section, we will appropriately talk about maintenance and retirement. The process of software maintenance is a very involved process. And if you think about it, software will spend a lot of its lifetime in maintenance. It may take us couple of years to develop and the software may be in operation for 10, 15, 20 years. So maintenance actually a big part of the life cycle. We will only present here a very introductory outline view of the topic but be aware that this can be a very involved process. So we continue with our V model and we're reaching now the step called maintenance in the beginning of the section. In the next half half of the section we're going to briefly touch on retirement. The standard IC62304 has a life cycle model for maintenance as we mentioned before back in week five. This is a life cycle for software development. the way it converts to maintenance is that two sections get replaced. So 5.1 and 5.2 here get renamed or get changed. So 5.1 instead of becoming development it becomes maintenance or development planning becomes maintenance planning and requirements for development become modification analysis and that that's fundamentally all that changes. Other than that the process identical to developing the software. We have now established what a user needs theoretically but now we have the maintenance needs the back reports that go in and we have to modify the software. So what are the steps involving maintenance? We have to establish a maintenance plan. We have to do a problems and modification analysis. This replaces the requirements analysis in the original software design. We have to implement the modifications. We have to test them and repeat all those processes that we did when the software was originally developed. The process of maintenance will continue. We have to have procedures and this is fundamental for receiving, documenting, evaluating, resolving and tracking any issues reported by the users whether ex external or internal and this includes increasingly critically cyber security issues and then we need to establish a process for acting on such reports. We need to determine whether this is an issue or not. We need to evaluate this for risk and if necessary we have to make changes and especially when it comes to cyber security this process has to be reasonably quick. There's a goal to provide updates for cyber security within you know a very short period of time 90 days or something of that order. So anytime we get a report we have to evaluate it. We have to document we have received a problem report. We have to analyze whether this is a mistake on the part of the user in which case maybe it's a matter of user training or whether this an actual problem in the software itself. And then we have to figure out how to prioritize fixes. How urgent this is. Is there a workar around with the current software just avoid this piece or does this require a fundamental change to the software and a new release and is this a small enough change that we can just update it or is this a major change that may need to go back for regulatory clearance again maintenance of course we have to worry as always about risk and safety we have to evaluate any problem reports that relate to safety this is critical and this is what part of the failure of the the case was they got serious accident reports and they did not evaluate the problem seriously ly any request for changes need to be evaluated carefully for the effects they have on the software and any external systems and users often fail to appreciate that very small tweaks may require massive changes. This is a common problem. All I want is this additional pattern but this additional pattern may require massive changes to the underlying code. Change requests need to be evaluated and approved and changes must be communicated to both the users and the regulators as appropriate. And finally, we need to also be able to report to the users new vulnerabilities. So what I mean by that is the following. In the context of cyber security, let's assume that a software uses a particular library for a network interface. If that if we now discover that that library has a vulnerability or our own code has a vulnerability because of the way it was coded and we are and this is communicated to us or we discover it in some way, we need to report this to our users to the hospitals that there's this vulnerability. Maybe this has some workarounds. These are things to watch out for while we develop a fix to that vulnerability and maintenance is a massive source of risk. If you remember from the earlier discussions, maintenance and software updates can be a major major source of problems. The original developers of the software are gone and new software developers need to make changes to existing code. And this is by far the hardest job in software development. What separates the experienced software developer from a beginning software developer is how they handle legacy code. Can you read somebody else's code hopefully somewhat well documented often not make sense of it understand it enough so you can identify the problem and fix it. This is where experience comes into play and this is a matter of requires significant practice. It is a lot harder to maintain somebody else's code than to write something from scratch. And this explains in many ways why the old 8020 statement we've made many times that 80% of the problems of software according that FDA study happened due to updates is part of maintenance because often the people who do the maintenance are not the people who wrote the original code and this is a tough challenge in my experience when I revisit code that I have written 15 20 years ago and I look at it I it's often hard for me to understand what's going on in the code and I wrote it imagine if you're looking at code that somebody else wrote with a very different coding style and often using stuff that may appear obsolete to you because this was written 15 years ago and so they're using an older style of programming that you may not have been taught but you still need to understand appreciate what's going on and figure out what to do. And of course this by definition puts a premium on writing clean easyto read code avoiding unnecessary complexity because your code is written to be read and fixed later. It doesn't just have to work now. It needs to work for the life cycle of the software for the entire lifetime. And the maintenance process is critically dependent on this type of thing. And once we're done with maintenance, we maintain our software for a number of years. Eventually, our software comes to an end. And this is a retirement process. So, let me show you an example. On April 84, you see this announcement from Microsoft. After 12 years of support for Windows XP ended April late 2014, Microsoft would no longer provide security updates or technical support for this operating system. It is critical to migrate now to a modern operating system. So at some point even Microsoft which is famous for supporting software for a very long period of time stops updating software. And so what they do is that you know ahead of time we know now this is the summer of 2020 that Windows 10 will be supported for another five years. This is your warning that the clock is starting and over time you need to make plans to move away from that piece of software to whatever next comes up. So why do we stop supporting software? First the software becomes obsolete. You know it was designed a long time ago. It has functional it makes assumptions about the data that comes in or the users that are no longer applicable. So we don't want to keep fixing it and sometimes you have to do a cleaner ride and start from scratch. So the software becomes obsolete. There may be unfixable cyber security issues that can only be patched for so long, but ultimately we have to retire the software or it's being replaced by something newer, better. We have a new product on the market that's replacing our existing product and the old version comes to an end. But this is a dramatically new version. So it's not really an update now. It's a new piece of software. And finally, the company may choose to exit this line of business. And in the medical world, this can happen either because the company is no longer interested or because it was acquired by competitor. So the software could be retired or it's being merged with another product. For whatever reason, the software life cycle comes to an end. We will no longer support our software. So what does the process look like? What how do we retire software? So what needs to happen at the end of life? You'll see end of life or you'll see EOL that means end of life. So this is a process that's called decommissioning. And as some of the regulator documents talk, this is the IMDRF speak here. We are stopping the maintenance, support and distribution of the software in a controlled and managed fashion. Let me underline controlled and managed. We don't just call people and say tomorrow the software is retiring. We're no longer supporting it. It has to be a slow and deliberate process with plenty of warning like Microsoft is doing with Windows 10 in five years. We have to provide plenty of warning as mentioned before and we have to provide our customer support to both extract any valuable data from the system and to transition to a new system and that is critical. So if there's data that's sitting on the system that needs to be removed, we help them get it out and we help them move to a new system and we have to ensure that data privacy is safeguarded. So if there are patient data on the hard drive for example of a device when the device is retired there should be procedures for wiping that clean or maybe we take the workstation back when the software is retired it comes back to us and we do the proper recycling procedure. In every possible situation, we have to ensure the data privacy safeguarded. Anything valuable on the system is preserved and we do it slowly and deliberately so people know it's coming with plenty of warning. As a final slide, let's look at some of the IMDRF guidance on cyber security. And while this focuses security, it applies to all other kinds of software processes. So this is a flowchart. We'll zoom in in a minute. At the top it has the responsibilities of the medical device manufacturer and at the bottom it has the responsibilities and expectations of the customer. So let's walk through the steps. There are four parts of this life cycle. In the beginning we're in development and the manufacturer designs the devices under a secure development framework. For cyber security the process starts of course from the beginning and so we're developing the product and development ends with commercial release. So at the point of commercial release the manu the medical device manufacturer communicates the end of life timeline for end support to customers with expected support provided until the days reach. So now we end up a period called support from commercial release to end of life and our customers know that this is coming and they can depend on us being there for them for that period of time. The next step is what's called limited support and this is an in between stage where we only provide very minimal support and the customer begins planning for activities at the end of support as communicate from the manufacturer. So we'll provide patches for the next two years but no new features. That's typically actually how Microsoft does it for Windows. And then there is the end of support. the manufacturer no longer supports this software and the provider the customer now is fully responsible to transition from this piece of soft something else. So now at the end of support the whole weight of responsibility moves from the manufacturer to the customer and we no longer provide support to the software. And so if you remember nothing about this is that retirement of software doesn't happen in one day. plenty of warning, slow process. You hold handhold the customer to a particular point in time, but then at that point they're on their own. You cannot provide support forever. And health care systems need to be aware of that and plan for replacing software and not to hang on to software that appears to be working that is no longer supported. And this is beginning to become increasingly critical as we're seeing more and more cyber security incidents and sometimes this older software that is targeted for these type of attacks. So this concludes this week 10 on validation, deployment, maintenance and retirement. We're going to this brings us to the end of the software life cycle. And if we were teaching this class five years ago, that would be the end of the class. However, the developments in artificial intelligence, machine learning mean that we need to revisit all of the steps within the context of the use of this technique. So rather than spread the all the information about AI and ML throughout the class, we're going to focus and review this information in the next week's lectures. Thank you.