Most people don't write a business plan anymore. It's more common these days to share your slide deck along with an executive summary. So, what is an executive summary, you might be asking? This is a short description of the project summarizing the main ideas. And it's usually three to five pages long at most. Some people like to make it two pages so that they can print it out on one double-sided paper and hand it out. So, for example, you can have one paragraph each for the problem, solution, customer, outcomes, and revenue model. Bam. These five components pretty much sum up the main points of your work. And then people can read through your slide deck for more detail. Now, in some cases, someone might actually ask you for a business plan. So, if this happens, don't panic. You've got this. You already have the content. All you need to do is write down the words you use to pitch your venture. Instead of 10 slides, it can be 10 pages. It's okay if it's more. Business plans can be really long sometimes. You can also include appendices just like in your slides. You can you include appendices like your financial projections, your log frame, your theory of change, your systems map, the SWAT and pastel, all the beautiful things you've created in this course. So you basically use the same outline as the pitch deck and you write down the words you use to pitch it and then you insert the visuals that you've already been making as we've been going along. So, you see, you have written a business plan already. If you've been formulating ideas for all the videos you've watched in this course and taking down notes, it's all there. Just put it together and have some trusted friends and collaborators and colleagues take a look at it and give you feedback and suggest edits to tighten up. There you go. Your business plan is ready. In the next video, we'll talk about your communication strategy. More broadly speaking, beyond the pitch deck and business plan, what are the other tools that you can use to communicate your work to others and get them on board?