All right, let's talk about the dos and don'ts of pitching and communicating. Many of them are very similar, whether it applies to a pitch or any other part of your communications plan. So, what are some of the dos? As we mentioned, less is more. Don't bombard people with too much information. You can have information ready for them for when they want to get to know more. But the important thing is to hook them. Don't include all the statistics about the problem. Think about what's the most compelling statistic and tell a story. The second, find a balance when you're talking in person, whether it's in a pitch or when you're meeting with people. Find a balance between being prepared and being robotic. Like you don't want to walk up to people and be like did you know blah blah blah and start spurt spurting out statistics. You you want to have a conversation with people. The third is make a connection. Whether it's in your digital communications or in your pitch, you want to create a connection between you and the audience. If it's in a pitch, you can do this by making eye contact or moving around the room or smiling if and when appropriate. You want to research your audience. So, just like you kind of tailor your CV depending on what job you're applying for, you also tailor your messaging depending on who your audience is and what action you want them to take. So, if you're crafting a digital message for a certain group of people, you want it to speak to them. If you're in a room pitching to a certain group of people, you want to mention things that you know they care about and have experience with. We mentioned also using questions, right? Like starting a sentence with did you know? I think using questions are is great both for dig digital communications and for pitching. And then some universal tips. Be honest. Say what you know and say what you don't know. Don't promise things that you are not sure you can deliver. Just say the facts and the truth. It's already enough. Say what you need help with. Say what your fears are and what you're worried might not work and how people might help. I think that sharing your vulnerability can be as powerful, if not more powerful, than projecting confidence. So, you need to do both. Project confidence and be honest and vulnerable. It's okay. We all share these social challenges and that's a really important way of getting people involved and have an ask. Remember, we talked about this. Whether it's in a newsletter or in a pitch, people get excited and they want to know what do you want of us? Do you want us to follow you on social media? Do you want us to write a grant for you? Do you want us to pitch in for your Kickstarter or show up for your event or just tell people about this? So, have an ask. Some general tips are to be positive. You don't want to be annihilistic. Like for example in climate change, if you provide all the statistics that will depress and paralyze people, they won't take action. But if you're positive, if you frame it in a way of like we can reverse this, if we do XYZ, then you're going to engage them. So try to frame it in a positive actionoriented way. The second thing is to be really thoughtful in terms of creating context. Um, and thinking about the unintended consequences of your of your communications. What are some ways it might be misinterpreted? For example, what are some ways that you need to communicate differently with people from different backgrounds and cultures and social groups? The third thing is to keep it personal. And I don't mean just about your audience. I mean also about others. Like going back to that jaundice example, like you you want to actually talk about the baby who has jaundice. Don't just say there's x million or x thousand babies that have die from jaundice every year. Say like this is an example of a person who struggled with this problem. And then you can share this story as a way of ma helping your audience feel that there is a solution when it's one person at a time. Fourth, keep it simple. You want to really use key messages and be concise. Don't let people feel overwhelmed. There's just so much information coming at them these days. And fifth, and most importantly, evoke emotion. What do you want them to feel in order to take this action? Do you want them to feel hopeful? Do you want them to feel angry, etc.? Now, if you're actually pitching, here are some don'ts to keep in mind. Be intentional about your body language. So, one thing that might be helpful for pictures is to take a video of yourself and then play it back and fast forward. I did that when I was doing my masters like 20 years ago. And this is what it looked like when I fast forwarded it. It was like Kung Fu Panda cuz I move my hands a lot. Okay, I bet some of you are now going to go back through the videos and fast forward them and then reach out to tell me I still do that. Yeah, I still use my hands a lot. So, they say it's important to just stand in a really grounded way with your hands by your side. Don't shift your weights or cross your arms or fiddle with your shirt. Just stand in a really grounded center centered way and then use body language purposefully if you want to emphasize a point or something like that. Don't look at the ground. Don't talk too fast because you're nervous. And don't make it sound like you have all the answers. So many of these are physical don'ts for pitching, but also many of these can apply to your communications plan. So don't make it sound like you have all the answers. We already talked about that. Don't stress out whether you're meeting with someone or communicating on social media or pitching. If you're conveying that you're stressed out, then you're going to stress people out. If you're not enjoying this, they won't either. So even though these problems are stressful and entrepreneurship is stressful, recognize that it's a privilege to be here, to be communicating with these people, to be tackling these challenges and do it with joy. And I want to add some advice for introverts. A lot of social entrepreneurs are introverts and communicating and engaging with others drains them of energy. And that's okay. You can just find your own style and your own way of communicating. If you're better at writing, then just write more. If you are pitching and you're an introvert, just channel what you care about and make it about the idea and that will give you energy. If you're an extrovert, then the people in the room will give you an energy as well as the people that you care about and are doing this with and for. If you're an introvert, and even if you're not, look inside. Remember your why, think about why you're doing this, why it's important for you to convey these messages, and that will really help you. And that also brings me to something else I want to share, which is about self-promotion. So, none of your communications plan is about promoting yourself. It's about promoting the ideas and the change that needs to happen. And that has helped me a lot in the past. Like for example, when I go about promoting this course or promoting my book or anything I do, I won't feel too motivated to do that. If I feel like I'm promoting myself, I'll kind of feel awkward and self-conscious and I'll think people will think I'm annoying and will just want me to go away. But when I think about why I'm doing this and why it's so important to me and why I wake up thinking about it and go to sleep thinking about it, that gives me the energy and the motivation and the confidence to promote it. So I can practice humility by acknowledging my limitations, by acknowledging the importance of others and by acknowledging how sticky and huge and challenging these problems are. I can practice humility while also promoting my ideas and the importance of my work. And I want you to do that, too. And last but not least, don't forget, like everything else in your journey, don't do it alone. You can have people help you craft your pitches, practice your pitches, craft your communications plan, and implement your communications plan. The burden does not need to be on you. So, the purpose of this module is to help you know what goes in a pitch, what goes in a communications plan, why they're important, and what you should be thinking about. But it doesn't mean you need to do all this by yourself. So, rally your team, rally your stakeholders, rally your friends and families and colleagues and anyone who might help do line edits, and get started on your pitching and communicating.