So we talked about what makes this course different but what is this course actually about? This course is about two things. One, it's about the field of social entrepreneurship in general. What does it mean? How is it practiced? What are some examples? And how does it all work? We're going to discuss trends, controversies, what works and what doesn't. Number two, it's about you figuring out what is your path to social change. What are you going to contribute to make the world better and more just? And that doesn't have to look like anything that anyone else has done before. It's about what can be taken away from what others have done before, what ideas you can get about how to do things differently, and how you're going to carve your own path. More on that later. Social entrepreneurship is the process by which effective, innovative, and sustainable solutions are pioneered to meet social and environmental challenges. When we talk about learning from social entrepreneurship in this course, we're talking about a mindset and a skill set. The mindset is that you're questioning the status quo, the way things are today, and you're daring to imagine how they could be different. The skill set is that you have this toolbox we'll gain in this course that helps you tackle a challenge of your choice step by step starting from learning about the problem to designing a solution to figuring out what it would take to implement that solution. A few videos ago I told you about my work in Lebanon with Alfa Adventure Philanthropy. I used to work with generational refugees who were born and raised and lived their whole life in refugee camps and they felt so helpless and hopeless because of the geopolitical situation that they were in. And after working with Alfanad at venture philanthropy and developing their social enterprises, I sensed that they had a feeling a stronger feeling of agency and that they saw themselves as an agent of change that they felt that they could make a difference. And I thought that when it came to Yale, I wouldn't face that because I thought that here you have some of the most powerful and privileged people. But I realized that even at Yale, the MBA students I was working with also kind of needed someone to give them permission to carve their own path. And I realized that people at both sides of the power spectrum from refugees in Lebanon to MBA students at Yale need help activating the agent of change in themsel. And that's what I feel is the magic of social entrepreneurship. Now, in case you don't know what I mean by the word agency, AI describe agency as giving yourself permission to see the problem and to dare to imagine and be part of the solution. And I think that what social entrepreneurship can teach us and can help us do is activate that agency in us, activate us as change makers, and help us realize that nobody else has put us on a path that we're stuck with. Whether you're an MBA student or a refugee or anything in between and above and beyond, you do have the agency to determine your own path. And I hope that social entrepreneurship can help you figure out what your path is. And that's why whether you work in a large or small company or whether you want to start something new, there's a role that you can play in sustainable development. And I want to take this opportunity to define three things that I'll keep talking about in this course. Entrepreneurship, entrepreneurship, and extrepreneurship. So all three can apply in the context of what we're learning. Entrepreneurship is when you start a new company or organization. And my advice is that you only do this if you have to. If no one else is doing what you want to do. Otherwise, it might be better to identify people already doing it and work within their initiative or organization. So, entrepreneurship is when you're working within an existing company or institution. You can design a new venture with existing resources. You might be able to actually reach more people this way than by starting something new. Now, whether you start something new or work within an existing organization, I hope you'll think like an entrepreneur. This is not really a word. It's something that I use jokingly with my students. If entrepreneurship is starting something new and entrepreneurship is working within an existing organization, then extrepreneurship is work innovating across the boundaries of multiple institutions. And in social entrepreneurship, you really have to think like an extrepreneur. Don't be limited by any one organization. Whether it's something that you've started yourself or something that you already work in. In order to reach the sustainable development goals, we have to practice extrepreneurship, innovating together institutions. And we're going to have many examples in the weeks to come of the different ways to do that. So, in practicing social entrepreneurship, you can be either an entrepreneur, an entrepreneur, and hopefully either way, you'll also think like an extrepreneur. I want to take a moment to talk a little bit about public health. And you might ask, why is she going on about public health? This course is about social entrepreneurship and social change. Well, as I mentioned, my own training and background is in public health. And in my opinion, everything is public health. And public health is one of the best ways to think about social entrepreneurship. So what do I mean when I say public health? It basically means the well-being of society. Public health includes both health care and it includes drivers of health which some people refer to as social and environmental determinance of health. This means everything that affects health outcomes. It includes built environment, housing, green spaces. It includes your job, your livelihood, your income, what you do for a living. It includes your education, the pollution outside, climate change, transportation. So that's what I mean when I say everything is public health. And no matter what your job is, you are likely influencing drivers of health and you want to be aware of that and influence them in a positive way. and find ways to measure that. So, here's what's going to happen next. Every week, we're gonna have a topic of focus from the 10 stage framework that I mentioned. And you have to pick a topic for next week as part of this week's assignment and start researching that topic. And remember this can be just practice so that you use this course to build the skill set and mindset of social entrepreneurship or it might actually form the seed of something that you'll implement beyond the course. But the idea for this course is to pro provide a safe space for you to experiment and fail and learn. And so what's going to happen next is that you need to do a couple of the readings that we've posted for you and then do this week's assignment. I have a little automated quiz that you can take to make sure you got all the key concepts from this week. And then we'll move on to the next topic of researching your challenge.