So today what I want to do is talk about the revolutions of 1848 and read you know read the chapter it's not very long um and I want to talk principally about why there was no revolution in Britain in 1848 since there were revolutions in France in Austria in the Hapsburg domains of of uh of uh you know the Austrian Empire what would become in 1867 AustriaHungary uh in uh in Prussia uh and in the Rhineland and in uh in northern Italy and even central Italy, but not in Britain. I want to talk about that. But before I do that, um let's just think about revolution in general and how revolutions worked. And I'll mention this again when we get to um uh to the Russian Revolution. And if you think about what you know about the French Revolution in this context, hopefully it'll make some sense. And in the 18 in the 1960s um people social scientists believe that revolutions many social scientists not all believe that revolutions sort of came when pressure builds up and you've got pretty soon intellectuals bailing out leaving the the regime and then you got all this tension building up and then boom you've got your basic revolution. But revolutions don't work like that. If you think about revolutions, you know anything about uh the Iranian revolution in 1979 would be a good example or um the revolutions we're going to talk about today a little bit that you're reading about 1848 or the French Revolution. What happens is that uh in the case of 1848 or in the case of of uh the other ones that I've mentioned is that there is a you know a seizure of power by a group uh who have come together because they oppose the policies of of of the estab of the government in in in power. But it's at that point that you've got an increase in social uh and political tension. And it's at that point that you've got this this that that that tension really increases and and all sorts of interesting things begin to happen. Um so in the case of 1917 uh in St. Petersburg in February uh the bread lines are very long. Uh there not a lot of troops around. They're at the front. There not a lot of police around. Uh and suddenly uh uh the the Zar Zarist regime is just sort of swept away like that. And it's at that point that things heat up. um the 1917 things weren't any you know tenser than they were 1916 and and there's a lot of things happen v the war that that help people mobilize try to imagine a postzarist world or a reformed zar uh zarist autotocracy um in the case of 1848 you know you've got your basic uh uh uh you've got demonstrations in Paris in February it's rains all the time in Paris and February it's gray uh people want electoral reform and then the troops open up and shoot a bunch of people. The same thing happens in in Berlin not long after that. And at that point then you've got the regime is swept away. But the what's interesting about revolutionary process is that after you've got this kind of basic provisional government in the case of all which is what the constitutional monarchy in 1789 and 1790 becomes uh and in the case of Kinsky's provisional government in 1917 and in the case of this kind of moderate republic uh in France uh it's at that point or in Germany or in Austria you still got the monarchy but that you have all these contenders for power who are saying at that point we want to take advantage of the situation uh so that we will have a republic or that in the case of France that women will have more rights uh or the workers will have more rights uh in the case of of uh of Germany uh of the German states uh people who want a unified Germany put forth their claims at that point uh in the case of France people who want the monarchy uh the Bourbons that is the legitimists who were chased out in 1830 they want them back. They put in their claims. You've got your basic moderate republicans. They're saying, "We want a moderate republic." Uh uh and in the case of of uh of of Austria, you've got all these vi students and they want reforms. They want a progressive regime. So, it's at that point that the sort of social tension and political tension increases. And what the revolutionary process does is it and what's important about 1848 is that it brings for the first time lots more people into the political process. uh that in the case of France, my uh friend Maurice Aguilon has called the second republic that is 1848 to 18 well December 2nd 1851 and really 1852 uh the apprenticeship of the republic because now you've got universal manhood suffrage all men can vote lots of women want to vote too but that it's not a dominant discourse but it's still important uh in Paris um and so you have a politicization of ordinary people and you have this in the German states, you have it in the Italian states as well and you have it in Austria Hungary. Um, in the case of AustriaHungary, then you got, you know, Hungarians putting forth claims, special claims within the Haspber domains and and the national question surfaces in central Europe uh and in uh in Italy where people can imagine a unified Italy, a unified Italy, which would mean you have to get rid of the Austrians basically there and you can read about what happens subsequently. But so you have these these pe these people putting forth their claims and so you have this remarkable politicization in the case of Paris. You know the barricades go up which happened in February and then the June days follow which is a sort of basically a class war in which lots of people get killed uh and put in prison in massive massive uh uh unrest uh in the la in three days in June uh 1848. And that's a much more violent confrontation and telling confrontation than the initial revolutionary seizure of power by groups who don't necessarily agree on what's going to happen. But in the case of France, which is the again the best documented, you've got all these newspapers that begin publishing because now suddenly you can publish things and you've got all these political clubs just as in 1848. You've got neojacoban clubs, you've got, you know, clubs of women. uh you got the club of the two sexes as it's called. Uh and and so this be becomes a way of of of politicizing ordinary people. So when men go to the polls in 1848 uh in April for the first time and they elect a relatively uh conservative indeed monarchistleaning national assembly but they do so with with uh uh with considerable knowledge about what the what what you know what they want. I mean, they want school teachers. They want credit available. Uh, you know, they want the right to vote. And so, this politicization or the apprenticeship of a republic that would finally be be permanent starting in the 1870s, uh, is one of the most important aspects of of the revolution. The same thing of the Russian Revolution, which I'll come back and talk about. You've got, you know, you got Menchevix, you got Boleviks, you've got socialist revolutionaries. These are three big radical groups. Uh, you've got constitutional democrats. uh you've got monarchists, you've got people who want the Zar to have all the power that he had before and to lop off the heads of those people who are against him and that kind of thing. So uh and then in the case of the Russian Revolution, how you get from the February revolution to October when the Bolevixs seize power is is really very fascinating. Um so that's just a way of thinking about revolution and you can think about other revolutions that you know uh but uh the point is that it that that the revolution as a process brings into uh brings into play uh the aspirations of a lot more people and in the ca the French case uh which I which is fascinating is what begins as kind of an urban you sort of middle class revolution of people fought by artisans as usual uh who want the right to vote ends up in December 1851 after Napoleon's nephew Louis Napoleon uh Bonapart Louis Napoleon Bonapart who had become good old Napoleon III not so good old but he destroys the republic where he completes a process of repression that he'd already uh as president of France elected on the 10th of December 1848 initiated um but that very ordinary people peasants uh for the most part but also rural artisans and particularly in the south and not necessarily speaking French at all, rise up to try to defend the republic or what they called label uh the beautiful one uh against the rape as they called it uh uh by uh by the repressive apparatus centered in Paris. And so this this rural this urban revolution ends up with over 100,000 people taking arms in the largest national insurrection in France in the 19th century trying to defend the republic against its abolition by Louis Napoleon Bonapart who would not be would not be able to stand for a second term as president of the republic and that's really fascinating especially gez a long time ago I used to read all these interrogations of people including what the uncle great great great great uncle of one of our neighbors you know and it's being translated from from Oxitan which is you know the language of that part of the south into French by some translator as he's being interrogated when did you join the secret society when did who did you initiate into this secret society to defend you know defend the republic the social and uh the the democratic and social republic a social republic that's going to provide more things to more people etc etc fascinating the politicization of this now in the case of of of Germany and of of Italy. Um, you know, it's a it's a different kind of of of um of revolution. It still had its kind of liberal and and and democratic component. Um, but you had this scene, for example, in in Frankfurt in the Frankfurt Parliament, which was this, you know, sort of basically a a lot of professors and and and lawyers debating long into the night in St. Paul's church you know and they imagine the unification of Germany uh what they called then the springtime of the peoples uh that Germany that the German states which Prussia you know Saxony uh Bavaria were were the and Verenberg were the most important of these states um but all these other little states too are going to be unified along um a liberal opaces and of course they were just dreaming uh and in the end they're kind of dismissed uh uh you know as a a a a servant who was not wanting to be kept on by by the at the big house anymore. Uh they're sort of dismissed. Uh but they debate far into the night. Uh and the significance of all of this is when you read the chapter on please do on on the second republic and you see what happens in in the case of the German states is that when Germany would be unified uh and that unification is proclaimed in January uh 1871 in Versailles in the chat of Versailles after the FrancoRussian war. It would not be a liberal unification. It would not be a Germany united by by lawyers and and professors uh meeting in in a Frankfurt church uh with uh what would become eventually the German flag. The colors of it sort of hanging all around the rafters. uh it would be unified as Bismar accurately put it by blood and iron in the context of the Prussian uh aristocracy, the nobles, the junkers, a term you already know, junkers, ju the Prussian nobles. Um and that basically unified Germany uh would be as some wag once put it uh an army with a state trailing behind it. uh and Germany would not be a republic, it would be an empire. Uh and because one of the things that happens with empires is that emperors can do whatever they damn well please just as Zars can. And you might have had an assembly called the Richag, which had the which socialists became the the leaders or the most dominant uh numerically by 1914. power rests in the hands of a thoroughly irresponsible intellectually lazy sort of madcap uh ridiculous guy who happens to be the Kaiser Vilhelm II. And so over the long run the cost to Europe of that fact uh would be in retrospect given what happens in the 20th century which is the one that follows the 19th uh would be one thing that that you historians would go back and say very very obvious things sort of cliches like well in 1848 uh history in Germany reached its turning point and failed to turn uh that Germany unification would not come because of um because of professors and and liberals and you merchants and Hamburgg and this sort of thing and that the middle classes, the German middle classes would in a way abdicate their political responsibility and not having much political power and the state would be really run by a bunch of uh of uh junkers uh of military officers with dueling scars and veterans of the fraternities of the uh of uh uh of uh you know the Prussian universities. uh and Prussia was isn't just or wasn't just Pomerania and Brandenburgg and sort of the marshes of of of northern uh uh of northeastern Europe, but Prussia also controlled the Rhineland. Uh but the the kind of magnates of of industrializing uh uh Prussia were not going to runs be the ones who are running the show. In the case of Italy, I mean the news you could read about that too is that uh you know there are a lot of people running around saying long live united Italy and all of this business but that would be very hard too because in order to unify Italy under any opaces uh and most people wanted under liberal opices um you have to get rid of who? You have to get rid of the Austrians because the Austrians control uh much of almost all of northern Italy and much of central Italy too. So there are lots of of impediments to Italian unification. Uh none the not the least of which was the fact that the vast majority of of people in in Italy did not speak Italian. That itself was not a uh not a you know a a major impediment. But you know, I guess it was too only about four or 5% of the people in Italy spoke what now is considered to be Italian, which I guess is I don't speak Italian, but I guess is essentially the language of Tuskanyany, the area around around Florence. And they spoke all sorts of other dialects and and and the Tuscan language was virtually unknown in the south of Italy or in Sicily and was identified with, you know, sort of money-grabbing tax collectors uh coming down from the north. And so uh after the the tide of the the springtime of the people or somebody once called the great illusion also uh of 1848 after that tide had passed what you had is still uh uh the the uh lots of of of fervent hopes and dreams that Italy was going to be unified um along liberal opices and indeed that is what happens even though it's a monarchy and unification comes because of basically the expansion of the state of Piedmont M Sardinia which was that most influenced by by the French wave in the times of the French revolution and of of Napoleon and also the wealthiest part of Italy. Uh in in the case of Austria you know AustriaHungary well I mean this is a a long story and you can read about it but the springtime of the peoples meant uh the dreams first of number of nationalities. I'll talk about nationalism in a week or two who suddenly think that now they too will have their time and and somebody people a bunch of Czech nationalists were sitting in a room rather like this and somebody looked up and said Jesus if this ceiling collapses that's the end of the Czech national movement uh and there was something to that so the springtime of the peoples uh would not bring you know would not bring an independent Czech state it wouldn't bring you know Czechoslovakia which only lasts till uh uh 1993 despite what John McCain thinks uh um you know it doesn't come till 19 um uh 1918 after World War I but but in the Austrohungarian Empire you know everybody says well you know what what if we have a independent Galatia or what if you know Poland is is independent and the parts of of uh of uh Russian and Austrian Poland uh uh will be independent but the these are these are pipe dreams and and and uh and national awareness and and and great power politics will mean that this isn't going to happen until later. Poland becomes independent in 1918 for reasons that you already know and that the wind the chill of reaction I mean revolution reaction repression uh is the is what really happens in that's the theme running through the whole thing besides the big hopes of of the spring of 1848 and the kind of Austrian uh the Austrian imperial system uh run uh and I'll come back and talk about AustriaHungary quite a run in German in the polyglot Austrian HHarian Empire where there at least 15 major languages uh will be the story of AustriaHungary in the 1850s and of course the Hungarians get get uh get separate status uh equal status in principle as of 18 uh 1867 and of course one of the the st not strange but one of the interesting things about the Austrohungarian period uh is that it's in 1848 that France fans yosef becomes emperor of AustriaHungary and he is in power until 1916. He is around even longer than Victoria than Queen Victoria. Uh and I mean the world changes in such dramatic ways between between 1848 and 1916 when I was younger than you. Um I was in Vienna for the first time and I was sitting in some in a coffee shop as one does there in a cafe and this very old man started talking to me and he had actually seen when he was young had seen France Ysef and that was the most amazing thing for me to actually meet somebody who had seen when he was a boy Fran Ysef I mean that's just extraordinary continuity but anyway that's another story hungry is another story and it's an interesting one and uh that we're going to come back to but I can't do that now we got to talk go back to question of of of uh of of England. But but also and what another of the I mean of the legacies of this is that you know after this tide of reaction what it does is it sends waves of political refugees to places like this. Not New Haven so much but yeah there were some Italians end up in New Haven who Italian political refugees in that period but lots of Germans who are of course thrown out of the German states uh and had better not come back. They end up where they end up in Philadelphia or New York. and lots of Irish who I'm going to talk about in a minute ends up in obvious places Boston, New York, those two above all, but also Philadelphia. And so the the glacial wave of repression sends these people a lot of them to uh the United States. Uh that that itself is an interesting story. So although the revolutions of 1848 failed and you should read about that, please do. God, I love this stuff talking about this. uh the political legacies that they left are um you know extremely important and these these demands for political rights would be something uh that would uh last for a very uh long time and again to repeat and to end this little part of what we're doing. Oh my goodness. Um now uh that that German unification would come under very different opaces that that those than that of the revolutionaries of 1848 what they wanted and that that the king the the the king of Prussia rejects this crown offered from the gutter as he called it to unify uh Germany under a liberal monarchical opises. That ain't going to happen and it doesn't. Okay. There's revolution in all these places in 1848, the big wave, but why not in Britain? Why not? You probably already know some of the answers. Now, the context uh there really two major contexts in all of this. The first is that the Reform Act of 1832 opens the drawbridge, puts down the drawbridge, and opens it to more voters. More people can vote. Now uh again voting was based upon property qualification. Uh you you um uh uh I guess Fergus Okon Okconor who is a Irish uh in move chartist who I'll talk about in a minute. uh he he didn't even have the right to to he is dis not disbarred but he's sort of to thrown out of of parliament because he doesn't make enough money in order to to actually qualify to vote himself. Uh you could vote if you paid x number of pounds in uh and shillings in taxes. Uh and so what happens is 1832 opens up uh the the drawbridge and more people can vote. The political re arena expands a little bit. And the same thing happens in France in 1830. As you know, in France, the revolution of 1830 doubled the number of people that could vote, but it still leaves lots of people on the outside looking in. And in 1867, they would pass a second reform bill that lets more people in. And in 1884, they pass another one that lets almost everybody in uh except for I think uh domestic servants and and maybe rural proletarians. I can't remember exactly. But so what the political arena is expanding and the point of this is it's expanding through reform that Britain reforms and that the selfimage the self-identity of the freeborn Englishman tracing you know more or less at least in the imaginary anticcedence back to June 15 1215 at Runny near London the idea that the freeborn an Englishman has rights and that we British citizens are identity we reform we don't rebel and clearly as I will demonstrate in a minute drawing on the work of John Belchure and other people too uh that what happens in in in 1848 is when there might have been a revolutionary moment in in Britain that France has sneezed and Europe is catching a told as they like to say over and over again it doesn't come to uh Britain but that British national identity like all national identities have to be systematically reinvented and reconstructed and that this happens in 1848 and subsequent years as well that this sense that we are respectable and respectability I've written up on the board uh that respect ability um means reform and not revolution. Now uh and that the aristocracy of labor who were craftsmen and you know artisans/craftsmen who could be seen walking uh through Hyde Park with their ladies on their arms wearing suits of all things on Sundays that bourgeoa respectability uh had a political um uh political aspect of it too. And so in 1848 Britain does not uh does not rebel. Um now the other and I'll more about this in a minute. The the other context is of course chartism which you should read about. Now chartist campaign there were campaigns to get ordinary people to sign an enormous charter with millions and millions of names. There's the two big waves in the 1830s and 40s. And what they do is they sign and they say, "Oh, humble, we we the humble poor, we ordinary people, we entreat you, you know, big- time lords, property owners of great distinction who are representing a property in parliament. We entreat you to give us political rights." And they bring these petitions, these huge petitions. They bring them on wagons signed by zillions of people, many of whom can only mark an X instead of write their names. and they bring them to Parliament in the rain as always and Parliament says, "Gee, thanks a lot. We don't want to see that." And then they say, "Oh, well, we'll do it again. Oh, great lords, give us political rights." And so they sign, you know, they don't pick up their blunder buses. They sign uh in 1830, the French middle class was more than happy to turn the artisans loose on the street to fight their battles for them for political reform. In Deloqua's famous painting, liberty leads the people, the bourgeois with his top hat, uh it doesn't have any in this romantic picture, romanticized uh view of revolution does not have any place there because the bourgeoisi does not fight unless you consider art master artisans, you know, petty bourgeoa. But in England, that's never going to happen. And the chartist campaign remains respectable. It is a uh it is, you know, it's class-based to the extent that most people who sign the chartist petitions are ordinary people. But but what really they saw themselves as moral reformers. They see themselves as trying to do and it cuts across class lines. They're trying to get the government to do the right thing to pass more reforms. the the the Reform Act of 1832 was passed by a conservative government because they knew that inevitably it was going to it was going to have to be passed or who knows they would create more lords in order to and you'd have these sort of not real lords who are there so the bill gets passed and so it's passed by a conservative government and then everybody says oh well we British we reform we've opened up the drawbridge more people can vote now there was a component of chartists who are called physical force chartists and and they you They're not so sure that that that that that reform without revolution is possible, but they are a minority within the chartis movement. They are a very small minority, the physical force chartis. So what you've got in 1848 is you got two things that are going on. First of all, you you don't have a revolution. There's this big date in um in April, I think it's April 10th, where there's going to be this huge march in London. So what the government does is it deputizes 25,000 men of property. They become sheriffs. They become, you know, I don't know what you call them. Yeah, I guess sheriffs, I guess. And Louisie Napoleon Bonapart, who happened to be in, you know, who had not yet returned to France, he was one of those who was actually deputized as a sheriff. And so the business people in the city which is what you know the financial capital of of the overlooks the British Empire uh was increasingly called they come with their hunting rifles to work and they get th those file cabinets ready to barricade the door and with their rifles and they're going to blow apart anybody who rises up uh and would challenge uh British uh uh who would try to bring revolution to uh uh to to Britain. And there's 25,000 of these people. Uh and the number of marchers was was far far small to that. And it's smaller than that. And it's a very peaceful march. There is no revolution in Britain in 1848. But if there had been a revolution, where would it come from? From from where would the revolutionary ranks have come? And that is the interesting question. That's the by far the most interesting question in all of this because what I said before about 1848 helps the British um reinvent or reconfigure reconstruct their identity that there has to be an unwanted other there who's frightening them who makes them convinced even more that they're doing it the right way. And um I alluded before when we talked about the uh British identity in the 18th century. I said what the British um in the 17th century what they weren't helped determine who they thought they were. And what they weren't was absolutist. They reform. What they weren't was cath not they're not Catholic. Uh and the biggest riots in the 18th century were the Gordon riots which were anti-atholic riots. They are not the French. Not at all. France has a centralized state and France is full of Catholics and many of the Protestants who had who had left France after the revocation of the edict of Na in 1685 uh come not just to uh the Netherlands but come to uh Britain as well. So this may have already tipped you off on who is the unwanted dangerous other in the British particularly upper class but not just uh upper class imaginary and they are the Irish the Irish. And so what happens in 1848 and the subsequent years is that British nationalism is redefined again or reinfused with a sense of what we are not and we are not Catholic and we are not Irish. And so if there was going to be a revolution in April or any other month in 1848, the components would be from the point of view of the upper classes and from the police, the Irish and um groups of physical force chartists or revolutionaries who might join forces. Now, chartis look to Irish to get them to sign uh the big petitions. They see them as allies. And remember, because of of the Irish famine, potato famine in the 1840s that tens of thousands of Irishmen, hundreds of thousands of Irish men indeed. I think that I have it in the book somewhere but the number of people who leave Ireland in 1840s is in the millions along with all those who just simply die you know die in the fields and they go to where they go to the United States and they go to England particularly Liverpool it's why Liverpool this has nothing to do with anything but the Liverpool soccer team is very much perceived as you know a Catholic team in the way that in uh in Glasgow go uh that the Celtics are the Catholic team because so many Irish uh immigrants went to Glasgow and to Scotland and the Rangers are the Protestant team. Very anti-atholic. And that's why these people were brawling in 1900. They've played before 100,000 people in 1900. 100,000 people at a soccer game in about 1900 and they hate each other's guts and they still do. Um so all these Irish are going to London also and they live in the Irish neighborhoods. And so from the point of view of the ruling classes uh and from the point of view of British nationalism and from the point of view of the police, the possibility was there that the Irish Confederation who are extremely militant uh uh one of the important Irish leaders Daniel Okconor uh uh Okonnell Daniel Okonnell who is in the book he dies in 1847. But you've you've got these people that are far more militant uh uh who uh who believe in the only way many of them believe that the only way Ireland is ever going to be independent is by rising up and rebelling. And that's what happens, isn't it? That's what eventually happens. So they were right about that. But what if they start rebelling in 1848? And what if you had, for example, you had the your basic Peterloo massacre, as they called it, playing on the word waterlue, where the, you know, British troops shoot down uh well-dressed uh demonstrators, uh in Manchester, uh what is it, 1817 or 1816, 1817, I don't remember. um what if people who said we ain't ever going to get anywhere uh if we don't uh do what our French colleagues have done and that is take arms against these people. So there is a potential for an alliance between militant in the physical force chartist movement uh you know other radicals uh and uh members of the Irish confederation. Now because it never happens, I mean there are a few marches, there's a few skirmishes, but basically the only news is no news does not mean that uh that that that uh that it did this wouldn't have a big effect on the reinvention of of British nationalism um British self-identity. And what do I mean uh by that here? One of the interesting things is that uh John Belchure told me a long time ago on a train uh in Germany uh from coming back from a conference in Vertsburg that there were more boxes of documents in the public record office uh about the surveillance of ships coming into the ports of Portsmith and above all Liverpool than there were any other documents about any other aspect of 1848. Why? What are they doing? Where is the potential insurgency or infusion of militants for Irish coming from? It's coming from the United States. And one of the interesting things about this and you could see also in the time of the troubles you know in the 1970 I was in Ireland ironically when it all started up again in 1969. um uh that that you know when when all this there was at a time they were really worried about about about the IRA and there was a lot to worry about then the IRA was getting all sorts of money from uh Irish pubs in New York and Boston just tons of money big bucks all the time to buy weapons. Um now uh in 1848 one of the interesting things that Belchure and other people have discovered is that the real Irish militants the most committed were Irish immigrants immigrants to immigrants from Ireland living in Boston and New York. And what they had done is taken the notion of American liberty in quotes and saying all right our role will be that of the French Revolution to carry liberty in principle across the borders and free Europe from uh from nobles from priests etc etc. Uh, and what we will do as Irish, first generation Irish living in New York and Philadelphia and Boston and and maybe Connecticut too, is we will uh we will raise money and we will make Irish independence and we will achieve this with violence, with guns. Uh and so every ship that came into any port that was coming from the United States was thoroughly searched for uh for weapons and for money. And so, uh, these these Irish immigr immigrants to the United States were, uh, were the most militant arguably within the Irish uh, um, uh, political movement for independence. Now, for one thing, they had more means. Some of them had come had come to Ireland, I mean, from Ireland, come to the United States, uh, maybe going to England, maybe not. But they had jobs and the people in Ireland themselves were just starving. I mean, they were dying in the fields. uh they were ending up in London living with other Irishmen which is not surprising. Uh maintaining these kinds of of of patterns by county uh cork and all this uh and and the Catholic Church was terribly terribly important uh in uh um in in their lives. Terribly terribly important as you know means of charity and all of this. But what it meant for the upper classes is that the unwanted other Catholic remember in 1798 they tried to ally with the French. What happens in World War I? Roger Caseasement who is a Irish militant who is absolutely against the exploitation of workers in in in Peru and in Africa and everywhere else. Roger Casease casement uh you know he ends up being being uh sent off a with a little boat off a submarine off the coast of Kerry and he tries to stop the eastern insurrection and of course he's arrested within about 25 minutes and hung later but what he had tried to do was was organize in prisoner war camps in Germany Irish militants to fight the good fight and to free Ireland. So there was always this this was again looking later but there was always this potential fear among the the British upper classes is that they these Catholics who are no longer just across the channel they're not you know over in Ireland across a very choppy gray freezing you know sea uh they are living in Liverpool in huge huge numbers they are living in in in London in even bigger uh numbers and they are there and they are dangerous and if they ally with these dissatisfied workers from the chartist move movement all hell is going to break out and so during the next time and I don't have uh I don't have much time at all but but just to and I it didn't even use this well anyway um you see you see the point this potential alliance never occurs but one of the interesting things about uh about the the reinvention or the reconstruction of British no uh uh identity selfidentity and it's one shared not just by nobles and big-time gentry, but by ordinary workers, Tory workers, we tended to call them dismissively, uh, those of us who couldn't stand Margaret Thatcher, uh, you know, and always were amazed to go through, you know, in working-class parts of Britain and see these miserable council houses when these big pictures of Margaret Thatcher or the royal family, you know, print. Anyway, it's just amazing. But but these Tory workers uh you know not just Tory workers but they they they see themselves as respectable. They see themselves as British and and they increasingly see this sort of unwanted enemy within Catholic enemy within as the Irish. And the newspapers are full of cartoons and caricatures of of the Irish who are portrayed invariably as drunken, as stupid and as lazy. Patty P A D Y becomes uh for the caricatururist in uh in British newspapers uh in 1848 and subsequent years. Uh he is portrayed Patty is portrayed as the unwanted other who is a threat to and has no place being in except to do menial uh jobs or f or as a factory operative. if if they uh if they maintain respectability and don't trot out their Irishness too much. And so if anyone wants to know why these issues become so extraordinarily bitter in almost any time you can think of Olter in the 70s, Olter in the in the 80s, I mean the 1970s and 1980s or even into the 1990s uh or uh Ireland in 1916 uh 1848 plays a major role in that. Now this is not to say that all you know all people who saw themselves as British were necessarily you know nasty aggressive people but it does simply remind us and here again I council Linda Collie's book called Britain's as a very eloquent uh um you know summary of all of this uh that part of the construction of any kind of identity and I'll talk more about this when I talk about Eastern Europe and Central Europe is what you're not and what you're not for the British uh in 1848 afraid of catching this cold coming from the continent was again uh you you are not French and you are not Catholic and and this if anything was going to further sour uh the relations between Irish and and British authorities particularly given the fact that the British Protestants own the land in in Ireland. I was someplace the other day and I heard a talk uh I was in New York the other day and I I heard a talk and I saw some pictures of of these marvelous kind of called mass slabs or mass rocks that were in the in rural Ireland where where priests in the 17th and 18th century and and in the 16th century for that matter at the end of the 16th century said mass in secret uh using these slab rocks rocks that they happen to find as altars because because being practicing a religion was was was illegal and the Protestants have uh the law on their side and they own they own the land anyway. So 1848 there was no revolution in in Britain in 1848. Uh you know clearly why this is not the case. Uh it's almost surprising to think that they could have imagined an alliance between the Irish Confederation and other Irish groups uh and physical force state uh chartis uh but 1848 uh uh has another uh role to play in British uh identity and that I've tried to convey to you today. Have a wonderful weekend. See you one Monday. Bye.