In this first of two concluding lectures, I would like to go back and revisit some of the important points for which we do not yet have answers. These are the open questions. Can we develop evolution proof antimicrobial therapies? Can we switch the host pathogen interaction from resistance to tolerance? Does virilence evolve when leaky vaccines are used? Can we treat cancer by slowing sematic evolution? What are the ultimate reasons for susceptibility to cancer? Do early late life history trade-offs help us to find new treatments for aging? And what is the role of parent of origin imprinting in mental disease? First, can we develop evolution proof therapies? We know that resistance evolves rapidly every time a new drug or insecticide is introduced. We're losing the chemical arms race for evolutionary reasons. Evolutionp proof options for bacterial infections include fagee therapy and disrupting public goods. For insect vectors, options include pesticides that act late in life. Another open issue is whether we can switch the patients response from resistance to tolerance. We need to understand the conditions under which it pays to tolerate an infection rather than resistant. the trade-offs in which tolerances evolve so that we can judge when to promote it and the mechanisms that mediate the transition from resistance and virilence to tolerance and commensalism. That's quite a research agenda. What does inflammation trade off with and can we modulate that tradeoff to reduce endothelial damage and atherosclerosis? That would be a very interesting approach to cardiovascular disease. The next issue is whether virilence really does evolve when a leaky vaccine is used. We know that in virilence increases when these leaky vaccines are used in mice and chickens. Will that increased virilence evolve when we use leaky vaccines for HPV and for malaria in humans? We need monitoring programs to measure the virilence of circulating strains so that we can assess the magnitude of any effects and we need to develop treatments for the more virilent strains that are are anticipated to evolve. Can we treat cancer by slowing somatic evolution? We know that adaptive therapy does extend the lifespan of mice suffering from cancer. One clinical trial of this idea is now underway in humans. We urgently need to understand the potential benefits to patients who would otherwise die from failed chemotherapy. What are the ultimate reasons that we are susceptible to cancer? We have preliminary comparative evidence suggesting that more invasive placentation increases the risk of metastatic cancer. We need to understand the mechanical bases of that effect and to explore them to develop strategies for preventing and treating metastatic cancer. In other words, we may need to look for clues in a model system in which embryos or pre p pre-ambrios are implanting into endometria to understand the mechanical basis of metastasis. Do early late life history trade-off suggests treatments for aging? For example, the target of the rapamy signaling network mediates performance early and late in life. The late life effects may include risks of all the risk of Alzheimer's disease. Rapamyin supplements do extend life in mice, but they do not appear to do so in humans. However, the idea that prompted that research was more general. What mechanisms mediate the trade-offs between early and late life? By investigating that more general question, we may get at new treatments for aging. Other mechanisms must exist and finding them could suggest more successful interventions. Another open issue is what actually is the role of parent of origin imprinting in mental disease? We know that the deletions of parent of origin imprinted genes do produce syndromes of heightened risk of autism or schizophrenia depending on which parental copy is deleted. That's the Angelman Prader Willie contrast and others. There is correlative support for this idea that comes from a large-scale study of disease risk in Denmark. We need independent tests. If the results are confirmed, then we need to identify the mechanisms that mediate that risk. So to summarize, evolutionary medicine is a new field in which some issues are supported by reliable results and others remain open. Some of the open issues are really quite serious. They deserve immediate attention and investment.