So in the second segment, we'll give an outline of how machine learning methods tend to be evaluated and we'll discuss some related issues about the integrity of the process and we'll discuss topics such as P hacking which are causing all kinds of issues in many areas of science right now leading to irreproducible research. So how is machine learning evaluated? The key to evaluating a machine learning algorithm is to have a separate training and testing set. So this is a testing set that we use to train to learn f and this is a set that we use to to test how good that f is. So we have training data we train the model and then we apply different sort of data to test the model and this separation is critical because if you have a high level machine learning algorithm it can actually memorize the data. So if you give it a data point that's the same as a train data, the answer is guaranteed to be correct. So what you're looking for is for how well it performs on data it hasn't seen before. So our goal is to generalize how well the model generalizes to new data, not how well it does on the training data. Ideally we want to use a completely different and separate train testing set and if possible we'd like our testing data to come from a separate source perhaps a different hospital here. Otherwise what we do and this is what often happens in this applications is that at the start of the process we separate out part of it and only use it ideally for a single evaluation at the end and we'll come back to this word single evaluation. So this is what happens. You take the data, you split it maybe 80/20. Use the top 80% to train and you test on the bottom 20. And this simulates the separate sources. And this is how people do it. In many research papers and you'll see a lot of this if you look at the literature, we almost never have enough data to even do that that we can separate out. So what people often do is we do something called kvault cross validation. So we learn many models. So take the data set, we split it into 8020. We learn a model based on the 80. We test on the 20. Then we repeat the process. We take the same data set. We sample another 20 to keep out. We learn from the other 80. We test on this 20. And we go again and again. So we learn we create K faults. This number is K. K equals four in this case. So we learn four different models. We test them each on a different data set on a different subset of the data that was not used. And then we average the results at the end to get one final result. The problem of course here immediately as you realize is that we don't even know what the model should be because the model is there's no one model. There are four models. We're just averaging the performance to give you a sense of what the performance of that model would have been had we have enough data. So it's a simulation. In an extreme case, you'll see le evaluation. So let's say you have 50 data sets. You may learn 50 models each of which uses 49 data sets and tests on one and you pick another 49. You test on the remaining one. You go around and you average the performance. So this is called leave one out evaluation and unfortunately it's very common because in research studies we often don't have enough data. A key problem with all machine learning is this concept of real world data versus simulated data. So you'll see many competitions and challenges at conferences where people try different machine learning algorithms. And here people use often clean pre-processed data. Someone takes the data regularizes throws out outliers push it all nicely. And here the idea is to test the pure algorithm the actual machine learning which one is the best algorithm. This is what these competitions like to do. But often the challenge in machine learning is getting the data organized and process. So in in many ways the hardest part of machine learning is this other aspect of it. So when you in what you see in competition is actually not the whole story. And a lot of the valuation is done in such clean data with no documentation thought of what the data cleaning step would involve. And in fact, I'm willing to say that in most cases in a fair competition, the people who do a better job of cleaning the data might actually do better than the people have a better machine learning algorithm. Just to give you a little bit of a commentary on this of a clip from an interview of Dr. And from Kitware to talk about this topic. >> It's not the real world data. The real world data I mean a lot of in deep learning, machine learning, you actually spend 75 80% of your time cleaning the data and that's kind of the real world at work. and you spend whatever 10 you know 15 20% of your time on the kind of the fun part of training the you know machine learning model and things like that. So I remember visiting a major vendor I won't name it here in the lecture and I was told that most of the stuff they had on hand doing machine learning work or doing data cleaning a very tiny percent of the people on staff were actually developing the new algorithms. So that's what the real world is. So what in this last couple of slides we'll touch on this topic of P hacking and the unreliability of research results and this is part okay this is why this down arrow is meant to be don't do this. That's the take-home lesson and how this is beginning to affect machine learning research and why we're seeing results that are often too good to be true. So what is P hiking? Packing is a practice in research, a bad practice in research. So let's put the word here so nobody's confused. Where multiple analysis are performed to find something statistically significant. So consider looking for difference in the populations. Maybe we measure five things in the populations. We take the first measurement. We see if this makes them different. If this fails, we make another model. We'll take another measurement. We combine the two measurements and we repeat multiple times until you find a model that actually does find a difference. So you're looking, it's called P hiking because you keep computing piece until it's less than some alpha, maybe 0.05. And then at that point, what happens is you do not report the failed results and you do not report correct for multiple comparisons. And this is bad. And the problem here statistically is that if you tested 10 models, your alpha should be alpha divided by 10. Each time you analyze the data, you should be looking with a string, more stringent criteria. This is what in fact people think has happened in a lot of research, especially in the social sciences, psychology right now. And this is why a lot of old studies are not replicating because we're only only the correct studies are only successful studies are published. We don't have the failed experiments. So how is this affecting machine learning? Well, let's say we do a typical research paradigm. We separate that data into training and testing. We learn a model. We classify based on the training data. We evaluate the model based on the testing state. If we stop here, we're fine. And a lazy person is actually pretty good here. They would stop and that's all they do. But people who work in labs are hardworking. So what will they do? The results are not good enough. So we would try to learn another model and another model and another model. And during this process, we effectively get feedback from the testing data because we're twisting the model in the training process. So even though the train testing data is never used to train the model directly, it's affecting the human who's designing the models. And so that information is coming in and is corrupting the process. So if if somebody tells you this is my accuracy of my results for my neural network, you well, how many networks did you train before you go to this one? Because if you've trained lots of networks, you may have just gotten to this good result just by proceal and error. You may just get like eventually where this becomes an even bigger problem is when we do this on a community scale. So large medical data sets are hard to get and there are some emerging large community data. For example, the human conneto project HCP supplies you know thousand or more MRI data from human brain and lots and lots of people test their algorithm on that data set. So the question is if we have a competition on HTTP is the winning algorithm the best or the one that just actually fits the data or to ask the question a different way. Are we really learning something about the brain or are we learning about the HTP data set? A senior colleague in the field once commented to me that benchmarks and data sets need to be retired. So if you test something on this data set you have a competition you do it two three times and it has to stop. You have to get another data set. Now that's easier said than done. generating data is expensive and so the temptation to keep using old data is a problem but at some point are we learning about those a thousand kids that were imaged in St. Louis this HP project space in Wu in St. Louis or are we learning about humans in general and the more we try algorithms on this one data set we are overarning we are actually learning the vagaries of this data set as opposed to something about the population as a whole so these are the challenges of training machine learning data sets because we never have enough data and are always tempted to try to do something better in the next segment professor Dorneck will come in and give an introduction to deep learning and then we'll continue the story with a discussion of regulatory issues thank