So in this segment we'll take a look at emerging regulatory guidance and artificial intelligence machine learning methods. This is an area that's under development. This is all in the space of early drafts early versions of the documents. Our regulators are grappling with two conflicting objectives. On the one hand, we have this exciting new technology that has a huge amount of promise in solving many problems and could be harnessed to hugely benefit many patients around the world. On the other hand, we have technology we don't really understand and a challenge here is to come up with rules and regulations such that the use of this technology is safe for humans. So if you remember from the earlier part of this class I mentioned that the FDA studied a study by the FDA reported that 80% of all problems in medical software over a particular time were a result of software updates. Here we're talking about algorithms that to reach their full potential need to self-learn and to self update and to update in real time. So you can understand that there's a significant number of challenges in this area and the regulators like all of us are struggling to figure out how to resolve these problems. So we will take a look at four different guidance documents just to give you a sense of how regulators around the world are trying to you know solve this puzzle. We will look at the AI life cycles national standard from Germany. This is DINSPEC 92000-1 from 2019. We'll look at some recent guidance from the Chinese National Medical Products Administration. We'll look at some draft guidance by the FDA that also came out in 2019. And in the next segment, we'll take a little bit of a deeper dive into a guidance from Singapore, which to my mind is actually one of the nicest documents at least tries to cover all the issues in a concise short section and is well worth reading for students. That would be my recommendation. This is an emerging area. There are huge benefits. There are many potential risks and everything appears to be in flux. So take it as this is where we are right now. So the first document we look at is this AI life cycle. This is a German national standard. You can see the German flag in the corner. And this first defines the this life cycle. And this is the usual software life cycle style definition. We go from concept to development to deployment to operation to retirement. And then defines how these things should be done in the concept of AI models. The other aspect of is that it situates the model. When most people think of machine learning, they think about that function f that f is the model. But the model is really dependent on the data. So the data is almost bigger than the model. The data lives on a certain platform. And then we have the general environment. So as we discuss this thing, we need to expand our field of view not only to look at the model, the particular kind of neural network which is what people who do research in machine learning think about but all the other aspects the data, the platform, the environment. The other thing that this document defines is these three quality pillars. First is functionality and performance which should be obvious. We want our model to work. Second, we want to think about robustness. And we're going to talk a lot more about this problem of robustness when professor Ron comes in the last segment. But fundamentally, how do we deal with issues that derive from either changes to the data that are unintentional, we just simply get data from a different distribution or changes to the data that are intentional, perhaps adversarial attacks, things designed to trick the system. So this is the goal is the input data. This is what the issues with robustness are from a different distribution than the training data and these are called distribution shifts. We have to be able to detect those and flag them. Are we dealing with an adversarial attack? Is somebody trying to adversely affect the performance on the network? And then the other aspects here have to do with the comprehensibility of the network. Can we understand what the network is doing? And we are dealing with issues like interpretable AI. So interpretable AI is given the black box that is often a complicated neural network and you have heard about them in the last segment. Can we understand what is doing? So interpretable AI means can we actually understand operation by operation and this often means that we have to use if this is required a simpler model like a straight line at which point it's very easy to explain to interpret what happened. Okay, you're above the line, you're here, you're below the line. This is the line we know exactly what happens. The next word you'll hear is explainable AI and this associated European regulation the GDPR right to an explanation. So explainable AI is not quite the same as interpretable is a weaker statement. It says can we at least draw a cartoon of what this model is doing. Can we vaguely explain what's going on? Not to the level that you could explain what every little piece of it is but at least give somebody a sense of what's going on. And this is where problem comes with this piece of legislation in Europe and the right to an explanation. So we'll discuss this a little bit more in the next slide. In the GDPR and the recital 71, there's this very interesting section on the right to an explanation. So let's read a little bit from it. The data subject should have the right not to be subject to a decision which may include evaluating personal aspects related to him or her which is based solely on automated processing such as automatic refusal of an online credit application or irrecruiting practices without any human intervention. And here's the punch line. In any case, such processing should be subject to suitable safeguards which should include specific information to the data subject I. The person and the right to obtain human intervention to express his or her point of view, i.e. to complain to obtain an explanation of the decision reached after such assessment and to challenge the decision. So the whole point is what does it mean to obtain an explanation of something that's a deep neural network. So for more on this we have a video clip from Dr. Andre Basuchi to explain a little bit more about this topic. I would say that this is one one of the elements where we we play with a gray zone meaning that we would like the world to be black and white but most of the cases palette of colors sometimes even um so the the right explanation is one of the areas where the as the Europe European Union said of itself it's vague and open-ended meaning that the there is the principle that if you get rejected for examp let's assume a case that's not medical you ask for a back loan and they and they deny it you have the right to know why. That's you're right. And if it was an artificial intelligence that did it, they should explain that according to their model that is based on these parameters, your you fall in the percentile of people that most likely would not pay back. That would be a a reasonable explanation in Europe that would fulfill the requirements for you to receive an explanation which has nothing to do with the technicality of how this is implemented. I wouldn't tell you that you have three layers of neurons that are interacting with each other and a deep layer that is no one knows what it does. So from this perspective, it's fairly easy to find a formulation that would meet the the right of people to receive an explanation that is based on the data. >> So that's that situation. The other aspect that the German document focuses on is in this whole concept of training data management. And here are some comments here. The data used by an AI module plays a significant role in performance and quality. Due to the increasing amount in the use of large data sources, it is particularly important to address issues of res representability, diversity in many ways, availability and quality of data. In the context of ML, these aspects can have a significant influence on achieving the intended outcomes. And the final statement, therefore, data is one of the major topics when reasoning about the requirements of AI modules. And this is one of the paradigm shifts as we start thinking about machine learning and its use in software. Historically in software the most important thing was the code. The data was used to do a little bit of testing on the side. We used data to create nice pictures but for the most part the critical I think was the code. This is where the hard work went. When it comes to machine learning often the code is actually straightforward. It's fairly standardized models. What separates one product for another is the data that was used to train the model. So the data is critical and the management of the data is almost the most important aspect of this process. I once have jokingly explained to the friend that in machine learning if you're smarter meaning you have a better model and I have more data or better data nine out of 10 I will beat you and that is the reality here and it's almost a little bit deflating for programmers who used to being judged on the quality of their code but here the real value is often on the data and not the code and that causes a complete paradigm shift as we have to think about developing these things as to how we think about data and how we manage data in general. So this is a summary. There's a paradigm sheet from code to data as to what is most important. The most important thing is really the data here. Let's take a look at a second document. This comes from China and this is a technical review guideline on AI edited software. It's a draft. I would like to thank uh the good people at China Met Device for providing us with an unofficial translation of this document. We actually had the original and we were able to double check it at Yale. So this translation was fairly accurate. So you of the many segments here the one I would choose to highlight is again this concept of training data management they break it up into four steps. There's data acquisition which involves quality control and anonymization. This is a data privacy aspect here. Data prep-processing. We may need to standardize our data perhaps for images to have the same resolution. We may need to normalize the images to have the same intensity range as professor will give an example of in in the last segment of this week. We have data notation. This is the annotation by experts to create the ground truth. So remember the XY pairs we have the X's these are the images the Y's are the annotations this is cancer this is not cancer and finally the construction of a data set the division into training and testing set and keeping things separate. The other thing that this document talks about extensively is validation and they define that what they would like to see or sometimes prospective trial. So in a prospective trial, new data that is specially acquired for this task and we have retrospective trials where old data is used to evaluate new methods and the NMPA says that retrospective trials are acceptable for low-risk applications. So when you're doing a clinical study, sometimes you can get away with doing a retrospective trial. We have a lot of patients have gone to the hospital. They have already been imaged. They have already been diagnosed. And if we can get our hands on that data, we can simulate the clinical trial retrospectively by pulling the images out, applying our algorithm, seeing how well it did compared to the existing diagnosis. And the NMP says that that's okay for low-risk applications, but for high-risisk applications, they would like to see prospective trials where we're acquiring new data, especially for this task where we have never seen this data before because it creates another barrier to any kind of contamination or anything other problems that come about. The design of the trial should be in the original design of the software. So again, your validation plan should be finished before you start actually doing anything. And the testing data ideally should come from a separate organization than the training data. And finally, the people doing the testing should be separate from the people developing the model. And all of those things are just there to create integrity in the process and to just eliminate any hidden biases that come by people who actually know what the software is doing. You know, is this an outlet? Can we throw it out? Those are issues that can create all kinds of biases and having independent people helps. The third document in this row and this is the last one for this segment is this guidance from the FDA and you can see the title proposed regulatory framework for modifications to artificial intelligence machine learning based software as a medical device. I want to underline this word modifications. This is the point of how do we regulate software that updates itself. And so let's look at the flowchart. I have a flowchart here with all kinds of steps. We're not going to walk through it but I want to highlight two aspects of this flowchart. We first if we're going to have an algorithm that modifies itself, we have to explicitly figure out what the types of anticipate modifications are. And this is labeled as the summed prespecification. This is a definition of the kinds of things that the algorithm will change, the ways it will change. And then we also have to specify according to staff guidance the methodology to implement these changes in a controlled manner that manages the risks to the patients. This was called the algorithm change protocol or the ACP. And again I would just to reemphasize the same issue here. If you think back to the original FDI guidance the GPSV then the statement that 80% of the problems happen when updates we're now talking about algorithms that will update themselves. So we have to have procedures very careful procedures in place such as this updates happen in a safe manner and we do not create additional risks to the patients. So to conclude this section, a big level of the a big part of the challenge is that we don't really have any good way to do analytical validation of machine learning algorithms. We don't know what the result should be outside of those examples. It would be nice to try to understand them and to create this type of techniques because it will simplify life. But for now, we do not have that. We often do not understand how the algorithms works. For example, deep learning. They're black boxes. They appear to do something interesting but the ability to explain and interpret what's going on is missing. And the key challenge here is to establish what data is needed for testing and for validation. Given the wrong kinds of data, we get artificially inflated results. Given the right of data, we may be able to get a true handle on what's going on because we don't really understand what the algorithm is doing. We just have to test it enough to get to a point. And to sort of summarize a lot of this discussion, I have one more clip from Dr. Nicholas Patrick from the FDA on precisely this topic. >> It's important that we try to figure out how to understand them. And you know, I completely understand that that's not the case right now with a lot of deep learning where there's a lot of art to putting these algorithms together. They're very complicated as far as number of layers and structures and and feed forward and feedback loops and so forth and integrated within them. But the more we can understand why these systems might be operating the way they are, the easier it's going to be to try to evaluate them and understand and then come up with various testing that may not be so much clinical testing on large populations, but more specialized testing to determine that they're consistent or they'll work appropriately. So that being said, we still have to live with these algorithms that are complicated and we don't quite understand. What we've done is I think and we've been working on these for more than 20 years um is to have a structure in place for all of these statistical learning or machine learning types of algorithms. So regardless of whether it's a deep learning algorithm or it's you know a linear classifier um with features they can be evaluated in the same way in assessing the standalone data as well as the clinical um populations in the data. Now the the deep learning algorith may be more complicated. It may have more variability associated with it. differences in properties, but the assessment methodology that we've laid out for AI in general is still applicable um for how we approach it. And the the biggest question is what types of data do you need? So now the question becomes less about the structure of the testing, but then what is the the data requirements? What type of data? How large does it need to be? What distributions, what subgroups need to be within that data to give confidence that it'll work appropriately in the clinical population. And the promise and the value of these algorithms and the results that we are seeing from both research studies and from some of those that have been approved are such that we are now being forced to sort of learn a new way of analyzing and understanding aloquis because we kind of say just because we don't understand them we should ignore them. The promise is too high for that to be okay. In the next segment, we'll sort of move on and take a deep dive at one of these regulatory documents, the guidance from Singapore, and just walk through the steps of what one particular regulator is thinking right now. Thank you.