Just kidding. Did you think I was done with you? I'm not done yet. This is my thank you video. The first person I want to thank is you. I'm not kidding. It's been a really once in a-lifetime experience to do this. I used to think that building in Lebanon would be the most meaningful thing I've ever done, but I think this one is big. I think I'm going to look back on it my whole life and I want to thank you for joining me on this journey. It's been a sacred experience. I want to recognize that the knowledge that I've shared in this course that we've been discussing is a compilation of the work of others and the lives of others like Mariam the founder of Sufra and Beljit of the Lift Experience movement and all the others you've heard about and seen as part of this course. So, I want to thank the many lift experience leaders, thought leaders, community leaders, entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs, and extrepreneurs that we've met and that I've referenced. I hope you'll take our shared knowledge and experience as a seed to build on and grow together and in communication with each other. So, don't let this be a solo journey. Now, before I go, I want to thank the incredible team that helped make this course possible. This is my team slide. Like you're gonna have a team slide in your pitch. You've been watching me here on this screen without seeing all the magic that happens behind the scenes. So here with me in this room is Belinda Platt, a project manager and digital producer who works at the Yale Porvoo Center for Teaching and Learning. And she's the magician that makes all this happen. Belinda, can you come say hi? Just come say hi. Okay. You should know that I did not write that. And that's all you need to know. >> So Belinda and I have been having a lot of fun making this course. And you can actually watch our journey on my Instagram account and Belinda's Instagram account. We've been I've posted a collection of stories from behind the scenes from day one as we've been filming all these videos. So that's our behind the scenes module. It's not on the Corsera website. It's on my Instagram. So behind the camera are a couple of super talented and dedicated team members. We started the course with Craig Tomlin who's been lugging the camera around from the Yale Broadcast Center to the School of Management across campus every week to film campus conversations to help keep it positive. We have Amanda Murphy who's been here several times both at the broadcast center and at the School of Management and Ryan Makavoy who helped me film the last couple of modules. and it's super exciting to close out with him. Another crucial member of the team is the person who takes this raw footage and turns it into the finished product that you're viewing right now. Our amazing video editor for this course is Jack Niswonger. I also want to thank my research associate and close colleague Dr. Elizabeth Becker who pitched this idea to me. So I had approached her. She's a co-author and collaborator of mine and we're always looking for creative things to do together. So, I asked her, "Elizabeth, would you help me create pedagogical materials um on social entrepreneurship? Like, maybe we'll get together, film a couple of videos, put them on my website." And Elizabeth was like, "Who's going to go to your website? Have you heard of this thing called Corsera? Why don't you apply to make a Corsera course?" And she's been here with me every week helping along the way. So, thank you, Elizabeth. These people have made this project fun and a joy and probably one of the most important and special things I've ever done in my life and I'm so grateful for this opportunity. Thank you so much to everyone. And thank you again to you for taking this journey. I hope I get to meet you one of these days. Maybe our paths will cross in person. Please follow me in the meantime. Check out my writing and my podcast and let's keep the conversation going.