Welcome. So, in this section of our course, we're going to step away from the technical aspects that you've been learning and really think about how to get your medical software or your lab prototype out into the hands of people in the real world. It will be just as important to get an basic overview of the business side of things so that you can launch your venture. My name is Aisha Kurishi and I'll be doing this section with Dr. Likolai. The goals of this section in this week's lectures are as follows. First, we will discuss the changing models in healthcare. Then we will go into the nuts and bolts of starting a new health care venture. A broad overview to speak. and then we will end with when and how to raise capital as an outline of the lectures themselves. The first two lectures presented by Dr. Likolai will include value drivers in digital medicine as well as changing business models in healthcare. I will then return to go through setting up a new healthcare venture, finding your first paying customer, and when and how to raise capital. For extra material and to follow along within the textbook, please refer to chapters six and seven in our introduction to medical software textbook. >> This is Greg Llly. In this segment, we'll talk about value drivers in digital medicine and what is moving this field forward. And as we're thinking about the different drivers, let's also use this metaphor of a cart driver technology forward and going from an antiquated to a more modern place, a more modern direction. There are many drivers of digital health. Um as the digital transformation is affecting health care as it has uh other industries. Um the benefits here are overcoming costs uh improving on legacy technologies but particularly around a shift in power from providers from payers towards patients. And indeed many of us believe that patient empowerment is one of the main factors that is driving change in health care. The health care system in particular in the you know United States is very complicated. Previously we discussed the healthcare hassle map as well as the high costs and relatively low quality. There's been significant efforts now to create improvements, all of which should drive power and decision-making capabilities back into patients hands. Um, some of this has been codified and put in place by the affordable care act. So the affordable care act focused on uh one of the things it talked about was the triple aim of reducing costs, improving quality as well as improving patient satisfaction. All all of this is dependent on a shift in power towards the patient. Giving the patients the greater ability to select the best therapy, the best type of care and that empowerment is very much being driven by technology which creates uh information and better choices for patients as well as improves transparency and begins to level the playing field. some from some of the uh asymmetries that we had talked about in previous lectures. Now um frequently it's brought up of whether these digital therapeutics are effective or not. I'd like to mention a couple examples where that have been demonstrated that digital therapeutics indeed are quite effective. A well-known example is Pair Therapeutics, which is a small company that developed a technology called Reset. That was one of the first digital therapeutics approved by the FDA for using cognitive behavioral therapy for uh uh improvement in behavioral health conditions as well as for uh uh addiction and reduction in cravings. It has been demonstrated that this is effective as illustrated by the fact that that clinical trials did receive uh FDA approval as a as a landmark decision several years ago. Other types of digital therapeutics have been developed such as uh insomnia apps uh and video games for hyperactivity and attention deficit disorder. also more recently approved by the FDA and the list continues to grow. Uh there there are startups focused on treating amilopia which is lazy eye. There are also other companies that are focused on developing digital pills that keep track of uh compliance to drugs and it's been demonstrated that these digital pills improve compliance so that uh uh patients who were previously had difficulty receiving treatment for conditions such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and even chemotherapy experienced significant benefit once their uh compliance was tracked using these digital techniques. Now there is a expanding landscape of digital applications including digital therapeutics as well as mobile health uh sometimes called m health information technology wearables sensors personalized healthcare records and tele medicine and all of these areas have been dramatically increasing helping drive the growth of digital medicine for example digital biomarkers which are collecting data from patients using uh uh peripheral devices, wearable devices such as a smartwatch. Smartwatches which can record activity, motion as well as now heart rate, uh oxygen saturation, breathing, um other devices can record blood sugar uh as well as as well as uh other types of other types of personal activities. Now the benefit of these types of digital biomarkers it is that they record continuous patient experience as opposed to episodic patient experiences. Episodic experiences are what's what was previously used. Meaning that uh if a physician wanted to find out how you're doing as a patient, they would be able to record your your symptoms only once in a while on an episodic basis when you come into their into the office or perhaps when you're monitored by a uh clinician's assistant. Using these digital devices, these wearable devices, we can record continuous patient experiences. That gives us much better information about say the uh blood pressure increasing and decreasing or heart rates increasing incre decreasing during the day as well as activity and perhaps uh um you know th those those biological parameters can increase or decrease people's activities. It really opens up a whole new world of understanding the effects of disease on patient lives and patient experiences. And in fact uh the percentages are rising here that you know growth rates that are that are very high uh and many prospective clinical studies now are using digital biomarkers to better record patient experiences. As mentioned previously in our case study, uh digital medicine is really helping address the mental health crisis through a variety of different applications. Uh frequently focused on cognitive behavior behavioral therapy as well as dialectical behavioral therapy. But there are many small companies and larger companies that are using these applications for improving uh mental health issues as well as improving access and scalability for delivery of mental health care. Well, one of the main drivers of the growth of digital medicine is funding. And here we see that uh the the amount of money pouring into digital medicine from venture capitalists has been dramatically increasing to uh the rates of literally tens of billions of dollars, you know, 14 billion dollars in just 2020 alone. And that funding is increasing in the size of the deals that are being done as well as the total magnitude of money going in into uh digital medicine. And this graph illustrates the variety of different applications that are being funded under digital medicine. Uh health, IT, social health, we mentioned behavioral health as one of the biggest areas, uh mobile health, etc. So really across the board this illustrates many opportunities and many growth areas in in digital medicine. Another important driver of digital medicine is the government. So, the FDA, the Food and Drug Administration, which regulates uh devices and drugs in the United States, uh several years ago developed a digital health innovation action plan uh in order to help promote the use of digital technologies and and uh digital medicine. Uh recently the FDA launched a new center of excellence focused specifically on digital health. As previously mentioned, in 2018, the first digital therapeutic was approved by the FDA. And this really opened the door for many other applications in many chronic diseases, which really uh demonstrates the the FDA's commitment to uh improving access uh and and scalability through digital techniques. The FDA also launched a draft uh published draft guidance for artificial intelligence as well as machine learning in the application of uh digital medicine and digital therapeutics. I'd like to end on some thoughts around understanding value drivers uh and understanding value creation in digital medicine. So uh as as one considers what potentially will create benefits as well as create uh uh effective entrepreneurial opportunities, one should consider these types of issues such as the product and market fit, the defined use cases, what is the return on investment that venture capitalists want to receive from the uh where they're funding, who are the payers, and who is paying for the customer benefit. What is the customer satisfaction from these applications? Are there business analytics that can be applied? What is the maximum future value? And what is the scalability of these applications? Uh and importantly, are they coded for reimbursement so they can receive payment? Uh and finally, risk management such as privacy and security issues. Thank you.