This is Greg Lle. In this segment, I'd like to talk about the changing business models in healthcare. Now throughout these series we've talked about different aspects of the health care system, different aspects of technology and the digital transformation of health care. What are some of the drivers of health care and importantly how does this all come together in the changing models of healthcare delivery and the changing business models in the the complicated landscape that is the business of health care as illustrated by this well-known Cher uh uh drawing. There are wellescribed barriers to health care innovation. Um, some of these are around the lack of consumer focus which is changing. Some of these are around legacy technologies which is changing and some of these are around the business models and those incumbents which have previously been in in power that are reluctant to give up their power from an economic point of view to allow change. And these as these changes occur, they create different cycles of innovation technology that the entrepreneur and observers of health care can take advantage of as they're thinking about the way to introduce new and better technology and specifically new and better software for patient benefits. Why is the changing why is the the revenue model changing in healthcare? Well, some of the things that we've talked about uh that hospital systems payers uh face significant challenges. We've talked about the increased costs that are affecting health care. So, hospitals are under increasing pressure to change the way they think about revenue and treating patients. And how do they do this? uh what how do they think differently about delivering highquality services and improving their reimbursements for the delivery of the best possible care. There are some models that we'll go over in some specific examples next. So for instance, for example, the valuebased health care model has been uh described as one of the ways to really improve the uh aim of of health care in terms of better quality at a lower cost. some of the the fundamental principle of valuebased health care is that uh entities are reimbursed on the basis of delivering better outcomes as opposed to just better procedures. So it really takes a a more holistic approach bringing together patients, providers, payers as well as suppliers and society uh for a a more comprehensive look of what can be done to improve the patient experience and health care outcomes at a relatively lower cost. There are some examples of well-known health care systems that have uh applied value-based systems. Now, here are two specific examples. One coming from Inter Mountain Health where the system uh integrated mental health into primary care as a default practice. They wound up uh um uh reducing costs per patient as well as importantly reducing the number of emergency room visits which which are a very expensive use of the health care system by incorporating a more holistic approach to uh patients and their mental health issues. In another example, at Mayo Clinic, surgeons were uh worked more effectively with their pathology lab during certain surgical procedures so that they could complete the entire procedure and get a diagnosis during one surgery. What this did was eliminate the need for repeat surgeries for about 96% of patients which also reduce their overall cost and reduce their overall reoperation rate. In considering another type of way that is uh used to health care systems used to reduce uh costs and improve outcomes. Um another model is described as the learning health care system. Now in the learning healthcare system, a a virtuous cycle is created between the practice, the data and the evidence collected that gives information back to clinicians and managers of the health care system for continuous improvement. Now the way this works is that clinicians consider uh different techniques that that could improve patients uh uh experience in and outcomes in healthcare. But then they also record the data associated with those patients. That data can be in the form of wearables. It can be electronic. It can be information. And that data then is put into intelligence systems using things like artificial intelligence to analyze what is the actual evidence-based s uh uh uh um uh results that more accurately described which techniques actually caused an improvement and uh provided better outcomes. This then gets fed back to the providers who hone their practice. Yet another step will take the best in class and do further improvements in healthcare, continue to collect the data, continue to analyze that data to get evidence so that they continue continue to improve. The basis of these healthcare uh learning systems is of course the use of software data collection uh artificial intelligence in order to process all of the data that is needs to be collected so that uh the accurate results are are uh put into the hands in the of the decision makers and the clinicians. The business models are continuing change for for various health care systems. And here are some examples that uh have been have been described just as rules of thumb for for different hospital systems and and uh provider systems as they're looking to uh compete and and provide better care. uh these are I'll I'll go over each one of them uh as described as the leader, the experienced, the integrator and the manager. Now under the example of the leader, these are health systems which practice best-in-class quality and they're known for uh uh the reputation they have the reputation for delivering really the highest quality care and they pri pri prioritize clinical models and a culture of excellence over cost reductions and over consumer experience. Um, these types of systems often rely on outsourcing and temporary staffing, but really their base uh their their goal is to show the world and show consumers that they're offering the best care. And some examples here would be the Mayo Health Clinic or the Cleveland Clinic. Now, alternatively, there are systems, health systems that pursue patient experience and patient satisfaction as their way of competing. So, these consider the these would be looking for premier customer experiences when compared to other hospitals that are in their competitive area. uh they prioritize patient satisfaction, understanding preferences, consistent experiences across all health care systems and in order to do this they rely on uh uh social media, health, IT, mobile platforms, digital platforms which of course relies heavily on investment in information technology as well as uh having the appropriate culture and attitudes around data sharing and and using data, analytics, and informatics in order to provide the best patient satisfaction experience. And an example here would be the uh Texas health resources system. Another example of a health system strategy would be the integrator, which works towards increasing scale and scope. So this would be a system that looks across multi-reional areas and possibly has national reach. Basically the they the they their strategy is to grow as large as possible to really provide broad access uh across many different geographies. So they attribute value through broad networks of providers especially looking at lowerc cost providers and they provide prioritize cost cutting uh uh as a as a differentiator to their competition and uh they grow through mergers acquisitions cost reduction using health information technology and creating back office synergies and an example here would be Inter Mountain Healthcare Finally, an example of a a different type of strategy would be the manager or use of population health. This is systems that enhance the health across entire populations. So, they focus on serving complex populations that address social determinance of care. Um, they work with employers. They employ uh they use riskbased management systems as well as value based care models and they frequently have uh integrated community organizations to provide care beyond the traditional walls of a of a hospital or delivery network. And examples here would be the Gisinger Health System as well as Kaiser Permanente. I'll shift over and talk about patientdriven technologies and the ondemand health care model. Um, another example of the way the business models of healthc care have been changing to empower patients and put more decision making as well as uh authority and autonomy into the hands of patients. So some of these would be the use of personalized health solutions. Um information on the on request in order to level the information asymmetries and level the playing field. Uh use of patient experience benchmarks through digital recording of outcomes data uh care anywhere uh networks and the use of tele medicine to improve access. And some examples of patient-driven technology and on demand healthcare models would be scheduling apps, the use of tele medicine and on demand on demand patient transport that uh literally brings patients from from the hospital to home in a in a easier and less expensive way. Another example of patientdriven technology would be the creation of marketplaces. So the examples here would be doctors and clinicians using apps to uh um have a a marketplace for diagnostic products, radiology centers, and uh uh other types of products similar to the way that Amazon creates marketplaces for consumer products. Medical devices is another area that uh other types of companies are focused on creating marketplaces as well as crowdsourcing help for uh to create safety nets for for patients who need care. Now I I'd like to conclude by uh offering this model of how to think about healthcare innovation. Now at Yale, we use this framework called the rapid framework to consider what elements are necessary in order to create sustainable innovation in healthcare. Now rapid is an acronym that stands for regulatory alternatives, patients, innovation and data. The goal here is to create a virtuous cycle of sustainable improvement based on sustainable inf uh innovation so that uh health entrepreneurs and health companies can continue to um uh uh grow and improve and provide the best services for patients. So uh going around the circle the patient or consumer uh needs to be brought into to this technology and there are frequently costs associated with this. So so the entity needs to understand what are the acquisition costs to bring consumers in to use their service or their products. Data needs to be used for validation and in health care in particular data is extremely important because that that's is the evidence generation that's needed to validate whether different types of products or services are effective. Regulatory is especially important in healthcare because these barriers uh exist and those barriers can also be benefits for those products that are improved and become first-in-class or best-in-class that create natural uh uh barriers for for other competitors to come in and entrepreneurs need to consider alternatives. So um uh the other other uh items aspects might be addressed but if there are simpler alternatives, easier alternatives, lower cost alternatives um patients or payers might select those. So uh this is a framework that we use in order to analyze different uh specific healthcare entities and companies to think about do they have they achieved a balance among all these forces in order to achieve sustainable innovation. So in conclusion, we've reviewed the different challenges that face healthcare and the ways that technology is driving a transformation and improvement in access as well as quality and helping to reduce costs. And entrepreneurs, particularly those who are interested in technology and software, should consider all of these things as really as opportunities to help create value and create benefits for themselves and for society.