When the topic of disciplining children comes up, attention naturally focuses on eliminating unwanted behavior and use of punishment as a means to achieve that. The various behavior change tools we've been discussing can readily eliminate unwanted behavior and that gives many more options and more effective options than punishment. Yet punishment is in widespread use in many different forms and is the first option often selected to change behavior. This is true both at home and at school. In separate lessons, I've talked about punishment basics and timeout from reinforcement. In the basics, I mentioned that any type of punishment, whether it's verbal reprimands, loss of privileges, timeout, spanking, and so on, has two noteworthy characteristics. First, they're not very effective ways of changing behavior. And second, they often have negative side effects such as emotional reactions on the part of the child, escaping and avoiding the people and situations associated with punishment, and aggression toward the parent and teacher and others. The goal of this lesson is to discuss physical punishment, hitting, spanking, paddling, and the like. These can have additional negative outcomes. By physical or corporal punishment, I am including any physical contact or hitting. Spanking is the most familiar, but also would be hitting, slapping, kicking, punching, any of these physical assaults. Now, I am not talking about child abuse in this video. Abuse is severe physical punishment in which there might be more extreme pain, physical marks, and even open wounds. And often the use of objects such as belts, sticks and the like is part of the punishment. Obviously abuse is a very important topic and filled with tragedy. For example, in the United States, four to five children die every day due to child abuse or neglect. So the topic is obviously important. In this video, I want to talk about the more common practices of spanking and hitting children that are not part of that extreme level. Even without this extreme, there are many effects and negative side effects worth noting. Before I continue, I want to acknowledge that physical punishment is a delicate topic in part because it's connected to religion, culture, and often strong personal beliefs about what is appropriate to control child behavior. I discuss physical punishment to convey the research findings on what the effects of physical punishment are on children and the effectiveness of punishment as a behavior change technique. The research findings on physical punishment have contributed to worldwide interest in the topic. There are many major organizations in the US and throughout the world that recommend eliminating the use of physical punishment of children and that includes spanking. For example, going back a few decades, the United Nations has advocated for the elimination of all physical punishment of children by parents and teachers. Many countries have actually adopted the recommendation. As of 2016, approximately 50 countries out of a total of just over 190 countries have completely banned physical punishment. By banned, I mean it is against the law for anyone to hit a child even under the guise of discipline and even by a parent. There are many legal issues as well in the United States and elsewhere that are raised by spanking. For example, among the legal issues is the concern that it is illegal for one adult to hit another adult, but it's legal for an adult to hit a child. And that seems inconsistent in the law. I mentioned some of these broader points to convey that spanking is a topic of enormous concern, not just as a discipline practice in the home, but a part of national and international social policy and law. My goal today is much more focused to convey research on spanking and its effects and hopefully to provide information that will be useful. Spanking, whether mild or severe, is not likely to suppress behavior beyond the moment that the child is hit. And we know that spanking also will not teach the desired behaviors that parents want. When spanking is used relatively frequently or is the primary and regular method of disciplining children, we know a lot more about its effects. The level of spanking we're talking about is about once a week, sometimes more. Usually, the child is hit with an open hand and usually on the buttocks. There's no physical injury or open wounds. So again, we're not talking about severe physical punishment. Children who receive a moderate to a more severe amount of spanking are much more likely to show many undesirable outcomes. These include increased aggression, disruptive and antisocial behavior at home and at school, poor academic achievement as reflected in lower grades, being held back a grade, and not graduating from high reduced ability to control impulsive behavior later in life, higher rates of mental problems in childhood and adulthood. For example, in adulthood, the risk increases for depression, anxiety, and alcohol and drug use and increased risk of poor physical health outcomes as adults and earlier than expected death due to a compromised immune system. Perhaps the most surprising of findings to me are the impact of spanking on physical health. Adults who've been regularly spanked in their youth are more likely to die at a younger age and more likely to die from heart disease, cancer, and chronic respiratory disease than those who were spanked infrequently or not spanked at all when they were growing up. The reasoning for these physical health consequences are not completely understood. But the continued stress of harsh punishment looks like it can change the immune system of the child in permanent ways. So lifelong the individual is much more susceptible to various diseases. As with anything, the negative outcomes do not apply to everyone and we do not know how to predict who will be affected at this time. But since the benefits of spanking and change behavior have not been evident and the undesirable effects have been repeatedly shown, corporal punishment is not advocated as a punishment technique. Let me take a second to consider an irony of the use of spanking. From surveys, parents say that the two most common reasons they use physical punishment is for aggression and non-compliance in their children. The irony is that spanking is actually likely to increase aggressive behavior in the child and will have little or no effect on compliance overall. In fact, spanking may even increase oppositional behavior and non-compliance. So, a parent may spank or hit a child as a punishment when that child has hit a sibling. This will only make the child more likely to hit you back, to continue to hit the sibling during playtime, and even more likely to hit others at school. And the use of physical punishment is also likely to lead to more non-compliance. The child will try to escape from the parent and oppose what the parent is trying to accomplishment. In another video, I noted that force including including physical force leads human to react in opposite ways from what the force is trying to accomplish. In short, physical punishment tends to perpetuate the exact behaviors it is intended to stop. So, if corporal punishment really has all these negative outcomes, how come people continue to use it? Well, for one reason, punishment is firmly connected to our beliefs, traditions, and childbearing practices. And those are often part of religious and cultural beliefs. But there are other reasons as well. Consider a few that look like they have a huge influence on why we continue to use punishment and spanking in particular. First, the child's behavior usually stops immediately when he or she is hit and that locks in the parents behavior. This connection of stopping the behavior as soon as the punishment is given is referred to as negative reinforcement of the parents behavior. The connection is learned and is very strong. The ineffectiveness of punishment is delayed and those delayed consequences do not have much impact on firmly learned connections. The whole sequence has been referred to as the punishment trap because the connection of parent punishment and immediately stopping the behavior of the child traps the parent in continuing to punish. Second, we have learned that aggressive actions, either doing them or watching them, can activate reward centers in the brain. That means that being aggressive, whether toward a child or another person, can have some biological reward value, and that can help maintain spanking. Third, corporal punishment is used in schools in the United States, and this is recognized as a legitimate way of dealing with children outside the home. For example, in the US, over 900 children are hit by their teachers every day in the public schools. Because hitting with a wooden paddle is the most common form of hitting in the schools, perhaps it's no surprise that each year 10 to 20,000 students require medical attention. In short, leaving aside parental use, hitting children is still recognized as legitimate form of punishment. Interestingly, 31 states in the United States have banned punishment in public schools, but hitting is actively used in the remaining states. And the effectiveness of physical punishment at school is no different from that punishment at home. It is not effective strategy for changing behavior, especially for developing positive behaviors that parents and teachers want. In this video, I have tried to summarize what might be the most useful things to know about spanking. Here are the main findings. As with any punishment, spanking is likely to stop the behavior at the moment it is administered. However, that's short term. In the next several days and weeks, spanking does not seem to reduce the negative behavior for which the child is punished. In fact, if one is hitting a child for aggression and non-compliance, the punishment is likely to make these behaviors worse. But the effects of spanking can be much broader, and these effects are negative. In the long term, children who are frequently hit and/or spanked have much higher rates of physical and mental health problems when they grow up. They are much more likely to use and abuse drugs and alcohol, to have more run-ins with the law, to have more problems in keeping jobs and in maintaining relationships. A parent might ask, well, if I stop corporal punishment, will the behavior just get worse? It looks as if the opposite is true, even on a large scale. For example, when corporal punishment is banned in a country, child aggressive and antisocial behavior actually decline over the next several years. From a behavior change standpoint, there's no need to spank. And if punishment is used in the home, we know how to make that effective in eliminating behaviors. Two tools are used that I have discussed in separate lessons. First, provide positive reinforcement for positive opposites. To be effective, this part ought to be the main emphasis to develop the behaviors we want. By emphasis, I mean that the positive behavior needs to be praised and attended to much more often than the number of times that punishment is used for the negative behavior. So, if one made the child go to timeout three times a day or a week for some misbehavior, the frequency of attention and praise for the positive opposite should be much more frequent. at least two or three times that number that can really be effective in eliminating the behavior and achieving enduring changes. Second, the punishment ought to be mild and brief. A short timeout or loss of privilege will achieve any benefits of the punishment. More severe and intense does not increase the effectiveness to change behavior. Corporal punishment has not shown any advantage over mild punishment. and milder punishments are less likely to have enduring mental and physical health consequences that are associated with frequent hitting. A separate video on developing positive opposites and another on timeout will be helpful. These are powerful tools to eliminate unwanted behaviors and to develop positive pro-social behaviors in place of those unwanted behaviors. The overall goal is to help you with challenges in the home to make you even more effective as a parent and to develop habits in your child that will be enduring. Other videos also add tools and practices at home toward these goals.