We talked the last time I talked a little bit about um this this whole issue of the imagination that Dante places along with the a definition of love and the and love is the the the power that governs that shapes the moral world of purgatory. Um last time we talked about this two fossai of Kanto 17. Two fossai of the center. It really makes makes the center a kind of ellipses as it were right between imagination and love. Um, love is attached to the it's it's joined to a theory of free will because it's by choice uh because of our choices that we can be held accountable for uh the actions that we uh engage in loving wrong objects, loving too much or loving too little. I don't know the the some of the problems I think uh stem from uh a certain misunderstanding about the imagination that Dante should place the imagination at the center of the poem uh should really not surprise you. He's a poet and he thinks that imagination is indeed the path that he has to take in order to come to any uh any any form of knowledge. It's only through the imagination. It's not that does not exclude rationality but that's the discourse of philosophers the discourse of theologians if you wish that he places the imagination as his way uh and from that point of view he can even challenge some ideas of uh uh the superiority let's say of of rational argument over the imagination. The imagination is the weapon of the poet. How with what kind of attributes does he invest the imagination? It's tied to memory. The po the canto 17 begins with an apostrophe to the reader's memory. Uh it's it appears as in the feminine imaginative uh the the in uh the the Dante silencing the term vis theso to force imagination. It's moved by something else. Dante does not decide whether it's the heaven or the stars or comes from inside us. Uh but it has a particular power, a strange power. It comes like a thief in the night. It robs us of uh uh the the any degree of of u consciousness about the world outside of us. uh uh and and just as memory uh dislodges uh you know the the the the description of memory at the beginning of Kantto 17 it's a memory that has an incredible memory as a form of the imagination as you know memory and the imagination are connected the the it's a form of the imagination but it's a memory that um has the power to move up and down the text evokes the alpine heights and the depth of the molo the mole and It talks about a form of blindness and yet it creates vision uh uh memory is a figure of time and then the the whole passage is described in terms of space as if it imagination had the power to dislocate us from where we think that we are. This is the point and it's not an unusual point for Dante to make since this he is this is the poetry of exile. The poetry of a man who thinks that he's a stranger while living on earth. Uh a man who without a sense a clear sense of where his home may be. Uh he is this is the poetry rooted in the consciousness of homelessness. So imagination is an extension an internalized internalized version of this sense of homelessness but it has a power and that power that doesn't seem to be able to be uh that a power that cannot quite be contained or coerced within definite uh parameters of uh conduct. In fact, this uh insistence on the imagination, I'm really recapitulating the things that maybe I thought I said that probably I didn't say last time between on the one hand the sin of uh wrath which is a form of madness is to say uh aromasin that eclipses the powers of reason that's anger and on the other hand uh at this discourse on love okay so this is really what I I was saying and Dante understands there is an imagination which cannot quite be held in check. And yet the whole point of the poem I'm talking whenever I'm talking about the poem I I point out some seemingly insignificant details like oh look this is a symmetry here between kanto six of inferno kanto six of of of purgatory or whatever uh to indicate that it is a poem built with a precise principle of order in mind. Not only it has order in its in its technical execution, it has order also as a moral problem. It's all about ordering the appetites, ordering the will. But at at the same time alongside with it and this is the complexity and the beauty of Dante's text there's some another argument that almost questions makes us to makes us forces us into thinking that there are some some elements that seem to be left out of this uh fabric of order that Dant has woven or if you like the metaphor has built the architecture that he has built. Let's see how these arguments really continues. That that's not the end of the of the story. This is just a stage in his uh movement of self-nowledge and and and knowledge of the world. Uh in fact 10 to 18 we are now moving into a different a different moral realm. uh it's a model Rome where actually now we are moving toward the so-called uh what Dante and medieval u theorists of vices call aia uh uh aa is a Latin term which in English we can describe describe as a sort of despondency as a sort of indecisiveness sluggishness sloth sloth that's it that's the the uh the If you are interested in knowing more about what the middle ages thought about this this uh scholar wenzo wrote a book uh called aadia exactly about the both in English medieval literature dante etc and other other issues what more precisely how can we go on understanding this question of arcadia it's in a sense the parody or the inversion of contemplation it's tied to a a sense of loss of the outside world. Aadia describes the condition of the mind that has found itself indifferent to the object of desire. It really is a crisis of desire. One finds the objects that's the the sloth, the sluggishness, the indecisiveness of the mind. It is if the objects of desire were um had lost their consistency, their attractiveness, their luster. you know, you you just don't care. It's the problem the the the the so-called noonday uh devil, the temptation uh the temptation of the monks. That's why I call it a paradigm of contemplation. It's the temptation of that the monks experience in their cloysters when they sort of find that the whole idea of turning their minds to the divine is is no longer or provisionally perhaps is not uh uh appealing. It's it's the the loss of appeal of anything outside of oneself and indicates a kind of of of both intellectual and dreamy sort of condition. And that's really what I want to talk about. Now, Kento 18 um is the most intellectual of Kantos in in in in purgatory. Dante faces a theoretical issue. He's talking to Virgil and this theoretical issues of Kento 18 uh flow out of the problems that we have had in discussing KTO 17. As you know the we're talking about imagination and love and there is an imagination that somehow is vagabond. It's a thief breaks out of any particular confines. It dislodges us. It takes the ground out of our own certainties about the the the way we see the world. Remember that the image that with which KTO7 starts we he Dante places us in a world which is at the twilight. There's no real light. It's so foggy and then all of a sudden we do see something and it's unclear whether we see something because of the light that comes from within us. Memories for instance that's a light we carry within us confused as they may be or some other kind of consciousness or intuition. So that's really that the discourse of the imagination and that dislodged some of us here that made it a little difficult to to uh try to get a hold of grasp has the same problem in KTO 18. Kto 18 begins with a question that he asks of Virgil. You are talking about love. You are talking about this inclination Kanto the the whole theory of love in Kanto 17. Uh he says, "Master, my sight, this is K to 18, the very beginning, is so quickened in thy light that I discern clearly all that thy words set forth and explain uh and explain. I pray therefore, dear and gentle father, that thou expound love to me, to which you reduce every good action and its opposite. Whatever you have told me in Kanto 17 realist enough and that Virgil goes on explaining uh uh the theory that is very a philosophical theory that we have perceptions your perception takes from world reality an impression and unfolds it within you. So it makes the mind turn to it and whatever the the the will is bound that's really what we call pleasure. I'm paraphrasing poorly. uh um thy words and my following and um excuse me let me just mention another little passage now may be plain line 35 now may be plain to thee how hidden is the truth for those who maintain that every love is in itself praiseworthy he's attacking this is the the view of the epicurans who believe that every pleasure without any particular judgment attached to the object of pleasure is praiseworthy says no we have to exercise some moral uh judgment some some we have to dis we have to create distinctions we have to discriminate between the good and the bad love perhaps because its matter always seems good but not every stamp is good even if it be good wax I would even go so far as to say that he's really thinking now of his friend Tavalcantis widow Epicuran now you you saw him mentioned in Kanto 12 by name Epicuran leanings things. The idea that that's the epicuran ethics that if pleasure is really the the the only uh uh object worthy of any pursuit and uh that's really what we are doing when we're in pursuit of knowledge or real experiences. Then they claim that all of uh pleasure is is is good. Uh that's the hedonistic ethics that Dante really renounces or debates. And then in fact Virgil goes on saying thy words and my following witness this is Dante talking answered have revealed the nature of love to me but that has made me more full of perplexity for if love is offered to us from without and if the soul moves with no other feet it has no merit where it go straight to crooked. Now you say that everything is love and there the love that I have depends on the experience of images. But then what in what how am I going to deserve for choosing well or not choosing well since at the at the basis of the imagination we have perceptions um and what I perceive may be looking good to me and does not look good to you. So the issue is displaced from the point the world of the imagination to the world of perception and uh Virgil will go on explaining uh the scholastic theory to the point that uh indeed uh we we we uh we incline to uh to the good but then actually we have within us uh the faculty of choice. He says uh in order this will ever they may be conformed there is innate in you the faculty which counelss and which ought to hold the threshold of ascent. He's talking about once again uh free will and he will add this is what I uh this is on line 60 and following uh and he'll add this is all I can tell you from a philosophical point of view uh other issues about the free will uh will be explained to you by Beatatrice when she first comes to you and so it would seem to make a distinction between uh the knowledge the of Virgil and the knowledge of a Beatric and he said uh as far as reasons he's here can tell thee beyond that wait only for Beatatrice for it is a matter of faith and so on. So there seems to be two ways of understanding this issue. The fact is that Beatatrice will never discuss this problem. But in a sense, Beatatrice represents the the explan explanation that Dant is looking for because Beatatrice is that kind of love that for Dante that stands for a visionary form of no of love and not just a love that can be uh reduced to a question of mechanics or physics of perception. Um so uh uh that's really what K to 18 seems to be doing then responds, enlarges and at the same time brings us back into the very predicament that Kento 17 had uh uh posed for us. Okay. So seems that Dant is moving and at the same time an impass another impass has been reached. And now with this in mind we turn to what he unavoidably has to do. uh try to translate all of these issues of love, imagination, um uh choice from the theoretical into the autobiographical or existential dimension. This is done in the dream, an erotic dream that Dante relates at the beginning of Kanto 19. Before I turn to that kto, I just want to tell you a part how Dante understands this. He has one line at the very end of KTO 18 that I would uh the last line of K 18 that I really want to uh uh underline for you. The whole paragraph reads, "Then when these shades were so far aparted from us that they could no longer be seen, a new thought arose within me from which others many and diverse were born, and I rambled, so from one to the other that in my wondering my eyes closed, and I changed my musing into dream." And that and that introduces the dream of Canto 19. that the line in Italian is really very interesting because it presents the connection between thinking and dreaming. He says in fact the translation my musing it's correct but it's really I would have said to make it very clear my thought uh Dante says one one line 145. So there's a kind of link a sort of a sense of the connection between thinking and dreaming and Dante favors dreaming at this point over thinking. You should be surprised that Dant is doing this. The romance of the rose a grand medieval epic is a dream and tells the story of a dream. The book of the duchess shakes of choser book of the duchess is the story of a dream. The vitanov is full of dreams you know even for those of you who are interested in contemporary literature fairly contemporary I'm thinking of kids great poem sleep and poetry I don't know how many of you have had a chance to read that poets love sleeping because sleep introduces the idea of the dream and the possibility of a dream the possibility of a knowledge which is not willed I finally have some revelations within me which is not what I would normally have if I were awake. Uh so this is the the great privilege that they give to dreams. Are is the middle ages are the middle ages uh really conscious of this dimension? Yes, there is a text by an author called Macrobius and if you want to know more I really which is uh uh Macrobius who writes uh on the dream of Scipio Curus figure uh in the republic uh it's all about it's it's an encyclopedia of dreams and based on artos but it's it's it's distinctions between oracles fantasies um insomniac uh uh deliriums uh dreams and so on. So they are very conscious of uh the sort of of of power and uh revelations that can come through dreams. What is this dream about? It's now definitely in the world of Arcadia uh it's a dream. Let me just let me just read this uh initial uh the beginning of Kento9. Uh I emphasize that this is now an autobiographical the highlighting of the autobiographical dimension of all the problems we have been discussing from 17 81 17 and 18. Dant is to translate the theories into a personal giving them a personal shape and to to to investigate the kind of importance that they may have uh for him. uh the the uh it starts then with in the hour when the day's heat overcome by the earth and sometimes by Saturn can no longer temper the cold of the moon when the geommancers see the fortuna mayor rise in the east before dawn by a path which does not long stay dark for it there came to me in dream a woman stammering Crosseeyed and crooked on her feet with m hands and of salow hue. I gazed at her and as the sun revives cold limbs be numbed by the night so my look gave her a ready tongue and then in a little time made her quite erect and colored her one features as love desires. When she heard her speech that set free, she began to sing so that it would have been hard for me to turn my mind from her. I am, she sang, I am the sweet siren who beguiled the sailors in midse to hear me. I turned Ulyses, eager on his way to my song. and he who dwells with me rarely departs, so holy I contend him." Her lips were not yet closed again when a lady holy and alert appeared beside me to put her to confusion. "Oh, Virgil, Virgil, who is this?" she said with anger. And he came with his eyes fixed on the honorable one. He seized the other and let her bear in front tearing her clothes and showed me her belly. They awoke me that awoke me with that st the stench that came from her. I turned my eyes to the good master. Three times at least I have called thee. He said rise and come. Let us find the opening by which thou enters. So that's the the end of the dream, the account of the dream. And this is also the uh uh the journey uh will the journey will continue that seem to have come to a halt uh here at night. Uh as you recall um just to give you a sense of Dante's ordered poetic mind, this is the second of three dreams. Uh you didn't we didn't really read the first one about Encanto 9. It was the dream of Gad Dante's moving from the anti-purgatory to purgatory proper and then it's that the third one will appear in canto 27. So that really Dante is scanning these three dreams with also a sense of numerical uh symbolic numerical precision 9 18 told in uh in in 19 but uh takes place during the night and and uh and and uh uh 27. So this is the it's a dream. It's a dream that um happens at dawn just some details and uh a dream uh at dawn has always the value they believed of a being a kind of prophetic dream said it's a dream that uh really has a sort of hue color of the truth. He says something about so if if you understand the dream as an allegory for say uh because it's it's with about veil it's about tearing clothes there is something hidden underneath it all uh then it may be uh this allegory has a truth value that has it's not some kind of mere fable uh or rather that's um Dantes that's evoking the planet of Saturn uh which is uh we shall see that in uh you know that Dante mentions uh planets and joins them to the various liberal arts. I probably have mentioned this before. So when when we'll be talking about say the moon that is going to discuss grammar uh he'll talk about Mars the planet of war and there he'll talk about music Jupiter and justice Saturn is astronomy uh also the the the planet of contemplation in the sense I I think that he's hinting that sloth is is uh the obverse side the parody of of contemplation a different type of self-absorption nonetheless not not a way of breaking out contemplation means breaking out of oneself and and and reach some kind of the gates outside of time uh here it's a dream that seems to be a movement an an inward movement um so it's Saturn and then he continues with this language of astronomy and divination uh no longer temper the cold of the moon when the geommancers uh see the fortuna mayor this is a processes of knowledge as divination That's a different type of rational knowledge divining science. So we this is the context in which the the the dream is set rise in the east before dawn by path which does not long say dark for it. There came to me in a dream. Now the dream starts and the first thing that I have to point out to you is that in this uh uh in the dream the dreamer is an object. The dream comes to him clearly. It is not willed. It's not something that he decides or he wants. One is the object of some some uh uh exactly dreams or apparitions or signs, images that descend into oneself without one's own self-control or uh dominion over them. Dante seems to place himself in a condition of pacivity which is the pacivity of sloth. Okay. So the idea that I am awake and therefore vigilant and therefore capable of making uh judgments about what's happening to me is here now for the time being bracketed. Um what is this dream about though? Um well it's a dream of a woman and and and the Italian text plays since this is a dream about two women two modes of being two choices. It's almost as if he were he isn't. But you know this is the mythography of Hercules at the Shida Vega as they call him at the at the at the at the crossing at the crossing road and to choose between vice and virtue. But Hercules is an easy time because he's always going to the right uh thinking that in in in mythography if you go to the right then you really have are going toward virtue. You know left and right be dextrous rather than sinister. you know the idea of the left being uh being bad the but here we don't have that here's two women but the language of the poem distinguishes very carefully between them one is a feminina there's in the materiality and even a kind of animal sense of the word and when the other woman appears she's called a dona uh the dona is the Italian word from doina uh the lady uh he called here is called a a a holy uh holy holy lady I guess a lady holy and alert etc. Uh and and she is uh this is this woman uh she crystallizes what we could call the aesthetics of the ugly. We always talking about the beauty and the idea that beauty brings about a kind of um revelation of love and the pleasure that goes with beauty. Uh and in fact uh one can say that love no this is a a platonic way of understanding love is always a hunger for beauty. Uh so we the conventional way of thinking about aesthetics is to imagine beautiful proportionate forms. Here Dante is giving exactly the opposite an aesthetic of the ugly but an ugly which is not static and somehow is uh experiences metamorphosis. In fact look what happens. She is stammering crosseyed crooked on her feet. She is the anti Beatatrice by obviously uh with maimed hands and salow hue. And now it changes from the dreamer as an object. The dreamer becomes a subject. I do you see that from to came to me and then I gazed at her and as the sun revives cold limbs be numbed by the night. So my look, my his desires transform this image and from the ugly image that it was, it becomes now instead uh invested with uh attributes of attractiveness and colored when features as love desires as love uh prompts. And then this is what we still don't understand who she is. when she had a speech that set free, she began to sing so that it would have been hard for me to turn my mind from her. So the first temptation that we know that the and and and the vehicle of the temptation is the song. This is also and primarily a poetic temptation, a certain way of understanding poetry, a kind of even meatricious form of poetry. And what does she say? She brings up she brings to center stage the myth of Ulyses which as by now you all you know uh is the this the steady temptation for Dante it's the point of reference to what extent is is on my own journey that I believe is taking place under the ages of divine providence to what extent is it a form of transgression a way of going beyond boundaries of breaking down no limits because after all that's what Ulysis did in K2 26 and Dante knows where he has placed him but he cannot get him out of his mind because Ulysus stands for something powerful and what he stands for is the idea that there is no knowledge worth having which is not connected with transgressions which is not connected with with breaking down all barriers and limitations in a way because Dantes doesn't do these things in um accidentally when he comes to Kento 26 of paradise he will see Adam and there is another who is for him without a doubt a poet because he's the name giver he's the name giver of the world he is the one who brings the world into being through language and when Dante meets Adam there'll be some interesting details that we can talk about there but I can anticipate this for you Adam is the one who had understood transgression And that transgression law for Adam appears as a sort of growth. It's not a fall for that. It's a growth. It's a growth in understanding other types of limitations. We cannot just say that we we we tear down all limits. We tear down some limits in our experience. Adam tears down and the the uh eats of the the the fruit of the tree that had been forbidden for him like a good son. Uh the father says don't eat it. And he goes and eats it. And as he eats it, he grows into a human being. He discovers that the world is not for him to be as a child that he has to have other experiences of death, of maturity, of work, etc. So there are ways in which we have to understand this idea of breaking limits in a different way from maybe the way I may have conveyed it to you. Nonetheless, Dante here is thinking of Ulyses and anticipates the story of Adam. Uh this the great temptation for Dante is to believe that he too his journey is a journey that reenacts Ulys's journey. The siren that's what she's telling him and what she's telling him is I made Ulys's happy. It's a it's a lie because we do know that Ulysus never really stopped off the island of Capri in whose grotto the siren is mythologically said to reside. We do know that she he did listen to the song of the sirene. uh he made sure that his companions would not and he had himself bound here again bound to the mast of the ship. Okay. So there is there is a transgression and a binding going on at the same time. At the same at any rate uh she lies about I I turn Ulyses eager on his way to my song and he who dwells with me. So the first the other lie or the extension of the lie is that the siren is making false promises of happiness to the dreamer. What she's saying is you stay here with me and I am the end of all that you desire. I am going to give you all the pleasures that you want and therefore your journey may very well be over. If you are weary of the road, this is the place where you should stop. We have another figure that emerges. clearly the antagonist of the sirene. We don't know who she is. We'll find out very quickly in Kanto 30 and31 because the same scene will be reenacted with the arrival of Beatatrice. We imagine that here too, we have forced to imagine that here too she is uh uh she is Beatatric. Her lips were not yet closed again when a lady holy and alert, a woman in the sense of uh not um dominina uh appeared beside me to put her to confusion. Virgil, Virgil, who is this? She said with anger and he came with what is the difference between them between these two women. There are two different forms of poetry. So now we understand why Dante had to been talking about the imagination all along because this is really what will introduce him to the stakes in claiming to be a poet. This is what he's been talking about the actual faculty of himself as a poet and the cantos that will come 21 22 to 276 and 27 constitute the most important segment about ways of understanding literary history literary tradition uh or the place of originality within uh that particular history and so on. We are going to enter the world of poetry more directly. So there are two different women. They speak two different voices. One sweet, meritricious and false but sweet song. The other one very harsh who says the journey is not over. One forecloses the journey of and the quest of Dante. Uh be like Ulysus. I know that you want to be like Ulysus. You can stay here with me and I am the end of all your journeys and your quest. The other one is claiming exactly the opposite. The journey has to continue. These two types of songs, the song of the sirene sweet which has also the stench of death attached to it. The stench of the decomposition of her body. And on the other hand, a journey by this austere voice, the voice of maybe the voice of love, the voice of harshness. No, that then just the the language of uh of sweetness uh is is uh that of uh uh uh love as an ongoing quest. That's what she's saying. So two forms of love, two forms of poetry, two types of women. The scene, in case you're interested in this, many of you I'm sure have thought about it literally uh stages this the the the scene at the beginning of the consolation of philosophy. uh of Botheus which in turn is thinking about who in turn is thinking about the book 10 of the republic by Plato uh the idea of the place the place of love and the place of of poetry and and philosophy Dante changes that tradition this is not just poetry versus philosophy it's two different types of poetry poetry can be also a philosophical poetry poetry can be metatricious and poetry can be also the the sort of rigorous severe form of investigation of oneself in the world. Two different types of poetry, two different types of loves, two different types of women. Which of the two is better? How can we go on deciding that one is better than the other? Is there an objective pattern, an objective criterion by which we can say Beatatrice is actually better than this hiring? Does Dante is Dante aware of this idea of yes and the reason is going to be the following? Very simple. The avoidance of death. The siren is the figure that stands for death. Underneath the pleasures of her language, there is a stench that emanates from. Under underneath that allegory, he Dante sees the danger of closing and the danger of making the here and now and the limitations of the here and now and the limitations of that song the end of his journey. It's really a choice between an open-ended quest and the foreclosure of the siren. This is the only way in which you can objectively believe that there is a hierarchy between these two loves and between these two women. Um we we move to Kanto uh 21 and 22. Um, but I'm wonder if I shouldn't take a few questions here about this scandal. Um, uh, and the other problems before we move on to something a little bit more, uh, uh, a little bit different, um, more classical, the encounter between Stasious and Virgil. So, let me see if there are some questions now about this this phase, this kantos. uh or would you like to me to go on and then then maybe we can come back to them? Very good. You say that the question is excellent. Are we supposed to draw some connection between this scene and and and the and the scene of Cazella in Kento too above all of purgatory I call it excellent because I agree you're supposed to and and it's the reappearance under different guises of the same temptation how the aesthetic can become uh both a way of gathering people around itself that that's the famous story of Gazela the power of the song just collects, gathers, but at the same time it induces a sort of to forgetfulness of uh uh whatever purposes those souls are supposed to entertain and carry out. The difference of course is that it's the same story here. Now the difference is is not between let's say uh Cassela uh and and others with with the language of of Kate or the language of here it's more an an autobio directly we are moved into the consciousness of the pilgrim we have entered as as deep as we can into his unconscious mind this is the moment of his he comes to an an amazing self-revelation that had the story of Cazella had the ring of a public discourse. Poetry as a public act um gathering a number of people around it. So this is uh uh very good. That's uh thank you for mentioning that. And by the way u I don't know that I we never probably read it but if you read the beginning I think I read it in Italian for professor Brooks. I know she likes the province song, but the beginning of KTO8 uh also that moment of the nostalgia for the the the safety of home uh the weariness of the even the evening song uh etc. that that represents another version of the same kind of uh dilemma with which the pilgrim is uh confronted. Okay, maybe we come back come back to some of this. We move into this literary this segment of the poem. I said 21 uh uh 22 uh going through 20 23 24 uh which is really has poetry now as uh it's uh the subject matter uh and Dante begins with um um let's say the classical tradition the relationship between an encounter that takes place where in the in the world of avarice and prodigality the encounter between Stasius and Virgil as you know Stasius views himself as a disciple of Virgil and in many ways he challenges Virgil's ideology Virgil's thought Virgil can go on writing a poem the Anid and elogs which are about the the the pastoral world or the georgics you know this world about the cultivation of the Earth where Virgil appears at his most antiorphic. You know, he distinguishes and distances himself from the tradition of Orpheus, the poet of mad love who descends into the the depths of Hades. Uh and of course is way by by the mad love for Uritis and is the way of conquering death through the song. He believes that through by singing he can bend uh the laws of of death and and therefore gain immortality. Uh Virgil opposes the world of uh of of work, the world of uh of of mature, the responsible world of of uh uh the the the hero who is so divided against himself and yet manages to always find his way around, you know, in the in this kind of wriggly erratic path of uh of his epic. Uh, Stasius uh, counters Virgil. Stasius writes the the Tabide. He writes another which he never finished another little epic called the the the Achilia the story about Achilles but he it's only a fragment. He writes the theide which really goes against those claims of virtue. uh he retrieves and makes a conjunction between tragedy and the epic uh the world of uh the world of uh Jocasta and Edypus, the monstrosity of that world, the world of uh Polynesh and the Teocles, the world of Antiggony cast in as a kind of nightmarish world. It's it's literally the most psychological of these epics, the wars that happen in the mind and and and this idea of uh monstrosity of human fate and human desires. Uh and and so that these are the two worlds that Dant wants to bring together in this little epilion. I would call it epilion is a Greek word meaning a little epic. That's to say transcription of two epic texts gathered into one into a lyrical form. and and he has a tough tough task because what he wants to show is the possibility of harmonizing the two of them and he shows how the two of them really go talk as friends across time. Of course, uh Stasius lives around the year 70 AD. Virgil dies in the year 19. Um um and now they are friends because poetry has managed their poetry has made made them the poetry of Virgil has made them friends and and and Stacius is is is a sort of uh classical version of Dante himself. Dant is the disciple of Virgil and so was Stasius. So he has to bring them together but it's not a question of making them agree only as because they're two different visions that in and of itself may not be all that difficult. Stasius is very skeptical about uh uh the empire. Virgil is not all that skeptical. It's possible to read the anid and see that there's a lot of ambiguity in the way which he he talks about about uh Augustus and the empire but he's basically writing the epic that justifies the ideology of the empire. The real difficulty between them is that Dante has a the real difficulty and challenge for Dante is that he has to try to understand how Stasius has tried to adjust Stacious vision of monstrosity to some idea of the sacred. This is the real challenge. U this is the difference that Dante has from the classical world. How do we understand the sacred and in what way is is it possible to use Stasius Virgil as he already did with Kato who is by the way the the hero of Lucan the third poet of this epic tradition Virgil Lucan Stasius. How is it possible to see in these texts of of Stasius the seeds of something good? How can we build anything good out of this um vision of heroes? uh and characters um who just fornicate with uh with their own fantasies who cannot really get out of their uh of their minds who who just uh discover their own um unchanging submission to a force that transcends them to fate. It's really absolutely a different worldview from the world of Virgil. So let me just go on a little bit with 21. Uh just uh um talking first of all with Dante begins um with uh um an illusion to um this natural thirst natural thirst which is uh this world of uh of the natural thirst for for knowledge. It's it's very much the world of the banquet the world of Aristotle. we have this incredible thirst for knowledge and then uh uh uh this figure called stasis appears uh um we also being told here that nature uh the natural world uh is uh mysteriously shaking there's an earthquake because every time that a soul gets liberated from the purgatorial uh experience or experation uh the this purification and experation. Then the the the mountain uh trembles and they and and and Stasius can go on with them up to the the Garden of Eden and uh and then um uh Stasius uh reveals himself and he will say on line 60 um uh and I who have lain in the this pain 500 years and more stage speaking felt but now my will free for a better threshold Therefore, thou did feel the earthquake and hear the devout spirits through the mountain render praises to the Lord. Soon the resurrection has taken place and this is going to be the resurrection of Stasius and Virgil. Uh it's Stasius but also Virgil and their own their own vision. Uh so he goes on uh describing himself and the time when the good Titus the emperor the time he's evoking the time of the uh he's recalling the time of the destruction of the temple in Jerusalem at a time when the good Titus by help of the king most high avenged u means it's a justice divine mysteries of justice the wounds from which poured the blood sold by Judas replied the spirit I bore yonder the name that most endures and honors most famous indeed but still without faith stious a a pagan uh uh really born again. This is uh the born again pagan uh that uh appears in this uh uh in in this can so sweet was my spirit of song that Rome drew me. Rome drew me. It's it's an an interesting uh images. is really speaking of uh uh Rome having a kind of power that usually we link with love with with desire the pool of desire. Rome brought him to it to uh to herself a tulusen without going into that to itself and then I was worthy to have my brown and my brows adorned with myrtle. Men yonder still speak my name which is stasious and I sang of thieves and then of a great Achilles but fell by the way with the second burden. uh he he could never complete the second text. And now look at the way he speaks about poetry spoke speaks through sparks as a kind of fire sparks that kindles the fire in me where from the divine uh flame the divine flame from which more than a thousand have been lit. I mean the an so that's that's already poetry now is invested with power the power to um light uh the fire in the readers and in its followers which was in poetry my mother and my nurse uh without it I have not I had not weighed a drram and to have lived yonder when Virgil lived I would have consented to a son from then more than I was due before coming forth from banishment. So there are two metaphors to speak of poetry. One is that of the sparks of fire and the second one is that of nourishing the inner hunger mother and nurse. It's it's it's uh nursing the nursing of uh of its readers. So uh a great acknowledgement of a master without his knowledge that that uh it is Virgil to whom he's speaking. And then Kento 21 which is another image that may remind you of the story of Gazela. Um, Stacius reveals Dant reveals Stacius's identity uh, Virgu's identity to Stacius and they try to uh, the two of them try to embrace already he was bending to embrace lines 130 and following my teacher's feet but he said to me brother do not so for thou art a shade and the shade thou seized and he rising now thou canst understand the measure of the love that burns in me for thee when I forget her emptiness and treat shades as solid things. a mistake that has been um made before and the mistake that I think uh is uh is meant to um to convey the the claims of or the illusions of poets to believe that there is some kind of solidity to them and not just to their poetry to their works but a solidity to them that then this embrace uh belies. There's no solidity to them. there is a kind of emptiness. It's a sort of distance between the poets and their works. This is not going to I think interfere very much because uh it's the works the works of art that we are going to be talking about and and we in in Kanton 22. Uh so the uh the two poets now are um self uh in in acknowledgement of the other and they go on talking about line uh 10 and following. Um uh Virgil um asks Stacious to uh explain to him why this moral blight existed in him, why the sin of avarice um why the sin of avarice and he says this is the passage love Kento 22 lines 12 and following love kindled by virtue always kindles another that's the sort of vitality and power of love. It's not self-encclosed. It's one that goes on uh creating and propagating itself. Has a generosity of its own. Okay? Has a kind of charitableness of its own. If only it flame appear without. So fire and love seem to be conjoined by this common uh element, the common uh element of the power of propagation or selfperpetuation. Um uh from the hour therefore when juvenile descended among us in the limbo of hell and made the affection known to me. My goodwill towards thee was as great as ever held anyone for a person not seen so that now these stairs will seem short to me. But tell me and as a friend forgive me if with too much assurance I slacken the rain. And as a friend, speak with me now. How could avarice find a place in thy breast along with so much wisdom as by thy zeal thou was filled with? Um this is a a passage of some uh some importance the because first of all the claim of friendship between from Virgil he's moved by the show friendship on the part of Stacius. Let's talk now as as friends. Um friendship is an ethical virtue as you know in uh Aristotle's ethics and for Cicero who writes a treatise called on friendship which Dante mentions at the beginning of his uh philosophical text in the belief that friendship is really the other language the other term for philosophy. uh it's the friend and the philosopher are interchangeable because there's a there is there is a love of in friendship there is a love of truth that that is the that is the idea um there is some exaggeration on the part of Virgil because there is really a friendship implies some kind some degree of equality right you must have in order to be friends you must have some idea of equality in fact it's usually said that tyrants and slaves are not capable of love or friendship because both since one is the version of the other both really have a kind of uh uh uh inequality visa v the other the slave is by definition inferior the tyrant thinks that he's superior so friendship demands a kind of equality and this is a little bit of an exaggeration because there is no equality between Stasius it's a rhetorical exaggeration stasis and Virgil Virgil is um acknowledged as being superior to Stasius Stacius sees himself as a disciple and therefore views Virgil as superior from a poetic point of view. From a theological point of view, Stacius is superior to Virgil because Stacius is going on to paradise and Virgil is going to go back to limbo. So there is a kind of uh uh the the uh a push in the in the in the direction of uh wishful thinking maybe on the on the part of uh on the part of Virgil. I must also add that Dant has a a kind of some work also to do about he he may be aware that friendship was never really thought of as a Christian virtue. It's a classical and pagan virtue and because it really confuses you know it's the idea is a friend is always part of one's soul uh it's really earthbound it's a it's it's an earthbound uh uh experience so it it was always the thought not Augustine Augustine who has a friend Alipius and feels responsible for Alipius but by and large there was this idea that the that friendship could distract the mind from uh from an ascent to uh higher and superior ends parades ecstasis uh and pleasures. So but they must be aware that there were efforts to Christianize this uh this idea. Nonetheless, it brings the conversation between them back to the earth. uh uh and they talk as if they were two friends really meeting in the forum uh in the agora and chatting about uh their moral failings or their own uh poetic crafts and visions. How could you find uh how could you be so aaricious when you are so enlightened in so many other ways? That's the question. stacious response that is not a varicious and I think that that adds a great deal about their understandings the misunderstandings of each other but also their understandings of poetry. He goes on talking about the fact that he is prodigal all the time. So that is to say uh that he uh you may remember from Kento of Infernlu the difference between the aaricious and and the sins of prodigality that prodigality was a a violation of the economy of goods by devaluing by getting rid devaluing uh them not holding on to them. The avaricious overvalues the goods and tries to to heap amass uh larger quantities of goods. So but he goes on uh really thinking stious wants to make it clear for at least 40 lines about the fact that he's uh he was prodigal and we have to understand what why he would say that and then in fact he goes on acknowledging once again stasious for his moral conversion so that's the first thing about what poetry can do says know then that was too far removed from me and this excess thousands moon have punish have punished and had I Had it not been that I corrected my ways when I understood the lines where as if enraged human nature that they describe to what occurs hunger for gold dust thou not drive the appetite of mortals I should be rolling the weights and know the dismal jousts what he's saying is that he read a passage in book three of the aliad the story that we already saw of poridorus uh who had been killed because of they want to rob him of his gold and uh uh stasis reached the moral conversion. Um I like there's a lot we can say about these lines. First of all, first of all, I think this exemplifies how we actually read. We read and we dismember the integrity of a text. We take out of a book, out of a passage that which we we find um relevant to us. Um and he takes some lines uh in and and not only takes some lines from the book three of the anided, he also alters their meaning. The the original text of virtues is exactly the opposite uh to what? Why do you not contain uh the the uh why do you not contain the hung the appetite of mortals or sacred sacred uh hunger for gold which the text translates curse because the word sacred which Dant is using here why do you not uh contain oh sacred fame of gold or sacrif the word sacred as you probably know some of you may know means It's two things. It's the most ambiguous term that you semantically speaking because you can describe both that which we call the holy and that which we call the profane. It joins them together. There's no clear-cut distinction between the profanation or blasphemy on the other hand or the sense of holiness. So I can understand why my translation St. cla translator decides to choose the cursed instead of uh call it sacred for instance the cursed is is dismembering he's taking one one side of what is a much more complicated version of the meaning of the word so that's one thing but the poetic text of Virgil has a moral power over and against viru's own intentions we can understand now retrospectively why Dant has to distinguish between poets and the works that you know we can read the works regardless of the intentions of the authors and we can we can select or take out uh of those textes whatever we think that we however we think that they speak uh to us and then he goes on uh uh describing his poetic growth now this is lines uh uh 55 now when they sing the cruel arms of the double double wasta the double wo is the two children a theoclus and polynies in the the tragic and epic text called the theide said the singer of the bucolics so see that's already the opposition vir now appears as the author of a pastoral poem the bucolics where rivalries are always going to be placated that of the bucolics of uh the pastoral poems of virtues are always about rivalry rivalry between uh two shepherds which of which of us they ask is the better singer which of us is the better poet and that is always uh there's never any tragic outcome there's some some some uneasiness some anxiety between in uh running through that kind of debate between the poets but it's not the rivalry of jo of of polynise and theocrit that's that's really the difference that Dante is highlighting between them and then it continues. It does not appear by the nodes which Cleo touches with the so the bucolics and on the other hand Cleo is the muse of history. So Cleo is the muse for history is the world of stious that the faith yet made the faithful without which world doing is not enough. If that is so, what son or what candles dispel thy darkness so that thereafter that it's lift the sails behind be behind the fisherman. Now we know that what he's really asking in a general way is the relationship between poetry and faith. How could Stacious We know how he reached this moral conversion. Now we have to be told somehow how did he go on finding uh faith? What is the relationship between the two of them? Can poetry reveal and lead us onto the world of faith or not? Uh and Stacius says already that's really the answer that he will provide and the other answered him thou first directed me to Parnasus the mountain of poetry. So the poetic experience, the poetic apprenticeship is the the preamble to the experience of faith to drink in its caves. uh a metaphor that picks up the natural thirst of the previous kanto to drink in its caves and first after God enlightens me that is like him that goes by night and carries the light behind him and does not help himself but makes wise those who follow when thou say in a moment we'll see what he said but the metaphor is that of really uh Virgil is a prophetic voice who speaks but that language he uses like the lamp the the uh a lamp that he carries on his back for the benefit of those who follow and himself clearly remains in the dark. That's what he said. The age turns new again. Justice comes back and the primal years of man and the new race descends from heaven. This is the famous fourth eprogue of Virgil uh where Virgil is uh celebrating the birth of a child polio and around this birth of a child he's also talking about the rejuvenation of the world. uh is an emblem. Polio's birth is an emblem for this Pythagorean vision that he has. A vision whereby the world goes through uh 360,000 years of uh the golden age, the the silver age and so on and then degrades itself and goes right back to where it started. A pythagoran vision of uh metamorphosis and circulation of the universe. It's the fourth egg log. Um um and interestingly this also crystallizes that which is the fundamental issue of Virgil's vision. The concern with birth, the concern with uh the fact of being born that the fact of being born has within itself the potential to renew uh the world to affect the world and change the direction of the world. And then he we know that he will say and I will stop here u because we're coming to the end of the period through thee I was a poet through thee Christian but thou that thou may see better where I outline I shall set my hand to color it already the world was uh everywhere big pregnant the Italian says with the true faith sewn by the messengers and so on he's going to talk how the world outside only butress reinforced the message of faith that he had found in the fourth echelog. Okay, the fourth echelog is seen as a messianic echalogue. Uh but that line that makes the transition from poetry to faith. I was a poet through the I was a poet through the Christian. I think it really makes it necessary for us to linger on it for a little bit. First of all, the line has what we call an anafa. Through thee, through thee. I was a poet. I was poet through the Christian. This is the same line uh that says the Italian word line 74 uh sorry 73 poet Christian the anafa gives continuity to the movement of the line from poetry to faith. Nonetheless, if you read this line carefully in Italian, you see that there is also a sajura falling. You know what I mean by sajura falling in the middle. A break poy break. The line gives as a mobility that seems to uh promise the transition from poetry to faith. But at the same time, technically it forces you to stop as if they were two discontinuous experiences. You cannot quite go from one world of poetry to the one world of faith. You can go from one world of poetry to one world of faith. This ambiguity of poetry is exactly what they are trying to retrieve. So what did I say here today about this this issue of Stasius and Virgue? Uh Stasus is dealing with the tragedy of birth. Virgil deals with with optimistically about the history making uh quality of the event of birth. There is at the same time a desire to establish a sense of what is the sacred. I will try to discuss with you um a little later how poetry is now invested with a the a kind of sacredness the ambiguous sense of the word has both the profane and and and the holy within it. uh it's an it's it's it's a hybrid and this this is hybrid that will allow Dante to assimilate uh Stacious vision to his own understanding of history and the sacred. So let me stop here and see if there are questions um please. stories. Well, the the verger is the the question is uh it seems that usually it's Dante who interviews the people he meets and but here in KTO 21 and 22 it's Virgil and is that the case and if it's true why would that be the case the answer is that that's not really true because in the K of Ulyses it is He who it is Virgil who speaks you remember to to Ulysus Virgil. So it's Virgil and Ulyses. It has really more to do with the the figures of the classical world that seem to be in this case Virgil seems to be best indicated for uh Stacius as he as he was for Virgil. Since you're interested in this kind of uh of uh aspect of the dramatization of the poem, I could mention to you for instance the Aantos in Inferno. didn't had the chance to talk about them where the Virgil would completely abandon Dantis said well you go here I don't want to be with you uh you you go and and and on your own carry out this introduction without I wait for you here and that happens for instance in the Kanto of fraud the the the and usury um it is as if Dante had something to better understand on his own uh without virtuous presence But usually that is the way in which uh the style of of the representation takes place. Who who is most apt uh in the case of the classical figures, the classical poet speaking to a classical character. what looks like a kind of reenactment of the fall this woman even in the dream the siren yes in the dream when she she brings forth the this promise of happiness and it's really echoing the promise of Lucifer of this you know I will like why is this sort of why is this theme of sort of the Adam theme coming up here 19 is there some sort of strand that I'm missing the well the you the question is that um uh since in Kento 19 in the dream of the sirene there is uh uh an echo of uh the fall of Adam more than Lucifer, I would say, the fall of Adam. And and why would there be uh that uh if that's true, why would there be that echo? And my answer is I I hadn't I I didn't catch it. I didn't I never caught this uh echo of Adam there. Um it's an it's actually the story of uh uh the temptation of this woman fish. That's what she is, right? the the sirene uh who wants to induce forgetfulness in the pilgrim. It's really a classical figure. Um I would say that I I I sort of resist the hearing here the figure of uh in the figure of Adam because Adam doesn't really talk about falling. See this is a danger for the pilgrim who he's he's a he's a he's he's uh dramatizing his sense of uh of yielding surrendering his will to the seduction the seductive song of the siren Adam um with and this is a story of love with Adam the story becomes one of knowledge uh it's a little bit different uh there may be echoes I'm not I'm not going to be so um so firm and saying no there's no ech of that but I didn't I didn't I didn't catch it I didn't feel a necessity for that actually for my um okay argument well maybe I'm answering my own question here but wouldn't you say that the theme of knowledge and transgression runs through both the dream sequence that Dante has and the story of Adam's fall I mean is is um that theme where Ulysus, you know, wanted to sort of gain this knowledge, this experience of right of hearing the siren song, right? And um and to gain that knowledge, he had to sort of transgress. Isn't that what the siren represents? You say you said he keeps coming back to this theme of he does. He mentions the story of Ulysis. He does mention the story of Ulysis. connection really comes in because Adams ultimately ate the fruit for knowledge. Yeah. Well, I I I indicated that the the story of Adam in Kento26 uh retrospectively illuminates what's happening in Kento 26 of Inferno and that he too uh experience understands knowledge and and and and transgression that they that they go hand in hand and that it's difficult and impossible to separate them. And that's the story of Ulysus. Dante does feel that he's and it's a dangerous uh temptation for him to believe that he's he's a he's like Ulyses. Whereas he has no problem later in when he understands what the story of Adam is in thinking in acknowledging that Adam is the arch poet you know we are all reinventing the world etc. Uh so uh there are I would say that there are three figures here. Ulysus, Adam and Dante and but the relation between them is never what what one of full of identification on the part of Dante with either uh you know he comes he approximates them uh and somehow also pulls away from from both he's not really Adam he's not the arch poet who names the world and is not really Ulysus that fear that he may be like Ulysus which is a more dangerous uh uhh s sense that he has that will continue more openly uh as he goes on. The story of Adam uh you know is going to be picked up in the garden of Eden. Uh the garden of Eden of course there is the idea that we lost the garden. Uh but Dant does not want to be in that garden anyway. Uh when he comes to the garden of Eden he identifies it uh with a lot of things uh the with a really nostalgia for the mother. Um and and he doesn't he understands that he has to grow up. He has to get out of that fantasy. I don't know if uh uh you know this is uh Yeah. Um what confuses me I guess is that um you know the siren here in the dream sequence seems to be wanting to halt Dante's quest, his journey forward. Yes, absolutely. And yet with respect to Ulisses, the siren seemed to represent the opposite in the sense that his interaction with her was something where he was trying to go past the balance to gain knowledge or gain experience of hearing her. U so I'm trying to draw the connections in my mind for what what is really Dante trying to tell us with this sequence why does he go back to this um this reference of the siren this reference to the siren maybe you could just summarize I guess maybe it would help clear it up what she represents to Dante here in counter 19 versus what she represents to yeah uh Good. So, what does the sirene represent very briefly? Uh, what does the sirene represent to Dante and to Ulyses? Where is the difference to Dante? The siren represents the the lure of death. He understands that beneath that that promises of yield to the here and now and to my voice. There is really uh a there's a nothingness and he's attracted to that nothingness. That's really what it is. For Ulyses, she also represents the extraordinary uh enchantment of the song that would lead him to death because that's that's that's what happens to all those who listen to the Sirene. Ulysus wants to hear it and bind himself so that it does not yield alto together to her call. That's that's how I can put it. Thank you. who see you.