Well, I'm excited to be joined uh on this journey of job searching and career building with purpose by Claudia Router. Um she's executive director engineering innovation and director of the Roberts Innovation Fund here at Yale. >> Thanks for joining us. >> Yeah, pleasure to be here. Thanks for having me. >> Let's help these let's help job hunters and career builders. And and what we talk about in the on the on the course is developing almost like your two triangles like being super inently clear and hopefully infectious on I really want these things in a job and I've matched them to hopefully your role and I'm really excited to bring these things >> and hopefully they're useful to you. Um, what are some of the maybe those softer behavioral pieces that you sort of get excited by if somebody proactively offers this is what I'm kind of looking for and this is what I can bring. >> Yeah. Well, I mean, I think start going back to sort of the basics certainly someone who's excited for the new opportunity for the opportunity to >> build with us, create with us, join our team, and help us accomplish a goal. someone who's not just looking for a paycheck but is really looking to contribute is always exciting. It's it makes all everyone show up for work excited um in terms of what they're bringing with you know certainly as we talk about those goals we want to achieve or we talk about the way in which we want to achieve them when they're able to share like real examples of things they've done in the past um that demonstrate that they will be able to do that with us that gets us very excited. So, you know, say we're building a new software platform and um someone said, "I'm so excited to be able to come to your team because I believe in what you're building and I'm going to build it with you." And um I learned this the hard way at my last job where we set out to do something similar. And then they go on to tell you that story. It it becomes kind of a no-brainer, right? >> Yeah. Yeah. >> Yeah. That's great. And I love the idea of like the the energy is is infectious, but also the examples like matched. >> Yeah. >> What how what advice would you give uh a job searcher who's networking or maybe doing the interview and they've got some great stories, but that like how deep do they go first? Um how how how do they sort almost like give you the the highlights and then dive deep according to your interest? >> How would I steer that? I do always look and this is prehiring and post- hiring. I do always look for folks who are just curious and are willing to ask questions and not assume some people come in assuming you know that you've done A or B already and likely that's not the case. And so someone who's coming in with a curiosity and starts with almost consultatively, well, could you tell me a little bit more about how far along you are in this process or what's um what led you to believe that you needed to hire this role? You know, like just how showing a curiosity about why we're doing what we're doing. Um you'll see it'll automatically help people line up their answers and and help us, you know, figure out if we we can all work together. And can do you think you we like we can teach curiosity or or do you think that comes >> um that's a good question. I I think it's a value I think you can tell people it's a value to be curious to be >> um I'm always surprised I think when people are not curious because I'm very curious and so I um you know I I appreciate people who are curious and willing to learn. Um, I also think one of the other ones I often question is it a is it a skill to be learned or something that's just a character trait is judgment? Because that's another another character uh trait that >> I have found, you know, when you're in a tough situation at work, sometimes it's not about what you know or don't know, it's about your judgment in that moment. And so having people who have good judgment is >> is probably more important than deep skill in some cases. So >> and and have you got questions that you've asked that test either curiosity, judgment or both? >> Um the curiosity I would say quite honestly that that comes more from feel yeah you know assessing like what questions am I getting? Um, for judgment, you know, I'm I don't I can't think of one off the top of my head that I've asked, but I usually try to find a situational um example where I'll say, you know, say the following happened, like a customer >> complained. Let's say you made a mistake and you were responding to a customer need. >> How would you handle that situation? Right? And obviously someone who first takes accountability, apologizes to the customer if that's appropriate, escalates it to the appropriate manager, um, would be demonstrating good judgment. Someone who says I would disagree with the customer or argue would be someone that I might say, "Well, they may not have the best judgement." So, >> yeah.