So I'll I'll tell you a little bit about I'll tell you a little bit about Harold Bloom's career uh later in the lecture. Uh those of you who know how to read a poem, the books on religion, Shakespeare and the invention of the human um may and perhaps only know those books may feel a little surprised at finding him on a literary theory syllabus. uh but the great outpouring of work beginning with the anxiety of influence the mapus reading poetry and repression great many other books in the 70s uh put bloom in the very midst of the theoretical controversies then swirling he was associated with the so-called Yale school in fact he was willing to put his name as editor and also contributor on a volume that was called deconstruction and criticism uh I I think though that even in reading what you have before you, you can see how relatively little Bloom has to do with deconstruction, uh, and certainly in his more recent career, he's distanced himself from, uh, well, from theory. I mean, he he's, uh, he hasn't really changed his views of anything, although he doesn't any longer read poems through the machinery of the six revisionary ratios. Perhaps I should stop there and say the six revisionary ratios won't be on the test. uh now you know I mean I think that nothing could be more exciting than to understand Kleenan tessa you know sort of kinosis eskeis demonization ape of freades whoa you know to wander in the realms of these of these ideas and actually to use them as a machinery for practical criticism to take a poem and to see what you can actually do with these ideas really is and I'm serious uh an exciting process and You may say you may very much resent not having these six ratios on the exam. Uh and you may wish to hear more about them and uh you'll hear something about a few of them in passing today. But uh uh if you do wish to hear more about them perhaps perhaps your sections will provide pro provide some guidance. Um, in any case, in any case, uh, the the contributions of Bloom, uh, to theory, in my opinion, and and I hope to bring this out in the long run, have primarily to do with the fact that I think he can legitimately and authentically be called an important literary historioggrapher. That is to say together with uh people like Denanov and Jakobson uh in earlier in the course hunt Robert Yaos later in the course Bloom does seriously deserve to be considered a literary historian. That is to say a person with a theory about literary history on a par with those with those other figures. Uh it's this hasn't always often been remarked. As a matter of fact, the general uh the general critical attitude toward Bloom is that he's hopelessly ah historicist, cares nothing about history, cares nothing about the way in which the real world impinges on literature. Um and in a certain measure, as as we'll also see, there's some truth in this. But he has a powerful argument about the relationship among texts as they succeed each other in history. Uh it's an argument which I think which I think really we ignore at our peril. It's an important one. Uh and it is a psychoanalytic one which is which is one of the things that places him at this point in the course. You'll notice that as we turn you know that you remember the sort of tripartition of the subject matter of our course which you know it's it's all headed up in the syllabus and all clearly to be understood. You know, first we have logenesis, the production of literature by language. Then we have psychoenesis, the production of literature by the human psyche. Then we have sociogenesis, the production of literature by social, economic, and political and historical factors. Okay, fine. Well and good. But you may have noticed how much trouble we've had getting into psychoggenesis. We keep saying we've arrived at psychoggenesis, but we actually continue to be working obviously with linguistic models. Here's Lcom telling us, you know, the uh the unconscious is uh resembles a language. It's structured like a language. Brooks telling us that it's the verbal uh structure uh arising out of the relationship between metaphor and matonomy that constitutes the narrative text. And we keep sitting around twiddling our thumbs waiting for somebody to say something about the psycho genenesis of the text. Well, Bloom brings us closer uh uh be and and he himself, you know, when he speaks of the poet and the poet uh is uh is is is concerned to describe what he calls an agon psychological agon or struggle between the belated poet and the precursor uh taking place uh at that level in the psyche. But even Bloom of course is talking about the relation of text to text. He is talking about relations which are arguably verbal uh verbal influence by the way uh he always professes contempt for he calls it moldy fig philology uh but I think that as you study the examples of literary influence in Bloom's text anxiety of influence map of misreading and so on uh you will see that there is a kind of dependence on verbal uh echo verbal continuity that his theory, the strong version of of his theory struggles against, but I think nevertheless does does link itself to. And um and I want to move into uh a general exploration of the topic of influence by talking in fact about how unstable the relationship between an idea of influence which is let's say psychological or uh worldbased and an idea of influence uh which is word-based um can be it's not as simple and straightforward a distinction as one might imagine. Um so we're we we linger in these linguistic models and there's a long tradition in which the uh confusion between the psychic and the linguistic uh is manifest and it has to do with the traditional subject the very traditional subject of imitation. Plato and Aristotle agree that art poetry is an imitation. It's it it is both of them say an imitation of nature. Plato thinks it's done badly. Aristotle thinks it's done well. But they but both agree that poetry is an imitation of nature. Uh and then uh as time passes this idea of mimisis uh imitation the imitation of nature gradually becomes transformed so that by the time you get to the silver age of uh Roman literature uh a high water mark of elegance in the Latin language by the time you get there you have rhetorical theorists like Quintilian and Cicero and others talking not about mimisis but What about in Latin of course imitatio? Same idea seemingly that they're still talking about imitation. But the strange thing that's happened is now they're not talking about the imitation of nature anymore. They're talking about the imitation of literary models. In other words, the imitation of language. uh the way in which we can establish cannons by thinking about the relationship of particular poets and other writers with a tradition of literary expression uh from which they emerge. So this then imitatio becomes a language-based theory of influence uh arising seemingly spontaneously out of a naturebased theory of influence. Now take a look at the first passage on your sheet uh from Alexander Pope's essay on criticism. He's talking about Virgil here. Homer, the argument is has to have imitated nature. After all, there were no literary models to imitate. So if Homer imitated anything, it must have been nature. Well, fine. Homer imitated nature. But then along comes Virgil. In this same period, by the way, when uh rhetorical theories were redefining imitation as the imitation of verbal models, along comes verb Virgil and he says, I'm going to write my own national epic. Uh, and you know what? I'll just sit down and write it. But then he starts looking at Homer. This is all what Pope is thinking as he prepares to write the couplet that's on your sheet. uh he then he then you know he's he he starts to write but then he rereads Homer and and at first he feels terrible because he realized that Homer has said it all you know there's two poems the Iliad and the Odyssey there's nothing left to say Homer has covered the entire Homer has covered the entire waterfront and you know so so what Verbal is Virgil is sort of stuck what is he going to do well what he can do if he can't imitate a nature anymore because Homer has done that is he can imitate Homer and the result is he comes to a sort of realization that Pope epitomizes in this couplet but when to examine every part he came that is to say every part of Homer's compositions every part of his own composition as he undertook to write his own epic when to examine every part he came nature and Homer were he found the same. And so here you have emerging the idea that to imitate nature and to imitate art, to imitate the things of the world, people of the world, and to imitate language is part and parcel of the same process. To do one, you necessarily and perforce do the other. And that's what I mean by saying that we still we're still struggling to get away from the log genetic model to the psychoggenetic model. We are still even in the most traditional expressions of how influence works like popes, we are still concerned uh to uh to distinguish and find it very difficult to distinguish between nature and art. uh when Samuel Johnson uh 50 years after Pope is still saying nothing can please many or please long but just representations of general nature. He is in this idea of representations and in the idea of general nature teetering between a sense that it's things in the world that art imitates and it is existing literary models that art imitates and from which art takes its cue. All right. So this the there's a kind of collapse then of in in the in the idea of imitation there's a kind of a collapse a surprising collapse perhaps when you think about it between uh the notion of the imitation of nature and the notion of the imitation of art. Now when we if we turn then to the two texts that you've read for today both of which are theories of influence uh you can see that TS Elliott too uh is a little bit unclear as to the relationship uh of these two sorts of imitation. For Elliot, the individual talent that inserts itself into that engages with tradition has to cope with what Elliott calls the mind of Europe. Page 539, left hand column. I'll read a fairly extensive passage because this is one of the one of the most accessible summaries of what Elliott has to say. The poet must be quite aware of the obvious fact that art never improves, but that but that the material of art am I in the place I want to be in? Yes. But that the material of art is never quite the same. He must be aware that the mind of Europe, the mind of his own country, a mind which he learns in time to be much more important than his own private mind. And let me just stop there and say this seems as much unlike Bloom as it can possibly be because Bloom the Romantic, you know, is all about one's own private mind. the struggle of the individual mind to define itself over against uh all of those minds jostling for attention that precede it to overcome them to the point where they are in effect efaced and the belated uh ego uh can finally establish itself as prior to all preceding egos. I mean, this sort of struggle seems, and I say seems because I'm going to be lingering over this for a while, seems to be absent from Elliot. Elliot seems to be all about selfiement, about the recognition that the mind of Europe is more important than one's own mind. that if one is to contribute anything as an individual talent to tradition that contribution has to be a matter of the most uh acutely sensitive uh awareness of everything not that one is struggling to be but that one is not. uh it seems in other words like a very different perspective. To continue the passage uh is a mind the mind of Europe is a mind which changes and that this change is a development which abandons nothing on route which does not superanuate either Shakespeare or Homer or the rock drawing of the Magdalenian draftsman. This is a development refine that this development refinement perhaps complication certainly is not from the point of view of the artist any improvement. In other words, the relationship between tradition and the individual talent is a relationship of entering into a vast matrix of literary, philosophical, uh, and other sorts of expression that changes and yet never really transforms itself and certainly can't be understood as a grand march or progress toward toward some great goal because nothing is ever lost and nothing radically innovative can ever really be introduced. I hope you're thinking in and in in in reflecting on a passage of this kind about a good deal that we've passed through already. Godrimer's sense of tradition uh as something which depends absolutely on the awareness of continuity on the willingness to meet the past halfway uh to enter into a merger of horizons uh in which the past and the present can speak in an authentic way to each other u and that um in other ways this uh this this idea or possibly also the Russian formalist idea uh in its Darwinian sense that the dominant and the recessive elements of any literary text are always present at any time. It's just that uh they tend perpetually in a kind of oscillation to be changing places with each other. So the whole gamut of literary possibility of expressive possibility is according to theories of of history of this kind is always already there and one's own entry into this vast sea of expressive possibility is always a subtle thing that certainly can't in any way be seen to showcase or to manifest any sort sort of original genius uh as the romantic tradition might want to insist on it. All right. So this I this this is basically the perspective of Elliot uh and one um and and and one from which uh certainly you know uh Bloom would obviously seem to be diverging. Now I want to say I want to argue that actually uh there's a tremendous amount of continuity between Elliot and Bloom and that Bloom's uh tradition in the indiv at Bloom sorry anxiety of influence I've never discussed this with Harold by the way I those of you who may be taking his seminars you know I leave it up to you whether you want to take this up with him you know I you know as I say I leave that up to you um but I think Um I think a strong argument can be made and I have made it in print. So Harold has seen it uh that uh that uh Bloom misreads is a strong misreader of TS Elliott which is to say such is the logic of strong misreading that TS Elliott said everything Bloom has to say already and I do despite this extraordinary appearance of total difference in perspective the traditional versus the romantic uh and so on. Um, and I I don't want to go into detail in this argument for fear of being considered obsessive, but I I I' I'd like to I' I'd like to make a few points about it in passing because I think it's such a perfect exemplification of how the anxiety of influence works. Bloom has always denied the influence of traditional tradition and the individual talent. He I mean he he acknowledges influences but they're Emerson Nietze the great romantic poets and so on. uh but and and he's as I say vehemently denied the the influence of Elliot. And yet as one reads Elliott, I'm going to spend some time with Elliot now. It seems to me that at least in skeletal form, in suggestion, Bloom is all there already, which is after all Bloom ever says about the relationship between a precursor and a belated writer. So it can't be surprising, can it? All right. Now um now first of all uh Bloom of course uh it's very important to Bloom uh to show the way in which the new reconstitutes the old that is to say the uh appropriation of the precursor text which is not a notional text although it and and that's one of the things that's sort of counterintuitive about about Bloom's uh writing in this period. He insists that there is a particular precursor text. I mean, you know, the precursor text for Tinturn Abbey is Lucidus. Don't tell me about other precursor texts. It's Lucidus. And he shows he shows how this is the case. So the but the relationship between the belated text and the precursor text is such that we can never read the precursor text the same way again. the the the strong misreading of the precursor text is so powerful in other words that it becomes our strong misreading we just can't think about listenus in the same way on this view after we've read tiny and I mean if and if this seems counterintuitive um just I mean just think think about certain examples that might come to mind um the most obvious example is the famous is is is the famous text by Bourhees called Pierre Menar, author of Doniote. I imagine a number of you know that text, but uh what it consists in basically is uh a it's a kind of an anecdote about a Frenchman writing as I recall in the end of the 19th century uh in Spanish uh a text and this text is as it turns out verbatim word for word cervantes donote only it's not cervantes doniote Pier Manaron Doniote and think how different it is. This is a Frenchman the end of the 19th century a Frenchman writing in Spanish. Whoa, that's pretty impressive. Much more impressive than Cervantes merely writing in his own language, you know, and it and and it's a completely different historical perspective. Whereas Cervantes thinks he's being a little bit ironic about his own historical moment, you know, the death of chivalry and all that. Think about how ironic you can be about that historical moment writing several centuries later with everything that you know now. I mean it's I mean what a tour of force to be able to write Doniote at the end of the 19th century in another language a to a whole new ball game. How can you read ever how can you ever read Cervantes Doniote in the same way? It seems naive right you know now that's now now that's not the point of the story. The point of the story is actually to belittle Pierre Menar. But this is but but but you can see this as a as a theory of strong misreading. Pierre Pierre Manar thinks he's doing something new. Right? Fact is he's not doing anything new at all. His belief that he's doing something new is precisely his misreading of the precursor text. And yet because and by the way, you don't have to have read the precursor text. You don't have to have read the precursor text. It's precise. It's precisely his misreading of the precursor text. But that misreading after all is something in its very power which uh as it were infiltrates our own understanding of the precursor text making it impossible for us to read it the same way again. Think of Joyce's Ulyses. We all know that Ulyses like Virgilian is based on the Odyssey that it as it were recycles the Odyssey but it seems to be looking at the Odyssey through the wrong end of a telescope. I mean it's just I mean it's dragging all the all the sort of heroic dimension of the poem down into a kind of nittygritty account of everyday life in recent society. and and and in other words it's it it it implicitly precisely in following the Odyssey debunks the heroic myth of the Odyssey how can we read in other words the Odyssey in the same way again after we've read Ulyses now it has to be said and Bloom would say this Ulyses is not a strong misreading of the Odyssey because it's perfectly conscious of what it's doing it knows exactly what it's doing with respect to the text of the Odyssey so it's a so it's a it's it's a deliberate misreading uh which has other virtues is not quite the same thing. But what it does have in common with Bloom's theory and what it has in common also with Elliot's idea about the relationship between the individual talent and tradition is that it reconstitutes tradition. It makes us see it doesn't just provide something novel. It makes us see tradition itself uh in a different way. Page 538, the right hand column about halfway down. The existing monuments says Elliott form an ideal order among themselves which is modified by the introduction of the new the really new work of art among them. The existing order is complete before the new new work arrives. For order to persist after the supervention of novelty, the whole existing order must be if ever so slightly altered. We can't quite see it the same way again. So it's a it's a dynamic mutual relationship between tradition and the individual talent, the strong precursor and the belated poet in each case which is mutually transforming and the and and and the basis the principle of transformation is the belated poet's strong misreading of the precursor which simultaneously asserts the egotistic the egoist uistic priority of the belated poet. I'm doing something new. I'm going where no one has ever gone before and I'm doing so so powerfully that it's a question whether there actually was anybody before uh on the one hand and the strong precursor who turns out as one reflects more and more and more about the relationship to have said everything the belated poet says already. Right? So simultaneously a that what Bloom's theory of literary history literary historioggraphy places a premium on innovation and on conservatism or tradition simultaneously unlike God leaning toward the conservative or traditional easer lean or the Russian formalists leaning toward the innovative. The Blumian idea simultaneously countenances the idea of tradition as something absolutely continuous and also of tradition as something which is constantly being remade or at least rethought and that I have to tell you is very similar to TS Elliott's position. So now again you know the famous apherism of Elliott on page 539 uh the left hand column at the bottom someone said the dead writers are remote from us because we know so much than they did precisely and they are that which we know rather good I think. Uh the famous a apherism of TS Elliott can also be understood as something that Bloom in his own way might very well say. The past is what we know but we're not aware of knowing it. In other words, I write the past when I write my belated poem, but I don't think I'm doing it. I think instead that I'm doing something new. I am in the first revisionary ratio clean amen. I am swerving from the past. I swerve out and down. I find my own space like a Lucrician atom. I mean, if it weren't for swerving and lucricious, as you know, all the atoms would fall in the same place. That wouldn't be good. So, so they all swerve so they can all fall in their own place. Well, that's the that that is the belated poet sense of what he's doing in relation to the precursor. He's swerving out and down from the precursor poet uh from from the precursor poet. Uh but of course he's not and we'll come back to this. He's not he's actually falling in the same place. But the strength of that swerve, the rhetorical gesture of the swerve is so powerful that we do feel transported once again. We feel both at once the innovation and the necessary conservatative conservatism or preservational aspect of the new poet's composition. All right. So um I think as I say that this too is very much that that that Elliot's apherism too very much anticipates Bloom's view uh of the agonistic struggle among poets. And then finally, you know, Elliot's famous emphasis, and this, of course, nothing could seem to be less blooming than this, uh, Elliot's famous emphasis on the poet's impersonality, on the wish to escape personality. But of course, he says, right hand column, page 541, end of section two, but of course, only those who have personality and emotions know what it means to want to escape from these things. uh you know in other words to enter a world of art in effect to abandon uh the sense that what's important is uh my personal uh psychological agony to uh to to enter uh by contrast uh the mind of Europe to recognize the complete insignificance of any individual mind certainly my own uh and to immerse oneself as a poet as an artist as the creator if one can still retain this term uh in that which is uh infinitely more vast than one is oneself. Well, that doesn't sound very Bloomian. But look on page 1160, the right hand column and Bloom's uh third revisionary ratio akeesis or maybe it's kinosis. We'll see in a minute soon as I can find the page. 1160 excuses and it's the fifth revisionary ratio. Uh he's talking about he's talking about what the later poet the belated poet does uh in order to find to find space for himself. What what can I do in order to make myself different from other people? Well, you'd think the answer would be make yourself bigger than anybody. I mean, Wallace Stevens has a wonderful poem called Rabbit as king of the ghosts and the rabbit swells up uh so that to become so big that it just kind of overwhelms everything. And I always think of this as Bloom's belated poet. But if you have but but but if you have um a skeus as one of the authentic revisionary ratios, something very different is happening to this same end. uh about halfway through the definition, definition five, um he and by the way, the uh the masculine pronoun is something that Harold has never apologized for. Uh what he means is that a poet um is gendered masculine, but that of course any woman can be a poet. Uh we'll come back to distinctions of that sort later. He does think of Emily Dickinson, for example, as a strong poet. Uh but it's obviously that's a controversial aspect of Bloom's work. But he but he uses the he uses the masculine prologue unapologetically. And of course his theory is very much caught up in the idea of edible conflict which as Freud is always being criticized for um is unless you uh unless you project it into the realm of the symbolic as Lon and feminist Lanians do is undoubtedly a mascul idea. you know the if the essential generational conflict of human beings is between father and son well you know obviously problems can be seen to arise from that um and uh in Bloom's rhetoric in his vocabulary this this the the mascul uh ediple conflict uh is still central in any case uh returning to this point about the easement of the self in the very act of trying to find a place for for oneself as an innovator, an easement which however once again seems to me to catapult Bloom back into the position of Elliot that he is trying to misread strongly. He says he yields the poet yields up part of his own human and imaginative endowment. In other words, he cretails himself. He shrinks himself. He makes himself less than he might have been. Of course, in order to be more than he has been, he yields up part of his own human and imaginative endowment so as to separate himself from others, including the precursor. So in inkeis and also in kinosis, by the way, there is a selfshrinking or selfacement on the part of these particular moves of strong misreading with respect to the precursor. It's not, in other words, just a question of the rabbit is king or the ghost. It's not a question of a massive ego uh swelling to the point where it fills all space. It is more complicated than that. And in being more complicated, it is frankly more Elliot. All right. So turning then more directly to uh Bloom his career begins his it has always involved a sense of struggle in the relationship among poets. In his earliest work uh uh Shelley's mythmaking Blake's apocalypse the visionary company in his earliest work uh the idea of struggle was embodied plainly as what he called Protestantism. In other words, he saw the tradition he was talking about arising in relation to the reformation. Uh that time when as I said in my thumbnail history of hermeneutics, uh everybody h everybody suddenly realized he had his own Bible, his own relationship with God. In other words, that time when human uh individuality uh emerges, also of course called by many others the the emergence of the bourgeoisi. In that moment, the idea of Protestantism purely in the sense as a character in Derell says that I protest uh emerges so that each poet uh takes in some sense an adversary stance toward previous literary models. This is present in Bloom's work from the beginning of his career. the uh the the word Protestant gradually gives way to the word revisionary and then uh that's the word that he uses primarily in the visionary company for example uh and then finally becomes the notion of misreading the protest of the belated figure is the protest which takes the form of transfiguring the precursor text uh in such a way that one can find oneself self to be original. It is an edible struggle. Now, the the this idea of edipal struggle, which is largely unconscious, is not new to Bloom. Just quickly to review the next three passages on your sheet. Lgininus, the uh the author whose actual identity we cannot quite determine uh but who's on the sublime, uh an extraordinarily interesting text is available to us to read. Um, I've got two passages from him. The first is, "As if instinctively," this is in the moment of the sublime. As if instinctively our soul is uplifted by the true sublime. Fine, that's what you would expect anybody to say. It takes a proud flight and is filled with joy and vaunting. And this is where the surprise comes as though it had itself produced what it has heard. In other words, there is a kind of there there there's a kind of possession by the other that takes place which is simultaneously experienced psychologically as possession of the other. Right? You know, it is speaking through me. It's making me very excited like a little kid, you know, so watching TV and somebody hits a home run and the little kid goes like this and thinks he thought he hit the home run. I mean he's he's he's completely into the fantasy of being that hero. It's the same thing with the uh with the response uh to something that we haven't said. So such that in a certain moment we think we have said it. It's a it's it's a mutual possession. It possesses us causing the psychological reaction that we think of ourselves as possessing it. And that uh it seems to me that there's real insight in what Linus is saying and that it has and that it has an important influence on Bloom's position. Another passage from LGinus and and by the way I think what LG says here is absolutely true. Plato is constantly abusing Homer and yet nothing can be easier than to show the ways in which the great homeriic actions uh and even tropes uh uh uh help shape Platonic thought. Uh it's it's it's a fascinating topic and LGinus um it seems to me again uh is exactly right about it. There would not have been so fine a bloom sorry so fine a bloom of perfection on Plato's philosophical doctrines unless he had with all his heart and mind struggled with Homer for primacy. He even thinks in bloom in terms of that of of wanting to be first even though in some part of your mind you know you're second. He even struggles for primacy, showing perhaps too much love of contention and breaking a lance with him as it were, but deriving some profit from the contest nonetheless. For as he says, this strife is good for mortal mortals. Quickly, a more commonplace example taking from uh uh St. Berv uh a famous essay of his called what is a classic which is all about influence. uh there's you know the the the tradition of essays uh called what is a classic Elliot wrote a great one in 1944 uh is very much a contribution to the history of the theory of influence. Uh so Sadber writes uh Gerta spoke the truth when he remarked that Byron great by the flow and source of poetry feared that Shakespeare was more powerful than himself. It's true. Byron was always abusing Shakespeare. feared that himself in the creation and realization of his characters. He would have liked to deny it. The elevation so free from this is Ger of talking. The elevation so free from egoism irritated him. He felt when near it that he could never display himself at ease. He never denied Pope because he did not fear him. He knew that Pope was and you know how short Pope was. He knew that Pope was only a low wall by his side. So in other words, he chose as his literary model somebody he knew he was better than, not true by the way, but he thought he was better than, Alexander Pope. Uh, and he perpetually denied a very very powerful influence on his writing, quarreling constantly with Shakespeare and Shakespeare and Bardatry and and uh excessive love of Hamlet and all the rest of it. um he's constantly sort of denying the any influence or power over himself on the part of Shakespeare. He chooses in other words for his precursor a weak precursor instead of a strong precursor. And all of this uh is a continuous theme uh in the psychonamic of uh of of Bloom's theory as as he elaborates it. So what complicates Bloom's argument apart apart from the vocabulary and the and the philosophical range of the thought is what I began with this the traditional idea of uh influence as as an art nature problem trying to figure out in fact whether uh the uh whether the crisis of influence is the sense of one's orientation to nature one's ability to imitate nature have nature available to one or whether It's word oriented. The sense of one's which it seems to be uh more in Bloom the sense of one's relationship uh with text. But notice on page 1157 that Bloom really doesn't want to say it's just about text. He doesn't really want to say that it that it has exclusively to do with the strong precursor understood as it were as an author. there is in some sense a text of nature as well. So that Bloom says uh bottom of 1157 right hand column u uh Freud's disciple Otto rank shows a greater awareness of the artist's fight against art and of the relation of the struggle to the artist's antithetical battle against nature. In other words, nature is death. Nature is that into which should he not sustain himself in the triumph of his assertion of priority. Nature is that into which the author will fall back into into the form of death. Wait till they try to transcribe that sentence. Okay. Well, you but but but you you got you got what I mean. Um so uh and and and this is an interesting problem and Bloom and and Bloom wants to insist that part of the struggle of the belated poet is a struggle for immortality. Part of what it means to come first and to know nothing ever having been there before you is also to suppose that you're going to be last, that you're going to be immortal, that you really do not belong in an unfolding, inexurable sequence of the sort that we call history, but that you are rather something, a force, a genius, a power that transcends history. And this entails as much the lie against time as Bloom calls it, holding off death as it does insisting uh on there having been no beginning, no priority, no genesis in what you do. You were there first. All right. To illustrate this very quickly, let's look at passages five and six on your sheet. Werdsworth uh the strong misreader uh and belated poet with respect to Milton uh the particularly important strong misreader uh and belated poet with respect to Milton in Bloom's view. Wilton writersworth writes in a kind of uh programmatic or promisory poem uh written actually in 1800 not not published uh until 1814 as part of his as part of the preface to a poem of his called the excursion u he wrote a prospectus uh to the recluse that's what at one time the incur the excursion was supposed to be part of and he says I'm not interested in writing paradise lost. Paradise Lost for me is a thing of the past. It's just it's just archaic. Who would care about the things Milton cares about? All strength, all terror, single or in bands that ever was put forth in personal form. Jehovah with his thunder and the choir of shouting angels and the imperial thrones I pass them on alarm. Paradise lost, you know. So that's just playing with toy soldiers, you know. I mean that's That that that that's nothing compared with what I myself am going to do. Not chaos, not the darkest pit of lowest arriv of blinder vacancy scooped out by help of dreams can breed such fear and awe as fall upon us often when we look into our minds into the mind of man. My haunt and the main region of my song. I'm not talking about God. I'm not talking about heaven. I'm not talking about hell. I'm not talking about war in heaven. I'm not talking about anything mythological or archaically heroic. I'm talking about this. I'm talking about the mind of man. I'm talking primarily about my mind. But my mind is your mind. Mind is universal. And in talking about mind, I'm not falling back into the pit of nature. I'm I'm I'm keeping my focus not on the sky gods, not on the transcendent, you know, so starry junk as Wallace Steven called it of my precursors, all those people with their outworn superstitions. I'm not interested in any of that. But I'm not interested in any of this either. I'm not interested in nature. I'm not interested in that in which I would be buried if I reduced myself to that. I'm interested in consciousness, the psyche. In other words, uh my focus is Wsworth says altogether psychological. All right, no interest in paradise loss. You know that's just archaic. Well, look at passage five. Three statements by Satan which Bloom insists are say it's not so much Milton because Bloom follows Blake and Shell in this. It's not so much Milton who's the strong precursor of Wdsworth. It's actually Satan. It's Milton's Satan who says the mind is its own place and in itself can make a heaven of hell a hell of heaven. Okay. Gee whiz. I guess I guess Satan is writing the perspectus to the recluse, isn't he? Because that's what Werdsworth is saying in the perspectus of the recluse. I know no time says Satan when I was not as now. That's what the belated poet always says. I came first. Elsewhere in the poem, Satan tells his troops, "You know what? You God keeps saying he created you. Do you remember being created? I don't remember being created. I've always been there." Right? You know, and that's and and and that is in effect what he says again, what he repeats in this passage. Finally, myself am hell. Well, that's of course rather an uncomfortable thing to say, but at the same time, it's the rabbit is king of the ghosts, isn't it? It is you know whatever you can throw at me I'm it already right that is uh and because the soul region my the main haunt and soul region of my song is the mind is my own mind. All right. So Satan has already said in Paradise Lost everything Wsworth can possibly say in the perspectives to the reclutes. He has strongly misread Paradise Lost such that he thinks he's doing something completely new while revealing precisely that the strong precursor poet has always already written what the successor poet can write. The tension, the dynamic in other words between cons conservation and innovation is intact in all such moments in all the moments that invol that involve the anxiety of influence. I'm sorry I have so little time for this. Give me a minute or two because we have to we have to honor Tony. Uh and it's rather obvious that for Lon Tony the tow truck is a text in which Tony settles for the obje right little bumpy the car an imperfect being but a helpful one and a friend that's what I call a friend whereas the objects of desire neato speedy who oh you know uh those are cars the objects of the objects of desire are improper object choices on the face of it that's what an American an ego psychologist would said, but they are in a more boonwellesque way of putting it obscure objects of desire as they motor on down the road which are simply unavailable to Tony uh as object relations at all. And so the neato and speedy are the big other, right? And bumpy is the object. Ah, all right. Now, uh, it's just perfectly obvious that for Harold Bloom, Tony the tow truck is a strong misreading of the little engine that could. It's it's it's perfectly clear because, you know, Bumpy after is Bumpy is the hero of the little engine that could. The misreading involves making Tony the hero. uh uh who who needs the help of Bumpy. In other words, Bumpy in the folkloruric sense of the story becomes the helper and not the hero. Uh but in but but but we can see after all that the essential narrative model, the model of of the small uh turning out through perseverance uh and energy uh to uh necessarily reinforce the strength of the strong. And it is about the strong and the weak. Both little engine that Could and Tony the Tro Truck are about the strong and the weak. Uh that the strong uh must in some sense or another be supplemented or supplanted by the weak if the strong is fully to self-realize. We can't ever read Tony the tow truck, the character Tony quite the same way again after the appearance of Bumpy. And yet Bumpy is nothing other than the hero of the little engine that could uh who who a a a subject position that has been appropriated by Tony in this text. And so the relationship is again an agonistic one uh involving the transposition of heroism from one character focus to another while at the same time as anybody can recognize who's read both stories to their kids uh while at the same time simply rewriting the story uh in a way that the little engine that could completely anticipates. All right. Uh so much then for that. We'll be returning to more Lanian pastures on Tuesday uh when we uh when we study D and Gatari and