The situation with Paul's church in Corenth is very different from the situation we saw in First Thessalonians. In First Thessalonians shows us a church that is new in its infancy, has just been founded. First Corinthians shows us a church of in its sort of adolescent period. They've had some growing pains and they've got some problems, but you can tell that they're not all brand new Christians. Look at First Corinthians 15. Take your Bibles out. Remember, you have to follow along. 1 Corinthians 15. This is when Paul is addressing the issue of the resurrection of the body. Uh so early Christian groups wrestled with the kind of question uh that people sometimes still do, which is what happens to you when you're dead? Are you dead like Rover and dead all over? Or does your soul go off to some other place? Or does some part of you get reincarnated into somebody else's body? Or in the Orthodox Christian uh confessions, you confess the resurrection of the body at the end of time, at the end of this worldly time. So Christians were dealing with this stuff. Paul has to address this question in 1 Corinthians 15 because there's some confusion or some debate in the church there. So read along with me. 1 Corinthians 15 verse 20. We're going to skip around a bit, but I'm going to cover a lot of uh cover a lot of uh ground in this lecture. So we'll you need to really follow along in the text as best you can so you don't get confused with where I am. 1 Corinthians 15:20. In fact, but in fact, Christ has been raised from the dead, the first fruits of those who have died. For since death came through a human being, the resurrection of the dead has also come through a human being. For all for as all die in Adam, so all will be made alive in Christ, but each in his own order. Christ the first fruits, then at his coming those who belong to Christ. Then comes the end when he hands over the kingdom to God the father after he has destroyed every ruler and every authority and every power. So notice the resurrection of Jesus for Paul, this is going to be very important. The resurrection of Jesus for Paul is not different in kind from the resurrection that Christians can expect. So the resurrection of Christians bodies will be just like the resurrection of Jesus's body in kind. That's important because a whole lot of people think that what Jesus experienced in some kind of what they what the early Christians believe about Jesus was something very different from what uh they confess about Christians. But for Paul, they're the same kind of resurrection. That's why he just calls Christ's resurrection the first fruits. It's just the first apple on the tree. It just lets you know that harvest time is now here. But it's just the first apple. You'll have lots of other apples. So that's the first Christ resurrection is the first fruits. And then he'll uh they have the end time. He there's a big war type thing and then Christ defeats all the rulers and the authorities and powers on the earth and hands over the kingdom. Verse 25, for he must reign until he has put all his enemies under his feet. For the last en enemy to be destroyed is death. Okay, that's good enough for that point. But now skip down to verse 35. See, what happens is that some people in in Corenth are are questioning this. Now, what are they questioning? Are they saying that people don't live forever at all or that there's no afterlife experience? It looks like not. It looks like what they're really questioning is simply the resurrection of the body idea because of course they're saying they might be thinking like a lot of people in the ancient world, there were other lots of Jews believed in the resurrection of the body and so it was an idea that was not unknown to people. But think of they the people in the ancient world also objected by saying yeah but how is that possible? I mean the body we all know the body rots when you put it in the ground. It just decomposes and it just comes all little molecules of other things and how and then that is you know is grows into trees and other grass. The molecules from a dead body become recycled in the universe. The ancient people knew this. They would even say, "What about sailors who are lost at sea and fish eat their bodies and then other fish eat those bodies of those fish and then other fish eat those bodies of those fish and then maybe one of those fish gets caught and you eat that body?" You you have sort of little pieces of Fred the sailor, you know, in your body. How how is God going to pull all that stuff together and resurrect that body? So, this was a debate that people in the ancient world had too. Apparently, some of the people in Corinth are having the same kind of idea. How is this possible? So Paul addresses that someone will ask how are the dead raised with what kind of body do they come fool says what it says. So you follow along fool what you sow does not come to life unless it dies. And as for what you sow you do not sow the body that is to be but a bare seed perhaps of wheat or of some other grain. But God gives it a body as he has chosen. And to each kind of seed its own body. Just like a seed goes into the ground, what comes up as a flower or a plant doesn't look like the seed. It's not even necessarily all the same complete stuff as new stuff, but it's still continuous with it. Not all flesh is alike. There is one flesh for human beings, another for animals, another for birds, and another for fish. And notice that's in kind of a hierarchy there of beings. Animals are humans are are higher than animals. Animals are higher than birds. Birds are higher than fish. On this kind of ontological scale of different kinds of bodies that Paul is working with here, this is a common assumption in the ancient world. Also, there are heavenly bodies and earthly bodies. What are earthly bodies? Ours, this dogs, cats, everything that everything's a body that's that's physical for for these people. What are the earth? What are the heavenly bodies? The sun, the moon, and the stars. They all these things are themselves in ancient ideas bodies that simply actually are fixed into kind of a dome that's the sky and they travel around on that dome. So the earth the the all these things in the in the sky are also bodies. The glory of the heavenly is one thing that of the earthly is another. There is one glory for the sun, another glory for the moon, another glory for the stars. Indeed star differs from star in glory. Again a hierarchy of different kinds of bodies. So it is with the resurrection of the dead. What is sown is perishable. What is raised is imperishable. It is sown in dishonor. It is raised in glory. It is sown in weakness. It is raised in power. It is sown. Now here you get into a translation problem. My translations here says in verse 44, it is sown a physical body. It is raised a spiritual body. Does anybody's translation have something different at that verse? It is sown a natural body and it is raised in a spiritual body. Is that what it says? Anybody else have a different translation for those? The problem is the word translated physical here is not really the Greek word physical. There is a Greek word physical. What's transl what they're talking about here is what is sown is a psychic a body made of sucos. The Greek word for soul. What's sown is a soulish body is what he's talking about. about it's a it's a it's a heavier it's a denser kind of body and what is raised is a spiritual body but whereas in the modern world we tend to think spiritual is something that's immaterial spiritual means not matter it's invisible it's something that doesn't exist as matter that's not what puma means in the ancient world in the ancient world panuma is like is a stuff it's like what air is made out of when the wind blows around that's punuma going around when you take in breath you're taking in a form of panuma that Greek word punuma does refer in the ancient world to some kind of stuff. It doesn't refer to immaterial substance as it does later in Christian theology or in some philosophies. So what Paul the translation here is misleading because what Paul says is when your body is put into the ground when you're dead. What's put in there is sort of a psychic body. It's a body that carries life. Sure, because that's what psychic means for in the ancient Greek word is it's a li it's a living body, but it is more like something where some it's a natural body. It's kind of the body that you're just given with naturally, but what it's raised is going to be raised a a pneumatic body, but now a pneumatic body. So, it's not the same thing as it was put in the ground. It's raised a pneumatic body, but it's still some kind of stuff. If there is a physical body, there is also a spiritual body, a pneumatic body. Thus, it is written, the first man, Adam, became a living being. The last Adam became a lifegiving puna. But it is not the penuma that is first, but the psychic and then the punuma. The first man was from the earth, a man of dust. The second man is from heaven. Notice that he talked about heavenly bodies earlier. And he says the resurrected body is going to be a heavenly body also. This indicates that in a lot of ancient thought they thought that the sun and the moon and the stars were themselves pneumatic bodies. They were bodies made of the stuff of punuma. As was the man of dust, so are those from the dust. As of the man of heaven, so are those from heaven. Just as we have borne the image of the man of dust, we will also bear the image of the man of heaven. What I'm saying, brothers, is this. Flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God, nor does the perishable inherit the imperishable. Flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God. Notice what he's saying is that the resurrected body that he is expecting is not a flesh and blood body. So when Paul's thinking about however the resurrection of of Christ happened, he doesn't imagine it as the very same flesh and blood, it's not like it is in the movies where the very same flesh and blood of the dead Jesus body somehow resuscitates and walks out of the tomb. That's how people imagine it. That must not and that's how clearly some early early Christians thought of it. You can some early Christians thought precisely that it was the the flesh and blood body of Jesus that got up and walked out of the tomb. Paul must not have thought that because he says the the body that we will as Christians as followers of Christ have when we are resurrected is a pneumatic body not a flesh and blood body. It's still a physical body in Paul's sense because he believes that penuma is matter. So what would be raised is this pneumatic body. Now the reason why what so why is Paul getting into all this? For one thing it shows like I said this is a church that's not a totally infant church but it's also an adolescent church. These are people who have some much more exposure to Paul's teaching and to the gospel and different Christian ideas than say the Thessalonian Christians did. But they're still very confused about a lot of things that Paul seems to be quite certain about. So apparently some of these people in this church, they had heard this teaching about the resurrection of the body. So apparently they've heard this already. They're not like the Thessalonians who just don't seem to know that anything's going to happen to their brothers and sisters after their death. So they're con Paul has to say, "No, no, no, no. The dead in Christ will rise. We'll go meet Jesus in the air. There'll be a big party. And if they're dead now, they won't miss out on the party." The Corinthians don't have that problem. They know that there's some kind of afterlife preaching and teaching. But some of them seem to be rejecting the most obvious crude way of understanding the resurrection of the body as if the very flesh and blood will somehow resuscitate and come back to life. And so Paul says, "No, no, that's not how it happens. It's more complicated than that. There's a spiritual body and then there's this natural body and the spiritual body is the one that's going to be raised." Now, it's perfectly natural though for people to have raised these objections precisely because if they heard Paul's preaching about the resurrection of the body, they precisely would think, "Well, now how how would that happen?" And they would be skeptical of it, especially if they had any kind of sort of more philosophical education. They would think, uh, yeah, that's superstition. The idea that bodies, you know, can, you know, zombies can kind of get up out of the grave and walk around, that's just superstition. Simple people might believe that, but we're more educated. We don't believe that kind of stuff. So, this shows that this church is in a bit different situation. There's going to be some cosmic transformation that will happen at the end of time. This is not an individual thing either. It's not like every individual person sort of uh experiences your afterlife experience and your your resurrection all at a different time. It's it's all the same time. Uh Paul seems to imagine that uh people will sleep in the ground and then at the end of time the Messiah will come back and this big resurrection of of pneumatic bodies will occur. So notice though that this is the issue he he relates in just 1 Corinthians 15. And we're going to back up then and talk about how does that issue about the resurrection of the body relate to other parts of the letter and how what does that tell us about this church. But first a little background on what this is. Corinth is a very important city in the ancient Greek world. It's right on the ismas of Corinth that little narrow strip of land that connects uh the main part of Greece where Athens is Aaya to the southern part of Greece called the Pelpineese or the Pelpinesis. uh and so it's it was an important uh throughway both by land because every all trade and travel that went from northern Greece to southern Greece or vice versa had to go right through Corinth. So it was a very important for trade. It was also though where um they didn't they have a canal there now so that you could don't have to sail around the southern part of Greece. You could just go through the canal but back then they didn't have a canal. So they had these big tracks and so ships would come up in Canca, one part on one side of the of Greece and they would unload all their stuff, put them on these big tracks and they would take it across the ismas and then load it back on other ships. So this is a hugely important uh city as far as trade went. It was also important for Rome. Rome had destroyed Corinth previously in the 140s BCE because Corinth was helping to lead rebellions against the Romans who were increasing their power in the eastern part of the Mediterranean. So Rome, the Romans destroyed Corinth and then left left it that way for about a hundred years. It had been refounded again in the 40s um and then settled with Roman veterans. So by the time that Paul writes this letter in the say the middle of the first century CE, our era uh Rome uh Corinth is still a very Romanized kind of place. So it's got a blend of Greek cultures and a blend of Roman cultures. In fact, the inscriptions in Corinth up until the years 130 or so were still predominantly in Latin in Corinth, which was very unusual in the ancient world, but it shows that uh the Romans in Latin was a very was very important. So, Corinth was a Roman colony, which made it both a Greek place and a Romanized place. F Paul founded the church there himself. Uh it talks about it in Acts 18 1-18. Uh we and in this case we don't have a whole lot of way to to dispute a lot of what Acts tells us about Corinth although uh uh we can't take it as straightforward historically either. Paul writes his letter to the Corinthians 1 Corinthians from Ephesus as he says in chapter 16. And Paul has gotten his information about what's going on at the church in Corenth from several different sources. For one thing and we're going to flip around a bit. Look at 1 Corinthians uh 111. Chapter 1 11. Uh for it has been reported to me by Khloe's people that there are quarrels among you. Some people say I belong to Paul. I belong to Apollos. I belong to Cphus or I belong to Christ. Khloe's people. What does that mean? Well, Khloe's obviously a woman's name. And when you say when you hear this in Greek, somebody's people, those the Greek those around Khloe, this refers to probably members of her own household. They could be slaves. They could be her freed persons. They could be clients. It probably refers to clients or slaves or freed men of Khloe herself. So they're members of this church. Now, it doesn't tell us that Khloe herself is a member of the church. She might be because Paul names her out by name, but we don't know that for sure. But at least some of the members of her household are, and they have gone to Paul and told him stuff that's going on. So, he gets some of his information from Khloe's people. And like I said, those may well be slaves or freed persons. Was that important? Well, at least it means they're probably not members of the, you know, upper class or or high high status members. But he also gets information from a letter. So in in chapter 7 verse one he says now concerning the things I wrote concerning the matters about which you wrote and then he says it is well for a man not to touch a woman. So then he gets into the issues of sexuality, marriage, divorce and those kinds of things. So he's also though received a letter that from at least other people in Corenth that raises different issues. Well what do we do about divorce? What do we do about marriage? What do we do about sex? And then it ra and so from chapter 7 on he raises different issues that may have been raised in their letter to him. So that's one place he gets information. He also mentions in 162 that Apollos has has come and is with him in Ephesus now and Apollos has come from Corinth. So he probably gets some information from Apollos who is not who Paul talks about Apollos as a co-orker not as his sort of servant or as assistant or anything like that. In fact, when Paul talks about Timothy, it's clear that Timothy is Paul's assistant. Because Paul says, "I sent Timothy someplace." But when he talks about Apollos, he says, "I've urged Apollos to go to come come visit you." In other words, Paul Paul doesn't say he sent Apollos anywhere. This indicates that Apollos is on something more of an equal status with Paul. Maybe Apollos is considered another apostle or a teacher or something like that in early church, but Paul may have gotten some of the information there. And then in chapter 161 17 he talks about uh I rejoice at the coming of Stephanus and Fortunatus and Aayakus because they have made up for your absence. Now there are a couple of interesting things about these names. Akayakus would mean would be sort of a name or a nickname for someone who's from Aaya the area just north of Corinth. Uh where u that means that area of Greece. Stephanus is a very Greek word meaning the a crown and fortunatus though is not a Greek word it's from the Latin right so and it fortunatus does and means fortune someone who's fortunate or lucky like having a you know a person named lucky so does this mean that this guy was uh himself Roman or maybe was a freed person of a Roman and therefore had a latinized name whatever we don't know about that but he's Paul apparently has gotten information from them also and he talks about a church in their house So there are what's going on in Corinth is there seem to be different house churches in Corinth. It's not all one group meeting all the time in one place. So we can imagine different house churches meeting in different places and maybe made up of different kind of people. And one of the ways we're going to talk about this is to see what was the social class of these people. In 1 Corinthians 1 26 we get our first major clue. Consider your own call brothers and sisters. Not many of you, and again, the Greek doesn't have sisters. They've added that to the English to make it more inclusive. Not many of you were wise by human standards. Not many were powerful. Not many were of noble birth. Now, all three of those words in the Greek are status symbol words. Wise doesn't mean just smart. It means educated. So, not many of you are well educated. Not many of you are powerful. That is, you keep people occupying government positions or anything like that. And you're not of noble birth. But God chose what is foolish in the world to shame the wise. God chose what is weak in the world to shame the strong. God chose what is low and despised in the world, things that are not to reduce to nothing things that are. Now, at one point that those verses were taken to indicate that all of the Corinthian church were very were just completely lowass. That they were all either slaves or poor freedman or lowerass manual laborers. And this kind of went along with the image that a lot of you saw a lot about Christianity in popular movies like Ben Hur or the robe or things like this which has the earliest Christians all kind of hiding away from the Romans in little dark rooms and all being very much laboring class people. More recently scholars have said yeah but that's not exactly what Paul says. He says not many of you were these things. which at least implies that some people in the Corinthian church actually were wise, maybe educated, uh, of noble birth or having some kind of access to power. So, this is one clue that's that's caused scholars in the last 30, 40 years to reread the Corinthian correspondence, both first Corinthians and 2 Corinthians, precisely by take looking at what's going on with regard to social status and social class. And now it gets really interesting because the typical way to read the Bible that most of us grew up with is you read it very piously. You read it as having something to say about theology. You read it as having something to say about God. And all those are obviously important ways to read the Bible. But it's also when you add into issues like might this text not only have something to say about theology but also about issues like social class and power. And scholars have said it's precisely in First Corinthians. It's one of the places we see in the New Testament, the best evidence we have that the early churches weren't all homogeneous when it comes to their social status level and they may have actually experienced conflicts in their groups due precisely to differences in social status and social power. So that's the way I have interpreted first Corinthians and uh it's it's debated by some people but it's much more the consensus view now among scholars that uh especially Corinthian the Corinthian correspondents does have these evidences of class levels. So let's see how is this working out. I just read the first passage where Paul seems to say some of you are claiming I'm I'm for Paul. I'm one of Paul's people. I'm one of Apollos's people. I'm one of Cphus's people. And of course, Cphus is just the Aramaic name for Peter. Exactly. Uh Peter's the Greek name. Cphus is the Aramaic name for the rock. And so and then some people in the church are saying, "I'm one of Christ's man." So these there are parties that seem to have been developed or at least there's some kind of globing on to different leaders. And some people have said these maybe represent actually four different specific delineable parties in Corinth. I tend to doubt that because I don't think you see any evidence the rest of the way in the correspondence that there are four distinct groups. I do think there are basically two groups that that are going on in opposition to one another in Corinth and that's what I build my uh reconstruction on. So people are having their favorite uh apostles. What are some of the other the resurrection of the body is one thing but there are several other issues and now that you've all read first Corinthians so carefully uh in the last several days and read it over I'm sure three or four times uh each day you yourselves can tell me what are some of the other issues that come out in first Corinthians right so first we have favorite apostles and we have differences about the resurrection of the Those are two of the issues that Paul has to address in first Corinthians. What are some of the others? Anybody? Okay. Sexual conduct and uh what kinds? Because there are actually several different issues on sexual conduct in current in Corinthians. Exactly. a man is sleeping with his stepmother. And Paul says that's a big no no even for the Greeks. He says even the Greeks don't do that kind of stuff. So anything what other sexual conduct issues are going on? How about chapter 6 in Corinthians 1 Corinthians? Some me men in the church are visiting prostitutes. So what it means in 1 Corinthians 6 when it says uh where is it do you not know that whoever is united to a prostitute becomes one body with her so some men in the church seem to think well you know what's the big deal I'm in Christ I'm a Christian but you know what you do with your body is not that important. So, you know, every guy's got needs. So, some of these Christian men are visiting prostitutes. So, Paul has to address that issue. Any other issues of sexuality that Paul has to address in 1 Corinthians? There's one more major one. Pardon? Virginity. He does bring it up, but that's not as big an issue for him as simply the idea of should you get married. Remember in 1 Corinthians 7:1 they they seem to have asked him uh may this is actually put in quotation marks in some of your Bibles. It is good for a man not to touch a woman. So now and scholars debate is that Paul's view or is that some a quotation of a slogan of theirs that he's quoting back to them. So there's a debate about that among some scholars but at least some people in Corinth have written to him asking particularly about should we have sex at all or should we be totally aesthetic that is avoid sex and be uh totally continent. So sex and aseticism which leads to um also issues of marriage and divorce. Okay. So, what other issues are going on? What about first Corinth the part part first part of 1 Corinthians uh six? When any of you has a grievance against one another, do you dare to take it to court before the unrighteous instead of taking it before the saints? So, some people now notice this is the part in the in first Corinthians that's before Paul mentions the letter. So, this seems to be part of information he's gotten maybe from Khloe's people that some people in the Corinthian church are taking other members of the church to court and suing them. So court cases is one issue. Uh right after that is the one about the prostitutes, the marriage and divorce in chapter 7. And then 8, chapters 8 through 11 are all about one big complex issue and that is food offered to idols. Now, why is that a problem? Well, in the ancient world, most of the time, I'll talk about this a little bit further. Most of the time, meat was expensive and if you were not rich, it was hard to come by. And so, the one place where most people in the ancient world actually had any chance to eat meat was in a sacrificial festival. What would happen in Greek sacrifices is that somebody rich or the city would pay for a bunch of uh cattle or different kinds of animals to all be slaughtered. the blood would be poured out and part of the the animals would be put on an altar and burned for the gods, but all the rest of the meat would then be passed out and and different people who went to the festival would do it. So you'd go with your buds and you'd get a big hunk of meat from the sacrifice and you go off and barbecue it and have, you know, your own barbecue as part of the sacrificial festival. So most most or you take it back to your family, store some of it, you know, boil some of it, that sort of thing. So the main place that most people in the ancient world ate meat was connected to some kind of sacrifice to some kind of god. Now of course this is part of the sacrificial cult. You're eating you're sharing a table with that god by eating that sacrificed material. You're you're it's like you're sitting down to dinner with Zeus when you do this. Right? So if you're a Jew in the ancient world, this is causes problems because it means you're you don't believe in these gods. You're supposed to avoid these gods. You're supposed to avoid idolatry. But if you eat that meat, you're still seen by many Jews as participating in that cult with that god. And also some people believed, some other people thought this was kind of superstitious, that if you ate that stuff, then whatever the power that lie behind that god could get into your body by means of the food. You can imagine how this happened. A lot of Jews believed that they didn't believe that their idols were just nothing but stone or rock or wood or metal. They believed there was something there that was causing that thing to have power because they looked around. They said, "This person claimed to be healed by Eskeipius." Well, I can see he's now healed. So, who healed him? I don't believe that Eskeipius is actually a god, but I believe Eskeipius is a demon. So, a lot of Jews would go around and Christians then later saying that the powers that lie behind the gods of other nations are not really gods, but they may be demons. And if you participated in eating their meat, that demon could get in your body. So food offered to idols became a big problem in the early church. Should you eat it? If so, would it hurt you? Did it mean you were participating in sacrifice? There in chapter 11, I have to change over here. Another women praying without veiling their heads. Paul has to address that. Notice he doesn't say that women can't pray in church, but he says if they are going to pray in church, they need to put a veil over their heads because of the angels, whatever that means. Then a lot of us who've written a lot on that and I have my own theories and which most of my friends don't like. In chapter 11 later, he gets into a big conver conversation about what they're supposed to do in the Lord's supper when they come together to eat the Lord's supper and it's not turning out the way it's supposed to be. So that's another issue. The Lord's supper uh in chapters 12-4, nobody raised this issue. Chapters 12- 14, what's the big issue that Paul has to address there? Speaking with tongues. So the technical term for that is often glosselia, which comes from the Greek word for tongues. So speaking in tonesues, some people in the church are speaking in tonesues. Speaking in tonesues, of course, just refers to speaking some kind of unknown esoteric language that you'd only know by mirac by miracle. It's a special gift. It's not a language you learn. There's a debate among people about when people talk about speaking in tongues, are they talking about speaking some other human language which is known but just not known but not learned by you? That's what it sounds like in Acts. In Acts, the tongues of fire come down upon the apostles, you know, and and they all start speaking these strange languages. And it says everybody who was there visiting from around the world could understand the apostles speaking in their own language. So the writer of Acts seems to think that speaking in tongues in the early church refers to this speaking other known human languages. Other scholars think that at different at other times it referred to just speaking some kind of unknown language that would sound to anybody like gibberish. And that's often how it happens nowadays. is if you go to a church where they're speaking in tongues, they're not speaking another discernable human language. They're speaking something else. And so Paul calls it at one point the language of angels. So sometime some of these early Christians seem to think that when they spoke in tongues, they were speaking the angelic language and they were learning it miraculously. So speaking in tonesues though is an issue and Paul addresses that in those chapters in 12-4. And then as we said the last major issue is the resurrection of the body. Now what holds these different issues together? What what makes all are these just a random sort of things that are causing the church? Is it just because some people like speaking in tongues and others don't? Uh some people are doing it and others don't. Is it just because um uh you know the court cases uh it's just an isolated incident here or there? Uh is the is the issue of food offered to idols and their debate about that is that at all connected to their disagreements about the resurrection of the bo body and are those connected to their disagreements about sexual conduct because obviously they're disagreeing about this is why Paul's getting different reports from people he's getting some reports from closed people and then some others write a letter and whoever wrote the letter is probably not the same people that are giving him the oral reports. So Paul's getting information from different factions in this church. So the big question is, do all of these issues just represent totally different disperate arguments or is there some bigger reason that these are a debate? And is there some sort of major divide along which people are lining up? And so you get a really wonderful, brilliant book written by a famous New Testament scholar, Mwah, called the Corinthian body. What I tried to do in that book was precisely to take all of these different issues and show how they could line up on one or two sides of what was a social status issue. I argued that not it wouldn't be totally neatly but what I try tried to say is that in a bunch of these different issues if you were if you had more money if you had more access to power if you had a better education likely you would end up on one side of these issues if you didn't have money you didn't have power and you didn't have education you were more likely to line up on the other side of these issues so I argued that the the Corinthian church which remember was in different house churches and it may have been that one house church tended to be on one side and another house church tended to be on another. We don't know that, but we know that there were different house churches being represented here in the church in Corinth. So, when we talk about the church in Corinth, we're not just talking about one house church. We're talking about the collection of them. And apparently, they may have all gotten together sometimes for a special sort of festival for the Lord's supper at times, but they apparently would have been meeting in other people's houses at other kinds of times. So, let's look at how this would work. I first the whole Lord's supper issue and here is something that I didn't write about uh on my own. This was uh by a famous scholar named Ge Tyson, a German scholar. He published a series of articles in the 70s and 80s in which he made this argument. He pointed out just like I've already have that meat, the availability of meat in the ancient world was very much linked to sacrificial cult. the argument I just gave you, even when even if you weren't going to participate in the sacrifice itself, chances are if you went to a butcher shop and wanted to buy meat and it would be expensive, if it was meat at all, if you the chances are that butcher had gotten that meat from some kind of sacrificial uh activity because the priest sometimes would own the meat. Sometimes in order to make money for themselves, they would sell uh meat to butcher shops. So, it would be almost impossible. It' be very difficult unless you yourself were wealthy and you could raise your own meat, have it slaughtered your way and consume it yourself and know that it wasn't connected to the sacrifices at all. But if you weren't wealthy and couldn't raise your own meat like that and you just depended upon festivals or the butcher shop, it would be very difficult to avoid meat that had not been sacrificed to idols. So what he argued about that he also pointed out that the Lord's supper when when we look at the Lord's supper, notice what h is happening. This is in um 1 Corinthians uh let me find exactly which part of it is. It's in chapter 11, but it's toward the end of chapter 11. Yeah. Start reading at chapter uh 11:1 17. In the following instructions, I do not commend you because when you come together, it is not for the better but for the worse. For to begin with, when you come together as a church, I hear that there are divisions among you. And to some extent, I believe it. Indeed, there have to be factions among you. For only so will it become clear who among you are genuine. I think he's being ironic there, but could be a debate. When you come together, it is not really to eat the Lord's supper. For when the time comes to each, each of you goes ahead with your own supper. One goes hungry and another goes drunk. What do you not have homes to eat and drink in? Or do you or do you show contempt for the church of God and humiliate those who have nothing? What's going on here? Apparently, remember I said the early Christian Eucharist service, the Lord's supper, wasn't simply a little bit of wafer and a little bit of wine. It's a meal of which part of it would be then the saying the the consecration thing like repeating what Paul says Jesus had said, "This is my body. Do this in remembrance of me. This is my blood. Do this in my memory." That might be part of it, but it's clearly part of a wider meal. And it looks like it was something like a potluck. Either the rich, the richer members of the church, and and I don't mean to imply that they're really really rich. We don't think any of these members of Paul's churches were actually members of the top elite of the Roman Empire. They weren't senators. They weren't even equestrians. But they they some of them clearly had their own homes. Some of them clearly had slaves. Some of them clearly had some kind of access to financial power. If they show up at the dinner first, chances are they've either paid for it themselves because in the ancient world it was typical for people who were wealthier to supply something for the community. The wealthy people provided the sacrifices for town sacrifices if the town didn't buy it themselves. But usually the town didn't buy themselves. Usually what the town did was it expected wealthy people in the in the town to pay for big uh civic festivities and sacrifices. So that's what happened. Usually the wealthier people would provide the stuff for the festival of the supper by paying for it or they might have brought it themselves. So imagine what you have as a potluck like this. If you're fairly well off, you can show up at say 5:00. I'm going to show up at five o'clock with my buds. We're going to have a little drink before dinner, brought extra bottle of wine, and then you know the other people will show up when they can when they get off work. Well, when do you get off work if you're a laboring person or a slave in the ancient world? and slaves did work at regular jobs or they would follow a workday. You got off work at sundown. So if you're a working person or especially a slave, you can't go to the church service until the sun is down. By that time, apparently some of the better off people have already been there. And Paul seems to say they're already drinking and eating and having a good time before the rest of the people even show up. So what he says is he talks about people who have nothing. He says, "Don't you have homes to eat and drink in?" Well, other a lot of people in the church would have said, "Uh, no, no, we don't have homes. We're poor. The poor lived kind of anywhere they could." So, Paul is addressing two different pe kinds of people in this very chapter. Some of them have, in fact, he calls them the halves and the have nots. That's the Greek he uses. So, that the Lord's supper is is splitting the church along this social status line. And Paul's solution, Paul even says, if you take the Lord's supper without discerning the body, and what I think he's talking about is discerning the body of Christ, that is the other people there, and dis discerning the body of your neighbor, if you don't pay attention to the needs of the other bodies that are there, and you take the Lord's supper, it will turn into poison, and it will kill you. And he says, that's why some of you are getting sick. Paul believes that some of the Corinthians because they're not taking the Lord's supper with the proper ethical concerns for their neighbors, the other church members, are actually getting sick off the Lord's supper rather than it helping them. So, what's Paul's solution? Wait. If you're that hungry, eat at home before you get there. So, you can wait on the other people to come who have to come later. So Paul's solution is to alter the behavior of the higher status members of the church to accommodate the needs of the lower status members of the church. And if you see what's going on here, you can see that Paul does this over and over again with these different activities. I can't go into much detail. Go out and buy the book, The Corinthian Body. You can get it on Amazon.com and you can read all about it. But on each of these things, I tried to argue there that what food offered to idols. What is Paul's solution? Well, he says it won't actually you don't really have to worry about it. But those of you who think it's okay to eat food offered to idols should give it up if it's going to cause people who think it's wrong to do it to do it anyway because that might hurt their conscience. In other words, and it's also clear that the people who would have thought this whole thing about worrying about demons getting to you because you eat idol meat, they if they thought that was ridiculous, chances are they had some kind of exposure to ancient education because ancient education taught people that that was ridiculous. Gods don't do that sort of thing. So, the food offered to idols again looks like it split the church along these social class lines. Um, the resurrection of the body, I said, who would have found the resurrection of the body to be a ridiculous idea? people with more education, people exposed to a little bit more education. Uh, who would have been taking people to court? If you were poor in the ancient world, you didn't take people to court because you you would lose. Roman law was even explicit telling judges, if you have a rich man in your case and a poor man in the case, well, of course, you'll decide in the favor of the rich man because he has less incentive to cheat. The poor are the ones who have incentive to cheat. So, Roman law was clearly biased toward the wealthy and the people with power. So if anybody is taking other Christians to court, it would be people of higher status, not people of lower status. And it may have been that people of higher status were taking their lower status Christian brothers to court. Paul there and tells them don't go to court. If you have a dispute, let it be handled within the church itself. Now notice again, just like you talked about Phileiman last time, who would have been the majority in the Corinthian church? Rich people or poor people? Poor people. There may have been some people who were better off, but they would have been vastly outnumbered by the poorer people. So by telling the rich people they have to handle their problems within the whole church, he's placing the rich in a situation where they're the minority and that therefore increases the power of those of lower status. In each of these cases, in other words, I've argued that the whole Corinthian church, the Corinthian church's problems was they were coming to different views about Christ, about the body, about sex, about women and covering their heads when they pray and prophesy and that sort of thing. They were coming to these different views because they had different exposures to upper class ideology or lowerass ideology, to different exposures to levels of education. Now, what happened? Well, apparently first Corinthians as a letter did some good because we we have fortunately other materials. For most of Paul's letters, we don't know whether they succeeded or not because we don't have any other writing. And we do have 2 Corinthians which is made up of at least two other letters. 2 Corinthians is actually uh the first part of it is one letter and then chapters 10 through13 of 2 Corinthians is another letter. And if you read them side by side, you can tell because Paul's tone changes radically when he gets to chapter 10 in 2 Corinthians. So in 2 Corinthians we have at least two more letters that Paul wrote. And then Paul mentions in 1 Corinthians another letter he wrote to them. So we there was another letter going back forth. We don't have that one probably. And in 2 Corinthians Paul mentions a tearful letter, a letter he sent but was very difficult for him to write. He cried over it. Now some there's that refer to another letter or does that refer to the way his uh 2 Corinthians 10 through13 which is a very angry letter? We don't know. There's a debate about that. But what we can tell is that the basic things about Paul that Paul addresses in 1 Corinthians seem to have been settled by the time we get to second Corinthians. Although he has other problems and the biggest problem is we when that section 10 through13 of 2 Corinthians because here we get Paul having to defend himself. And this is very telling because Paul says, well you're talking about these super apostles. Some other people must have come on the scene. We don't know who they were. But Paul ironically calls them super apostles. You talk about these super apostles, they're perfect willing to mistreat you. They treat they're arrogant. They treat you as if they have all the power. Pardon me that I was too weak to do that. I treated you well, but maybe that's my weakness showing itself. And somebody said, well, you know, he's very he's very strong uh in his letters, but you know, in person, he's kind of a wimp. He's very weak in person. His speaking style. Well, this was a social status thing. If you were a man in the ancient world, if he was upper class, upper status, he was supposed to be able to talk powerfully in public. And if he couldn't, he was survile. So, in in this in second Corinthians, Paul is forced to defend himself from charges that he is uneducated, weak, and powerless, and therefore not much of an apostle. Now, that goes on in second Corinthians. Eventually, what happens? We don't know what happened. Did Paul, did writing this really scathing letter to them in 2 Corinthians 10-13, did that settle the issue? Did they all just say, "Okay, we were wrong. You're our apostle. You're the big daddy. Everything's fine." We don't know. We do have a reference in Second Clement, which is a letter written in Rome around the end of the first century, beginning of the second century, in which an author talks about the Corinthians as being an ancient and great church. So at least by the next generation the church in Corinth is strong and powerful and respected. So eventually Paul's work in Corinth succeeded. But what we see by looking at first Corinthians and 2 Corinthians all together is the struggles it took for Paul to get that church from this what I call an adolescent phase where they're arguing about everything. They're really confused about what they think about basic doctrinal or life issues and then to finally settle down into some kind of coherence. That's what makes these letters really fascinating for us is that they give us little snapshots of one church that Paul founded at at least three different stages of its development. Those three stages being represented by what we can read from first Corinthians, which kind of gives us one snapshot of this problem they're having. what we can read uh from 2 Corinthians the first nine chapters which sounds like they've made up and things are okay and what we can read by 2 Corinthians 10 through13 which we don't know where that was written after the first part of 2 Corinthians or before it we can't it's difficult to place these things but it shows Paul in a very defensive posture with regard to this church so we get a very good idea of how churches struggled to actually start becoming what we are seeing will become Christianity. They've got a long way to go yet. Any questions or comments? I've covered a lot of area today. You can go back and read it. And I haven't even talked about Philippians because I wanted to make sure that you understood what was going on in scholarly opinion about the Corinthian epistles. Any questions, comments, outbursts? Okay, I will see you on Wednesday.