Okay. So now we have a number of different perspectives we can take on understanding what holds molecules together that is on bonding. We can look at the real molecule for example with X-ray or uh we can uh we can do a computer calculation and if we do a careful enough computer calculation we can get something that we believe is pretty close to reality like the total electron density I showed you right uh and the the goal of the computer is to approximate the shreddinger equation you can't do it absolutely but you can you can depending on how much computer power you want to throw at it. You can do it close enough for most purposes. Okay? But you're neither the molecule. Well, you are a molecule, but uh you're neither the kind of molecule we're studying nor are you a computer. Are you a computer? You're a chemist. And your goal is to understand things. Let the computer do the heavy lifting mathematically and you understand it. Okay. So let's see if we can understand some of the things that we didn't understand when we were looking at the molecule really with X-ray defraction right when we were looking we looked at this molecule and said that the bonding from the Lewis point of view was pathological and you remember how we saw that we looked at a cross-section through those three atoms and it looked like that in the electron difference density and you remember what's funny about it What's pathological, Dana? The bonds appear to be bent. Some of the bonds are bent. And what else? And there's another bond that's missing. And one bond is missing. So that bond isn't there in the electron density, the difference density. And those are bent. They don't lie on the line between the nuclei. Now can we understand that from the point of view of molecular orbitals of Shreddinger's equation? Why it should look like that in this particular case? Uh so would a computer's molecular orbitals provide understanding? So I was just showing you as the class assembled how you get these molecular orbitals and I was showing you some of them. And one there's the framework of the molecule superimposed on this map and those that triangle on top there on the right is what we're looking at. And so we could look at the 32nd of the 33 occupied orbitals, the next to the highest occupied orbital. And it looks like that. That's the one we were just looking at before we went on to the PowerPoint. And you see there is electron density in those uh the wave function has big value in the region where those bonds are bent. But there are 33 of these occupied orbitals and they put electron density every which way. And it's very difficult to understand why this is the way it is, why it's bent. Even if you grant which is not easy to grant that this is the proper orbital to look at and that indeed the electron density of that red and blue big red and blue loes are not on the line between between we don't know why they are right and there's so much other electron density in the molecule with all complicated nodes that it's very difficult to know where to look right so uh the answer is no it doesn't provide understanding that it it gives far too complicated an answer. It doesn't tell you why. Even if you believe that it gives you the right numbers, it doesn't tell you why. Okay? But analysis in terms of pair-wise, that is don't go over the whole molecule. Just look at two atoms adjacent to one another making a bond. So just a very local view pair-wise bonding overlap of hybrid atomic orbitals explains these two pathologies. So let's look first I will assert that the best overlap you can get between a hybrid orbitals on these carbons is if the if the nuclei are arranged in an equilateral triangle. So 60° angles, the best hybrids you can get point at the angles shown by the red arrows here. That's they do it in order to get the best overlap. Now this seems funny because the angle between the red arrows on the right carbon is greater than 90 degrees. Why do I say it's funny that it's greater than you're not going to be able to make it 60 degrees? Because two orbitals that made a 60° angle would not be independent orbitals. They would be very obviously if they were right on top of one another, they'd be the same orbital. But you can't say they're not the same orbital if they're just a little bit of way because still they're mostly the same orbital. It's only once they get to 90 degrees that they could be different. What would the orbitals be that would be independent of one another at 90 degrees? P orbitals, right? So 90 degrees is the smallest angle you can get. Why don't you use 90 degrees? Why do you use greater than 90 degrees? Okay, that's the question. Why not use p orbitals and make the smallest angle you can? Does anybody see why that is? Okay, here there's a p orbital that points at 90 degrees. You see that its axis, the yellow axis is a little bit inside the red arrow. And the blue axis, which would be another p orbital perpendicular to that one, is a little inside the other red arrow. They make an angle of 90°. Got it? Now, why don't the atoms use p orbitals to make the smallest possible angle? Can anybody see why that won't give the best overlap? How could you change the orbital so as to get better overlap? So it's two pals. Uh uh it remember that depends on the distance and they're very close to one another. And it turns out it it might be that at this angle if you use the S on one of the on one of the carbons and the P on another it might be that you would get better overlap. It's I don't know that it's true but it's it it's not implausible. But what would be wrong about using this p orbital from that carbon and on the top one of the triangle using an S which might give better overlap. Can you see what's bad about that? If you use all the S of that top carbon there, you can't use any of it to make any of the other bonds from that carbon, right? All you have left over on that one is P's, which give crummy overlap. So even though you might be able to make this single overlap better, you couldn't make all the bonds strong from that top carbon. So you wouldn't get the best overall overlap. So that's a good suggestion. But there's another way to do it which is to use a hybrid orbital. Now here we've put in a little bit a little bit less than 20% of S to give the ratio sp4.1. Right? But notice that it really distorted made it much larger in the region where we're interested in overlapping. Right? In the process, the axis moved out right to where the red arrow close to where the red arrow is, right? But even though the bonds didn't point, let's see like this. Even though the bonds didn't point at one another, right? By extending they overlap more. Got the idea? So the hybridization by shifting it to one side gives better overlap even though the angle might not be quite as good. Okay. So that's so you have bent bonds paradoxically enough in order to get the best overlap. Isn't that funny? You'd think the best overlap would be when they'd point at one another, but you get it better when they make an angle because they stretch out. Okay, so that explains the bent bonds. Now, how about the missing bond? Well, again, we can see that in hybridization because what's left over after you make those sp4.1s, three of them pointing up from the from the bottom carbon, after you make three sp4.1s, what you have left over is an sp.4 and it points down, not up. If it pointed up, if the blue big blue lobe were up and the red down, then it would be part of those other three orbitals, the only way you could make it point up is to make the others point down, right? And then they would have crummy overlap. So there's very poor overlap between the tiny loes of these two. So there's not enough overlap to get a bond. You don't don't stabilize the electrons because there's you don't have overlap, right? and rehybridizing this one to strengthen this particular bond by making it point up would drastically weaken all the others making them point down. Right? So the best overall overlap for all the pairs that are involved in these bonds is to have one bond not there or to have very very poor overlap so that the other three are very good. Sam, so when you hybridize the other two and you get the sp4.1 shouldn't and I understand that shifts the electrons towards the other atom but how does that shifting distort the angle remember the angle between hybrids depends on m and n the you know spm and spn we did that last time if it's pure p it's 90 degrees if it's sp3 sp3 it's it's 100 it's 109 and a half. If it's SP2, SP2, it's 120 and so on. If it's SP 4.1, it makes that certain angle that's shown there bigger than 90 degrees. Okay? And that the only reason for that is so that these hybrids will be different from one another. They won't be the same, right? They won't overlap each other on the same atom because to the extent they do, they're the same. And so they can't at all. They have to be orthogonal if they're on the same atom. Okay. Now, three views of BH3. First, nature, the total electron density. I'm going over the same thing again and again here with different examples. First, look at total electron density nature. Then, we'll look at molecular orbitals. That's what a computer does. And then, we'll look at bonds from hybrid atomic orbitals. And that's what we do as chemists. Okay, first we'll look at the electron cloud of BH3 calculated here on using that same program I just showed you. So we can look at the successive uh layers of the onion, right? The high electron density lower lower the various contours. So this lowest one is mostly 1s of boron but a little bit of the 1s of hydrogen too. and one of them doesn't even show up because it's so small. All the hydrogen should be the same. But the the graphing uh capability of the computer for something that's that has as few points as this. The way it draws surfaces doesn't draw them smooth, right? It connects points. So it doesn't even show one of those. Nobody would ever make such a plot. Okay? Down at that's three electrons per cubic. So suppose we go to 0.15 electrons per cubic enstrom, half that density. Now we're beginning to get smoother surfaces and it's on the boron. It's 1s of the boron and a little bit of the hydrogens as well. Right? And now we're going to lower electron density 0.05. And now there's an interesting feature you can see here. You see that dimple? Why is that? Why is there not as much electron density at this level around the boron? We're out in the veilance shell now, not 1s anymore, right? Because the 1s is really down close, high density. It's because the hydrogen atoms are pulling the electron density away from the veence atoms of boron. Often you talk about this in terms of electro negativity, but why is something electrogative? It's because of what the effective nuclear charge is. The effective nuclear charge of hydrogen for the veilance level is one, right? But for boron, it should be higher. Boron is is the fifth element, but it's got the uh the the 1s electrons shielding the nucleus. So, it's not as as high an effective nuclear charge as hydrogen does. So when you put the orbitals together, hydrogen is lower than boron and the electrons in those bonds are mostly on the hydrogen. So you see that dimple in the middle because there's not much veence electron density on the boron. Now we go to 0.02 electrons per cubicst and finally to 0.02 below two electrons per cubic enstrom which is defined as for purposes of drawing what the Vanderwal's surface is that is how close molecules tend to get to one another at normal pressure in a liquid or in a crystal right and that's it's just found empirically just by testing and measuring things that that if you draw a surface at 0.002 O2 electrons per cubic enstrom. You have about how close things would come to one another when you bump these surfaces into one another. Okay. So that's the Vanderwal surface. That's a definition, right? And we did we showed once before electrostatic potential where you show that same surface but color it to show how the electrons are distributed and the protons in the molecule. So as so where would a positive charge on the surface be happy? Where it's negative. That's uh red. And where would it be unhappy? The positive charge because the molecule is positive there. That's the blue. So you can see what it is. It's red where the hydrogens are because they're pulling the electrons. And it's blue where the boron is because it's giving up electrons. Okay. So there's uh there's what the uh what the the the real molecule looks like. Of course, I didn't do it by an experimental measurement for BH3 because you can't crystallize BH3. I did it by a computer calculation but I believe that that what it gives is what you would see in an experiment if you could do the experiment. Okay. So that's the total electron density. Now let's look at what how the computer breaks that up into molecular orbitals in a calculation like this. So it looks at it makes symmetrical molecular orbitals like claudney things with nodes. We've seen lots of those. So here's this framework BH3. And we're going to look at the molecular orbitals the computer calculates. And we're going to make those electron those molecular orbitals by adding up atomic orbitals linear combination of atomic orbitals. And which atomic orbitals will we use in the best would be if we used every atomic orbital then we could get perfect flexibility but the calculation would take too long. So we use just a minimal number of atomic orbitals namely the the 1s orbital on boron and also the veance orbitals 2s 2px 2py 2pz and also the 1s orbital orbitals of hydrogen. So there are 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 eight. There are eight atomic orbitals we're going to use to make up our molecular orbitals. How many independent molecular orbitals can we make? If we start with eight atomic orbitals, we can make eight molecular orbitals, the same number you started with. If you tried to make more, they wouldn't be independent of one another, but you can make from eight, you make eight. Okay? So, these are going to be the energies. It'll turn out of the eight molecular orbitals that we're going to get that the computer is going to get starting from that. If you added more atomic orbitals, if you let it use 3s, 3p, 3d, and so on, then you'd get more molecular orbitals, but they'd be higher in energy and less relevant. Okay? In fact, how many of these are relevant? How do we know how many we care about? The energy of Russell, how many electrons? We can put two electrons into each. Once we've got it filled up, we don't really care what other energies there could be. At least not for this purpose. Okay. Well, it turns out that boron has five electrons, hydrogen has three, eight altogether. So, there will be eight electrons, four pairs. And that means four occupied orbitals. We don't care so much about the others, right? So, those are the occupied molecular orbitals, OM. Okay? Okay. And then there'll be uh also from this set of atomic orbitals there'll be four unoccupied molecular orbitals. Okay. Now those two are called nobody talks about omo and umo but they talk about homo. That's very important and we'll be talking about that. That's the highest occupied molecular orbital. And also they're very interested in the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital and you'll see why very shortly. So the lumo and the homo are very important in this particular case. It turns out there are two homos that have the same energy. Not surprisingly because it's such a symmetrical molecule. Okay. Now what do you think the very lowest orbital looks like? Caitlyn, you're our expert. What? It's the 1s orbital of boron. So there it is. No surprise there. Not to diminish your contribution, but it's not surprising. Okay, so there's 1s. That's the boron core. Now, what's going to come next, do you think, after we've got the 1s molecular orbital? What'll be next? 2s, but it's a molecular orbital be made up of everything. So, here it is, right? And it's got it's all the hydrogens and also the boron 2s are contributing to that. Again, there's a dimple in the middle, more of the hydrogens than of the boron. Why? Because the hydrogen 1s is lower than the boron 2s. The the boron 1s was lower. That's was the first one, right? Okay. And then so there's that radial node, right? The spherical sort of node down the middle showing it's a 2s, right? And then there's 2px molecular orbital and a 2py molecular orbital. And that's four. And that's all eight electrons. So that's what we care about. There are the occupied molecular orbitals of BH3. Now, how about the vacant orbitals? The lowest unoccupied orbital is that the last 2p, the 2pz that's pointing in and out of the plane of the molecule. And then we're going to have 3s, which you see has that node in the middle to so two spherical sort of nodes. And then a d^2 dx^2 minus y^2 and finally dxy. Right? So that's the molecular orbitals that the computer generates for this thing using what's called a minimal basis set that is the lowest number of orbitals you can use uh to get through through that is through the veilance level you don't put the higher ones in. Okay, now that's how the computer does it, right? And you can get good numbers out of the computer like the energy of the molecule or the shape of the molecule where the nuclei would like to be to minimize the energy. That's fine. But for understanding, it's not so good. What we want to do as chemists to understand it is to partition the total electron density not into these molecular orbitals but into atom pair bonds, right? and antib-bonds as you'll see and loan pairs the same stuff Lewis talked about. Okay, that is we usually do this but sometimes it doesn't work. And when doesn't it work? When it doesn't work, we must use more sophisticated orbitals where we say there is a certain phenomenon going on. You know what that phenomenon is? when we can't use localized bonds. That's what resonance is when this approach doesn't work. Okay, remember that's where Lewis theory had to get sort of complicated, baroque. Okay, so there's that 2pz orbital, a vacant orbital, right? Here's the boron core, but now we're doing it. We're happy to use a vacant orbital. That's part of Lewis's idea. So 2pz will share with the computer. Both of us see that as a lowest vacant orbital. The boron core we understand quite well. Okay. But how are we going to treat those other three pairs of electrons in the picture Lewis would draw? Where would Lewis put those three pairs of dots? Angela can't hear. He make them the bonds between those would be the bonds between B and H. Okay. So, what will those look like in our crummy picture? Right? We're not as good, at least I'm not as good as the computer at drawing these things, but what I'd say it's going to be an orbital that's big on hydrogen, smaller on boron, some hybrid sp hybrid of boron. It's going to overlap with H on h with the with the 1s orbital of hydrogen. It's going to be bigger on hydrogen than on boron. Why? Why should the lowest the bonding orbital be bigger on hydrogen than on boron? Lucas uh the 1s4 shielding. Yeah, that's another it's it's that that orbital the hydrogen orbital is lower than lower in energy than the boron it's mixing with. Right? So it's uneven mixing, right? Poor energy match. So the one that went down looks mostly like the hydrogen. The one that went up looks mostly like the boron. So we see one, in fact, we see three of these, one pointing toward each hydrogen, right? And they all have the from our point of view, they all have the same energy. They're all BH bonds shown as their energy in red there. Okay? But notice you get the same total energy as the computer would. The computer divides the pi completely differently, right? But you get the same answer, right? and the same geometry that the computer does from the point of view of what direction do the hybrids point and so on. So we're getting the same structure, we're getting the same energy. You get the same total electron density too if you add all the electrons together. Three bonds add together to give the to the same way. Remember three p orbitals added up to give a sphere, right? Our three uh bonds add up to give the same energy as the computer. So, who needs a computer, right? Our bonds work just as well if we view them right. Okay. And then there would be the antib-bond, the one that's what's left over. That's big on H, big on boron, small on H, and a node between hydrogen and boron. It's anti-bonding, the one that went up in energy when the atoms came together. And again, there'd be three of these sigma stars. Big on H, big on boron, small on H. they would all have the same energy, but again their their average energy is the same as the a average energy of unoccupied molecular orbitals that that the computer gets. So we're not doing so bad following Lewis in this respect looking at the at the electron density in terms of bonds rather than in terms of molecular orbitals. Okay, so for many purposes, localized bond orbitals are not bad and they're certainly a heck of a lot easier to think about. But beware of resonance, right? Because sometimes this isn't going to work. So we'll have to understand how that works. So the localized bond orbital picture, pair-wise molecular orbitals, that is two atoms coming together to overlap. And also there'll be isolated atomic orbitals like unshared pairs or isolated vacant orbitals like the pz orbital of boron that we just saw. That will be this picture will be our intermediate between hydrogen-like atomic orbitals which we really understand. You just look up in the table and you've got them right and computer molecular orbitals which are too complicated really to understand in any kind of detail. It's handy to sometimes for some purposes it's very handy to be able to calculate them and look at them right but you don't do it very often in your head. So when must we think more deeply? When the mixing when you have these localized orbitals but they mix to cause reactivity that is a molecular orbital from this molecule mixes with a molecular orbital from this molecule and one goes down and one goes up. That's what a reaction is. or when you have two pair-wise orbitals in the same molecule, right, that we thought of as bonds or vacant orbitals or something like that and those interact with one another within the same molecule. We were too simplistic in thinking of them as independent. They interact with one another. That's what resonance that's when resonance occurs is when you have important interactions within a molecule between orbitals or between what you thought were orbitals but we're thinking too simply. So where are we? We've gone through atoms. We've gone through molecules and looked at how we can understand the electron density in molecules. And now we're to the final payoff which is reactivity. How can we understand reactivity in terms of somos, singly occupied molecular orbitals, high homos and low lumos? And then how can we recognize functional groups? So even though if we never saw them before, we know what they're going to be react how reactive they're going to be and what with. That's the payoff. Okay. So now we know that if you have two molecules and you're interested in their reacting uh there'll be molecular orbitals of the two that come together interact and if the molecule gets if the energy goes down because of that that'll be a favorable reaction. If the energy goes up they'll bounce off one another. Okay. So but there there how many molecular orbitals are there on a molecule? Methane, how many molecular orbitals does it have? It has an infinite number, right? The 13 Z orbital and so on. Okay, so it's got we have to pick out which orbitals are going to be important in interacting with one another or else we're just going to be at a loss because there'll be so many. I mean, so you have these orbitals on molecule B, say, and those are occupied and the ones above are vacant, unoccupied. And on molecule A, you have a bunch of occupied and a bunch of unoccupied molecular orbitals. And now we're going to look at orbitals of B inter mixing with orbitals of A, right? And how which ones? We might look at those two interacting. For example, mix those two with between A and B. Or we could mix those two or those two or those two or those two or those two or those two. Those two those two or those two or those two, those two, those two those and it goes up infinitely. So this is a problem. Even if we understand how orbitals interact with one another, we're going to have to narrow our focus if we want to deal with this. Okay. So let's look at So there are myriad possible pair-wise mixings. Now there's one that's going to be obviously important. Suppose that molecule B has an odd number of electrons and therefore a singly occupied molecular orbital. And the same is true of molecule A. Just suppose that happens, right? Then uh then when they come together and mix those two electrons will both go down in energy. So that's bound to be favorable, right? Substantially favorable and they'll get a new bond. That's like two hydrogen atoms come together. So if there are somos on the two molecules and notice suppose B had a somo but A didn't right but you're not just talking about two molecules you're talking about two flasks if you mix you had to have two B's that both had somos so A could be another B. So if you have any somos right that you can pair them B with B if A doesn't have any right so if they exist if there's a SOMO then and that's true of many atoms or things called free radicals like the hydrogen atom the chlorine atom the methyl radical right then they're going to be very reactive okay and for that very reason they're not very common you can't buy a bottle of methyl radicals because they will all have reacted with one another. The same for hydrogen atoms, the same for chlorine atoms. So that's an easy case to understand when you have somos, but it's very rare to encounter it unless you're talking about flames where lots of things are atoms and and free radicals as they're called. We'll talk about that a lot more at the end of the semester. Okay. Now, how about there two that could mix? It's not bad energy match, right? And suppose they have good overlap. Do you care about that one? Why not, Lucas? Oh, it exists. It's an orbital. There are no electrons to have that energy. It's a it's an available energy, but nobody availed themselves of it. So, it doesn't contribute anything, right? So, that's there's nothing there. So, forget that one. And you can forget a whole b you can forget most of them for this reason, right? Of the infinite number. Okay. Now, how about this pair? Now, they They have, let's suppose they have good overlap. They're not bad energy match, right? So, two electrons will go down and two will go up. Do you care, Stephen? No. Because since there's two that are higher energy, they're anti-bonding. Yeah. So, they more or less cancel. Do they exactly cancel? No. In which direction do they not cancel, Cy? I The lower one is is bigger. So it would be even worse. The lower one is bonding but bigger by bigger you mean greater than one over the square root of two kinds of thing. So so or no pardon me less than one over the square root of two it's smaller is what you should have said. Okay it's smaller. So it doesn't go down as much as the upper one goes up. So pretty much they cancel but to the extent they don't cancel it's repulsive. It's hard bad to come together which means the molecules will bounce off. Right? Right? So when you have filled orbitals hitting one another, the molecules repel one another. Okay? So uh that's weak net repulsion. That's not going to explain a reaction. Uh now how about here? Now we're mixing a filled orbital with a vacant orbital. So two electrons go down. So you don't have this cancelling. Is this going to be important? This one Josh? No. Bad energy match. ah the energy match is so bad that you don't get very much going down. Not enough to make up for the fact that there if they'll come together they're going to be a lot of other orbitals molecular orbitals overlapping and they're going to be repulsive the kind we just looked at. So this weak attraction it's not going to be worth much. Okay. How about so it's negligible mixing because of bad energy match. Now how about here? Now that's not bad energy match. I mean it's not great energy match but it's certainly better than any other pair of occupied with vacant. Okay. So that means th that pair will go down right and you'll get bonding if the energy match is good enough that the amount that they go down is significant. Okay. So remember when we tried the same thing the other direction from the highest one on the right to the lowest one on the left the energy match was not good. So that didn't help. But this one where it's high on the left and low on the right that one will help. Okay. So what it requires to to have a reaction is that you have a high homo, an unusually high homo on one molecule and an unusually low lumo on the other so that you have good energy match or at least as good as you can get, right? Then you could get a reaction. And it turns out that they're simple names for things that have unusually high homos and things that have unusually low lumos. And you know what those names are? Something that has an unusually high homo is called a base. And something that has an unusually low lumo is called an acid. So that's a generalization of the idea of acid and base. Most mixing of MOS affects neither the overall energy nor the overall electron distribution for one or more of these reasons. Okay. First, the electron occupancy can be four. That is both were occupied, which means two go up and two go down and the ones go up go up a little more. So that's not a bond or zero and you don't care about the energy or the energy match is poor. So there's not much mixing altogether or there's poor overlap. So even if the energy match were good, you wouldn't get anything out of it. But if you have high homo and low lumo mixing, then you get reactivity. Unusually high homo and unusually low lumo. And that's the secret. that we've been going for all semester. So here's increasing generality in the concept of acid and base. the idea the names were introduced uh by uh Lavoisier in 1789 and we'll talk about that and from his point of view an acid was a base was an element a substance that could be oxidized and an acid was something that had been oxidized like sulfur was a base oxidized sulfur sulfuric acid was an acid phosphorus was a base oxidized phosphorus was phosphoric acid carbon was a base oxidized carbon was carbon ic acid. Okay. Then in a hundred years later, Aranius in Sweden uh said that an acid was something that was had the idea that there were ions, things that were charged and that a thing that would give H+ was an acid and a thing that would give O minus was a base. That's theory. And that was further generalized in 1923 by Brunstead and Lowry. uh Brunstead was a DNE and Lowry an Englishman who said that that an acid was not was an H+ donor that's the same as arranous but that a base was something that it could accept H+ not only O minus but ammonia for example could accept uh u could accept a base and Lewis then in the same year had the idea that an acid was something that could accept an electron pair like BH3 And a base was something that could donate an electron pair like ammonia, right? And other names for those acptors and donors are electrofile, something that loves electrons will accept them. And a nucleophile, something that loves a nucleus, is something that will give electrons to it. But in the 1960s, this was generalized finally to where it is now. that that an unusually low vacant orbital is something that can accept electrons. Electrons like to be in a low energy orbital. So that is the ultimate definition of what an acid is. And by the same token, an unusually high homo has electrons that are eager to avail themselves of some vacant orbital to lower their energy. And that is a base. Okay. So as so often in science as the science matures you get more and more generality to the idea and homo and lumo unusually high homo unusually low lumo are the uh the ultimate form of acid base and that's what we'll be talking about but they have to be unusual. Why do they have to be unusually high and unusually low? Otherwise, you don't have good energy match to change the electron energies when they come together. Okay. Now, here's what you should have asked. Unusual compared to what? Okay. So, here is what we're organic chemists. If we were some other kind of chemists in some other universe dealing with different elements, we'd have different points of comparison. But what we deal with is things that have a lot of carbon and hydrogen in them. And by far our most common bonds are among between carbons or between carbon and hydrogen. So it turns out that the veence orbitals of carbon, the sp hybrid orbitals of carbon and the 1s orbital of hydrogen are roughly the same in energy. For our purposes, we'll consider them to be the same. Okay? So you bring two of these together, they overlap and you get sigma and sigma star. And we've talked about that the bonding and the antib-bonding orbital. So most of the occupied orbitals we're dealing with are CC sigma or CH sigma and most of the antib-bonding or orbitals are sigma star CH or sigma star CC. So those are our point of comparison. And those are the plain vanilla electrons and holes. Okay. Now let's look at other things and see whether they're unusual with respect to this. Now there will be several classes that they fall into. Right? So those are the usual lumo and the usual homo and or the CC analoges. Now what could make things weird? One thing can make things weird is that if you had veilent shell atomic orbitals that didn't get mixed with anything. So they're not sigma or sigma star bonding or anti-bonding. They're the original orbital in between these. So that would make things unusual. A second one would be a little bit in between these two. When the if there's no overlap then you have unmixed orbitals. If there's a lot of overlap, you get bonds. But there could be poor overlap, in which case you don't go down as far with your bonding orbital or up as far with your anti-bonding orbitals. So a second case would be poor overlap. A third case would be that the actual atomic energy that the atomic orbital energy that you're using, the atom you're using is not like carbon and hydrogen. So it starts at a completely different place from where the standard orbitals start before they make the molecular the bonding orbitals. And fourth can be if there's charge around because obviously if you have a negative charge it's not such a good place to put electrons. That means the orbitals are high in energy. If you have a net positive charge it's a good place to put electrons. It's low in energy. So charge can make it. So, we're going to show examples of these four contributors that will allow you to identify when a molecule has an unusual orbital energy, right? Unusually high homo, unusually low lumo, and then you know that it'll be a functional group. And you also know what it will react with because if you have an unusually high high homo, it'll react with an unusually low lumo and vice versa. Okay, so first let's look at the first one. uh unmixed veilent shell atomic orbitals. So H+ arranouses acid, right? That's that's uh a vacant orbital, right? No electron in it. So that's obviously unusually low. It's where this started the 1s of hydrogen before it went up or down. So if you had H+, it would be an unusually low vacant orbital. How about NH3? Right? It has an unshared pair only on the nitrogen. Now it likes being on nitrogen compared to carbon or hydrogen. Why? What makes it better to be on nitrogen in a veilent shell orbital than on the unshared pair than to be on an unshared pair on carbon or on hydrogen? Angela, there's more protons in there more protons in the nucleus. It's a lower energy orbital to start with, right? So, but it didn't mix with anything. They're NH bonds in ammonia, right? And they mixed and went way down in energy and a vacant orbital went up in energy, but the unshared pair didn't mix with anything. So, it still has that original energy. So, it's unusually high compared to what? Compared to what? CH sigma or CC sigma. That's our point of comparison. Okay. or the the flip side of that is BH3 which has a vacant orbital. It's high to start with compared with a hydrogen or a carbon because boron doesn't have very big nuclear charge, right? And it's and it's and its nucleus is screened, right? So, it's an unusually it's unusually high for an atom, but it's still atomic. It didn't mix with anything and go up further, right? So it's unusually low for a vacant orbital. So BH3 is a low unusually low lumo. So is it an acid or a base? Which can't hear you. You've read through the lecture. You don't get the vote. It's like H+, right? An unusually low lumo. So it's an acid. How about NH3? It's a base. Unusually high homo. Okay. How about water? Right. It has unshared pairs of electrons. Yeah. Lucas, sort of side question. Did we just say that they both had these properties because they had low nuclear charge and we used No. Nitrogen. Nitrogen has high. Which has low nuclear? Nitrogen is hot, low nuclear charge compared to carbon. Yeah. And BH3 is even lower compared to carbon. Yeah. But the energies are completely different places. Is it just because of the unshared? No. H. But remember, you have to bear in mind which row of the periodic table you're in, right? H true, it only has one proton, but you're talking a 1s orbital, low in energy. for carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, boron, you're talking 2s, right? So that so that you're changing the game between BH3 and NH3. No, no, not between BH3 and NH3. NH3 is unusually high energy for an occupied orbital. BH3 is unusually low. Although it's high compared to nitrogen, it's low for a vacant orbital. It's an unusually low lumo. Nitrogen's an unusually high homo. Now, oxygen is lower than nitrogen. So, water is a base, but it's not a good not as good a base as ammonia because it's electrons aren't as high because it has a bigger nuclear charge and the same N. It's in the first complete row of the periodic table. Okay. O minus is even higher. It's a stronger base than water. Why? Why are its electrons higher in energy than water? Got less protons, right? It's got a it's got a net negative charge which makes all the electrons high in energy and specifically the pair we care about, the highest one, unusually high because it's got a negative charge. Whoops, I pressed the wrong button here. Okay, CH3 minus is even more of a base because carbon doesn't have as many as big a nuclear charge as oxygen. So when it has a negative charge, it's a really high homo. Okay, I got to uh quit there. We'll go on to two, three, and four next time.