We've covered the potential of clearly visualizing the destination. I now want to use the word potential to emphasize the potential of people, your community that you choose to surround you in your hunt. In this section, I invite you to consider different roles that different stakeholders can play and then invite you to plot them on a stakeholder matrix that will become unique and completely personal to you. The first group I want you to think about are your fellow hunters and accountabil buddies. I've mentioned them a bit already how important they are. You've got some exercises you've already done with these people. And I've also mentioned the book Never Search Alone by Phil Terry. I'm grateful to Danielle Gonzalez, a former student, teaching fellow and LinkedIn influencer for job searching and climate for alerting me to it and the link to this book which is in our notes. Those two have been two of my many influences that have persuaded me how crucial it is to hunt in packs. Have a think about people with whom you can share resources, push each other to stay accountable, and celebrate process and output wins together. You can even start a more formal job search council like Phil Terry covers in his book, Next Level, a personal advisory board. I was coached to think about this imaginary fiduciary responsibility quite early in my career. Imagine you had your own advisory board for firstname surname incorporated. Who would you appoint? Who are senior people that have so much to teach and guide you and have been supporters for a sustaining period of time? And then what's to stop you actually creating this personal advisory board? and inviting these people, however formally or informally, to continue to help you on your journey and more specifically on this upcoming life chapter of the hunt. Please take a moment now to think about that personal advisory board. Third level, connectors and champions. They're the ones who advocate for you when you're not in the room. These are the folks who might say, "You should talk to Sarah about that or Ryan. They're amazing and they would love to help you." Some champions you may not even realize are doing this for you. That's why it's worth naming them now and nurturing these relationships intentionally. Fourth group to have a think about, and you're maybe already thinking about them, the hiring executives, the real opportunities. We'll come to these stakeholders more in module five, but these are very specific people in your search in the target organizations of your hunt. They may or may not be able to hire you or help you directly. So, four groups to have you think about thought of a few people in each list. Isn't it amazing how many people are are actually or going to be involved in your hunt? It really does take a village and we really do live and work in community as incredibly social animals and nothing truly hard and worthwhile gets done alone. So now let's put all these people you've been thinking about and jotting down as I've been covering those categories together on one chart. In systems thinking and in leadership in general, the stakeholder matrix is a powerful tool for working out who can influence and encourage a particular outcome to take place. Whether it is saving the rainforest, the launch of a new product, or in your case now, the hunt for your next great role, that's the title. The axes of the 2x two matrix are the same. On the y ais we plot influence with people above the x axis more influential than you. Then the x axis is the degree of support with the right hand side being more and more supportive and potential detractors on the left of the y ais. So plot your fellow hunters and accountability buddies on the stakeholder matrix for your hunt. Plot your advisory board members. I hope they're all in the top right quadrant to varying degrees. Plot your connectors and champions and plot those hiring executives. Then maybe add another few stakeholders that might be useful and pop to mind as I suggest the subcategories. Do you have any truth tellers? Those whose feedback you've always found valuable, even if it's sometimes or often hard to hear. These people give feedback with care and honesty. They might be other senior stakeholders outside your personal advisory board, but please don't be afraid to add them to your matrix. And you might have thought of other peers beyond your fellow hunters group. They may not be as directly related to your hunt, nor might they be as resolutely positive, but you thought of them now as I describe this type of stakeholder in your job search. Please put them in. And don't forget your fans or supporters. These are the people who will cheer you on, especially through hard times. They might be family, lifelong friends, or cherished former teammates. Think about people who have always been in your corner. They may not need to be tightly related to the hunt or even remotely related, but you'll really appreciate them when things don't go your way, and you'll love to celebrate and laugh with them when they do. Now, where are all the dots on the graph? Some people are way more influential and supportive than others, but you might draw upon them all at different times. and they might move around and you may also move them by engaging with them and by asking them to help. Before we leave the matrix, take note how I've playfully labeled the two quadrants to the left of the Y ais. You may have senior detractors influential to your career and next move, but not necessarily positive on you for whatever reason. It is worth considering both their advice if they're a trutht teller, but also it's worth considering what you do about them if anything. The key is to recognize that they're there if you put them there and to have a strategy. And then the lower left quadrant is the low influence, low support crew. This might take the form of an old friend who doesn't believe you can make it in this new area of work or some other reason. I think the key thing here is to minimize the volume these voices have in your head and minimize the time you spend with them as you engage on this important work of hunting for your next role. So to conclude this module, you now have goals that you hopefully feel both excitement to aim for and agency to accomplish. You have crafted toastable goals that are more processed than output driven and deeply connected to your purpose and priorities given your inner work in those prior modules. And we've concluded that you're not doing this alone. Indeed, you never were. You had many supporters you didn't realize you had, but now you've consciously added an awful lot more, and you're ready to make real progress.