with uh Kento 4a of paradise. We are now in the heaven of the moon which as you know by now is also the the heaven the heaven of grammar and and I will show you in what way this is the the heaven of grammar. Uh in in Paradiso 3, Dante meets um two women uh the Empress Constance and the irony of the name is a little bit obvious among the inconstant spirits and Picarda. Picarda who also had joined the closter had taken the name of sister constants. she too, but uh was forced to leave the closter on account of uh uh her her brother's Gorso Donati's uh uh political maneuvers. He wanted her married to an ally of his. Um with Kento returns on this issue which is the issue really uh of uh the will. What is the will? How can uh somebody else's force on me um for compel me to do things that I am accountable for? In what way am I accountable for somebody else's uh imposition of uh in this this case his will on me? Uh Dante wants to know what is the will here. uh but there's another question that forces him to the another problem forces him to raise a question in Kento and uh the question is uh uh Dantes wonder about the souls in the various stars they are disposed and arranged on in in the various planets he sees some souls here on the moon so he wonders are we in Plato's um parad paradise. Is this is Plato right in believing that the souls at death return to the stars to the place of origin? And these are the two questions that he has uh he has to uh raise. So uh the KTO begins with a statement that is extraordinary. uh because I I will try to explain how the two questions are are related in what way uh they are related are not just absolutely arbitrary there is a a a a a certain link between them uh but it begin the can of four begins in a very with a with a with a a rather strange formulation about the the the nature of the will and the freedom of the will. So since that's what con that's what Picarda's situation had forced Dante to raise what is the will is somebody else's will uh forcing me to do something am I still responsible for it and that has to clarify what the will is so he starts with a statement that seems to suggest that the will is inert this is a a a a poem uh that the will cannot really make decisions First of all, the will uh given the opportunity to choose between two contradictory objects of desire can't quite move one way or the other. You need the intellect. That's the argument that makes the will take make a decision will force the will to make a decision. And this is the way he starts between two foods at equal distance and equally tempting. A free man would die of hunger before he brought either to his lips. And here so a lamb would stand between the cravings of two fierce wolves in equal fear of both. This seems to be a kind of will that joins human beings and animals say that paralyzes us. The choices paralyzes the will. So that maybe when we speak about freedom of the will, we are not speaking really about freedom of the will. We're speaking about the freedom of the will in the intellect. It's the intellect that has to be free. So that's that's really the argument. Uh so would a hound stand between two does. Therefore, this is the said three images that introduce Dante's own doubts and perplexities. He has two questions. Each of them seems com more compelling than the other and does not know what to ask first. So would a hound stand between two dos. Therefore if I kept silence, urged equally by my doubts and not a blame nor commend myself since it was of necessity. I was silent but my desire was painted on my face and with it my question far more warmly than in plain words. So Dant is indeed talking about the limitations of the will. Not that the will is this is an averist position. It's a position of a radical interpretation of Aristotal that the will is inert that you always need some kind of the power of the intellect to make you decide. The intellect cannot move but the intellect can make the will move. So that the statement has to be understood as one of the hierarchy between intellect and will. Now so the argument now continues. Beatatrice did as did Daniel when he appeased the wrath of Nabukadanaza that made him cruy unjust and she said I see well how one desire and then another draw day they so that their eagerness itself binds itself and does not get breath that's reasons if the right will endures on what ground does another's violence lessen the measure of my dessert how can it be that uh Picarda who was forced by somebody else's will. It seems to appear in the lowest the the lowest birth of beatatitude. She's on the moon. Why should she be so undeserving of of of a closer intimacy to God? Um so that's his question. Also, it gives the perplexity that the soul seems to return to the stars in agreement with Plato's teaching. These are the questions that press equally on thy will. First then I shall deal with the one which has more poison in it. And it's very interesting. First of all, the the language of poison, but the the this idea of what is dangerous of the two questions is not the question about the will. The the question which is more dangerous is the question that deals with representation. What is the mode of appearance of the souls in heaven? And why should representation? Do the souls inhabit the stars? Are they showing themselves forth here? It is a make believe that they are here. It's a fiction. It's puro techchnics if you wish. And once the night is over, then the souls return to the proper proper abode which may may not be visible to the pilgrim. Is this a theatrical performance? And why if this is a theatrical and it is, why should that be a question that has more poison in it? Why what what's so dangerous about representation? That's really the argument that as Dante puts it uh forth here at the beginning at at least and then she goes on first of all so let's discuss it and then we as we discuss it we try to understand uh the question why this is representation uh such such a a a hard issue and she says not he of the saraphim this is lines paradiso 4 lines 28 that is most made one with God the the in the choir of angels those who are closest to God not Moses Samuel or whichever John thy will none the apostle or the visionary this seer not Mary herself have their set seat in other heaven from these spirits that have now appeared to thee this is the poetics of paradise by the way that we are really confronted with how do the souls show themselves forth to the pilgrim. What is the mode of Dante's representation in paradise from the spirits that heaven appear to nor for the being have more years of fewers but all make fair the fruit circle and hold sweet life in different measure as they feel more and less the eternal breath. These which you are seeing here on the moon are have shown themselves here. Note that this fear is allotted to them but in sign of the heavenly rank that is least exalted. They have uh they enjoy a lower degree of beatatitude than the other souls. So they just appear here for your benefit. In other words, the whole of paradise, the representation of paradise is fictional. And once the pilgrim disappears, so will the souls vanish. they will return into the bosom of Abraham in according to biblical accounts. Uh it is necessary now Dante explains why the need for this allegorization this allegorical allegorical language allegorical representation. It is necessary to speak thus to your faculty since only from sense perception does it grasp that which it then makes fit for the intellect. So the whole of paradise is literally an accommodation of varities of realities that far exceed the powers of our mind and now it's it's it's a uh a condescension the souls condescend to show themselves down to us. So Dante first of all has been talking about the limitations of the will. Now he's talking about the limitations of the intellect. So these are the two issues that join in intellectually speaking the kanto for four and each seems to need the other uh and be made stronger in the light of the other and Dante goes on explaining this uh this mode of representation which he says is not only true for paradise but it's true for scripture it's true for all the iconography of the churches and that's what he says it's necessary to speak um for this reason scripture condescends in the in the literal sense of the word theological it comes down to us. It's it's accommodates itself to our limited faculties condescends to your capacity and attributes hands and feet to God having another meaning. That's the definition of an allegory. The Bible indeed speaks of the hand of God. It's an anthropomorphic trope. that the God has no feet and has no hand. And what it means it's something else. It means the power of God or the majesty of God, the feet of God, etc. with the feet. But in other words, there is there is a language of representation even in the Bible that in many ways authorizes Dante's own use of representation. Is this clear so far? Good. There's no no no real no real difficulty this uh this issue. Um and then it continues for this reason is that um and holy church but that's what happens in the Bible we talk about the feet of God we read about the feet of God head of holy church represents to you with human aspect angels that have no human form Gabriel and Michael and the other who made Tobet whole again and now the distinction between the metaphor the platonic metaphor and the biblical allegory what tus argues about the souls is not like that what we see here for what he says he seems to hold for truth that's already one one one basic difference it is seem it seems that what's what for the Bible is a metaphor becomes true in the context of the times he says Plato says the soul returns to its own star from which he believes it to have been separated when nature gave it for form he literalizes the idea of the soul's returning return to the stars. But perhaps his view is other than his words express and may have a meaning not to be despised. If he means to return to the return to his wheels of the honor and blame of their influence if by returning to the stars, he seems to imply that at the fall of the souls, the souls go through the various stains of the planets and and and then the return to the the the the planets from which they originated. His bow perhaps strikes a certain truth. The principle he understood once misled almost the whole world. So it went astray naming them Jupiter and Mercury and Mars etc. So Dantes um uh then then Beatatric let me just continue the other doubt this is the language of doubts intellectual doubts which are always part of truth for that it's the truth that generates a truth that generates doubt because the mind is exa exactly the way he described the will both are restless both need uh nourishment constant nourishment so these are intellectual doubts The other doubt that troubles the thee has less poison. He repeats this idea less danger. He hasn't said yet why the world of representation is dangerous. And actually he lives it at at at this because it's mischief could not lead thee away from me. The other justice that other justice appears unjust in the eyes of mortals is evidence of faith. We'll go back and we'll go in a moment. But let me stay with uh with the first question that Beatatrice has resolved uh for the pilgrim and for us. She's she's distinguishing between the theology, the biblical theology and let's call it the philosophical uh allegory. Uh biblical allegory and philosophical allegory. the language of metaphor in the Bible as and the language of metaphor truth in uh in Plato uh and Dant himself clearly is here legitimizing his own use of metaphor. The whole poem is indeed a metaphorical journey um whereby Dante is both simultaneously uh biblical and also philosophical. He he's he's he's he's finding and trying to decide on the common ground, the metaphorical language that the Bible and Plato will use and and therefore himself. Why is representation so dangerous that has so much poison in it? And be at least twice goes back to that image. And I think that the answer is this that representation has the power to cancel or erase the world of references which it represents. Representation has the power to um to make appearances. the only reality. Simulacra, the only reality that we manage to see and it literally covers it. It eclipses all references. That's what makes representation so dangerous. It has a we we are uh by virtue of the representation we end up in a kind of pondering the predicament of believing that that's all that there is. That that which is visible is the only real thing. and invest the appearance invest that that that simulacum with the sort of value that it normally does not have because it actually it points normally that doesn't have because it points for Dante to essences behind it we have seen here the souls the souls I wrote this is not the real home for the spirits the real home is somewhere else we may make the mistake Dante made of believing that the souls actually live in on the moon and therefore that we are in a platonic other world in another world where the souls go back to it. The journey of Dante is the journey between images and testing what these images may mean. Finding out whether this behind these images there is some kind of substance some kind of reality. Dante literally moves between the two words and things, images or representations and and appearances and the world of essences and and and and tries to join the two of them. So you understand why representation is the key issue here. Uh let me also add that this discourse on allegory justifies and gives you an idea why Dante has been uh that this is the heaven of grammar since the allegorical discourse is a grammatical issue. You remember that I've been talking about how each planet seems to to deploy uh uh well one of the liberal arts but this is the the reason why we can connect uh grammar and uh and and the moon. The other problem that Dante raises in Kento 4 is the question of uh the will and uh and he he he that's an easier issue because he just uh goes on distinguishing between what we call a conditional will the will what we will whenever we are beset by circumstances that force on us some resolutions and an absolute will. the absolute will of the martyrs of those who are for instance who are unwavering unfaltering in the confrontation with uh with particular experiences. Okay. So uh the souls of this of of Picarda and Costansa they were really uh ex exercising their own conditional will not their absolute will. So it's an interesting distinction and we leave it at that. Um we move now instead to the heaven of Kanto 6 the heaven of dialectics of Mercury. Uh why Mercury is the why should he be the god uh this is the planet Mercury but the god uh tied with dialectics or logic which are really not exactly the same thing but Dante does use them interchangeably. Hermes is of course the the god known the psychop. The one who brings, you know, you know that that part of mythology, the god who brings messages to to the world, the the the realm of of of shades, the realm of the dead. Yeah. The carries the souls to Hades. That's one of the the the ideas of uh uh the resonances of Mercury. But there is also others that Mercury is the god who the bearer of laws, the bearer of messages of the gods to human beings. the bearer of laws uh the the um the god of the marketplace though doesn't seem to have uh much much impact that particular relevance particular resonance of the myth to this uh this can and it's the logic what is to or dialectics what are we to understand by dialectics is one of the arts of the trivium and it is the art by which by means of which which provides really a method that's the way it's defined It provides a method to distinguish between truth and falsehood. Uh so it's it's uh let's see how this is going to be present. Interestingly enough, Dant is really talking about laws here. And actually here he meets the great uh theorist uh the the the emperor Justinian who is responsible and who is usually acknowledged as the one who favored the reorganization of Roman law in uh in Bzansium which is where he lived. Um okay and and Dante not only meets in Justinian but he also tells the story of Rome. So it's a can about history and the the idea is what's the rationality of Roman history? Is there any rationality to it? If dialectics is also the the uh the science of the power to distinguish between falsehood and truths. It's also a rational uh irrational uh discipline. the discipline that follows uh the rule of reason by means through which one can go on making those distinctions. So the question becomes what is the rationality of the Roman Empire? What kind of of of justice uh was there in it? So laws and the same word logos uh seems to be ruling the unfolding of this canto and it begins with uh the story of Constantine whom we have met before for the famous as accountable for the donation of Constantine that you may know uh it's the famous alienation of imperial property to the church for Constantine's as Constantine's token of gratitude to the pope uh Sylvester uh who had cured him of leprosy and this gave rise to a famous uh uh much debated uh donation uh which Dante dismisses Dante views as nothing less transgressive nothing less tragic and disruptive of the order of the world than for instance Adam's sin it's really the same uh cosmic proportion uh because it mixes together the sacred and the profane. It makes the pope a temporal ruler and and and that is the the ultimate degradation of the moral of the moral authority the exercise of moral authority from Dante's viewpoint. So this is uh uh this is the illusion to the donation. But the illusion to the donation here is taken into now the the reference to Constantine has a slightly different uh uh sense after Constantine he says turned back the eagle against the course of heaven when it had followed behind him of old that took Linia to wife for 200 years and more. The bird of God, the eagle, the emblem of the empire, remained on the bounds of Europe near the mountains from which it first came forth. And there ruled the world under the shadow of the sacred wings, passing from hand to hand. And so changing came into mine. I was Caesar. uh the imperial uh title, the imperial persona has disappeared and now he appears as I am Justinian. Here once again the use of that that that that shift of verbs from the past to the present. Now I'm in the eternal life. I am myself a Justinian who by will of the primal love which moves me removed from the laws what I was superfluous and uh and vain made the distinction. This is really a definition of dialectics made the distinction between the what was superos and vain and what was essential. Uh let me uh give a gloss on this first paragraph. The illusion is to Constantine's moving that's the other sense only donation but moving the seat of the empire from Rome to the east Bzansium. Okay. And this is seen as the violation of a metaphor of history, a paradigm of history which was called translatio m translatio imper uh what is this? What does it mean? It's the idea you know they in the middle ages they speak of translation all the time the translation of studies uh translation of the empire the idea that the whole of history follows a pattern a movement from east to west and therefore the the the the duration of history is patterned on the movement of the sun from east to west and with the idea that when the empire reaches is the most western point, the western most point of uh of the map that's going to be also the end of history. It's the end of the day, the sunset and the end of history. Okay. Constantine by turning back the this translation this movement that's what it means a transport a transfer um of of the empire actually delays the apocalyptic denumo the end of time and the end of the day and for Dante this is a major violation of the economy of history. So it begins with this idea of a a violation a tragic violation of history brought about by uh Constantine and the illusion of course is the other illusion is Twanius with whom the empire had started after the fall of Troy had started to go west west westward and then Constantine reverses all of this. You understand by the way this is I mean this is uh uh on on election day I really should mention this that the whole idea of manifest destiny is really based on this principle of the translatio imperry because the empire moves westward all the time. Uh so uh we are now therefore uh in the proper uh compass of uh of history so to speak. Uh okay. So con with Lavvenia who went backwards. Lavvenia gu for the the um over years. Uh I must also indicate to you and this could become in case you're still looking for a topic. This is one of the first times that Dante starts using this geographical coordinates the geographical description of Europe. He has really not done that in neither in inferno nor in purgatory. But now Europe becomes a an increased concern of his whatever historical information may have of it now and it's it's uh uh this is uh uh the Europe at the east and Dante will be talking about the the the the borders of Europe in the west. There's a kind of idea of of of a Europe that has he's asking what kind of messages can come from Europe which is still valid legitimate today. This is a sort of incredible questions that he will ask um and distinguishes between Rome and Europe in the sense that Rome he will say in a political tract that he writes that the history of Rome is different from the history of Europe 1320 he writes this kind of thing 1318 maybe he writes this track and the em the the the the emblem for Europe's uh from sorry For Rome's distinctiveness is to be found in Ania's experience of marrying three wives. He marries Craya as we hear from the Aniad. He marries Daido. It's a marriage of convenience so to speak, but it's a marriage. And and then he marries Lavvenia. And Dante goes on to explain the three wi the three wives he marries are one from Asia, one from Africa and one from Europe. So that Ania's whole experience, whole history encompasses what at the time was thought of as universality, the three known continents in a way of which only Europe, Europe is only a part. Okay. So keep that in mind. I will talk more about this metaphor as it appears. Now this is the context of Europe. So, Justinian and the reference to uh his uh um his his reorganization of the Roman code known as the Justinian code and then now we have a history of the empire from the emperor. We have what seems to be a celebration of the Roman Empire. This is Kanto 6. Therefore, like Kanto 6 of Inferno and Ktosix of Purgatorio, the focus is political. It's not just the city or Italy. Now it's the whole empire. Uh and but what begins as a celebration of the empire in effect turns out to be a critique of the ideology of the empire. The myth the the mythological reading that we can find in Augustine's confessions. Uh Dante follows two models here and there are two models that are contradictory with each other. In this representation of Ktosix, we have the Virginiaian model of the Roman Empire which is really a celebration of its origins with an earas uh with palace the whole account told in in the anided and and with the vision of what is to come. But then there is around the fifth century AD, Augustine writes in the city of god a fierce critique of the empire. The empire has fallen. The claims by the time Augustine writes, the claims of the eternity of the empire turn out to be hollow. And to Augustine, the empire is nothing less than another one of uh another episode in a long history of uh predatory uh politics of imperial uh possessions and violence. it the Roman Empire as an empire is no better than all the other empires that have long been van had long vanished and vanquished. Okay. So this is the these are the two models that Dante is evoking and in fact the very language just to give you an idea at one point Dante will say thou knowest um lines 35 and following that it is made it stay um the eagle the story is told through the vicissitudes of this emblem of the symbolic emblem the eagle for 300 years and more till at the last still for its sake the three the ori you may you may know a little bit of Roman Roman history and the cury who fighted out with the duel between the three brothers and the other three brothers. The three fought with the three and you know as us what it did under the seven kings the story of the seven kings from the wrongs the sabine women to the war of Lucre conquering the neighboring people round about these are all phrases that come straight out of Augustine's city of god and they are used as cases of exemplifying the libido of power in Rome there are erotic stories of erotic violence Lucricia who has been raped and the story of the Sabine women who have been kidnapped by the the uh the bands of Romulus Arus and the other outlaws. There's this idea that the empire was was born in uh in a condition of outlaws. So Dant is using the perspective of Augustine because Augustine had used these examples to them the empire and its own aarent policies but at the same time all the rest is really vigilian. This is the moment when Virgil and Augustine really disagree from each other. Why does Dante do this? What is this? What is the reason for bringing together two contradictory sources of historical uh thought? What is what what's the idea of poetic mythology of Rome? Is he in favor of the empire or is he against the empire? Uh is he with Augustine or is he with um actually with Virgil? When one thing is clear that Augustine who loves Virgil of course uh decides that this is that the empire is an aarent uh reality in his own history. it's already falling falling apart and uh uh he has no use for this. In his theological vision, the question that he raises is what do I care who governs me provided this is he that do they do not make me sin. The reality is an internalized reality. The reality is the one which is in the interior life of all of us. And what are empires if not great thefts? He will go on dismissing uh all of this. He a Roman citizen at at at the end at the twilight of the empire the sixth century or so. So what is where does Dante stand in between them? So he continues I have an answer I hope. Uh he continues for now we don't he doesn't tell us yet. Uh no did was born by the illustrious Romans against Brunus. Um uh it brought her brought low the pride of the Arabs who behind Hannibal past the alpine crags from which Po uh uh falls the flest under it uh as youth Scipian Pompei triumphed then the time etc. uh this will continue into the violation of the Rubicon by Caesar and uh it it uh and then it goes on with Charlemagne line 95 and following. And now let me just read the the passage the last passage. Now thou comest judge of such men as I accused before um and of their offenses which are the cause of all your ills. The one opposes to the public standards the yellow liies and the other claims the liies of France and the other claims it for a party so that it's hard to see which offends the more. Let the gibines the can all of a sudden becomes evocative seems to turn into a replica of inferno sex of the civil war between wel and hibines. It starts as a celebration an encomium of the empire and its role in history. right? This westward movement of uh of of toward an apocalyptic conclusion. And now all of a sudden it goes back to let the Gibbalines carry on the odds under another standard for of this he's always a bad follower who serves it from justice. And let not this new child strike it with a weld. But let him fear its claws which have torn the hide from a greater lion. Many a time before now have the children wept for the father's fault. and let him not think God will change arms for uh their liies. So what is this? It starts with the empire ends up with the civil war and the civil war is really the perspective from which Dante can take this double view on the history of the empire where Dante can really stand up to the pos the the the stance of Augustine and the stance of uh of of August of of Virgil. you know what he's really seems to be saying I think is this yes Augustine you're right that the empire is really uh a negative force in has been a negative force in history and that the reality is the as you say an internalized reality of our own um of our own peace the kind of internal will that we can we manage to plate at the same time he says to Virgil but you are also in your valorization of the empire because the empire has brought about some order and laws into the world. So that's the argument and yet against Augustine he says if there were no laws and there were no laws of the empire then there would be no way of sheltering each and every one of us in case of the civil war. What makes the argument for the necessity of the empire is the reality of the civil war which really demands the presence of a transcendent institution that will manage to contain the violence of human beings. So you can see he agrees with Augustine and disagrees with Augustine. He agrees with Virgil and disagrees with Virgil. Virgil leaves no room for the internal the inner experiences of uh Christians. Uh on the other hand, Augustine leaves no room for the necessity of an outside structure that could uh order the appetites of human beings. The Kento though comes to an end with uh a little bit of an auto autobiographical uh portrait, autobiographical uh picture. Um uh this is now the emperor who praises a counselor. A counselor who has fallen into disgrace within this small the same pearl shines to the light of Romeo. Romeo Vilnerv a proven courtier who had the role of exactly of being the the a counselor for uh the prince whose great and noble work was illwarded. But the proviniles who wrote against him do not have the laugh. And indeed he takes a nil road who makes of another another's welloing a wrong to himself. Raymond Bellinger had four daughters, each of them a queen, a Romeo, a man of low birth, and the stranger did this for him. And when crafty tongues moved him to call to account this just man who rendered him seven and five for 10, Romeo left the poor left there poor and old. And if the world knew the heart he had begging this bread by morsels much as it praises him, it would praise him more. It is an oblique uh representation of Dant himself who has to end up begging and poverty for a morsel as he says out of the uh the the the selfishness of the political powers. But the the other final question I think it's underlies this whole whole kto that has to be raised is what is the relationship between dialectics and this representation of history? Why should Dante connect the two? Why in the heaven of logic let's say does he have to talk about history? Um and I think that the idea is that history itself um I think that his this is an encomium that ends up being not quite in a mitigated encomium. Uh it's also a critique of the empire that there is a reason within the empire and yet this reason doesn't quite justify all that the empire has perpetrated in history. And I think from this perspective, Dant is also forcing on us some perplexities about the nature of logic as an instrument of power as one that could justify all possible powers. So there's also a critique of uh of dialectics as much as that is a critique of uh of history. and we skip all together because I think it's a little bit more evident and you can if you read on your own uh you can see KTO 8 and nine the K of rhetoric and um rhetoric and love they are very nine especially very clear we move instead to the heaven of the sun which is a little bit 10 11 and 12 uh I don't know that I'll be able to finish all of KTO 10 but I want to start the discussion here we are in the heaven of the which is the the heaven of u the heaven of arithmetic numbers and here Dante goes on talking about one model of the trinity that I will describe to you uh in a moment uh Dante encounters the wise spirits the spirits of uh in fact we are going to see very soon uh there are two wheels of saints two garlands represented as two garlands of old men who hold themselves by the hand dancing around around the sun. It is the dance of wisdom if you wish. It is the the the you could call it you could also refer to it as a kind of reorganization of the encyclopedia. You may remember that I used this metaphor at the beginning of the cl of the course. uh this idea that the divine comedies tries to repropose a new circle of knowledge, a way in which things can really be known and and and the encyclopedia means uh the journey education is in a circle because you the mind moves around through the various arts and sciences. That's that's that's how you learn. That's you return to what you already knew from a different viewpoint and you see things uh things are new and it's uh but it's the heaven of the sun. Let me just go on a little bit with um with the Kanto and then we'll we'll try to bring out some of the the issues uh of uh uh Kanto 10 looking on his son with the love which the one and the other eternally breathe forth a primal and ineffable power made with such order all that revolves in mind or space that he contemplates it cannot but taste of him. He begins with a trinitarian representation. The father, the son joined together by the breath of love. This that was the idea of of the trinity which is a unity. That's the paradoxes of arithmetic or this theological arithmetic uh is a f an image of ficandity. uh God is being an image of love is generative of itself uh within his own uh unity and then Dante turns to us and that's the last time I believe that he turns to us readers and he tells us to be stargazers that's all that's all he's saying lift up thy eyes with me then readther to the lofty wheels directing them on that part where the one motion strikes the other and from a point take their pleasure In the art of the master who so loves it in his heart that his eyes never leaves it. See how from there the circle branches obliquely that beat bears the planets to satisfy the world which calls for them. He directs our eyes to an intersection of the ecliptic the equ the cosmic equator and the ecliptic. The ecliptic being a term that describes the the duro an annual movement of the sun you know. So where they meet that that crossing uh that that their exise there if their track were not as land etc. Stay now reader on thy bench thinking over this so which thou hast the foraste and thou shall have much delight before thou art weary have set before thee now feed thel for the theme of which I make the scribes bend to itself all my care. Why does Dante think of the trinity and the in the heaven of the sun? This is the simple question that we should ask. I have a passage that I want to read to you. It's taken from I think this is the it's taken from the the pseudo dionis. You may have heard of whom Dante will mention. It's a miss is a mystic. um um uh the uh and he writes in the in the on the divine names. He writes about the mystical hierarchy. Uh and and this will explain to you a little bit of the what is Dante's at this point semi- mystical theology semi- mystical idea of uh the trinity. Um this idea that knowledge has to be love. He begins with an idea of the trinity bound by love and that knowledge has to be love. Let me read this passage and maybe we can go from there. I call it a solar theology. Uh uh that is to say a a theology of the sun. A the not about the sun but solar. Theology is to be understood as the life of the sun itself as su su. Let me read this passage. Think this is from uh 693b on the divine names and following. Think of how it is with the sun. It exercises no rational process, no act of choice. And yet by the very fact of its existence, it gives light to whatever is able to partake of its light in its own way. So it is with the good. a classical comparison here of course of the sun with a good in the republic of proinus in the in the so on. So it is with a good existing far above the sun an archetype far superior to its dull image. It sends the race of its undivided goodness to everything with a capacity such as this may be to receive it. Such beings owe their presence and their uneclipsed and un diminished lives to this rays. They abide in the goodness of God and draw from it the foundation of what they are. Their coherence, their vigilance, their home, their longing for the good makes them what they are and confers on them their well-being. shaped by what they yearn for. They exemplify goodness and as the law of God requires of them, they share with those below them the good gifts which have come their way. uh I call it a solar theology in the sense that Dante is I think thinking of theology as or God or the trinity as a giving as a fountain not the Aristotian or um doistic or Augustian idea of causality. You know, we think of God as the one who imparts a cause or emotion to things or a beginning and then you have a teology. You have effects. The idea of the trinity here is one of an inexhaustible source that keeps giving and and gives to all and we are all part of this gift. This is the idea. Uh I think that Dant is getting this what I call the solar theology from a mystical text called the pseudo Dionis. Again not that he is a mystic but he indeed appears as one who is uh uh behind the rationalist facade of his thinking is aware of depths uh and other ways of thinking which are which are not those of the rational rational root. Um and let me just uh uh go from uh uh describe even more here what what happens with uh with this KTO 10. Um uh now uh Dante goes on seeing these two um uh these two these two garlands of uh saints. uh and uh uh this is uh uh let me read um um he meets Aquinus and let me read from this passage where he uh Aquinas will go on giving and naming the first uh encyclopedic this this movement of sages uh lines 100 and following where he says I was of the lambs of the holy flock that Dominic leads on the path where there is good fattening if they do not stray. He that is next beside me on the right was my brother and master Albert of Cologne and I am Thomas Aquinus. If thou would be thus informed of all the rest fall after my words with thine eyes going round the blessed wreath. The next flame comes from the smile of Grecian who served cannon law and civil law. The one and the other court so well that gives pleasure in paradise. The other who next adorns a choir was Peter who like the poor a widow offered his treasure to the holy the holy church. Then the fifth light which is the most beautiful among us breathes from such a love that all the world below hungers for news of it. Within it is the lofty mind to which was given wisdom so deep that if truth be true there never arose a second of such a vision. It's Solomon described through a circumlocution of as the fifth light and the fifth light because in numerical symbolism five stands for the natural number which is to say that Dante cast very difficult proposition Solomon as being naturally perfect having a kind of perfection of intellect it's a dangerous uh proposition in fact Dante will go on Aquinus will go on and can afford. Look, let me just explain what I said before because it's not quite true because the the the virtue intellectual virtue of Solomon consists in the fact that he knew what to ask for when he had to govern his people. He was the perfect king because he knew how what to ask. Do you understand why this would be a dangerous idea? If you believe that there is a perfection of the intellect in within the natural imminent sphere order where we live then it means that there is no need for revelation there is no need for intermediaries no need for redemption. If the if if nature the natural intellect is capable of ascending as it is claimed here for Solomon then the whole apparatus will collapse. Dante will not believe it and Aquinus will go back as dramatically actually in Kanto 13 saying let me just uh explain myself beside it is the light of the candle which below in the flesh was farthest uh etc. Uh this is uh this Augustine and then skip the body from which he was driven lies below in Chelaro. This is Butheus uh and he came from Martyrdom and exile to his peace. See flaming beyond the glowing breath of Isidor bead Richard of St. Victor who in contemplation was more than man. Line 132. Let me read this line because I think it's a little bit more interesting in the Italian than it is in English. in contemplation was more than man. The word Dante uses is not contemplation is consideration and it's a key word for Dante because consideration means the ethmology is that of moving with the stars. This is if the mind it's at its most perfect when it imitates the circulation and circularity of the stars. Consider uh it's also like desire by the way. Um this one from whom they look returns to me is the light of a spirit to whom in his grave thought death seems slow in coming. It is the eternal light of Cure who lecturing the street of straw demonstrated in vidious truths. The last one that Aquinus points out in this uh in this this circulation of wise spirits is one of a so-called heretic by the name of Cure of Brabant who was an aoist and was condemned for his averism. Whatever knowledge and whatever canonized knowledge we may have for Dante it includes figures who had been judged unworthy of knowledge or heretical but wrong and now they are retrieved. So the idea of knowledge is one that keeps changing. The idea of the cannon of knowledge keeps always expanding and including voices that had been rejected. Let me tell you more about this representation of seizure of Brabant. you understand he's an averist and we do know how does Dante go about other than just saying he's here how does he go about uh justifying his salvation uh Kento 10 from this point of view is retrospectively uh one that sheds light on Kento 10 of inferno where we also saw you remember the averists and the epicurans uh wido cavalcanti those who believed uh that the mind uh uh that love and knowledge never interact with each other, that the the that the mind uh uh goes rationality is darkened and dimmed by the intrusions of the passions, right? You remember? And that the mind is one that receives ideas from the outside all that that notion of uh of both the inertia of the will and the divisions within the mind itself. Danteau is is is correcting some of those views. So let's look a little bit at this metaphors in K through 10. This one from whom the look returns to me is the light of a spirit to whom in his grave thoughts death seemed low slow in coming. He was killed by the way by a madman and Dante writes a sonnet about him in um um around 12 uh 81 or so. It is the eternal light of Cure. So we know that he's saved who lecturing in the street of Stro demonstrated invidious truths. Dante gives the address of this man. He lectured a word that is uh has has a a certain value in the university language a university lexicon of the time. Uh lecturing is an activity that implies glossing just is the glossa of Aristotal. But he tells us where he lived in the s in the in the in the street of straw in Paris. A street that now is called by the way the the ru but is now called the rudante knowing that clearly the the Parisians are mindful of this passage. Uh Dante is placing Cure on the road on the way. He's giving us his uh his his uh his address, but he's telling us that his thinking takes place while he is on the road. You all know you all know that philosophy is always understanding itself as a journey, a method, an exodus, right? uh permenities or Aquinus who thinks about the five ways to reach the the ultimate truths about God. Here for Dante is a philosopher is on the way to uh theological certainty theological truths and theological knowledge and he demonstrated invidious truths. The Italian is syllogo made syllogisms out of uh or demonstrated rationally demonstrated invidious truths. What are these invidious truths? Invidious truths. I I I'm not sure that um all the translators would agree invidious truths have to be understood ethmologically. This is the canto where isidor of civil is present. the the the Isidor Seville being the arch ethmologist of the middle ages and that is showing how too we can play with ethmologist. You know Isidor of Seville is the one who believed that the whole of knowledge the all all we know the higher the the uh the compass of all knowledge can really be arrived at through ethmologizing language. language, the etimon of language, the origin of words will give us an access to the nature of reality. So language becomes a way of knowing the world. Dant indulges in the same activity calling the truths that Cure pursued invidious which ethmologically means those things those truths that cannot be demonstrated those truths that cannot be seen. Philosophy appears as an art of speculation that takes us on the way to a truth that it cannot quite have access to. What are these truths that sear of Braband sought access to um the the immortality of the soul? There's no way he would have known or even discovered that Aristotal is very doubtful about the im the individual immortality of the soul in the treatis on the soul. He tried to consider to view uh to to decide about uh the origin of the world. Cure believed that the universe is uh uh another one of those uh undemonstraable uh beliefs that the universe is eternal. Right? And this is an argument that so medieval thinkers and theologians engaged in. I have a rose on the one side and Aquinus who maintains that philosophically you really can believe and show that the universe is really uh is eternal but out of faith you can go on believing in creation that things have a beginning because if don't you don't think that things have a beginning then there's never a possibility of of of uh uh allowing for giving some ground and and and rooting the idea of your freedom your innovations that possibilities things can be different from you from what they were before and so on. The reason why Dante rescues seizure of Braband is a way for him though ultimately of thinking and making us think that whatever we believe that is knowledge it's never definite and it's always we are literally on the way and rethinking it and making it all the time uh an object of our own self-critique. This is not the only thing the only uh place where Dant is rethinking himself very soon uh around the notion of the trinity. Bonaventure will have to change his mind about a man a figure that I have mentioned before joiming of Flora in the next kanto the idea with a joistic interpretation of history. So he will uh we will we are going to have Kento 11 balancing off uh Kento uh Kento 10 and then it ends the Kento ends they're like a clock or an extraordinary image it's an image of time now but what I have to say is that you probably do not know that clocks mechanical clocks the way we still see them were the the a recent technological invention in the late 13th century which Dant is absorbing here. Uh then like a clock that calls us at the hour when the bride of God rises to sing mattens to the bridegroom that he may love her when one part draws or drives another sounding the chime with notes so sweet that the well ordered spirit swells with love. So I saw uh the glorious uh will move and render voice to voice with harmony and sweetness that cannot be known but there where joy becomes uh uh eternal. Uh uh and Dante is describing the songs of the eternal uh of the the the blessed souls in erotic uh in erotic uh erotic terms. So that what seems to be a can of pure knowledge ultimately becomes a love song too. And this is the um the whole trajectory of KTO 10. Let me stop here and see if there are some questions about these three three kantos uh which I'll be glad to to answer. They're a little bit abstract, but I think that they respond to genuine uh generally interesting historical problems at least. the question of allegory of at the beginning and just give a kind of a quick resume of what we we said in KTO 4 you have two issues you have the issue of allegory and the issue of the will um where Dante goes on uh explaining the mode of representation in paradise as a mode of accommodation to our limited faculty. And he thinks that this is really the mode of representation throughout uh the Bible uh the iconography of the church, the poem uh etc. which is a way therefore of talking about allegory in a slightly different form from from the the way he spoke of it in as you remember when I spoke of it but he was forc allowing us to do that in Kantton of inferno where we we had been talking about the allegory of poets allegory of theologians now there is no question that I think that there is really there is is no intrinsic difference between the two modes you remember that I used to talk about the allegory of theologian as being an allegory where the literal level is true and the allegory of poets as one in which the literal level is a fiction now I'm saying that both of them for that have a kind of metaphorical basis okay both the the and the relationship between the metaphor and the truth is of course it's it's certainly the language of a very similitude if not absolutely the truth and then the two the other issue about uh uh the will the limitations of the will um the conditional and absolute will. When we can come to Kento 6 of paradise, Dante shifts gear alto together and talks about history uh and the uh the framework of the empire trying to is it providential? I call it what is the rationality of the empire? But the act the real issue is is there such a thing as a providentiality of the empire? uh which he had maintained in um elsewhere in the poem and certainly in the in the text of Monarchia. Uh Dante concludes now seems to to have to expl give an apology for his belief in the empire uh by agreeing with and and siding with Virgil but at the same time giving a critique of the empire and acknowledging Augustine but manages to criticize both both Augustine and for different reasons and Virgil had not seen the whole truth. uh Virgil uh can go on into an abash loudio laudatory statements about the empire. Augustine can go on damning the empire but Augustine does not understand that if uh in with within the context of the civil war uh where where you know the realities where Gorso can turn against his sister Picarda where the Golves can go against the Gibblins where your own brother can be your enemy. That's that's really what it's about. uh then you do need some kind of law. You need an outside world uh an outside institution that can guarantee and protect uh the the uh yourself. The claim uh that salvation is only in the interiority of the soul which is Augustine's claim is not really sufficient for someone who as Dante who is involved in the public sphere and the public life. Uh I think that these are the two most important moments in Kento. Dante is moving beyond the the it's it's it's a poetic break takes place. He literally moves us beyond the the sunlight the daylight of the ordinary natural daylight. We move into a world now which is his own. And Dante starts raising the issue of uh uh knowledge as if to say that a new knowledge a new way of thinking now is necessary. Once you move beyond the ordinary boundaries of uh of the universe, you got to you start asking yourself what kind of knowledge do I need here? and he's rethinking therefore the the the whole relationship between truth or or knowledge and error heresies and knowledge uh the canonical uh certainties that Aquinus would have who now makes significantly enough a mistake about the fate of Solomon and seized of Braband. So that that seems to be the the argument that is running uh in this uh this canvas. He is forcing on us a different way of thinking and that different way of thinking begins with a redefinition of nothing less than the trinity. Uh not the idea of causality, not the idea of efficiency. You know the cow efficience is that's the way God is defined by Aquinas. That's the the way that August Augustine defines Aquinus. He writes a treatise on the trinity uh with the idea of God is causality. Dante adds doesn't exclude the others. It would be inconceivable that something as imponderable as the trinity could just have one formula to account for it. But he adds on to it that first definition of the trinity as a unity of love uh and the unity of ficande which I think is a mystical definition. The idea of God, the idea of creation as one of of participation of the creatures, the idea of God as being the source, the inexhaustible source of light, uh, and not just efficiency and not just, uh, tiology, movement, etc. And we shall see the implications of this as we go. Yes. I was just wondering why is it such a problem for Dante to imagine like a perfect natural intellect because Isn't the perfection of the will through and so why is it proposition to say that a man could have right uh the question a very good question uh is uh why does Dante find it so difficult to acknowledge the perfection of Solomon's intellect uh when after law in inferno and purgatory. We have had um some accounts of uh how the will is moved by the intellect and perfected by the intellect. Am I um paraphrasing you or actually repeating what you said I think but accurately? Um it's a very good question. It's really a complicated problem and and uh in fact I think that what you have uh um you you have to keep in mind how Dante talks about Solomon is that people on earth are so anxious because this was one of the most incredibly debated uh pro is he saved is Solomon saved he's the wisest you know that's what the Bible tells us is the wisest and we believe the Bible the middle ages argument we believe the Bible so he's the wisest, but he was also known as being the most leerous of kings. So big solution for Dante. Ah, forget about that. He's he's really uh uh the wisest. So he's saved. So that solves that particular issue of the relationship between love and knowledge. And I think that's a crucial point in for the way you are stating the issue because you're stating how in inferno and purgatory we have the will directed and reorganized by the intellect. Uh so you see there must be some kind of relationship between will and intellect. Dante here says the will was really uh uh was was a little bit was chaotic was disordered will. So we have only to judge him in terms of this majestic intellect that he has. In fact, he he was the most perfect of uh figures since Adam was created in the garden you know. Okay. So that's that's the first thing. But now let me come to the the crux of the matter here. If you believe that he had a intellect which was absolutely perfect, perfect intellect, then what you're really saying and this is the context of knowledge, a matheis, okay, the matheis, the word mathematics comes from that. And if you believe that, then you're really saying that philosophy is the way to come to the truth. You see what I'm saying? And if philosophy is the way to come to the truth, you don't really need theology or you really have to start thinking of theology as some kind of vulgar po some vulgar philosophizing as some kind of uh the poetry for for the masses for instance. you know, a kind of uh elitarian uh elit like view that keeps uh uh creeping up into in in in in the ways of thinking about theology and uh and and and philosophy. And if you believe that that philosophies the mode in fact now we have a correction of the philosophers immediately after with the presence of Cure because of course see the ambivalence Cure is justified and saved because his mind was a searching mind he's on the road he's the true philosopher he it's the method I was describing logic as a method that the Greek word that means way uh it's the the root uh you know the philosophers are on the root roses are on the way around the odyssey the odyssey of the soul that's really we call it Dantis says exodus this is an exodus clearly countering the idea of the philosophical root there's another another story another way of looking at journeys he's certainly involved in a journey a journey of the heart and a journey of the mind at the same time so once you you you go on uh seizure is on the so but there is there was no perfection He tried to demonstrate and look at the paradox invidious is to say truths that cannot be seen. I appeal to the ethmology of invidious. many translations and uh uh they say unwelcome truths you know I don't know what kind of translations actually I like my Sinclair who says invidious truths but many others translate that word invidious as unwelcome or the the truths that made him be scorned and hated by others because you know the the jealousy of philosophers uh is is a little bit in the background. He lost his life. Uh he was killed because of that. Uh but instead he is in in pursuit of truths which is you know the the aim of philosophy of all investigations philosophical investigations but cannot be demonstrated that cannot be seen. So there is a limitation of the philosophical road of the road of philosophy and indirectly the limitation of Solomon's perfect claim of he never claimed it but the the that he had a perfect intellect and in fact Aquinus who realizes what he has said he says no no no the the the w the wisdom of Solomon has to be viewed in his prudence for asking God that he be given the absolute put uh knowledge in the government of his people. So, it's a limited form of knowledge, but that was perfect. You see, it's maybe it strikes you as sophistry. Um, but I enjoy that. Okay. All right. Thank you so much.