Good morning. From the time of Julius Caesar, we have seen the rulers of Rome brag about building buildings that were bigger than any others in the world. You'll remember Caesar referred to his uh to his temple of uh Mars in that way that he was building the largest temple of Mars in the world. Uh and we also saw the same for dimmission with his palace on the palletine hill for Trajan with his enormous forum for uh Hadrien building the greatest the largest dome that had been built up until that time and as we discussed still the largest diameter dome in the city of Rome today and Hrien's villa at Tivoli just as a selection of examples. We are going to see today uh that if bigger was better, biggest is best. And in the case of the emperor Caracala uh an emperor who uh was a megalam megalomaniac in the in the tradition of Nero and dimmission that he built the largest imperial bath structure to date and we're going to be looking at that bath structure today. uh and we're going to see it is really a colossal and fascinating building in all kinds of ways. But before I get to that, in fact, we'll end uh with that bath structure today. Before I get to that, I would like to look with you at uh architecture in Rome in the second and third centuries AD. And we'll see that architecture is quite varied in terms of whether it's private, it's civic, uh it's alsoerary. I want to uh begin though by just reminding you of what we talked about last time. We looked at the city of Austia and we looked at the city of Austia, the port of Rome in its entirety. Once again, its public buildings, its civic structures, its commercial enterprises. And we also went at the very end of the lecture out to Eelisakra where the tombs uh of the of the of the of those who lived in in Aia were located. And I show you a couple of those again now on the screen. these brickfaced tombs, these tombs that are made of concrete at Eelisakra that were put up for the professionals, for the traders, the commercial uh merchants and so on that lived in the city of Austia. Uh they were made of brickfaced concrete construction. They had barrel vaults or groin vaults inside. Uh and you can see also that they were faced with brick. Uh and they were faced with brick as we discussed that was exposed. the idea of brick being attractive in its own right, a fa a a fabulously beautiful facing uh that they take advantage of in the 2 century AD uh and decide not to stucco it over as you can see so well here the doorways into those tombs uh surrounded by travertine jams and lentils the inscription in the center the small slit windows and then uh a pediment at the top uh we saw when we looked aterary architecture in the age of Augustus for example that it was very varied very varied py tombs in the shape of pyramids in the shape of circular tombs uh tombs that made reference to bakeries like the tomb of the baker urisses there is still a certain amount of variety in tomb architecture in the 2n century AD but they tend to hone in on one type in particular and that type is the so-called house tomb type which is exactly what we see here a tomb uh that is rectangular in shape, for the most part, box-like, uh, and does resemble very closely a house. This close relationship that we've talked about so many times this semester between houses of the living and houses of the dead. So, we looked at those last time. And where I want to begin today is just to demonstrate to you that these same kinds of house tombs that we see in Aia in Iselakra in the 2n century AD, we also see in Rome. uh and in some cases they are commissioned by individuals of comparable uh social status to those in Austia, but sometimes they are commissioned by the most elite. And I'd like to begin with an example of a similar tomb commissioned by the most elite. This is the so-called tomb of Anna Regilla in Rome. It was put up on the famous Viaapia or the Aian way. It dates to around AD 161. In this case, we know who the commissioner was. And I can show you what he looked like as well. You see him here on the right hand side of the screen. He was a man by the name of Herod's Attekus. I put his name on the monument list for you. Herod's Attekus. Uh Herod's Attakus was actually a Greek. He was Athenian from the Greek part of the empire. He lived in Athens for the most part. And he commissioned a very famous music hall in Odon, which still survives. Uh you can see it over here. It's without its roof today, but it was originally one of these roofed music halls in Odon. It is located on the slope of the Acropolis in Athens. The Acropolis that of course we know primarily for its great uh architectural feats of the fifth century BC in Greece. This is the Roman building put up by Herodis in the second century. Uh and we see it on the slope of the Acropolis very well preserved. In modern times, its greatest fame is the fact that Yanni uh performed his live at the Acropolis concert uh at the Odon of uh of Gria. And even if you of Herod's Attakus and even if you don't like Yanni, it's actually quite an interesting uh concert to view and one can view it uh in video and so on uh because uh it does uh take such wonderful advantage of this extraordinary uh ancient structure as Yiani presents his music. At any rate, uh, at one point, Herod's Attekus, who had a lot of, um, connections not only in Athens, but around the empire. At one point, uh, through those connections, he gets himself appointed a senator in Rome. And in order to take up that position, he needs to leave Athens uh, behind, uh, and go spend some time in Rome. And he and his wife Anna Regillaa set up house uh, in Rome. Uh Annie Regillaa unfortunately dies in Rome uh and he needs to bury her and he decides to bury her in Rome instead of in Athens. Uh and he builds for her a tomb on the on the Aian way on the Via Apia in around 161 AD. That's the day the date that we believe she died. Uh and we see uh a a a view of that uh of that tomb here. What we're looking at, and you probably recognize this already because we've looked at a number of models from this museum of Cass in Rome, the Museo de la Romana in Aayor in Rome. And I show you two views of this model of the tomb of Ani Regilla. One that we see from the front and another that we see from if we're facing the monument, the left side of the tomb. And these are extremely helpful uh because they give us a very good sense of what we are dealing with here. It is clear that we are dealing with a tomb type that is not that different from what we saw in Aia. Although this looks more like a temple than it looks like a house. Uh and you can see that right off. It looks exactly like a typical Roman temple. We see that it is on a high podium. It has a deep porch. It has a freestanding columns in that porch. It has a single staircase uh on the front of the structure. Has facade orientation. uh then an entrance way into the structure. It also has freestanding columns that support a pediment. So if I were to show you this uh and and not identify it and say to you what kind of a building is this, I'm sure you would have said it was a temple and you would have been right in the sense that it looks most like a temple, but it is a tomb in the form of a temple as you can well see here. Uh looking on the uh on the side of the monument, you can also see those same features that I've just described. And while uh we are looking at this view, because I'm not going to bring it back, I want to point out one detail that will loom large as we look further at at this structure. Uh you will see on the left side of the uh of the of the tomb that the architect has uh has created has kind of scalloped out uh the side uh on either side creating niches tall niches on on the side and placed columns into that space which is a very unusual thing to do. It's not true on the other side of the monument only on this side of the structure. Uh why has the architect done that? I think it might have something to do with the sighting perhaps how you viewed it from the street. Maybe it was skewed in such a way that you would see not only the facade but also the side and he wanted to emphasize the uh the um the the the columns on that particular side of the structure. But it may also have just had to do with with a quirk with this particular interest that the uh that the architect or the patron had in doing something different uh than any other tomb. And I want to return to that point in a moment. But most significant of all is that in terms of the building technique, the use of concrete faced with exposed brick. This is exactly what we saw in Austia. Uh and you can see that just as in Austia they have taken that brick as far as it can go in terms of its aesthetic value uh by uh respecting the texture of the brick, playing that texture off uh playing color, different colored bricks, a reddish brick against a more yellowish uh colored brick, playing those off against one another uh and then adding certain very highly decorative decorative details uh like a meander pattern that we're going to see in a moment. uh and decoration around the windows of the tomb uh done in stucco. The columns however are marble. The columns are marble and in that sense again something somewhat different than what we saw at AIA. This is a view of the tomb as it looks today. The porch is not well preserved and I can't show you any of that but I can show you the rest of the structure and you can see it quite well in this particular view. And again you see that it is indeed well preserved. concrete construction faced with brick, the brick left exposed, uh, respected and, uh, enjoyed in its own right. What I've already described, the playing off of one color of brick against another, this meander pattern done in stucco, uh, the stucco decoration, very elaborate decoration as we're going to see uh, around the windows. Tall podium, we see that here as well. Uh, an extraordinary structure. And what's interesting I think to note uh at least culturally and in terms of social status is the fact that although this structure was put up for one of the most wealthy men uh in or the wife of one of the most wealthy men in Rome at this particular time, the general aesthetic is very similar to what we saw for professional people in the city of Aia. that is a concrete tomb in the form of a house or a temple in this case uh that is co that that has as its facing brick and a respect for that brick in its own right. Here are a couple of details. I show you once again a detail of the warehouse or the ora epigana at Austia that we looked at and also a detail of the tomb of Anna Regilla in Rome. And I think you can see here what I mean. Again, the different coloration of brick, the yellowish brick, the reddish brick played off one against the other, the use of a stucco decoration in this case uh for the voluutes of the composite capitals. Uh in this case, and in fact, in fact, you'll remember I pointed out what was interesting about these capitals at the warehouse was that they were that the brick was used to make up the main body of the uh of the capital. And this is not one of them but I also showed you one where you could see uh the way in which that brick formed the actual aanthus leaves of the capital and then the voluutes added in stucco. We see the same thing at the tomb of Anna Regilla. We see those and here I think you can see it well. The brick used to create the lower part of the aanthus leaves and then stucco added for the curving part and for some of the additional decoration the flower and so on up above. Uh and so we see and here again very elaborate decoration around the windows which we also saw at uh the um warehouse in Austia. Two more details of the tomb of Ana Regilla. Here you see what I was talking about before, the way they the architect has scooped out uh two areas on the left side of the of the tomb and placed the columns inside of those which is a unique I don't know of any other example of this in Roman architecture. And it underscores once again that when it came to tomb architecture uh that the uh that the patron could pretty much do whatever he wanted as long as the architect could build it. It could it could be quite idiosyncratic as a form of architecture. And we see not only has he scooped out these air niches in which to place the columns, but if you look at those columns very carefully and at the bases of those columns, you will see that they are not round. They are multi-sided. Uh and the bases are also multi-sided. So doing something very unique uh in the context of this particular tomb uh of Annie Regillas. So you know two main points. one that there is clearly an aesthetic that is used for tomb architecture, concrete faced with brick uh that is used in the uppermost levels of Roman society and then further down in Roman society not only in Rome but also in Austia uh but at the same time uh individuality eccentricity is valued in tomb architecture allowed in tomb architecture in a way that perhaps it isn't in other forms of Roman architecture and we see it taken to its limit in this particular building. Just a few more details. We see a niche from the tomb of Anna Regilla. We also see here both the meander pattern and this very elaborate decoration around the windows. Uh a frame around the windows and then a projecting element up above with these great spiral voluutes on either side. Very similar to the same sort of thing that was happening at AI. Reminds you of the niche in the courtyard of the Ora Epigiana. the warehouses at Austia where you see the same sort of thing. Uh these uh stucco pelasters added in stucco, the brick work creating uh triangles and lozenes as you can see here. Same idea over here in the tomb of Ana Regilla. And if you look very closely at the pediment that is located above the niche from the tomb in Rome, uh you see the projecting in tableabures. You see where the co the capitals would have been. There would also have been either col probably columns added here on either side of the niche making it look much more similar to here. But look closely at the pediment. You will see that there is projecting and tablete on ei above each column. But then in the center the triangular pediment is cut back. uh and that playing around with the traditional vocabulary of architecture is something that I've noted is going to be a part of what we call the Baroque trend in Roman architecture. I'm going to devote an entire lecture to the Baroque trend in Roman architecture around the empire, not just in Rome, but mostly in the provinces. And we'll see that same sort of thing, which creates a kind of inn-out uh lively uh movement to the uh to the facade uh that is part of uh that approach. the tomb itself again. Uh and just to point out, interestingly enough, uh a couple of female figures with uh capitals on their on the top of their head or what look like maybe more like voses on the top of their head uh but looking very much like kotted like the carids we saw uh from the Eric Theon in Athens fifth century BC from the forum of Augustus and from Hadrien's villa around the cereapum. Uh they are not they are not duplicates of those in Athens like the other two are uh but they do seem to make reference to them. They're a bit more casual. When I look at these this pair, they always look to me like they're kind of standing at a cocktail party together and conversing uh with one another using the usual gestures that Italians are so famous for. Uh we see them doing that sort of thing here. But even but they do seem to have that same pedigree going back to the whole idea of the karats and I only mention it to you. They were found right near this tomb. And so it has been speculated, although it is by no means certain that they might have belonged to the tomb. They might have been located in front of the tomb or been some kind of four part of some kind of four court or four space uh to that tomb. It's pure conjecture, but it would be interesting if it were the case because remember Herod's attus comes from Athens. Uh we see that the tomb is a thoroughly Roman tomb of the 2 century AD. Uh but it would be interesting to think that he might have added some touches that might have made some reference uh for him and also especially for his wife whose tomb it was uh to the Athens of his uh of his um birth. With regard to tomb interiors in the 2n century AD in Rome, there are two major types and I want to treat both of those today. One of them is a type uh that we've seen before and that is where you stuckco over the interior of the tomb or where you stuckco it over and then you add uh additional stucco in relief to uh form the decoration and then you paint it. Uh that's one type. And the second type uh which might also use that for the vault but for the walls. The second type is to use instead architectural members columns uh pediments and the like to enliven the wall uh and to create a much more sculptural effect. Both of these types are used in Rome in the 2n century AD in tomb architecture and I want to show you examples of both of them today. The first type one uh with stucco painted stucco we see in the so-called tomb of the valeri the tomb of the valeri which dates to around AD 159 and is located on the via latina in in Rome. We haven't looked at the uh Vil Latina before uh but it is one of Rome's main streets that had along it a cemeteries and there are a fair number of concrete tombs faced with brick that are preserved very very well preserved on the Via Latina today and what makes them particularly special is the interiors are are are almost pristine. It's quite extraordinary to go into these and see how how well they have stood the test of time. the tomb of the Valyri. You see the lunette and the vault of the interior of that tomb right here. Uh and uh as you look at the aanthus leaves growing up in the uh in the lunette all done in stucco relief and the barrel vault with its individual compartments round and square compartments with floating figures inside. Uh you should certainly be reminded of things we've already seen before. When one looks at the ecanthus leaves, one can't help but think back to the delicate leaves of the arropus, the delicate aanthus leaves of the arropus agusti which you see on the left hand side of the screen. And I'm sure you are as reminded as I am looking at this uh vault by other things that we have seen earlier this semester. What's this over here? The domisaria. It's one of the vaults of the doisaria. third style uh done we believe by fabulous himself uh and you'll recall very delicate very light floral motifs compartments in this case rectangular with floating sea creatures in the center we see exactly the same sort of thing here although done in stucco instead of paint but this was painted originally in antiquity and we see these floating these nurads on the back of sea creatures uh in inside floating inside these and we think the message here of course is of the uh soul of the deceased being carried to the aisles of the blessed uh by these sea creatures. So very much stucco decoration 2 century AD but very dependent on third style uh Roman uh wall painting and third style uh uh stucco decoration of earlier dates. Uh the tomb of the pancrati in Rome which dates to 169 also on the via Latina has similar similarly wellpreserved stucco decoration also painted and I'll show you a color view in a moment for you to get a sense of that coloration. Uh but here you get an idea of the scheme of the wall very very uh elaborate uh stuccoed over stucco. Much of the stucco is done in relief. You can see it here. If the uh if the stucco decoration of the tomb of the valeri made reference to the third style, I think the inspiration here was fourth style uh Roman wall painting and stucco decoration. Uh because although you continue to see floating mythological figures in these rectangular or triangular compartments, if you look very closely, especially in this zone here, you will also see these architectural cages done in stucco. very similar to the architectural cages that we saw uh at the top of fourth style Roman wall design. So this taking its cue from forest style Roman wall painting and I had mentioned to you a couple of times already this term that in fact most pompean most post-pompean painting and stucco decoration post 79 AD does seem to be inspired by the third style but even more so by the fourth style of Roman wall painting. And we see that very well here with the stucco uh uh decorating the lunettes and also the vaulting. Here's a view in color of the interior of the tomb of the Ponrati. Uh where you can see the same sort of scheme that I've already described but with the color. Uh and you can also see that we are dealing here with a groin vaulted interior. And uh what's interesting is that sometimes the walls have a small uh niches for urns and the so-called arcasi I've mentioned those to you before that were used for the placement of bodies. once inhumation uh became as popular indeed even more popular than cremation. But we also sometimes see uh the sarcophagy themselves, the freestanding coffins uh located in these tombs as we see here. And it's interesting to keep in mind that all of the money and time that was expended on this interior decoration, keep in mind that very few people entered into these tombs. When you looked at a tomb, you saw primarily its exterior. some family members on special occasions might go inside, but it was relatively rare. So, all of this all of this done in fact to give uh the the deceased uh a a a pleasant home in perpetuity and to help them on their journey to the aisles of the blessed. This this structure also has sea creatures uh depicted in it. So travel is clearly also alluded to and scholars who have worked on this particular monument in particular have uh noted that they think it has to do with one of these secret mystery religions in this case the orphic o r h i the orphic uh religion that was practiced uh in secret initially and then eventually came up above ground. Two more details of the ponrati ceilings in stucco. These I think give you a particularly good sense of the way in which they were built up almost as reliefs in some parts of the scenes. This uh this figure here for example uh some of the rest was painted. We see heraldic leopards over here on either side of a vase. The shell in the niche also done in stucco and raised in a very sculptural way and then the whole painted in a variety of attractive maroons and blues and greens. The most interesting tomb from my point of view actually uh is uh a tomb that is located a Roman tomb of the second century that is located beneath the Vatican uh today. And I show you a view again of the dome of St. Peter's Cathedral in Rome designed by Michelangelo himself. Another view over here showing also Micholangelo's dome but showing below it uh the so-called baldino uh that was put up by the famous 17th century Italian architect Boramini Franchesco Boramini uh the uh the Cathedral of St. Peters and any of you who've been there uh will agree with me on this is one of the great wonders of the world. There's no question it is. If you want to talk about bigger is better or biggest is best. This is a truly uh colossal building as any of you who have been there know. Uh but it does give me occasion to mention as I've mentioned a couple of times already this term that one of the really great things to do when you visit Rome is to climb things. Is to climb if you're so lucky to climb the column of Trajan or the Pantheon up to the dome. Those you have to get special permission to do. But what you don't need special permission to do and one is it and is one of the great climbs in Rome is to go up St. Peters. And you can go up St. Peters either on the outside of the building uh to various levels from which you can see some of the greatest views of Rome including back over central Rome, ancient Rome, all the buildings that we've been talking about. You can see the Dome of the Pantheon from the top of St. Peter's. You can see the Victor Emanuel monument, tall and proud uh from the dome of St. Peter's. But you can also climb up to the to the dome from the inside uh which is another extraordinary experience. You can go almost not quite but almost to the apex of Michelangelo's dome, walk around a corridor uh there and look down on uh Bernini's Baldakino. So uh for those of you who are going to Rome anytime soon or in the future, uh it's a it's a not to be missed experience to climb uh the uh Cathedral of St. Peter's on the outside and also uh on the inside. I bring you to St. Peter's because uh with one can also go down underneath St. Peters and that's another very interesting experience to go down in the depths uh beneath St. Peters and get a really great sense of the centuries of civilization that have been piled one on top of another from ancient Rome or from the time of Romulus indeed all the way up to today. Uh, and in order to see the tomb of the Kitani, which is the tomb that I want to turn to now, you do have to go down underneath St. Peter's, you have to, this is something you can't just walk it. You can climb, you can climb St. Peters any day of the week. But if you want to go underneath St. Peters, you have to make special arrangements. Uh, you have to get special tickets to do that. And now, one can do that online. You can plan that online. Uh, and you can get tickets to go to the so-called Vatican cemeteries uh underneath uh underneath. and they don't have them. They have a small number of hours on on a variety of days. So, it is something one needs to plan for well in advance. But you can do it. You go to the left of the Baldino. You go down and you you go down century upon century. You see primarily the tombs of the popes, uh the crypts with the tombs of the popes. And I show you Pope Bonaface here uh just to give you an idea of what some of these look like lying uh in eternity here on the top of his uh sarcophagus or a a sculptured portrait of him on the top of his sarcophagus. But if you go all the way down all the way down and most tourists don't do this, but if you go all the way to the bottom, what you end up with is one of Rome's great tomb streets. Uh and this tomb streetet was out in the light of day of course in antiquity like all the other tomb streets but because uh of the passage of time because uh other buildings that were built on top primarily the Cathedral of St. Peters uh and just the the rising ground level over time it now is a it is subterranean but when you it's amazing you go down you walk along it it is like you are I mean it's a dark street uh but nonetheless I wouldn't want to I wouldn't want to record that in that uh in that street uh but uh you go down under it's a dark street uh but it is you feel like you are walking along a major uh tomb street in Rome and indeed you are and I show you a plan of it here so that you can see it is very much like walking along the tomb street in Isaac. You see at your left and right uh these uh these concrete brickfaced tombs uh that look very much like the tomb of Ani Regilla or the ones that we saw in Eelisakra. Uh typical house tombs of the 2n century AD. One of those one of the tombs that is located down there has long been thought by scholars and believers uh to be the tomb of St. Peter. uh no one has been able to prove this incontrovertibly but there is fair you know there is some interesting evidence both pro and con uh and it has been thought and you know uh Peter's f famous uh statement uh you know upon this rock I shall build this church namely the church of St. Peters uh we believe uh that when Constantine the last pagan emperor and we're going to talk about him in the last lecture this semester when Constantine built the first basilica Christian Basilica on this site the basilica that we referred to as old St. Peter's that obviously predated New St. Peter's uh he he he we think he may have built it on that very rock and on that very tomb of St. Peter. And that's what this uh restored view shows you here. If you walk along though and look at these tombs, for the most part, they look like typical Roman tombs from the second century. Brick-faced concrete construction uh with interesting decoration inside. And I show you just the most famous mosaic that is located down there, which you see is a figure in a chariot. We think it's a representation of the sun god Saul or Helios in the chariot because you can see the raid crown. But some believe it is a a representation of Christ as Helios. And I show it to you only because it is the single most famous mosaic down there and one of the most famous mosaics in Rome, but also because it heralds what we're going to be be happening especially in the last lecture and that is this transition from paganism to Christianity in Rome. Constantine being the last pagan first Christian emperor and this interesting way in which uh pagan imagery allides into Christian imagery both in terms of of figural decoration but also in terms of architecture. I can't because it's so poorly lighted down there. I can't show you uh the uh a good picture of the tombs uh beneath St. Peters, but I can show you another set of tombs uh beneath a that are that are very well lighted and can be photographed better uh beneath a uh calarium, an underground catacomb, actually an underground burial area that was used by the early Christians in Rome. And you see it's called you you don't have to worry about it's called the church of San Sebastiano. And these uh these tombs are underneath that, but I showed them to you here just to give you a sense of what that tomb street looked like. uh underneath the Vatican or looks like underneath the Vatican with the concrete brick-faced tombs looking very similar to those we saw at EA Lisakra. The same uh same travertine door jambs, inscriptions, slit windows. And if you look through the entrance way of this one, you will see it's barrel vaulted and it has a scheme that is very similar uh to the stucco decoration of the tomb of the Valeri with these circles uh done in raised stucco and with the floating uh figures in between them. And this is exactly what it looks like beneath the Vatican. I can show you some views of the interiors of some of the uh Vatican tombs because those have lights in them. They're better lighted. Uh you can see them here. We see this interesting combination that we also saw at eelisakra of the smaller niches that are used for uh urns and the larger archolia that are used for the placement of bodies. And then you can see in this view on the right the way in which they have closed off those archolia by placing uh marble plaques on them that either have inscriptions or sometimes figural scenes. And then again here a freestanding sarcophagy on these interiors as well. This is an axonometric view from Ward Perkins of the tomb of the kitane. It dates to 160 AD in the Vatican cemetery in Rome. And I think you can see here uh both the brickface concrete construction uh the way in which the windows have similar stucco decoration to what we saw on the tomb of Anna Regilla on the via in Rome. But most interesting for us is the way in which the interior is treated because this is my type two. uh here we we will see some stucco but you will see here that the walls are enlivened in a different way. They are uh enlivened through architectonic means through the use of columns, through the use of niches, through the use of pediments, triangular pediments uh but also broken triangular pediments. Here you see a pediment that has been split apart. Triangular pediments split apart to to show what is inside. This is the same scheme that we saw in second style Roman wall painting way back when. this whole idea of taking the traditional vocabulary of architecture and uh and and u dealing with it in a very different way than had been done before, breaking the rules uh so to speak. We see that happening here. But the main thing is that we're looking at at at these this designer using architectural members uh to create the visual interest of the walls of the structure. You can also see in this axinometric view this combination of uh small niches for incinerary urns and then these larger archolia uh for the body. So cremation and inumation still going on hand in hand uh during the 2n century AD. This is a spectacular view of the interior of the tomb of the kitane. And here you can really see what I mean. Yes, there is some stucco. If you look at the vaults, you will see that those that there this is again a groin vault that has been stuckcoed over uh and uh and uh it has the same kind of it had the same kind of compartments and uh painted decoration, relief decoration that we saw uh in the tomb of the ponrati. But you can see that most of the effects have been done through architectural means. If you look carefully, you will see that there's a black and white mosaic on the floor. Not so different from what we see in Austia. Uh there are niches on the walls. These niches used for the cinerary urns, arcasolia down here for uh the bodies. Uh but uh and there are stucco decoration and the use of the shells that you can see here. But if you look very carefully at the combination of sort of maroon and cherry red walls, you will see the remains of the architectural members that served to enliven this space. Look up here. You will see that there was a triangular pediment over the central niche. uh you can see parts of the broken triangle triangular pediments on either side. You can see the remains of capitals and beneath those would have been the projecting columns that we saw in the axonometric view in Ward Perkins. So this again the second type where the walls are enlivened with architectural members and those architectural members when intact would have created a scheme in which you had progression recession progression recession all along the wall. This in-n-out scheme that we're going to see becomes the hallmark of what I'm going to term here this semester the Baroque element in Roman antiquity in Roman architecture. All of these buildings were being put up during the reign of Hadrien's successor. Hadrien had died uh in uh 138 AD and he was succeeded by a man by the name of Antoninus Pas whose portrait you see here on the upper right. Antoninus Pas again uh was uh he reigned for a quite long time. He uh reigned between 138 and 161 AD. It was a period of extraordinary peace. He like Hrien was a peaceloving man. he was able to maintain that peace exceedingly well and Rome really thrived uh under his emperorship. He's also interesting because he seems to have had more of a a love relationship with his wife than any other Roman emperor that I can think of. uh a relationship that was so strong that when his wife died, he became emperor. Here's his wife Fina the Elder. When he became emperor in he became emperor in 138, but she died already in 141. And as I mentioned, he stayed emperor for until 161. So he was emperor for 20 more years after her death. He never forgot her. He stayed in he stayed, you know, completely enamored of her. He never remarried. We don't even have any any any any rumors that he had any concubines or anything like that. He seems to have stayed completely true uh to her. And uh what's interesting is that uh when the two of them died, their successors Marcus Aurelius and Lucius Veres put up a monument to them. And it's not on your monument. Listen, I'm not holding you responsible for it, but I just want to show it to you because it will illuminate a monument that I am going to show you in a moment. uh this this uh base which would which served as the base for a pfery column that was located on top. Uh it represents a scene in which we see uh Antonus Pas and his wife Fina the Elder being carried to heaven on the back of a male personification. We see Roma in the bottom right and she is saluting them. She is bearing witness to what is a representation of their joint divonization. The two of them, Fina the Elder, divonized at her death in 141. Antonyinus pious divonized at his death in 161. And yet we see them being carried to heaven as if their divonizations happened exactly at the same time. This is obviously a fiction. It is conflation of time. Uh it is a fiction of which the Romans were particularly adept in their sculptural uh representations. Uh but I show it to you here because it has some bearing on uh a temple that I now want to talk about. This is the so-called temple of Antonyinus Pas and Fina the Elder. It is a temple that Antonyinus Pas put up in honor of his wife in 141 uh to her as a diva after she was divonized. uh but at his own death 20 years later in 161 his successors again Marcus Aurelius and Lucius Varys uh rededicated it to the two of them to the divine antinus pious and to the divine Fina. It is quite well preserved today and it is important for two main reasons. It is important because it is our best surviving temple that was put up to an emperor and an empress. It wasn't the only one, but it's the best surviving example of that. Uh, and it is another example of the way in which antiquities are reused over time uh in other contexts and and at later times and how that reuse sometimes helps to preserve them. What I show you now on the screen uh is a coin on the upper left uh representing Fstaina the elder on the obverse of the coin on the left her portrait and it refers to her as diva Fina. So it is a coin that Antonyinus Pas struck after her death and after her divonization and we see on the back the temple that Antonus Pas originally made in her honor. Over here we see a series of sketch of drawings that come from the Ward Perkins textbook that show once again a depiction of that original temple on the on the coin and with a legend that says its for eternity because now she is a diva for eternity. Uh and then a restored view over here of what the temple would have looked like after it was rededicated to Antonyinus and Fostina in 161. And then over here uh the Baroque building uh that was built into it in the 17th century AD when it was turned into the church of San Lorenzo in Miranda and I put the name San Lorenzo in Miranda on your monument list. If we look at the view of it as it was after it was rededicated to Antonyinus Pius in Fina, we will see a typical Roman temple. uh all the features that we have described so very often in the course of this semester. The deep porch, the freestanding columns in the porch, the very tall podium, uh the single staircase, the facade emphasis. Uh we see all of that uh here very a very t a very conventional Roman temple with sculpture in the pediment and uh decoration on the eaves of the temple as well. What we see in the bottom left is what happened to this temple in the 17th century. Part of it was preserved. Uh maybe more of it was preserved. We're not absolutely sure, but at least part of it was preserved. The walls, the sidewalls uh and also the columns and the um the front of the well the sidewalls primarily and the columns and the uh the lintil over here that has the inscription that dedicates the temple to Antonyinus Pas and Fina. But what you see behind it is the Baroque facade rising up. A Baroque facade that has buttresses. And I'm going to show it to you in actuality in a moment. That has buttresses on either side that has this wonderful split arcuated pediment. A split arcuated pediment that would have been impossible to conceive I believe without these architects, Baroque architects of 17th century looking back uh to the Baroque element in Roman antiquity. The cross is is added in the center of course, but there's one major difference between this building and this building. Does anyone see what that is? Besides the addition of the Baroque facade, what a little louder. The podium. Exactly, Emily. Right. The podium is not there. The podium is not there. The staircase is not there. Why is that, Emily? I don't know if it's because yes yes the ground level has risen so that at the time that they decide to turn the temple of Antonitis Pas and Fina into San Lorenzo in Miranda this is where the ground level is there's no podium anymore the podium is completely underground as are part of the columns we see only the part of the col so they put the door at the at the bottom of what is the bottom at that particular time. Now, let me show you the building today. It's very well preserved. So, you see what I mean by the best preserved uh monument to the best preserved temple to an emperor and an empress in Rome. Extremely well preserved. You see its location is in the Roman forum uh with the backdrop of the imperial fora behind it. The forum of Augustus, forum of Trajan in the Roman forum. prime real estate for this temple when Antonyinus pious decides to build it to his wife. We see here the original podium, the original staircase, the original columns, gray granite columns, white uh marble capitals. We see the original lintil with the inscription still preserved to divine antinine pious to divine fina. We see the original uh tufa walls of the side. We see the lintil on this side that also has a freeze that is preserved from antiquity. And then we see growing up behind it the 17th century Baroque church with uh its buttresses and with its broken uh arcuated pediment. And if you look very carefully, you will see this is this was ground level in the 17th century. This is the 17th century door. This is the ancient door down here. Here, I'll show you a couple of views where you can see that even more clearly. Here's another view showing you those great gray granite columns, the white capitals, the uh 17th century door, and then down here the ancient door uh which shows you more dramatically than anything else I've been able to show you this semester. This change in ground level. And two more views uh that I took that show you the same here, the 17th century door. So you have to think of all of this underground in the 17th century and though then only in more modern times uh was the uh was the temple excavated temple and church excavated down uh to their original level. Here's another view showing you again the 17th century doorway, the earlier doorway, the staircase, a little baby down here, which I was happy to have for scale. Uh gives you a sense once again of how and that makes it even more dramatic because I don't know if it's a he or she. Um she she uh sit sitting there uh that she uh it makes it even more dramatic to demonstrate to you again. This is a lecture on bigger is better that this temple to Antonyinus and Fina was also very very also is very very large in scale. When Antonyinus pious died uh in 161 he was succeeded by Marcus Aurelius and Lucius Varys. Marcus Aurelius one of the most famous of the Roman emperors the great stoic philosopher and you see him in a portrait here. You see Lucius Varys on the left hand side. The two of them uh were co-emperors between 161 and 169. Uh Lucius Verus died in battle in 169. Marcus Aurelius continued on alone until the year uh 180 AD. So he too had a very long reign. Marcus spent most of his reign however on the front. During the period that he was emperor uh the barbarians were literally at the gates. There was concern that they were going to in fact overrun the city completely, overrun the empire completely and he had to spend most of his reign on the frontiers. Uh and he did uh beating back those barbarians. For that reason, there was very little architectural construction. Even though he had a very long reign, there was very little architectural construction during the time of Marcus Aurelius uh because of uh the time that he had to spend in war. He was succeeded by his son Comeodus whose portrait you see down here. Uh Cometus in the line also in the in the megalomaniacal line of Nero and Demission a man who saw himself as a god on earth who saw himself as the Greek hero Hercules. He called himself self Hercules Romanus and we see him in his most famous and most fabulous is about one of the best portraits preserved from ancient Rome. It's in the capital line museums today. And you see him masquerading here as Hercules uh with his uh with the um lion skin around his head holding the club, holding the apples of the Hisperities, demonstrating that he has completed that last labor just as Hercules had done and is going to become a god in the manner of Hercules. He used to parade around in Rome openly in this way and actually struck coins showing himself as Hercules Romanus just to get give you a sense of how extreme it was and he was always challenging people to uh to um to to to hand-to-hand combat and in fact he eventually got his comeuppance because although he himself also reigned for quite a while between 180 and 192 so he lasted for 12 years but nonetheless even his closest uh his closest adviserss eventually turned turned against him uh and plotted behind his back and arranged for the most one of the most famous uh gladiators of the day, Narcissus, interestingly called Narcissus, uh to to uh take up Comeodus' uh Cometus' offer to fight anybody who wanted to fight him in the coliseum. Uh and of course he thought that being emperor protected him and that he he like Nero who fixed the Olympic games in his favor that that uh that Commodus would also never lose in a contest like this because he was by definition emperor. Uh but his advisers turned against him let let narcissist loose and Cometus was slain by Narcissus in the coliseum. Uh but he did I I do want to just mention and only in passing Commodus did put up a column to his father Marcus Aurelius. uh that is based very closely on the column of Trajan in Rome. I'm not going to go into it with you today because the architectural complex in which it was originally found no longer survives but I just wanted you to be aware uh that the column of Trajan was succeeded by the column of Marcus Aurelius. I want to however turn for the rest of the lecture uh to a new dynasty that came to to the four after the end of the so-called Antonine emperors. When Commodus died, there were no more antinines to succeed him and Rome once again fell into a civil war and there were rivals waring with one another for supreme power. And the man who came to the four was a man by the name of Pertinax. P R T I N Ax. Uh but he had other rivals and one of them was the man who eventually really came on out on top and his name was Lucius Septimus Severis. Lucius Septimia Severis was within that year between 92 and 93 able to get rid of not only Pertinax but other rivals and become supreme ruler of Rome and because he like Vespasian before him had two sons to succeed him Caracala and Ga he was able to set up a new dynasty the so-called sever what we call the sever sen the sever dynasty in Rome the sever dynasty in Rome extremely important because Septimius Severis commissioned some important structures both public structures and private. He was an interesting emperor because he combined an interest in the two and then his son Caracala uh who epitomizes as I began today the whole bigger is better or biggest is best uh philosophy in life and in architecture. I want to show you first just to introduce you to these two patrons uh this wonderful painted tando uh that is preserved from Rome. It was it was found excuse me not in Rome but in Egypt and is now in the museum a museum in Berlin. But it is important because it is our only surviving painting of an emperor and not only an emperor but an emperor and his whole family, his wife and his children. The only surviving painting of an emperor today. Uh but there were obviously many of these in antiquity. It's a fascinating painting. We see Septimus Severis with his gray hair and beard and his wonderful jeweled crown. We see his wife Julia Dna who by oh and by the way I neglected to mention but one of the interesting things about uh about Septimius Severis's biography is the fact that he was born not in Rome and not in Spain as Trajan and Hadrien had been but rather in North Africa in a place called Leptus Magna. L P t I s new word M- a gna in Leptus Magna. born in North Africa. He hooked up with a woman from Syria uh whose name was Julia Dna. She was the daughter of an important priest in Syria called Basianis. Uh she was famous in Rome for her wigs. She used to wear wigs and you can see her wearing one of her wigs in this wonderful painted portrait. She also clearly liked jewelry because you can see her with these fabulous uh triple pearl earrings and a wonderful uh pearl necklace uh here also uh looking very vibrant uh in this portrait. And then the two of them with their sons, their elder son Caracala over here and their younger son or what remains of him Ga on the left. uh Ga and Ga and Carakala succeeded their father together as co-rulers but uh Caracala very jealous of his brother who was much more popular with the Roman populace than Caracala himself was and Carakala eventually had his brother murdered and after his brother was murdered he uh he convinced that is Carakala convinced the Roman Senate to issure issue a damnatio memoriali or a damnation of the memory of Ga And an attempt was made to eradicate Gada from history by eradicating him from art. And you can see that he was snuffed out. His face was removed on this. But then it was left to stand to show the power that Caracala had to destroy uh his brother. As you can see here, this gives you a a glimpse into the mind and psyche of uh Carakala. I want to show you first though two buildings. Before we look at the BS of Caracala, uh I do want to show you two buildings uh of of Septimia Severis, a public building. First, the so-called arch of Septimius Severis in the Roman Forum and then an extension to the Palatine Palace. The arch of Septimius Severis in the Roman forum dates to AD 203 and it commemorates uh the Parthion victory of Septimius Severis. Septimus Severis I already mentioned to you came to power in a civil war. So like Augustus and like Vespasian before him, he needed to gain legitimacy by having an important foreign victory. And he does this by looking east as Augustus had done before him, looking to Partha uh and does war with Partha and in fact has an important victory and celebrates that important victory in this triumphal arch that is put up in his honor in 203 AD in once again the choices spot of real estate in Rome. the uh forum Romanum, the Roman Forum. I show you a Google Earth view over here. We've seen this one before, so you've undoubtedly got this one memorized by now. This Google Earth image of the Roman forum as it looks today with the coliseum up there with the Vadeori imperiali imperial fora over here. The circus moximus the palletine hill the compodio capine hill is redesigned by Micholangelo. The wedding cake of Victor Emanuel. Here between uh the compadio and the coliseum we see of course the remains of the ancient Roman forum much lower ground level than the modern ground level. Uh you'll recall uh the location of the temple of Venus in Roma just underneath the coliseum of the arch of Titus on the Velia. Uh and you should remember also that we talked way in the beginning of the term about two arches two su successive arches built in honor of Augustus. first his Acton victory victory in Actium and then his victory over the Parththeians which is over here and then uh if we look very close it's a little hard to see when I'm up this close but we look very closely we will see the location I think it's roughly around here of the arch of Septimius Severis we can see it better in this plan of the Roman forum as it developed between the 3rd and 7th centuries AD uh we see the tabularium at the top which means we're close to the uh capital line hill. We see two basilas that were put up in the Republican period. Uh we see a temple that we did not study uh that was put up in honor of the divine Julius Caesar by Augustus. We see the speaker's platform. We see the senate house which I will show you in a later lecture. Uh and over here we see the location of what was originally the act of Augustus and then the Parthion arch of Augustus. And remember that the Parthion arch of Augustus had a triple opening. Uh and then if you look at the rest of the plan, you will see the location of the arch of Septimus Severis over there diagonally across in dialogue uh with the Parthion arch of Augustus. Was this coincidence? Absolutely not. This was clearly very carefully orchestrated by Septimius Severis and his adviserss to build his Parthion arch in dialogue with the Parthion arch of Augustus. With regard to its form, it also made reference to the Augustine arch. I show you here, the arch of Septimius Severis as it looks today. It is our first example that we've seen this semester of a Roman arch with a triple opening, triple arcuated opening, a large aruate arcuated opening in the center flanked by two smaller lower arcuated entrances. We have not seen that before. First surviving example in Rome. We we remember if we look think back to the arches we have explored from the time of Augustus on you'll remember that they are singlebade arches Augustus' act arch the arch of Titus and even the second century arch of Trajan at Benavvento but as I've already said today the if we look back to the coin the arch no longer exists but we look back to a coin depiction of the Parthion arch of Augustus it had three openings a central arcuated opening and then two rectangular openings, traiated openings with pediments on either side flanking it. So this is not the Parthion arch of Augustus is not a triple arcuated arch, but it is a three opening arch and I think there is no question that those three openings are being alluded to in the sever arch and being and being transformed into something that was new uh which was the idea of the triple arcuated bay. Or maybe it wasn't so new because there's an arch uh the arch that you see down here in the south of France at Orange and we'll look at this arch when we when we make our journey uh to the south of France in in an upcoming lecture. Uh we will look at this arch and it's it's a triple bade arch just like the arch of Septimius Severis. It's covered with sculpture just like the arch of Septimius Severis. So for a while there were scholars who dated this to the time of Septimius Severis although put up in the provinces. Uh but uh recent scholarship, more recent scholarship has demonstrated scholars have looked at the piles of arms and armor on here and identified it as piles of arms and armor that had to do with battles that took place in the south of France or what is now the south of France in the age of Augustus. There's also an inscription referring to a specific historical figure who lived during the time the late period of Augustus and into the time of Tiberius. So it seems very likely that this is not a sever arch but a Tiberian arch. Uh and I show it to you here only because while we usually and this may be helpful to some of you who are doing uh papers topics or city plans in the provinces uh we usually think of ideas flowing from the center to the periphery. But here we seem to have an idea that comes to the four first in the periphery and then ends up ultimately in the center. Although of course there are lots of missing pieces to the ancient puzzle. I mean there are lots of monuments that have not come down to us. So it is not inconceivable that a triple bait arch was built in Rome earlier but we just have no evidence for it. I want to show you the arch itself very quickly because it's mainly a work of sculpture. Uh but just to show you the three bays victories in the spandre river gods down here inscription at the top. You have to imagine the great bronze quadriga of the emperor at the apex. Uh decorated bases down here. Uh but most interesting are the panels that we see. Four panels that we see two on either side of the arch. And I show you a detail, a very good detail of one of them here. Although it's weathered, you can see it quite well. Uh you can see that this panel instead of having fulllength figures standing on a single ground line as we saw for example in the uh in the in the freeze of the Arabus, we see figures on a number of tiers here. Small figures on a number of tiers. It should remind you of the scenes on the column of Trajan. Those spiral the spiral freeze with the individual figures telling the story of war and in this case the Parthion uh war of of uh Septimius Severis. uh but and so what I think happened here my my my theory and there are others who've said the same is that what happened here is that the designer of this got the idea to take excerpts in a sense from the columns of traje or the column of Marcus Aurelius and put them in panel format uh on this monument uh whether I don't know whether you know you can think to yourselves whether you think this is successful or not I think it probably was not deemed to be particularly successful because it is the only arch design of its type no one picked up afterwards and imitated uh this particular idea. Uh the base is down below representing Romans bringing back Parthion prisoners. I want to speak very briefly also uh about uh Septimius Sever's extension of the imperial palace on the Palletine Hill. He extended it to the south. He lived there just like every emperor since dimmission. He extended it on the southern side. That's the side uh nearest the forum. and he uh added a facade uh to it, a very elaborate facade that does not survive. It doesn't survive because we know it was torn down in 1588 to 1589 by one of the popes because the pope wanted to use it in his own papal building. Wanted to use the building materials in his own papal building. But fortunately uh the artist Martin von Hemskirk, the Renaissance artist, I put his name on the monument list for you. Martin von Hemskirk uh uh drew some of it while it was being dismantled and you see a piece of it over here in the Martin von Hemskirk drawing. There's also a uh a the um the um plan of the structure also preserved on the former orbs and we can see that marble plan of Rome from the sever period. If we take both of those ev that evidence together, we can reconstruct it quite effectively. We can see that it was a a a a facade that looked very much like a theater uh with wings on either side with abses here, three large abses uh and columns inside those abses with other elements that have columns in three tiers looking very much like a theater stage set all done in marble. Uh it might have been al also a fountain. There might have been a basin down here with a water display. All of this serving as a new facade for dimmission's palace on the palletine hill. It's important because it's another example of this use of progression recession progression recession across across the facade to give an in-n-out undulating movement using the traditional vocabulary of architecture uh in a way that is striking and in a way that again heralds this new baroque style in Roman architecture. I also mention uh just as the last point about this monument that we also the reason it's called the Septazodium or the Septazonium and you see that name on the monument list for you. The reason it is referred to as a Septazodium is because it was thought to honor the or to commemorate the seven planets which is not surprising in the orbit of Septimia Severis and Julia Dna because we know that Julia Dna was an avid follower of astrological signs used to predict what was going to happen in her husband's uh reign through those signs and this is likely a nod to her particular astrological interests in the in the nine or 10 minutes that remain. I want to uh end today with this extraordinary imperial bath structure that was designed uh at the behest of the emperor Caracala. When Septimius Severis died in 211, he was succeeded by Caracala and by Ga. I've already told you what Carakala did to get rid of Gada. uh and Caracala became sole emperor in 212 AD and remained emperor until his death in 217 AD. Uh and one of his major commissions was this imperial bath structure. He wanted to ape his father because we know that Septimia Severis had also built a major public bath in Rome, the Termi Septimiani. They do not survive. We have very little knowledge of them. So there isn't anything that I can show you or tell you about them, but we know he built it. So like father, like son, he wanted to outdo his father. This is like bush one, bush two. Wanted to outdo his father and to build an even larger uh bathing establishment. And he does it here in Rome. Uh a bathing establishment called the baz of carakala or the termi and tonini. Baz of caracala dates to 212 to 216 AD. Uh any of you who have seen it will agree with me this is one if you if we had if Trajan's forum was the mother of all forms this is certainly the mother of all imperial bath structures. This is quite something. Uh fortunately much of it survives mainly the concrete shell uh concrete shell of itself. Uh but uh we can see the outlines here in this Google Earth image which shows you not only the bathing block but also part of the precinct that surrounded it. Because we shall see if we look at a plan of the baths of Caracala which you see here in the bottom left. This is a detail of just the bathing block. And if we compare uh the general plan with the plan of the baths of Trajan in Rome, we will see that the baths of Trajan which were very large in their own day have been exceeded exceeded here in terms of size but are very much in the same general format. By that I mean a large bathing block here inside a larger precinct. That precinct has around it a host of rooms that were used as lecture halls and seminar rooms and Greek and Latin libraries. So a great locust of intellectual as well as uh as as wellness uh in the city of Rome in the 3rd century AD. Uh we see that in the baz of Caracala just as if we look at the bathing block just as in the baths of Trajan we see that all the main bathing uh rooms which were used both for men and women but probably at different times of day are aligned with one another. We see the great frigidarium here with the triple groin vault over that buttressed by rooms with barrel vaults on either side. We see a conventional vertically oriented tpidorium essentially a rectangle here leading into the caldorium. So all of these on axis frigidarium caldarium caldarium a roundish structure with aloves uh and uh but very large in scale. In fact, you'll be interested to hear that the span of the dome of the caldarium of the boughs of Caracala was almost as large as the span of the p the dome of the pantheon in Rome. Just to get you give you a sense of the extraordinary bigger is better scale uh in this particular bath. Over here a natio located where it usually isn't but here on axis with the other rooms. an interesting natio with a scalloped aside screened by columns and then otherwise all the rooms symmetrically disposed around it. Two pelstrai one on either side matching rooms symmetrically disposed around the central building block. So the same imperial bath structure type that we saw developed under Titus and Trajan but taken to much larger scale. Here this model uh shows you that the the the hole here we are looking back at the walls which were very plain on three sides toward the natio toward the vaultting of the uh of the frigidarium and then the dome as you can see there of the caldarium. interesting is the uh the front side of the or the other the side where you can see the caldarium projecting over here which you can see is opened up much more uh than the other sides with a series of columns uh screened columns uh and then columns screening and opening up the calarium as well uh on the southern side of the monument. Uh just a few views to give you a sense of what this structure looks like today. Again, it's mainly piles of concrete faced with brick. Uh but you can see some of the soaring vaults still there. This is a this is this is in fact uh you know this is even in this view it's much smaller than it would have been because so much of the ceilings and the vaults are missing today. But you can get a sense by looking at this family of four uh standing next to it the colossal scale of the bass of Caracala in Rome. Here's another view with some taurus as well uh to also give you a sense. Again, this is very incomplete today, but it still gives you some idea of the colossal magnitude of of this particular bath structure. As one walks through it, there's actually very little uh ornamental decoration still preserved, but there was plenty in antiquity. You can see here and there some fragments of a freeze. This is a restored view of what the frigidarium would have looked like. The most important room in the bath which would have been triple groin vaulted as you can see here which would have had gray granite columns with white marble capitals uh and would have had a a a an incredible sculptural display uh and Caracala like dimmission before him. Remember dimmission's Alaria and those colossal statues of Dionis and Apollo with whom dimmission wanted to associate himself. Caracala uh of the same ilk who also wanted to ally himself with great heroes of the past uh great gods of the past and he follows the lead of Comedus uh in whose mo in whose mo model he he kind of mean he looked back again to Nero dimmission to comeus uh and he he he likened himself to Hercules and we have sculpture that is preserved from the frigidarium that represents Hercules Hercules the weary the famous weary Hercules type this is now in Naples in the archaeological museum the statue but it comes from the frigidarium of the baz of caracala we're absolutely sure of that and it depicts the weary Hercules uh it is a Roman copy uh the artist we know his name I put his name on the monument list for you glycon of Athens so an Athenian sculptor working in the time of Caracala makes this copy but he makes it of a ve of a very famous lost Greek original by the Greek sculptor Lysipus whose name is also on on your monument list a a a work of art that he originally made in the 330s BC. So, Glycon of Athens copies Licipus also of Greece. Uh this statue at the behest again of Caracala and the fact that this was a theme or a light motif that ran through all the decoration of the frigidarium is underscored by the fact that a composite capital that survives also from the frigidarium uh shows a figure of that same weary Hercules interspersed with the eanthus leaves of that capital. So again, a very carefully orchestrated program to try to underscore the relationships between Carakala and Hercules. Uh mosaics uh black and uh geometric mosaics not unlike those in Austia found uh and still exist uh in the um Baz of Carala today. Black and white with a little addition of color. Here another uh another section that shows you the interest in geometry as well as floral motifs. uh this detail that you can also see on the site still today showing the sea scenes that were not were were the kind of scenes one would expect uh in a bath uh very similar to those at Austia but done in a somewhat more a better way. And then the piesta resistance I think of the mosaics of the baz of Caracala and well preserved today was a mosaic that you can see is curved to to to be placed into a room of this shape that depict on the floor all the famous athletes and gladiators of the day either in fulllength statues or full-length images or in uh portrait images uh and I don't doubt that these would have been recognizable stars superstars you know the Alex Rodriguez of their day. Uh superstars flexing their muscles for the public and hoping to be uh recognized uh by everyone who came to this bath. And you can just imagine men and women standing uh above looking and trying to pick out who is depicted here. Here's another view that I took that is in its current location which is in the Vatican museums in Rome. That's where one needs to go to see what survives of this wonderful mosaic with the athletes and gladiators of the day. And I show them uh to you here as well. And if you look at these, you can see that they not only are shown, you know, some some are already victors, some are taking part in their sport. Uh but once again, just as in the Alexander mosaic, we see the use of a lot of different colored tesserai. We see cast shadows. This is very well done. Wonderful uh facial configurations done by what must have been the leading mosaicist of the day for the baz of Caracala. And just in closing today, I thought I would show you uh a one of those uh heads blown up uh to poster size as you can see here, but also put it next to an actual portrait of Caracala. This is not a port a a course in sculpture, but I wanted to show this to you, especially since it's a portrait that you can see. It's in New York at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. A very powerful portrait of a very intense uh Roman emperor as you can see on the left. But I think there is there is some relationship between the way in which the sculptures have depicted Caracala with his very cubic and abstract face, his short military hairstyle and the depictions of the athletes and the gladiators. So I think he was not only trying to uh to draw a relationship between himself and Hercules Romanus but also between himself and some of the greatest athletes and gladiators of the day to underscore uh his strength as a leader. It was all for not ultimately uh but nonetheless he achieved it and I think it also speaks to him as a man with that bigger is better philosophy. Thank you.