A key premise to all of these lessons in this series is that if your usual child reading practices are working well and getting the changes you wish in your children, there may be no need to resort to the tools we've been discussing. Yet, when you wish to added help with your child and want to change behavior better, these tools have been shown to be very effective. The techniques have to be implemented in special ways and these usually depart from what we do in our regular interactions with children. One obstacle to implementing the techniques is that the concepts are already familiar. For example, praise, timeout, and giving prompts are things many parents already do. The obstacle is conveying that these default parenting strategies are not used in the way that develops the behavior you wish. There's another obstacle or at least potential obstacle. As parents, we have beliefs, experiences, and seemingly natural inclinations about how to rear our children. The beliefs greatly influence how we interact with and discipline our child. As it turns out, a few of these beliefs are out of sync with what we have learned from research on how to influence and change human behavior. In this lesson, I discuss common parenting beliefs that can interfere with effective parenting tools outlined in this course. Of course, there's no need to change our beliefs. Yet, if we are at an impass with a particular challenge with a child, it would be worth noting if something is momentarily interfering with use of one of the behavior change tools. Let us begin. The first belief that is widely held is that punishment will change behavior and teach the child how to behave appropriately. Many of us grew up with this belief that punishment is an effective way of changing behavior. In the home, parents may rely on a range of mild to severe punishment from looks of disapproval, brief timeouts, or loss of privilege to shouting and screaming, hitting, and sometimes even physical abuse. Here are some of the more possibly surprising points that are part of the beliefs associated with punishment. First, punishment is not a way to make enduring changes or to eliminate a behavior. It stops behavior in the moment, but does not usually change the overall frequency of the behavior. A parent will have to keep punishing again and again. Second, increasing the intensity of punishment from a reprimand to a scream or a little hit to a beating does not make punishment any more effective. In fact, a child who is being punished quickly adapts to the more severe punishment. This does not mean the child likes the punishment, but it does mean that the rate of the behavior one wants to eliminate stays the same even when the punishment gets worse. This is pretty counterintuitive. A little or mild punishment does not work. So perhaps naturally we up the ante only to learn that it is not any more effective. It is just more severe and more upsetting. Third, punishment can have all sorts of nasty side effects. for spanking in moderate to heavy range. The punishment can increase aggression and antisocial behavior of the child at home and at school and is associated with poor school performance and even physical health problems. I have a separate lesson on spanking which elaborates this further. Fourth, punishment does not teach the children the positive behaviors that you want, but it does teach them something. Ironically, punishment teaches children actually how to punish other people and interact with their peers. So, if a parent uses sarcasm and reprimands for punishment, those are the techniques that children use with their peers when they are angry at them. If a parent beats a child, those children are likely to beat their peers at school when they are mad at them or do not like what they did. So, there is a modeling effect of punishment. Punishment of the child does teach them but it teaches them how to punish others and not to behave appropriately. Finally, one of the reasons punishment continues to be used by parents is called the punishment trap. This is a trap for parents and it goes like this. The child is doing something the parent does not want. The parent jumps in and punishes. The child stops the behavior at that moment. That stopping of the behavior immediately maintains the parents use of punishment. The immediate end to something annoying or upsetting, in this case the child's behavior, after you do something, locks in the use of punishment and establishes a habit on our part as parents. Now, most parents who punish, even those who admit to child abuse, are usually well aware that the procedure is not working. This is not about awareness or knowing. The punishment trap is based on negative reinforcement. Your child stops the reversive behavior right after you punish. That stopping of the child's behavior rewards parent behavior and locks it in. So the parents use punishment. Now the punishment trap is very powerful and it is hard to break out of that. Developing positive behaviors to replace the response you wish to eliminate is the key procedure to use. Very mild punishment for the behavior you wish to eliminate can help, but it must play a minor role to be effective. By minor role, I mean that if we're punishing a particular behavior, we need many more instances in which the behavior we are praising is the positive opposite behavior we want to take its place. For example, let's say we punish a child for not listening to something we asked him to do. If we punished twice this week, it would be extremely important to praise the times the child did listen. The number of times he was praised for listening should greatly outnumber the times he was punished for not listening. So the misbelief is that punishment is an effective way of changing behavior and developing adaptive behaviors in children. Of course, we all have a story where someone was punished and turned out great. We also have stories where someone smoked cigarettes for years and lived to be 110 and someone else who ate nothing but fast food and cholesterol omelettes for breakfast and lived even longer. And there's even a story or two of people whose parachutes did not open, but they still lived. These are all possible and true stories, but they are huge exceptions. And when someone says that punish changed me forever, that might be true, even though it is not possible to really say that. even though the punishment stands out in their mind. All that aside, if a parent believes that children will develop adaptive behaviors and stop annoying behaviors with the use of punishment, that belief could interfere with more effective parenting. To eliminate a behavior in a child, the development of positive opposites is one of the most effective tools. A second belief that can misguide us is that explaining to your child why a behavior is wrong will lead him or her to stop doing that behavior. Okay, maybe you decided the punishment isn't working, so I'm going to be a much more modern parent. Instead, I'm going to give explanations and that explanation will be why the child should or should not do something. As you explain, be calm and reasonable and tell the child the behavior why you should or should not do that behavior. You've probably explained to your child, you know, better not to do this because it bothers your sister. Or you might have said, we do not do that kind of behavior in this house because it is dangerous and you will break things. It's important to talk about giving explanations to your child in two ways. The first is very important and valuable because explanations play a key role in child development. When we explain things to a child, we are teaching by modeling what it is like to handle various situations, including those in which we get mad and want to punish. We also teach complex psychological processes such as thinking, problem solving, and reasoning. Add to that our speech invariably teaches concepts, words, and languages. Perhaps understandably, the effects of explaining are related to how well a child does at school, how well the child interacts with peers, and how well the child approaches life once she's an adult. In short, for this first part, providing explanations to your child is without a doubt extremely valuable. The second part, consider explanations as a behavior change technique. In this context, explanations are not a very effective way of changing behavior, either for decreasing unwanted behavior or increasing desired behavior. And it's not just true of children. It tends to be true of humans of all ages. explaining to adults why they ought to stop smoking, stop eating fast foods, start eating broccoli, start exercising, try to be less prejudice, or give more to charity. These aren't very effective ways of changing human behavior. Explanations may change attitudes, but they are weak in changing behavior. That is what people actually do. Now, I've mentioned that changing child behavior has a few similarities to learning how to play a musical instrument. In training someone to play, let us say the piano, it is important to explain all sorts of things about the instrument and how to play notes, hold one's fingers and so on. But this is no substitute for repeated practice. That practice locks in the behaviors and in the process changes the brain as these habits are developed. Similarly, in developing behaviors you wish in your children, explanations can speed up the learning process. But much more is needed to actually get the behavior and to establish that behavior as a habit. So keep up the explanations for all the good that they do. But if the goal is to actually change behavior, use tools from the behavior change toolkit that we've discussed in other videos. A third belief is that providing a lot of praise will spoil a child. Many parents believe that giving more praise will just spoil them and make them depend on praise. Praise delivered in the special way I have discussed in a separate video is one of the strongest ways to develop behaviors you wish in your child. Three points are relevant to mention if you have reservations about the use of praise. First, it is very unlikely that children are being praised too much. Most of us think we are doing that, but it usually means we are being nice a lot and we are affectionate. All wonderful. But the use and overuse of praise in everyday life is rare. Part of the reason is that it's our natural inclination to attend to things that go wrong rather than things that go right. We are much more likely to be critical of a child for dawling and not getting ready for school than we are to say, "How wonderful that you dressed yourself and came down to breakfast early." Our inclination to attend to more negative things is perfectly normal and part of the wiring of our brain. In short, praise is not overused and actually not even used very much in most homes. Second, praise using the way I've discussed is actually associated with positive rather than negative effects. Increased use of praise is associated with stronger connections to adults who praise them and also children like situations better in which more praise is provided. Third, the special praise we've talked about only needs to target specific behaviors that have been a challenge in the home. We do not promote randomly praising the child all day. Rather, praise should be given systematically for those behaviors you wish to develop. Using the special praise is temporary and can be faded out as the enduring change in your child take over. Overall, you might be concerned about praise spoiling the child, but both research and clinical experience suggest this is not really an issue. A fourth belief is very familiar. We tend to believe that if our child knows the behavior and has done it before, maybe once or twice, that means he can do it regularly. As I have mentioned earlier in this lesson and throughout this course, knowing and doing are not very connected in humans. This is perplexing and frustrating and is also called normal. Once in a while, information does influence what we do. For example, if our doctor says we're going to die soon if we do not change this or that habit or take this or that medicine, that is likely to have impact. Even here, however, you might be surprised to know that many people with serious diseases do not fill their prescriptions for their disease. Once they fill their prescriptions, many do not take the pills as pres as as prescribed. And many who take those pills fail to get the refills that they're supposed to get. They know better. We all know better. In short, do not be too frustrated when your child knows something but does not do it. He or she is being human like the rest of us. The second part of the belief is equally frustrating. The child has done the behavior before but won't do it now. And you might say, "You dressed yourself once, you can do it again right now before we go out." Yet, performing once or twice is not any basis to assume consistency or even repetition again. The key is to try to get the behavior to occur again, use antecedence for that, and then use special praise to lock it in. In short, it is natural to be super frustrated when we see that someone has done something but does not do it again. If you want consistency and see this as a problem, mention that in your praise. Sarah, you have done this twice in a row. Or, Sarah, you got ready for school nicely today, exactly the way you did yesterday. That's fabulous. That will help build the consistency you want. But the main tool is praising behavior each time it occurs. A fifth belief relates to motivation of the child and goes like this. When my child refuses to do something, she's just being manipulative. Well, when a child goes against our wishes, we often explain away the misconduct by saying that he or she is just being manipulative. But research shows that children are no more manipulative than the rest of us and actually probably less manipulative because coming up with the strategy to get one's way by anticipating and managing the behavior of others are beyond most children's abilities. One way we pretty much know the child is not being manip manipulative is because we can usually turn that around pretty quickly and make that compliant behavior using the tools we've talked about. Oppositional behavior may emerge briefly over the course of development, but even here parents can play a key role in turning that around. Getting a child to do something, to listen to you, and to comply is not rocket science. Sometimes simple changes can even help. For example, one mother reported that as she was checking out at the supermarket, her daughter would start whining for a treat, such as gum or something right there near the checkout counter. This would quickly turn into a tantrum, and the mother was so embarrassed that she gave in. She did not mind the little treat, but dreaded the entire process and having other adults stare at her for not being able to control her own daughter. Was the daughter being manipulative? Well, I'm not sure what that even means. The daughter learned a behavior and the mother actually helped maintain that. We made a little shift in this interaction. Right before checking out, the mother stopped her cart, leaned over to her daughter, and said that her daughter could get the gum or trinket if she could be very quiet in the checkout line, and asked for the treat in a very soft voice. If she whined and had a tantrum, she would not get the treat. The mom prompted her daughter quietly as soon as they entered the line and praised her right away. The moms leaned over and said, "You are doing so well already. You will probably get this gum before the day is up." The child made it to the line calmly. And as they were finishing checkout, the child selected the trinket and the parent moved out of the line to go out the store. But while she was still in the store, the mother stopped the cart, bent over to her child, and said how great she was to behave in such a way like a big girl. This was the special praise done fairly immediately. This went on for a few more shopping trips. No further problems. Practice opportunities are so important. So the mom continued to emphasize praise after the behavior. Eventually the gum and trinkets completely dropped out. This is an abbreviated version of the use of anticedence and consequences. But what we changed was the original program treats for having a tantrum at checkout. We'll maintain having a tantrum. Once we made the changes, parents no longer consider the child as manipulative. The final belief I discuss is the belief that reminding a child is a way to get the behaviors we wish. Reminders are repeated verbal prompts to get the child to do something. We tell the child to start her homework and she doesn't do it. Understandably, we tell her again and maybe even she starts, but we keep telling her until she does. Here's what we know about reminders. First, and as you know, reminders are fine for getting a behavior to occur once. As adults, we may have a list of things to do, a calendar with reminders on our smartphone or smartwatch. That list may include a reminder. Pick up dinner before we come home. Call the daycare center. Whatever. Or we remind our child after school. Your dad's going to pick you up near the entrance of the school. Remember these and other reminders are fine, and we rely on them. Reminders are great for these one or twoshot behaviors we wish. The second part of what we know about reminders is that by themselves they will not develop behaviors so they are performed consistently. Reminders will have to be repeated and repeated at which point reminding turns into nagging. You might even say I've told you 50 times to clean your room. What don't you understand about that? Reminders or anticedants which we have discussed. A behavior change program based only on anticedants, in this case repeated prompts, is not likely to help change behavior beyond that moment. To develop behavior, so you do not need the reminders, we start out with a reminder or a prompt, positive setting events to get the behaviors. Then we praise the child for actually doing the behavior. The use of antecedence may be shaping behavior and consequence together will lock in what you want. Reminders by themselves are not enough to develop behavior. In fact, lots of reminders make the child want to escape from you and make it even less likely he will do what you ask. Now, in some cases, parents see the failure of repeated reminders as grounds for punishing the child. This is a trap. The child's actions are really quite predictable given what we know about using reminders alone. And we know that when you add punishment to the mix, that will not help at all. So you will be frustrated and even feel bad about yourself. The child will be crying and we're absolutely no closer to developing the behavior you wish. In short, when you use reminders, be sure to have your goals in mind. If you want something done once or twice and you're not interested in developing a habit or long-term change, a reminder all by itself is great. However, if you want consistent behavior, then repeated reminders are just not going to help. Here you need prompts followed by the behavior followed by praise. The videos on antecedence and shaping give you all the tools you need to get that. So let me close by covering the common misbeliefs and myths I've talked about today. These are partial truths or myths, whatever they're called. They are huge sources of frustration because the child will not do something despite our efforts. Many of the beliefs I have mentioned and actions that stem from them seem rather natural or almost automatic. So for example, when our children do not do something or break a rule at home, we punish. Knowing that punishment is not likely to work does not help us very much because our use of punishment just stops behavior at that moment and traps us in continuing to use punishment ineffectively. Fortunately, we have learned how to change behavior more effectively. And some of these changes are in how we apply things. So for example, endless reminders will not work. But one or two reminders followed by shaping and praise can have enormous and enduring impact. If you are caught in any situations or frustrations with your child, perhaps briefly suspend the beliefs or assumptions and go to the toolbox. The tools there would not only be helpful in getting the behavior you want, but will make it much less frustrating to interact with your child at home. In other lessons, I'll continue to discuss ways of changing child behavior and making child rearing easier.