So what I want to do today again this is a parallel holding pattern lecture. I'm going to talk about absolute rule and this parallels what you're reading. It's just to make clear uh with some emphasis about the importance of the development of of absolute rule. Now, one of the points I made last week for those of you who were here uh uh is that you know, one of the themes that ties European history together and uh is uh uh the growth of of the modern state of statem is tends to be an awkward expression or term that is used by uh by historians. Um, and if you look at the way states are uh uh in Europe now, whether they be relatively decentralized such as as as Great Britain or extraordinarily centralized as uh my France, uh the the origins of the modern state uh must in part be seen in this kind of remarkable period of of uh European history uh from the early 17th century through the middle of uh the 18th century. Now there were uh we have a process in late medieval Europe of the cons consolidation of of uh of territorial monarchies. I mean you did have monarchies like Spain, England and France. Namely those were the uh the three uh most important ones that that in which rulers consolidated brushed claimments to power aside and uh consolidated consolidated uh uh their uh their rule. But the period of absolute uh rule really uh comes uh uh begins really in the mid uh 17th century uh and is to be found in those states that had specific kinds of of of social structures and this is a point we'll come back to uh particularly when we're talking about uh the two most important states two of the of the great powers of the period that did not have absolute uh rule uh and in which in the case of of England uh the civil war was was largely fought to to a great extent anyway uh trying to prevent England the English monarchy from taking on characteristics of those absolute those emerging absolute states on the continent and I'll talk next Wednesday about uh English and British/British because Britain doesn't exist till 1707 uh self-identity and and how not being an absolute state is part of what emerged in the sense of being British and being Dutch certainly ly arguably even more uh had had to do uh with that because of the proximity of of the direct threat to the Dutch by uh uh by the the megalomaniac uh uh Louis uh uh the 14th who uh uh modestly referred to himself as as as a sun king. Um so between 1650 uh and 1750 and this is right out of what you're reading uh the rulers of continental Europe of the biggest states extended their power. Um and so there were two aspects of this. One is they extend their ability to extract resources out of their own populations. And second, uh they uh they work to uh increase their dynastic holdings at uh the expense of their neighbors munching smaller states uh or in uh by marriages or by wars against their big uh rivals. I mean, one of the most interesting examples of that is the 30 Years War, which starts before this course and ends before this course, really with the beginning of this course, 1618 1648, which I'm going to come back to a little bit uh in a while, is that what begins as uh as as as a religious war between Protestants and and and and Catholics uh uh ends up being a dynastic struggle between two Catholic powers, consolidating uh their authority over their own peoples and expanding their dynastic domains, thus Austria uh and uh and France. And so that tells you that's an important point because it tells you what really the big picture is going to um is going to emerge. And so when we talk about the growth of absolute rule, we're talking about France, that is, you know, the Sun King, Prussia, particularly Frederick the Great, uh about whom you can read, Russia, Peter the Great, about whom I I will um have have something to say in a week or two. I don't know when. Austria aforementioned and Sweden and Sweden kind of diff disappears from the great power stage uh when they're defeated by uh Peter the Great uh in when is it 1709. Now what did it mean to be an absolute ruler? What it meant was that in principle uh your power was uh greater than than any challenge that could come from you know those those underlings those craven reptiles uh in your imagination over whom you ruled. Um but there's a balance to it that that I'll I'll discuss uh in a while. Um um and so there there there isn't really can't be a challenge to them from the state uh uh themselves. And so they make their personal or dynastic rule absolute based on loyalty to them as individuals uh and not to uh the state as some sort of abstraction. Of course, one of the interesting things that we'll hear about uh in a couple days is the fact that that British national identity, which is formed precociously early in European history, uh arguably in the 17th century and and for elites perhaps even before uh has this sort of constitutional balance between uh the rights of Parliament, victorious in the in the in the English Civil War uh and loyalty to uh to the monarchy. Now, um so absolute rulers assert their their right to make laws to proclaim to announce laws with a wave of their of their uh uh chubby hands uh to levy taxes uh and uh to appoint officials who will carry out their will. So I mean it's possible to talk about the bureaucratization of medieval states if you want but it's still it it when you look at the long range uh growth of bureaucracies as part of government as part of state formation that's why uh uh you know the growth of these bureaucracies is one of the characteristics of these absolute states in all of these these big time uh uh uh powers um and so uh uh what they do is is well let me give you a couple examples I mean for one one thing absolely absolute uh monarchs don't want is they don't want impediments to their personal rule. Now what was a kind of an impediment to their personal rule? One would be hans would be the municipal privileges for example in in the German port towns uh you know lubec and and and Hamburg and the others they form this hansiatic league and and Germany remains decentralized there's all sorts of states some are more powerful than others but Germanyy's not unified until 1871. Um but if you go to if you think of Spain, if you hitchhiking through Spain or something like that or or uh or through the south of France or Euro passes and if you go to a town like Avila uh in Spain, I mean Avila is one of the most fantastic uh you know fortified wall uh towns in in in Europe or if you go to Neem in the south of France and you you'll see boulevards that people race motorcycles around all the time will keep you up all night. Uh there are no walls there anymore because the king had them knocked down. And so what happens when municipal privileges, towns that had municipal privileges, these are uh eroded and then virtually eliminated by powerful potentates. In the case of Neem, nim, which was a Protestant town, they knocked down the wall so the Protestants of Nee could not defend themselves against this allconquering Catholic monarch. And so municipal privileges, walls were put up for a variety of reasons around towns. You know, plague for example, you know, DVN, one of my favorite cities in Europe, Dubnik had these magnificent walls. You can walk all the way around. And they have a quarantine house where they would put people who were travelers arriving there because walls kept out plagues. Walls uh keep out malfet, you know, evildoers. They keep out bandits and things like that. And the doors literally slam shut at night. There was a case of a very minor insurrection in an obscure Italian city in in the uh 18 uh in 1848 where the the the the people of the town literally locked uh the ruler out of the town. Now what what uh and Italy remains decentralized you know the tradition of these central these you know decentralized city states that were the heart of the Renaissance. Italy is not unified to the extent it was ever been unified uh until the 1860s and 1870s. So uh what what the what these kings do uh these kings and you know these these uh uh and queens is is is they uh they get rid of these impediments to their uh to their uh to their authority. I mean even take the word burger a burger or bourgeoa. Bourgeoa is a the French word is more of a cultural sense but it also has a class sense. A bourgeoa or a burger was somebody who lived in a city and was and assume that some of the justice that was levied against him or her uh would be uh the result of of of decisions taken locally. And now big-time uh big powerful absolute monarchs don't want that. And so part of the whole process is the elimination of these of these municipal uh uh privileges. Um and so uh uh and replacing municipal officials to make a long story short with people that they have uh uh uh uh appointed. And they eliminate the one privilege above all that they want to the big guys want to get rid of is the is is the right to not be taxed. Because part of being an absolute ruler uh is being able to levy taxes against those uh those people who have the the joy or the extreme misfortune of of living uh in uh in those uh domains. Uh and more about that later. But so uh what happens with all of this is that absolute rule impinges directly on the lives of ordinary people more than than kingly or queenly or princely or archbishoply power had uh had intruded on the lives of ordinary people uh uh before that. And so I mean these rulers have a coercive ability uh in creating I'll come back to this large standing armies that will be arriving not immediately. They're not arriving by train or being helicoptered in at some distant command but they will get there if there's trouble. They will arrive and they will get there get there and they will enforce the will of the monarch. Uh and we'll see the statistics are really just fascinating about how big these armies uh uh uh become. Um, and so the argument that I'm going to make, drawing upon again, but Ted Rab, Theodore Rabb's, uh, he's not the only one who's made this argument, but he's made it more clearly than than in most people, absolutism may be seen as as an attempt to reassert uh, public order and coercive state authority after this period of utter turmoil, the English Civil War, the uh, the the 30 war in which in parts of central Europe a quarter of the population disappeared were killed murdered in ways that I I will unfortunately show you in a while. Uh and um more than this uh what what happens uh is that these that that the nobles who in all these countries going back to the medieval period had had privileges that they were asserting visav their monarchs. They will say uh we will agree to be junior partners in absolutism in exchange for the protection that you the big guy and your armies can provide us so that we don't have to lie awake wondering who is coming up the path to the big house. Is it peasants who are going to come and assert uh you know the rights of the poor against us? And at a time of insurrections in uh popular insurrections in all sorts of countries. Think of all the insurrections of all the people that followed false zars to other slaughter in in Russia. uh that that the nobles say, "All right, we we agree to be junior partners in absolute rule uh in exchange to recognizing your supreme authority over us in exchange for the protection of that that you will afford us. You know, private armies are disappearing. The armies of the state are as you'll see in a while are are are growing. And moreover, you, oh big guy, you will will assert our priv our own privileges. You will recognize our privileges as nobles. And so, it's a trade-off. But in absolute states, there's no doubt who rules and who helps rule. And so in absolute states uh you know big noble families are very happy to send uh their offspring uh to become uh commanders in the army and navy where they never do a damn thing. uh or to become big bishops like Talon who's a teenage bishop uh you know literally uh uh and and to profit from uh uh uh from uh uh from the state while recognizing that the that the big guy the king and the queen have absolute authority over them. Now um the classic case of course Louis the 14th I you can read about now Louis the 14th when he was a a kid he was about 12 or 13 years old he lived in Paris he lived uh in the twi palace which is burned along the sand which is burned in 18 uh 1871 during the commune and there was a huge old insurrection called the fond fo r nde d a fond was a kind of a slingshot that paris street urchins used to use to, you know, shoot fancy people with rocks as they rode their carriages uh uh through the muddy streets of Paris. And it's a noble insurrection against royal authority. And and in Oana in central France, you have people rising up against their lord saying, "Hell with you. We're not going to pay anymore." And when he's a boy in he hears the crowd shouting outside of the royal palace in Paris and it scares the hell out of him. And at one time they burst into his bedroom and he's a little guy. And when he when royal authority conquers these rebels, the f you don't have to remember any of that, but the fond f good, you know, for cocktail party conversation or something like that, but it's a it's important. He makes them literally, he's a bigger guy. And they literally come and they bow down and they they they swear allegiance to him in exchange for protection and the recognition of uh uh of their privileges as nobles as titled nobles. And so that's really that teing moment in in in in absolute rule. And so what does what does Louis the 14th do? Well, he goes out and builds Velsai. and he only goes back to Paris, I think, three times ever. He doesn't like Paris. And Versailles is only 18 kilometers away. It's about 11 or 12 miles away. The women of Paris in October, many of them will walk to Versailles to bring the king back to Paris. And after that, he's essentially, well, put it kind of ridiculously, toast and French toast uh when that happens. But so he builds this big I've called it a noble theme park basically uh at Verine. It's not the most interesting uh of the chateau at all. The most interesting is Vodont which is is uh uh southeast of of Paris. But it's a big sort of sprawling gardens everywhere. 10,000 nobles live there. How boring. But the point was that they could they could be watched that they're not going to you know they they can chase each other's wives and mistresses around uh and they can eat big drunken meals. The chateau was so big that when it it freezes they, you know, they they would walk they were trying to get to the bathroom and most of them never made it and sort of peed on these long corridors that some of you have seen and the wine would freeze on the way from the kitchen to uh it is said uh uh to uh you know to the the big dining hall. Uh but he has 10,000 of these dudes and dudases there that he's going to watch over so that they can they can conspire against each other and they can hit on each other's wives and mistresses. He could give one damn but but he can control them there and he ne he only goes back to Paris three times ever. all the time he's expanding his own par personal power visa v the uh his own population and you know conquering Alsace and parts of Lan and and and uh you going to these in inevitable you know natural frontiers I Napoleon thought the natural frontier was the Pacific Ocean uh you know that would be another story but but but so this is what in a nutshell kind of what absolutism was but let let me say uh two things now after having said that that um there were there doctrines I mean you can read about this stuff I mean Jesus is obvious but but there were doctrines of of absolutism that originated with jurists early I mean so this was out there was a theoretical you know conceptual framework for having a king or queen having absolute uh uh powers um and um even the development of this theory of absolute rule is in response to uh the rise of these territorial states states like Spain and France and and well Russia later uh uh and uh so France is a good example. I quote in here a guy who croakkes before this course starts but Jean Buddha B O D I N he says seeing that nothing upon earth is greater or higher next unto God than the majesty of kings and sovereign princes. He wrote in six books of the republic. The principal point of sovereign majesty and absolute power was to consist principally in giving laws dictating laws onto the subjects in general without their consent. So for absolute rulers, I mean the the link to religion you can read about, but there's always a sense that he or she is doing God's will uh by by exploiting exploiting ordinary peasants, ordinary people and conquering other territories. But but there's a theoretical framework that that uh well and we'll catch up with with with the French monarchs among others uh uh later that the that the father the ruler must be a father a benevolent figure. I as I said in some context uh last time I mean how many Russian peasants died in the 1890s thinking oh my god if thear only knew that we're starving how angry he would be with his officials. Well, he he could have given one dam. How many millions of them died? But this was the image is that that that the big person is there to uh to protect you uh and and uh to to and that his glory is your glory. Um but along with this conceptual framework provided by none other than Thomas Hobbes you know in in in England who had lived through the English civil war and thought that you shouldn't mess around with these this rights business you need some sort of big powerful uh monarch there but there was a sense inherent in all of this and this will be important in trying to understand the French revolution Francesa that there's a difference between absolutism and despatism And that even conceptually, theoretically, that if the monarch goes too far against the weight of the past that there is inherit in this the idea that he or she uh might well go. And of course, you can imagine the thoughts of Louis V 16th as they were cutting back his hair. uh to await the fall of the guillotine on the 21st of January uh 1793. Uh and in the and in the cabaret and the estims of Paris of which there are many many many uh happily so in 1789 when when ordinary people are drinking to the third estate and talking about despotism and finding examples from what they saw around them as represented despotic behavior. that line had clearly been crossed and helps explain why it was that in at a in a country in which there weren't 10 people who wanted a republic in 1789, it was possible to imagine life without a king. You know, imagine that. So, uh that is that's there as well. Now, let's character Oh, Jesus, we got to move here. Um um let's characterize uh absolute role. Now you did have in many of these countries diets or parliaments uh some representative bodies but again the king doesn't have to call them in the case of France again since we're talking so much about about Louis the 14th uh they call that this the states general which is to represent all the provinces after the execution I mean after the assassination of of uh Henry IV uh in 1610 or 1612 he's appropriately enough he's stabbed to death in a traffic jam in Paris Paris when his carriage gets blocked in the m in the center of Paris and and this mad monk uh uh sticks a big knife into him. Uh and so they call the estates general then but the king never calls it again until 1789. So you have these diets and have these parliaments but the one of the characteristics of absolute rule uh is that you don't have to you don't have to call these uh these bodies because the king is the big person. Now in the case of England, one of the causes of the English civil war is the refusal of of of uh uh the kings to pay to pay any attention to recognize the rights of parliament that people in the British imaginer and the British uh uh collective memory uh believed started on June 15th which my birthday 1215 though I wasn't born yet then in 1215 uh and and so this the the idea of the freeborn English person Englishman is what they would have said in those days uh meant that parliament the rights of parliament had to be respected. And when it looks like they're going to the English kings are going to turn uh uh uh are going to restore Catholicism at least have lots of paintings of swooning cherubs and cupids and and broke uh uh broke Italian art in in in uh uh in Windsor and London and these other places. Well, then you've got a revolution. So, um absolute rulers didn't really have to pay uh uh didn't have to pay attention to these assemblies. best example I can think of off hand. I should let this wait. But but uh Peter the Great, Zar of the Russians, who may or may not have beaten his son to death, at least ordered him tortured. Uh Peter the Great was a huge sort of power forward-sized guy uh at a time when people were were were very small. He had this thing called the drunken assembly which was in a way kind of a mockery of parliamentary representations where his cronies would come and just get wasted uh and and would make all sorts of sort of you know flamboyant proclamations that seemed to represent what you know what a real parliament would do but in fact Peter the Great listened to whom he wanted to and ignored the others and sometimes had them killed if he had to or if he thought that's what he should do because there wasn't any sort of challenge to his authority and that my friends is part of part of what it meant. So um so I already mentioned about how nobles become partners, junior partners in absolutism. That's not a bad phrase, junior partners and absolutism. So what happens? Two ways of measuring how this happened and what difference it made is to is to to realize that return to what I said earlier is that you know big state structures involve bureaucracies and so the king's representatives go out in the name of the king and they you know give out justice or the lack of justice or they they they they send armies in or taxes or this kind of stuff. Um now the Renaissance citystates of Italy had relative had relatively efficient administrations to be sure but these are royal bureaucracies that expand dramatically in size and even though decentralized England expands his bureaucracy and collected taxes much more efficiently than uh across the channel he did in France uh their uh uh you know there were statemaking involved more officials there. So in order to raise money you have to enforce taxes. So you may form taxes out to somebody. You'll keep, you know, as much of the cut as they can possibly steal. Or to make money, you'll sell noble titles, and this gets the French kings in into uh uh into trouble. Or you sell monopolies, and the the Peter the Great uh uh had a monopoly on dice because people gambled a lot. The nobles gambled all the time. You could gamble surfs, real people. You could gamble them. You could lose them with a bad hand. Uh this, you know, this was Russia. uh and and and so the the monopoly on dice he sells he sells the monopoly on salt and salt was a big commodity all for obviously for storing meat and that monopoly is sold in various places um and so these officials uh you know nobles get these kinds of official very they can rake it in get these titles of and they are representing the king they're governors or in tenants you call them in France uh and uh um the it expand the numbers of of officials dramat atically. Um, now and then there's warfare. There is nothing more uh symptomatic of the growth of absolute rule than uh the growth of powerful armies. Again, when you're traveling around Europe, if you're lucky to do that, uh you'll see these big fortified towns. Uh in the case of France, again, uh they are the work of a a brilliant military engineer called Vubong V A B-N. And you go to a place like Pepon or Leel or Md. They're all over the place. And uh these are fortresslike defenses in an age of essentially defensive warfare. But if you're going to have a big old fort and you're going to have lots of cannon that you hope to use against your craven reptile enemies that would want to get in your way, you got to have people to try out the cannon. You have to have people who live in these fortifications. So the size of these armies for these megalomaniac wars, these dynastic wars uh between Austria and and uh uh France and then they changed partners uh in 1756 and all this business. You could read about that. But the big story is huge huge huge amount of uh of um of troops. Uh during the 16th century the peacetime armies of the continental powers were about 10 to 20,000 soldiers. Very very little. By the 1690s, 150,000 soldiers. The French army, which was then in 1690s 180,000 people. That's twice Michigan football stadium. If you imagine a stadium packed with soldiers and all that, how boring. But anyway, it rose to 350,000 soldiers, the largest in in Europe. And I I think I have in this edition a a table the size of European armies. uh Hapsburg Empire 1690 50,000 200,000 a polyglot army too because of all the different nationalities Prussia identified with uh the Junkers the nobles uh who were army officers the dueling scars that they had at Bismar would have in a unified Germany uh a mere 30,000 people in 1690 195,000 people during the the seven years war in 1789 9 190,000 in 1812 as they're fighting Napoleon. 270,000 people. And this is in a state that that barely extends beyond Brandenburgg and Pomerania uh in uh what now is is western Poland and uh and um and still Prussia uh in the unified Germany. Um, even Sweden 100 at the time of the battle of Pava they forget it but in 1709 don't forget it but you know read about it 1709 that's when Sweden loses to Russia the Swedish army was 110,000 people soldiers that's an awful lot so that's one of the things that happens uh the modern state in uh in action uh the absolute state in action is the army and and even in peace time military expenditures take up almost half of the budget of any European state and in times of war 80%. Now, having said all that, let me just uh Oops. Oops. Oops. Okay. Try try to turn this baby on. That go on. Why didn't that go on? Yeah. I got to back. Oh, I got to put this thing down. That's it. Yeah. Now again, these just illustrate my point uh which is about why, you know, why did nobles and even other people agree to all of this? Why do why do uh I mean, you know, if if they're being exploited, if you got big armies, they're going to crush them like grapes if they get in the way. uh but but yet one argument that can be made is that things were so terrible and so out of control uh in the earlier period uh that the strengthening of the state is something that people saw as as as beneficial. I mean again Hobbes is over the top. I mean Hobbes wants a sort of dictatorship to keep people from brawling in the in the state of nature. And again, the elite in Britain was scared because you've got all these ranter groups and levelers and people who believe that that everybody ought to have the right to vote whether they have property or not and people that believe in the right of women. I mean, this is pretty scary. Uh and so, you know, people like Hobbes thought, well, we need a really strong state, but that's not the outcome of the of the English uh civil war. But how did this work in um in other places? Now um now Theodore Rabb's argument is basically that the terrible wars of religion uh that had ripped central Europe apart uh uh in the middle of the 19th century uh led people to look for the kinds of of of uh safety provided by a strong uh ruler. uh that what had begun, and we'll see this in a minute, as a war between Protestants and Catholics, a war that began in Prague when somebody gets def fenistrated, which is a is a fancy word for throwing somebody out of a window. Uh that this ended up being a war fought by just vicious mercenaries who slaughtered the populations uh of Central Europe. It didn't matter if they were Protestants or or Catholics or anything else. They simply killed them. uh and that this terrified elites in much of Europe and had the same equivalent of what the fond did for scaring elites uh in France. Um and that I mean one of the arguments that he makes and I can't make it as strongly because I don't know enough about the scientific revolution. What I know about it is what you you're kind enough to uh to read and it was hard to uh piece all that stuff together. But there is this sort of sense of uncertainty that you see in uh you know in in someone like Decat who finally just goes back to basics and say well you know here you know I think you know here therefore I am I mean here I am uh and and to go from there to a methodology of of science a methodology of of of of trying to you know trying to study things in a rational way to to uh to get rid of the kinds of of blind faith that that seem to have led to this this this these this utter catastrophe of mass slaughter uh in Europe. And so there's signs all over the place uh that this has happened. I think therefore uh I am um and there is a return to these kinds of of uh theoretical defenses of of absolutism that it even preceded uh the growth of the absolute state uh as um you know as I've described it. Now, absolutism did not simply just emerge out of this turmoil as I already suggested and I would assist upon insist upon this again uh that the consolidation of territorial rulers had already given the basis to an expanding more formalized state uh even in uh even in England uh that that this is this is for sure it all just doesn't start like that. uh Louis the 14th was preceded in number by Louis the 13th and Louis the 13th uh helps expand uh the compelling coercive structures of of of the French state. But yet yet when you look at all of this you can see that the the kind of chaoses the political uphe upheavalss uh uh finds in a response in the growth of central government authority and the growth of bureaucracies and it wasn't only in Sweden Austria Russia France etc where you found this even in smaller states like Vertonberg a state in Germany which was a you know a sort of middlesized state even there you see the same phenomenon on a very lower smaller level. It leaves it leaves in terms of deaths of of the size of the state where people are giving up willing to compromise on their their privileges in order for the protection of the ruler of Verenberg who would never be confused with Louis the 14th or Peter the Great. But so this is really becomes a sort of Europeanwide phenomenon. And you can you can apply this also to the glorious revolution uh in England as well when people are you know they're happy to have a monarch back uh who is going to uh reassert control uh and in the case of of England they're very happy to have a monarch back who is not threatening to turn England again into into a a Catholic a Catholic state. So this is the sort of um uh the sort of uh of argument uh that uh that you can make even in a state that had a constitutional monarch uh such as um uh such as England. Now let me just give you a couple examples of of what one can mean here. And again, these are these are painters that you may have come across, and it doesn't matter if you've never heard of them or if you never think of them again. But but uh Tishan, the famous uh Atishian uh uh this is his picture of Charles V at a battle in Germany in 1648. And and this is a a pretty dramatic representation of war. I mean, this is like a clean Eastwood. Uh the good, the bad, and the ugly. I mean, this is a guy. He's armored up. He's ready to go. uh he's somebody to be emulated uh uh from the point of view uh of of of the viewer. Um and uh but in at the same time, I mean, this is slightly earlier. This is a a painting. Thanks, uh Dan. This is a painting of of of uh of Buggal uh the Elder. Uh and and and the first is is uh the triumph of the triumph of death. uh where you see uh you know what happens in in real battle when people are just sort of slaughtered and and and the commanders are off at a safe distance. Uh and you know here again the massacre of the innocents where villagers villagers are just being executed uh because uh uh they are there um and the massacre uh the the triumph of death uh you know uh um the dialogue of the mathematician Pascal is quoted by Rab. Why are you killing me for your own benefit? I am unarmed. Why? You do not live on the other side of the water, my friend. If you lived on this on this side, I should be a murderer. But since you live on the other side, I'm a brave man, and it is right uh that I kill you. Uh and you know, when the Swedes get into the act, G, Adulus, uh uh you know, brings this huge old Swedish army down and and and you know, they do a lot of damage, too. Uh and people are absolutely u uh being devastated. Here's Reuben's, the horror of of war. Now there's a reason why the first attempt to to to even write about international law comes at this period. Uh again this is before the course but why not? Hugo Grocious G R O T I US he writes the law of war and peace. He publishes it in 1625. The goal was to stop stuff like this to try to create a legal framework in which states could resolve their kind of of differences without kind of butchering each other. Uh and um so there we go. Um but you know somewhat here in war and peace. So battle is is slowly being relegated uh to uh the background. But let me give you another example of what people what you know here's a span the famous painter Spanish painter again. Don't worry about it. Velasquez uh who died in in in uh what 16 uh 1610 I think or is it yeah I think he died no 1660. Sorry. This is his portrait of Mars. Uh now Mars is the god of war. Now how different that is than the portrait of t of Charles that you saw by Tishan. Now here you know this guy looks like a kind of a you know an overweight NFL player who hasn't really got ready for the you know for the drill. Uh he he's very human. There's nothing sort of admirable about him as if war is being dissed by those people that just so tired of of the killing. Uh, and Mars has this sort of human, you know, flabby uh uh torso that's not un sympathetic, but it's a different portrayal of wars. If people are getting tired of the of of the whole damn thing, he's dull. He's uncou uh and he's extremely uh uh human. Now one of the you know the reasons why um you know why uh people would I mean for it's unthinkable for someone like me or for probably most of you to imagine you know giving up your rights to kind of you know to kind of absolute rule though we seem to be in a situation like that where this happened quite a lot uh recently even in this own country but uh um that these are just illustrations that come out of the 30 years war which was what people are trying to put behind them. And this is by this is a French u uh painter, drawer, lithographer uh called Jaca Kalo. Uh and uh these are just many ways that people died during uh during the 30 years war. Uh this is simply this is the execution. I mean you don't even need the the formal titles of these. But these get around. I mean peddlers who had these big big leather bags that would go around Europe and sell things like pins and and miraculous images of the Virgin Mary and the stories of saints and all this kind of stuff and Jon of Arc or or Robin Hood in the case of England uh you know part of become part of the collective memory. So these kinds of images do get around of the horrors of war uh uh that that the misfortunes and and horrors of war which is basically what he calls this entire series. And here's the people sort of sitting around watching this execution. Uh this is somebody being tortured at the stake for merely existing uh for you know for having not uh confessed to being a Protestant or a Catholic or or whatever. You know I'll tell you in the south of France near where we live there's a when there were a lot of resistance in World War II against the Germans. There were some Protestant villages there that were not noteworthy for the resistance. A lot of Catholics resisted too. But one of the interesting things about some of the villages that I know down there is that there were big mission crosses that were put up after the wars of religion in these that were sort of symbols of conquest by the all Catholic king. Uh and those is it in the collective memory that people remember three centuries later that the Catholic Church was identified at least a hierarchy with with the Vishi regime in World War II. You know it's it's that's interesting. It's fascinating subject. But anyway, this this poor guy is not doing very well up there. And it, you know, becomes this sort of big spectacle. Uh, and here are some these are dying soldiers along the side of the road. It's sort of a sympathetic look at that's the name of this uh of these uh expiring dudes there. And here's the attack on a stage coach. I mean, the point is, it didn't matter who you were. If you're in the wrong place at the wrong time, you were uh you were uh history. That was all. And and there was new ways to be killed. I mean certainly in Europe not until the massacre of the Armenians in in you know in 1895 um you know arguably some Napoleonic atrocities in Napoleon army's atrocities in in uh Palestine or in uh in the southern of Italy or in Spain as well but there was nothing like this uh uh really including World War I including some of there were some atrocities at the beginning of World War I there was nothing like this again uh until World War II uh And of course, of course, Bosnia, which the po the point is that this is why lots of people thought, you know, I don't like this guy coming sending people around taking my taxes, but you know, I don't want to get off by by some marauders or you can, you know, hang them high. You hang hang them all high. I mean, these were real ways that people were were were executed. Uh, and uh uh just, you know, stakes, massacres, and this sort of business. Uh there's a convent uh church that's going to go. It's a Catholic church. You can tell from the from the top. So maybe these are Protestant mercenaries. It didn't matter because the Protestant armies had Catholic mercenaries and the Catholic armies had Protestant mercenaries and everybody held had Dalmatians, people from the Dalmatian coast and Swiss. You have to imagine a time when Switzerland wasn't extremely wealthy uh and were Swiss were great, you know, famous mercenaries fighting in these armies. And again, the Swedish, the Swedish cocktail was sort of suffocating people by stuffing manure down their throat until they died. Uh, you know, I mean, this this, you know, this was a nasty time. This I guess this is what uh, you know, Hobbes meant by nasty, short, and brutish or whatever the the fourth was. I don't remember, but life was uh in the 30 years war that was the way it was. Now out of all of this again to repeat uh we are not making the argument that the 30 years war itself led to absolute rule that that the growth of state structures can be seen in the beginning in the late medieval period with the consolidation of these territorial monarchs. uh monarchies. Uh there were already bureaucrats representing the royal will. Uh there were already armies. Uh but many of particularly too bureaucracies and and uh um and standing powerful standing military forces are characteristics of modern states. uh and to try to explain why it was that absolute rule came to Europe at the time it did, one has to not only look at the particular uh the particular structures of of states, but one has to look at at the overview and and the sheer you know the horror of it all. uh and you know the boy king Louis the 14th hearing the crowd shouting outside of his uh uh you know shouting outside of his room and he he goes out to Versai and sort of creates this noble theme park and sort of like yo Disney for for nobles where we can watch these these nobles and they agree to be junior partners of of absolute rule uh and they weren't the only ones and and the great power struggles of the 18th century uh would be very different than the than these uh this bloodletting of civilians that have preceded it. They professional kinds of armies and and all of that. But those are more themes uh for uh future lectures. Now, Wednesday, I want to talk about exceptions to absolutism. What the Dutch and what the English had in common that gave them very different outcomes, political outcomes. And that's important too in the emergence of uh the country in which uh many of you live. See you.