Today we'll be discussing a little bit in a haste of course I haven't got much time to do this but we'll devote the whole class to the vita nolva or noa as it is called which is Dante's first uh work uh I was going to say first finished work but in a way it's not a finished work it is a deliberately unfinished work Dante doesn't really finish many of his works. He interrupts them. He breaks off and decides to move on to do other things. This is the case with the philosophical banquet, this text of ethics that he he goes on writing once he's in exile. It's true for the text on language so-called the vulgar about the vulgar language. The second book he just won't won't go on. U but it's also true in a way for the vitanova. Lithanova ends uh with a vision but we do not know what's going to happen uh after that this is there is a kind of suspension uh about it but this is the first work let's call it full work that Dante writes uh the title means uh a new life uh though new or new life so it means probably uh youth that describes uh the story uh an autobiographical account uh the lover the poet who is uh uh who falls in love with Beatatrice. You may remember I called it the first decisive event happening in his early life immediately after his mother's death. Um and describes this the story of this love for Beatatrice who then in the narrative dies and he goes he the pilgrim uh lover poet goes on recording uh the confusion the sense of loss that ensues this this event of the death of Beatatrice uh his betrayals becomes an ethical drama uh as most lyricical poetry of the middle ages as they're always dealing with with the treacherous his presences with betrayals uh with infidelity uh etc. And then he ends up having uh uh a final vision. It's so it's youth uh uh it's it's it's the new life meets above all uh youth but new means many other things which I think the narrative will go on the meanings of which I think the narrative will sustain. New in Italian means means surprising, unexpected, even strange, novel, marvelous. It's and and therefore it gives a kind of uh uh direction to the way we should be reading this story. It's it's uh primarily well uh all these meanings are true and it's an autobiography or or what we call I will come to the description what an autobiography is. It's also what we call a novel of the self. Uh another way of speaking about autobiography which literally means I write about myself. So let me say a few things about this structure this autobiographical structure this formal problems before we get into the narrative uh uh as such. uh um from one point of view we might uh all agree easily that if you knew that this is uh belongs the vitan war belongs to the mode of provin uh poets who would all write what they would call vida life it's just we the word uh lingers continues in Spanish life this they would write their poems and they would append a brief account of their lives this is true for they all would do that when they would publish their poems So we would say that Dante is writing about himself and inserting the poems as part of the texture of his own uh his own life. But as an autobiography though the the the text echoes uh and is modeled on the most important autobiography written in the middle ages. In fact uh it's written by one who can be called the founder of the autobiographical genre and it is Santa Augustine who writes as you know the confessions a confessions which is uh uh a witnessing which is simp it's it's address it's really the story of his life from his childhood in uh in Africa uh his growing up uh as as a gifted young rhetorician philosopher turned rhetoric who then moves to Rome where he becomes becomes a teacher despised unpaid by his students moves on to Milan and the whole narrative climaxes with a conversion. In fact, the whole idea of an autobiography for Augustine is that it is uh it coincides with it is co-extensive with a conversion. He writes a he he achieves his conversion in in a garden in Milan. Uh it's a narrative that we may have at some point a chance to go to and look at it in some in some detail and then goes on writing uh uh a hermeneutics of the biblical Genesis as if the new life that he found through the conversion could only literally issue into a commentary about all beginnings. Genesis as the beginning of all beginnings uh uh as it were. But after we say this and we say we we and I can say that Augustine writes uh in the full awareness that in effect autobiography has to be the same thing as a conversion because autobiography demands two voices all the time. It's necessarily ambivalent. It it demands the voice of uh the narrator who is outside of the narrative and who can look back. In fact, the mode of writing autobiographies is always retrospection. I look back at my life and try to figure out what are the stages, what are the events, what is that makes me now the person that I am. So there's a sort of necessary distance between the protagonist and and the narrator. Two voices, a narrator who knows more than what the protagonist knew. I am caught in time and I have encounters in my own life from day to day and I never know what those encounters really portend nor what do they mean. Uh and that same thing for you. You have uh you probably I don't know if you hold that which is the most abbreviated in in in in a unit of autobiography which is a diary. You go home at night and you jot down all the great events of the day. Uh but you may over overlook the most important. You may have had a meeting with someone. You may have caught sight of some person who eventually 10 years from now will reenter your life and give an alltogether different appearance and direction to your life. This is to say that all autobiographical experiments like all diary entries are always uncertain and fundamentally false because you can never really write you can only write about what you know at that point and you can never really write about the whole uh structure of your life. To be able to write about the structure of your life you have to die. That's Augustine's idea of the necessity of conversion. It's a symbolic death by means of which you come back into existence. You come back into life as a new man. You have a new life. And now with that from that standpoint of your being a new life, you can have all the necessary detachment to look at your past and decipher that which was in a haze that which was uncertain as things went on. The other reason why you need this kind of structure in autobiography this double voice is obvious because if I go on writing about my life without any sense what my life is about can you imagine what happens I go on writing every single thing that I do which means that I would need another life to be able to say well I got up in the morning I brushed my teeth etc etc it becomes a random senseless accumulations accumulation of facts without any particular meaning or or uh direction. Dante is aware of this type of complication of autobiographies. You don't have this kind of auto you have autobiographical writing writings beforehand. You have a kind of self analysis. think of of the uh the one the figure that is most powerful for Augustine is is David, King David in his psalms with a kind of uh reflection, a kind of turning inward and and trying to to pinpoint the shift in moods, uh moral judgments, temptations, uh the idea of one's own siftness. But this is really means uh a kind of internalization of one's life. Okay, Augustine will not do this with that. Augustine will go will go into the interiority of his self into the interiority of his consciousness but he will also describe what has happened to him in the public space. Uh he goes inside and outside all the time. Dantis or Vitanova you have all read it. It's really a complicated text from this point of view because for being for it being an autobiography, it's amazing how little he tells us really about his own life. There's nothing concrete about this text. We know that it has taken place in that takes place in in in Florence, but Florence is not even mentioned as a city. We only infer that it's Florence because at one point there is a description of a river that crosses by it and which Dante uses because he has had an inspiration. Words come to him with the same kind of strength and naturalness with which the waters of the river flow. That's the that's the implied meaning of that association, the description of a landscape. There's a river and and and and fantastic words came to me which I I jotted down was I want to remember it's the turning point in poetic terms of the vitan noa when he addresses them when he understands that to write poetry he writes a famous line women who have intellect of love it is a remarkable line intellect of it's a remarkable line and I will explain why it's a remarkable line it was never written that kind of perception was never really part of of the the warehouse of of the poetic imagination. So what does Dante do? It's it's it's a little bit abstract. It's a kind of enigmatic account that he gives. In this unlike Augustine, it begins with a a reference to the book of memory. In that part of the book of my memory within which little has been written I find words which I cannot go on repeating in all but I would just transcribe some sentences the meanings of them. So he understand that here we have first of all it's a book of memory necessary act of retrospection and memory it has a number of other implications and dangers. What are the implications? While Dante is writing this, he's about 25 24. Um, he had it's a it's a provisional retrospection of his growth as a poet. He certainly knows that memor is the mother as you know of the muses. This is the famous myth, right? uh there's a the old Greek myth that memory uh minimos in a uh lay with uh with Jupiter for nine successive nights and from their populations the nine muses came into being. of memory is the mother which means that art is always an act of memory a a way a remembering a way an act of remembrance we could say but it has also some uh dangers that Dante will will go on reflecting about is that if you go on getting caught in the activity of memory you run a serious risk the risk of changing your sense of life and your sense of reality into the fantasms of memory because that's what memory is. It's called uh as you know the eye of the imagination. That's the famous uh description of memory. The Greeks of course put used to put memory in the heart. And in fact as you know uh the ancient Greeks used to put memory in the heart. In fact as you know in Italian we still say say or in Spanish record which really has the ethmology in English record has the ethmology of the heart. we remember uh but in the middle ages it's already part of the imagination. It's called the eye of the imagination which means that has a visionary component to it and this explains the emphasis on dreams vision strange apparitions with which this text is uh uh punctuated from the beginning to the end. Pante I repeat understands that there is a danger to memory and the danger of memory is the transformation of experience into a fantasmatic reality. We all living in the world. It's like you're always looking backwards and you you're not Janus like you don't look in all directions. You don't look ahead and Dante will turn against memory. The second thing that we get from that little exordium of uh in that part of the book of my memory we know that Dant is praising himself. I I find words which have been the the inscriptions of memory. I'm not going to repeat them all but only some of them. We know that Dantis casting himself as the editor of his own book. That's the double voice and this is the double structure of this little text of his. First of all, it's a double has duplicity all over this text. Yes, it's a book of poetry and it's a book of pros. It's not an unusual structure. Uh Butheus the consolation of philosophy is written like that. Dante also writes other texts like that you know but what is the what are the implications where there's a lyricical self who has been in the throws of a great passion for beatatrice who struggles sometime with with uh his uh uh inspiration who waits and that's the problem he has one of the crisis that he has is that he always waiting for words to come to him he's always always waiting for beat to say hello to him there is a way in which He casts himself as the passive a passive protagonist weak willed uh unable uh un sort of believing that the will can direct him wherever the will once and that's another problem that we are really going to talk about uh and then uh the the finally he understands that he better get out of that mode and in effect and I will say this by making your turn just talking about the formal structure. Now um the whole text is written in the past mode. The whole text that part of the book of memory a a commemoration of a great event in the private life of the pilgrim the love and which he doesn't even know what it is. Uh he doesn't even know the woman. He doesn't even know what the passion is. And part of what the the tension of this text is to ponder what it is that the passion means and what it is that it's doing to him and to his mind. But by the end of the of uh uh in chapter 42, which by the way, let it be said in passing, it's the the division in in numbers is completely arbitrary. We don't know. That's not the way books were written. Codices were written in Dante's time. It was a continuous uh to say pages and papers some people really believe. But yeah, modern editors have made it more controversial into 42 others who believe there should be 30 and I agree with that. But let me read the p the last passage, the last paragraph which is no poetry now ends with pros with a voice of reflection. Po pros functions as the work of reflections on the lyrical on the lyricical inspirations on the immediiacy of the lyrical voice. So that's the double voice. I'm an editor and I'm a poet at the same time. Sometimes the editing, the notes that he writes say nothing about the poem. They try to sometimes he goes on into a formal uh mechanical description about well this set is divided into two parts that doesn't really add much to the inner life to our understanding of the inner life of the protagonist. This is what he says in 42, chapter 42, after I wrote this sonnet which is about the famous vision of Beatatrice sitting at the foot of God's throne. And so he decides that he has has to go there has to he decides that he has to go a meet. That's the last vision. Okay. After I wrote the sonnet, there came to me a miraculous vision in which I saw things. It's like a visionary burden of the narrative is kept up from memory now to vision that made me resolve to say no more about this blessed one and blessed in Italian by the way is a pun on the name of Beatatrice the one who is blessed the one who is the better of the good that's really what it means until I would be capable of writing about her in a noble way so that's the uh unavoidably unfinished quality of the I can't go on to write about her. I need to do more work. I need to do more research and find out what I really can say about this woman. So, he will stop. That's what I call an unfinished a a an inevitably unfinished narrative. To achieve this, I'm striving as hard as I can. And this she truly knows accordingly. If it be the pleasure of him through whom all things live, that my life continue for a few more years, I hope to write of her that which has never written before of any other woman, and then it may please the one who is the Lord of graciousness, that my soul ascend to behold the glory of its lady, that is of that is of the blessed Beatatrice, who in glory contemplates the countenance of the one who perom Benedictus. is through all times uh blessed and and and ends with a pun on again uh Beatatric. What is the most important to me the most important point of this paragraph? The intrusion of the verb of the future. The only time you find in the narrative, I hope the whole text is contained between an exercise of memory, an idea of something which is passed and attempts him greatly because if something is passed, you have you think that you can even control it. You can certainly decipher it. You can hope to extract from it some particular meaning narcissist complacently or not. And then ends with a projection of the self into the future. Another work has to come. This is the preamble to something more which I cannot really contain. So memor is abandoned. The work ends with an image and within the horizon of the future. This is really very important. The limitations of memory are can be understood only from this point of view because hope as you know when you think of hope grammatically this is what is the future says I hope to write there's no future there I hope it's in the present but hope grammatically is a verb as you those of you have studied a little bit of Latin remember always takes the future participle I hope that I will do this and say I hope I would have done this. It doesn't work. I wished I had done that. But so it takes all it's a verb of the future. It is literally also in substantial terms. It's a virtue. This is a the to say I hope is a theological virtue. Hope which always implies the future. It says that the past is not really over and done with because once you include or you intrude the category of hope, you really believe you can change the meaning of the past. Things may be happening that whereby all your past errors, all your past mistakes can be seen and will be seen in a new life. So much then for this question of uh the structure. I repeat, we have pros and poetry. We have the voice of the lover and we have the voice of the editor. We have a text of memory that at the same time turns against itself, points out the limitations of memory and opens to the future through hope, right? And you have this idea that uh uh something amazing is going to happen something uh uh that though nothing concrete is being given everything will take place within the self. It's the moment where Dante abandons Augustine. We begin by saying I begin by saying that the mode the rhetorical mode that Dante really follows is Augustine's confessions which is a text of retrospection and ends with the commentary on Genesis. Dante ends with uh a what we call a prolapsis a a weird word that's not so weird but a word that means a projection to the future. Autobiography has this kind of future dimension and cannot be contained. In other words, it's not over and done uh and done with the most the mode which is really just to make this really intelligible to you. This the the the kind of text that is most like what Dante has written in the uh in the Vitanova is really Joyce who writes the portrait of the artist as a young man. That's the way you can really if you cannot have a conversion if you not you cannot die as Augustine says you have to do when you write write an autobiography in order to come back as a new man and be able to write your life story and find out the meaning of your life then what you can do is write about yourself with a kind of temporal distance that is brought by uh time I'm no longer the young man I used to to be but I do know those passions I remove myself from them. And exactly the same way Joyce does it with a portrait of the artist as a young man which ends with the projection of going to uh descending the smithy of the soul and writing uh the the uh then the forge and forge the epic of uh of of of the future. That's really the it ends with a project for the future. So this is this is a kind of uh a mode of auto autobiographical writing that Dante really uh prepares and puts forth um what happens in this text. So much for the uh this you can you by the way you can stop me at any point uh as uh as I'm talking if you want me to clarify things or we can leave at the end. What happens in the text? It's a love story. It's a love story of uh a young man um who meets at the age of nine um meets a young woman who is roughly of the same age. He says she's in her ninth year. Doesn't even know who she is but feels a kind of bliss. Then sees her again nine years later. So we know that there is a kind of numerical symbolism running through the number for Beatatrice is three uh 33 a trinitarian number. She comes uh she reappears and he's convinced that this is going to be the love of his life. But he doesn't even know what love is. He does not know what love is. what he does know at the beginning and this is what part of the the whole the the the the economy of this narrative uh really focuses on time to ponder what love may be. You know the culture of the middle ages is filled with literature of love. This could be viewed as one of the many love books of the middle ages. And in case some of you may be looking already for a a a topic for your paper, you could write about the love books of the Middle Ages. Um but are the other love books the famous love books of middle ages which are completely different from the love books of the middle ages coming before uh uh for instance the art of cry love of Andreas Capalamus which is some of you know it's a codification of what love is uh the idea that love is an art the art of court love that it's obviously natural in instinct or or thrust or passion and yet has to be changed as if there can be a sentimental education. One has to learn how to contain, how to hold off excesses, how to hold off the potential disruptions and violence that love will produce. There are the romances of deta that you may know about which is all about about uh love at the court. Uh the place of pleasure within uh the the unfolding of uh responsible life. uh there are so many other texts a lot of the province are poets whom Dante really evokes uh Dante writes about love and let me say a couple of things so that you can really uh it's not the first time that people reflect about love of course the Greeks try to do that and you may remember um Socrates who always wonders what love is it a figure of speech manner of speaking or is there such a thing as love it's that's just a useless figure of love. Is it a god that possesses me? It's just a natural instinct and that we call love and so on. This variety of uh of passions, this variety of ways of understanding love all figure within these things. The main things that Dante meets Beatatrice doesn't even know who she is. Does not know what's happening to him at the age of eight. It starts in an involuntary way. The whole point of this narrative is that things seems to be happening to him. Not only he's a passive figure but even love comes to him. It's he doesn't will it. He doesn't look for it. And in many ways uh look at this passage here in book in in chapter two. Nine times already since my birth the heaven of light had circled back to almost the same point where they appeared before my eyes. It's it's it's appear. It's an apparition. Something gives itself to him before my eyes. The now glorious lady of my mind who was called Beatatric even by those who did not know what her name was. She had been in this life long enough for the heaven of stars to be able to move a 12th of a degree to the east in her time. That is she appeared to me at about the beginning of her ninth year. So she's a little younger than he is. And I first saw her near the end of my ninth year. She appeared dressed in the most patrician of colors, subdued decorous crimson. At that very moment, and I speak the truth, the vital spirit, the one that dwells in the most secret chamber of the heart, began to tremble so violently that in the most minute veins of my body were strangely affected. And trembling, it spoke these words, "Here is a God stronger than I who is coming to dominate me, to rule over me." I mean this is this is uh these are set descriptions of what love is. The point is that he doesn't will it. He does not know this is about why why does he present himself as unwilling this passion? Because passions because which are unwilled seem to be more important than the things that we will. If they are unwield and they happen to me, they may have the mark of a secret necessity. There may be a pattern behind them that I do not know, but it happened to me. Do you see what I'm saying? I do not have any responsibility about it. I don't know what that that is. He will find out in time that he cannot go on obeying the rules of the will that he has to go on understanding that the will needs to be in turn ruled by by reason. And the other thing that he does is that there's this god this figure of love as a god clearly a literary conceit he has no idea who speaks to him over overruns him ro overruns him he takes refuge in the chamber of his house the chamber of his mind and there he goes on uh engaged in deliriums uh uh dreams uh uh etc. They used to say all the clinical signs of love. He thinks that love is a passion that disabilitates him. This whole problem will come to a a head with the first sonet that he writes which by the way is really the poem we know uh Dante 17 years old when he wrote this poem. So we know that this is really a kind of uh sort of uh uh uh it's a dream. It's a poem which appears as a dream uh which I read in English in this uh uh so and so translation but it's better than anything I could try. To every captive soul, it's a horrifying dream as you can see. To every captive soul and loving heart to whom these words I have composed are sent for your elucidation in my reply. Greetings I bring for your sweet Lord's sake. love. The first three hours, the hours of the time of shining stars were coming to an end when suddenly love appeared before me to remember how really was appalls me. Joyous love seemed to me holding my heart within her hand and in his arms he had my lady loosely wrapped in folds asleep. He woke her then and gently fed to her the burning heart. She ate it terrified. And then I saw him disappear in tears. It's it's a dream, a horrifying dream about uh a lady which is asleep held in the arms of the Lord of love. She wakes the heart the heart is given to her. It's a story of clearly how uh the heart nourishes love. That's that's the the the sense but the meaning he says uh it's a dream another involuntary experience a dream comes to us without our will without our wanting it and he says the meaning of this uh this sonnet was unclear. He writes the sonnet and sends it out to his fellow poets in Florence. He sends one of them to the person who is going to become his best friend and to whom this text is dedicated and who will appear very soon in the text. His name is Wido Cavalcanti. We shall see him in hell by the way. Don't put him in inferno 10 and we'll talk about him at length. And the uh widow answers because that was the fashion. just write a poem and then by taking your own rhyme scheme as a kind of response they go on really writing about this and and and we talk about Kanti says to him well you really right you really had a vision which means that you cannot quite trust love that you really have to turn away it's a an it's a kind of admonition to you move away from all of these figments of love and turn to philosophical studies it's only in the mind that you can find and in the pursuits of the works of the mind that you can find some kind of uh of truth and stability for yourself outside of it there is only and if you pursue love there's the world of the arrangements by the way another physician of the time uh Dante his name was also Dante Dante Davayano he decides to write to him and also writes about the son says well this really means that you you have humoral problems take all bats and everything will be Okay, you nearly need need to uh rebalance uh the new equilibrium for your humors. One reduces love to a question of bodies, the physician as if we're just a disease. The other one reduces it to a question of uh love's danger visav the stability of the mind. Dante will go neither with one and will not listen neither to one nor to the other. The rest of the poem will be that of trying to understand what this love really is. Uh crucial chapters will appear chapter eight he describes as going to a funeral. You remember what he sees a dead woman and you and you wonder what is the point of this kind of scene and the point I think of that that scene is that there is a body and that body is inert and dead and that there is no possible connection between him and this dead body. So that love is not reducible only to bodies. Uh they need there must be some kind of animation. There must be some kind of soul that is or life that accompanies it. And the the uh in chapter 12 finally Dante seems to be moving a little bit uh away from this uh provin this this way of describing love in uh in uh terms of conventional terms that I have to describe to you and he has this other dream about the lord the god of love who comes to him and says it's time for you to put aside all simurakra all fictions all emptiness let me just say a little bit about more at this point about love and the kind of questions that Dante raises. Whenever we think about love in the modern era as you know this is not my ideas but particular I believe in them uh others have formulated these ideas. Whenever we think about love in modern times that the formulation of love as we understand it today is essentially medieval. The Greeks do not have this understanding of love the way the romantic idea of love the way we do. They understand love as an intellectual pursuit as as an ascent up the ladder of being. That's it's the work of philosophers uh that the the the minds can go on uh from degree through the various degrees of uh reality and intellectual reality and one can grasp it. There is friendship of course but it's not the idea of the love of a man for a woman which is so crucial to the romantic understanding of love. the the the Romans had no understanding at all about either what the Greeks knew or what we know. Uh you know the most important uh Latin voice romant about love is for instance I think Catalus who talks about love as something to be slightly embarrassed about. It's a weakness. Uh a serious guy that's not involving oneself in this kind of uh of of pursuits, this kind you have to do the serious work of uh of living the political issues. So go into the forum, negotiate etc. But come the provinile world in the south of France, the provinile courts, love changes both its meaning and its contours. Now love is the love of a man for a woman and it's usually described and you can see even in Andreas Capellanos and the art of cult love or in the text of of of described as maybe it can be a clandestine secret relationship. It necess it need not be within marriage because marriages are usually uh business propositions. uh it is uh it is a kind of emotion that uh uh potentially violent. In fact, the effort is one should what is the sociology of love? Can a noble uh man fall in love with a plebbeian woman? Can a a noble woman fall in love with a plebbeian man? So it's a sort of arrangement about what love can be. And yet they also they describe it, they always describe it as the experience that causes insomnia, loss of appetite. The lover turns pale and can't speak in the presence of the beloved. They go on describing the physical properties of love. The other great revolution about love is what is contained in this text. He's not the only one. Dant is not the only one to have brought it about. his teachers and people the likes of Wido Kavalcanti and when it's early we're are going through the same direction namely that love has to be explored for the changes it brings to the mind how can it be this is a kind of problem that they raise how can it be that I see a woman and the image of that woman obsesses me what is it about my mind why do I want to be better than I am how am I going to be educated ated, but in the light of the love in the light of the love that I feel for this woman and in effect this kind of metaphysical aspect of love is the special burden of uh of this text. And let me just give you an idea. Uh it happens uh the first time that this happens uh uh is exactly with a famous poem that I mentioned to you that is the turning point uh chapter 19. Uh let me just read this paragraph. This is a turning point in Dante's understanding of what love is. Then it happened that while walking there down a path along which ran a very clear stream, we guess that it's the Arnold River. He won't say he's not interested in the outside world. He's only interested in what love does to his inner self, to the story of his mind. I suddenly felt a great desire to write a poem and I began to think how would go about it. What an extraordinary moment. Finally, he's not just jotting down words that come to him. He just starts thinking. This is not just about a a a self that is desiring or willing or unwilling and who lives that kind of strange world. Oh, it's a good thing that things are happening to me because I can't help it. You know it's uh I can I can give up my whole uh I can give up my whole exercise of what I can do the sense of purpose about what what what is happening changing will into into a rational uh activity and now he starts thinking and I begin to think I would go about it. It seemed to me that to speak of my lady would not be becoming unless I were to address my words in to ladies and not just to any ladies but only to those who are worthy not merely to women. Then I must tell you my tongue is not out of it yet. as if moved of its own accord spoke and said ladies who have actually he says women who have intelligence of love with great delight I decided to keep these words in mind and to use them at the beginning of my poem later after returning to the aforementioned city and reflecting for several days I began writing a canor meaning a song which forant is the the noblest form of rhetorical form and using this beginning and I constructed it to uh in a way that will appear below in its division. The consort begins ladies who have who have ladies who have intelligence or love. I wish to speak to you about my lady not thinking to complete her litany but to talk in order to relieve my heart. Not thinking to complete her praise her praise. Uh it's a poem of praise. Therefore a religious kind of very close to religious poems as you know they are so-called loudest laudatory we say in English to come back to this to to uh give you a sense of what this kind of poems can be the praise which he would like to us to distinguish from flattery. You know there's a difference between a pre praising someone and flattering someone. Praising uh you really don't expect anything in return. you're praising. There's a kind of sense that you are trying to describe and yielding to the lure and the power of what what is in front of you. Flattery always implies some kind of uh circuitousness, some sort of desire to get something. You flatter. It's a rhetorical a rhetorical form. You flatter because there implies a sort some degree of manipulation. But the most important word, it is women who have intellect of love. Intellect of love. Finally, intellect and love are not two disjointed activities of the mind. It's not what Guido Kavalcanti who really believes in parts, who really believes in a world which is sundered one from the other in a fragmentaryary world would come to that in inferno 10. Who really thinks that time is all fragmented from itself anyway? experiences are all fragmentaryary the love if I have a passion I can never quite come to understand uh anything in fact when I am in the throws of passion my mind seizes its operations this poem is written against Dante's best friend to whom this text is dedicated and so we are forced to think and I will go back with this poem in a moment but let me make a brief digression about the relationship between friendship and love. There are two extraordinary extraordinary um virtues. You come, we call them passions, but they're also virtues. Is there anything better than friendship? Is anything better than love? But Dantes has come brings up, this is the part of the radical way of Dantis thinking. He brings brings us to the point where you really have to distinguish between things that seem to be equally powerful virtues. And what is friendship? Well, the the the text is dedicated to widow which means that friendship implies a conversation a conversation of minds. The word conversation as you know in Latin means things turning together. That's what it is. Minds when you are conversing minds are turning together in some kind of harmonious turning looking for some common agreements. And there is a sort of benevolence implied in friendship that presupposes even the the what where you're going to find we are going to not only it's benevolence is the condition for friendship. It's really the point of arrival. We got to like each other even more after we discuss we disagree but we are doing it benevolently. That's that's the gift of friendship. It's a virtue in the ethics of Aristotle. It's counted as one of the major virtues. And so does Dante in his own rewriting of the ethics of Aristot which is the banquet. But love for Dante here is more important than friendship. And it's more important for friendship because it forces you to think. It forces you to think. Something happens to you and that mobilizes your mind. You got to go looking for the signs of love. You try to look for uh what all signs what kind of sign is my beloved sending to me uh etc. The mind is engaged in an extended self mode of self-reflection. So intellect of and love now together that's the revolution. Let me go back to the theme that I had been with which I started. This is the beginning of a so-called sweet new style. the kind of poetry that the Tuscans write and which is a sort of rethinking of what the province poets were doing. The province poets are writing poetry in the mode of uh I tremble and I and uh the image of the beloved I cannot even tell anybody. I have to keep my passion away from the flatterers because they are going to violate my secret and so I have to always protect this. have to protect the identity of the beloved to give a sense of singularity and uniqueness to this passion. The Tuscan poets Dante Cavalanti witelli they come on they come along and say no no no what matters is that love can become part of intellectual experience and intellectual sense and knowledge only favors love and love mobilizes the mind to go on thinking. See I'm I'm I I really don't want to to say too much now because we we have so much time ahead of us. The great debate, philosophical debate in the 13th century is always the fence between the so-called volunteerists and rationalists. Very simple, don't uh the voluntists are those who believe that if I want to know something, I have to love first. The love is crucial to my knowledge. If I uh you know probably you remember went from your own early youth when some of you would be interested in a boy or the boy and the girl someone would say oh you really love that person what do you mean I don't even know him I don't even know her that's really the issue if you you love so that you may know that's the position of the volunteerists no no others will say you have to know first in order that you may love and it's a they're fierce debates Dante is circumventing all of this. Intellect and love are like the two feet that carry us along and you move one and you move the other and only this way can you walk without being a hobalt as he will be later when he starts in. So this is the great change what you call the sweet new style and the sweet new style means therefore a highly philosophical highly intellectual kind of poetry. A poetry where the woman or the love of a woman can take you up to the divinity. Love through love and the understanding that that which rules the world is not just an idea, it's just love and therefore love is the only way of coming to it and and and pursuing it. Uh and some examples of this kind of um of uh uh experience will will happen very soon. And I want to um uh I want to mention this uh great poem uh that he he describes this little sonnet where he he which also uh which sort of uh pursues immediately after chapter 20. Uh let's look at this sonnet. The after this Gzone had become this Gzone about women who have intellect of love had become rather well known. One of my friends who had heard it was moved to ask me to write about the nature of love. That's not what he forget about the the experiences about not being sleepless where Dante starts as a provincial poet. He's now refining that idea and wants to think about the nature of love philosophical idea about love having without losing sight of Beatatrice per having perhaps from reading my poem acquired more confidence in me than I deserved. So thinking that after my treatment of the previous theme, it would be good to treat the theme of love and feeling that I owed them to my friend, I decided to compose a poem dealing with love. As I wrote this note which begins, love and the gracious heart are a single thing. Esminiti who is another poet of the sweet new star. He's the father of the sweet new stars tells us in his poem one can no more be without the other than can be a reasoning mind without its reason. Nature when a love moon creates them etc etc. So this is uh the shift now the full awareness the learning about love Dant has gone through the school of the philosophers in order to learn about this. This means that this whole text really is traversed by two interrelated themes. There are two stories, two thematic strains running through. One is the story of a love for Beatatrice. Dantis love for Beatatric. A way of understanding what love is. Is it is it is it uh uh a physical impulse? Is it a demon? Is it a figure of speech? Is it a simulacum? Another fiction that we tell each other or not? And he goes on learning about this. The other thematic strain of this text has to do with learning to be a poet. Dante is also telling us the story of his poetic growth. how he begins imitating the provincial poets, imitating now the poets of the sweet new style and finally finding his voice and how the two themes really shed light on each other because I can only understand as about love and if I understand really things about love that nobody else has understood I can really go on writing about the poem about love writing poems that nobody else can go on writing which is a famous promise the hope he expresses in chapter 42 and if I can go on writing about love in a way that nobody else has ever written. It means that I understand love more than others have understood love. And at any rate, the great poem that he starts writing when he's in a sense even uh in uh in in in a kind of uh um u rivalry with uh with uh um with with with it appears in um the sonet that starts um here I could mention 20 uh 21 the power of love born in my lady's eyes when now it's not only about the nature of love but he goes on trying to find love within Beatatrice it's not the god of love that has been abandoned it's not the conceit of love it's not the words the strange enigmatic words of love that have come to him from oracles and traditions now that is love is love for the concreteness of Beatatrice herself as I said uh earlier in very much in passing uh the text uh uh has an extraordinary sonnet that I I I read I read in Italian a couple of uh lines a few lines so you can you can you can hear the sound of this uh this this poem chapter 26 this is about Beatric the apparition of Beatatrice she goes by through the streets and the world is silence the world falls silence is a kind of general apparition but also she's wrapped in a kind of mystery and in an inapproachable light. There's always some kind of distance. This is the poem. Such sweet decorum. Uh page 57 of this edition chapter 26. And such gentle grace attend my lady's greeting as she moves her lips can only tremble into silence. And I dare not attempt the case. Moving benignely clothed in humility, untouched by all the praise along the way. She seems to be a creature come from heaven to earth to manifest a miracle. So we are now Dant Pierce is a sort of poet who carries because of love heaven and earth mixed up in his head. Uh Beatatrice brings heaven down to earth and asks of him that he can rise up to heaven. These are the words in Italian. Listen to the repetitions, the sounds, the n sounds. and so on. So so pray only praise can come uh uh in to toward uh in in her direction. And finally, um, how does he really how does Dante really get out of this sense of, uh, constant wonder? Because that's a poem about wonder. So, Beatatrice appears and it's a miracle, wonder. And that's and that's how you start thinking. As soon as you believe that what you perceive is a wonder that you don't quite understand, you want to go on trying to understand it. That's this the that's the heart of the effort of reflection, right? Um so there's this kind of u sense of constant perplexity great excitement at the idea of Beatric now Beatric has died. Uh her death appears around chapter 29. uh how real can she be now that she's what how are you going to relate to someone who is dead and Nant will do that which probably some others can could do. We try to find the replacement and we'll go looking for someone who looks exactly like her or reminds him of her and then finds this uh chapter 32 33 34 this woman who has a lot of so much mercy sense of mercy for him that he's very drawn to her and he understands that in the measure in which he tries to duplicate Beatatrice then the love for Beatatrice was not really singular that his own project was at stake here. Either you believe in the singularity of the figure you love or if you believe in the duplication then you are undercutting uh your own project. So he's caught in all these dramas till he finally sees some pilgrims and this is really the great direction and with this I will stop and see if there are some questions of chapter 40 some pilgrims you know that uh um the pilgrimages they used to go to Santiago de Compostela as they do now then used to go the famous from the north of of Europe the so-called they would go to Jerusalem they would go to the via Frankija as it is called that goes from the north following a particular path go to Rome and here he sees some pilgrims who are going there called Rome uh there he see some pilgrims going to Rome and this is the poem he writes uh and this is extraordinary poem are pilgrims he addresses them they don't listen to him they know nothing about him he addresses them moving pensively along thinking perhaps of things at home you miss. Could the land you come from be so far away as anyone might guess from your appearance that you show no sign of grief as you pass through the middle of the desolated city. This is phrase and always used for Jerusalem the desolate the abandoned city. This is foreign like people who seem not to understand the grievous weight of war it has to bear. If you would stop to listen to me speak, I know from what my sighing heart tells me, you would be weeping when you leave this place. Lost is the city's source of blessedness. And I know words that could be said of her with power to humble any man to tears. This is a it's really another great shift in the movement of the poem. He sees pilgrims who are going somewhere and he realizes that he's not like them. He's not going anywhere. He is moving in circles and if you move in circles you get nowhere. Now he something happens around him that will uh in many ways shake him from that kind of circular uh self-absorption in which he finds himself. And the second thing is that he understands this is an extraordinary poem. Read it again for yourselves when you have a chance. He understands that the mythology has been constructed about Beatatrice is an absolutely private mythology. It means nothing to anybody else. You who come from afar and he's like them because he too is they are they are separated pensively. A word that implies suspension. the same word to think and to be suspended. It's the same ethmology in Latin, right? They are they they're halfway. They are here now going through Florence going somewhere to a destination and nostalgically separated from the world they left behind. And Dante too is going anywhere but he doesn't have Beatatrice with him and has no idea of where he's unlike the pilgrims where to go. Above all this, if I were to tell you anything, you would understand that this is a desolated city, but you do not know. And the implication is you may not care. My mythology is private. The effort I have to make is to transform my private mythology into a public discourse. This is the transition from the Vita nolva to the divine comedy. The divine comedy will be a text where finally Dante will go on literally theatric theatricalizing literally staging his own passion through the passions of others involving all others in his discourse and creating what I would call a public mythology. So this is really the most important moment and then which ends with another journey of the mind that will make the next one beyond the sphere that makes the wider round passes the sire risen from my heart and new intelligence and love and tears endowed with its urgent on high etc. Here he sees Beatatrice far away and decides to undertake his journey. The journey of knowledge, the journey of exploration, the journey which will be uh which is the journey of life and which is the journey that will be at the heart of the uh comedy or the divine comedy with which we start next time. Um so this is really this is really a kind of uh uh experience poetic experience that Dante will uh will go on uh at the start he's still a young man um uh he's exploring a lot of possibility he's gathering all the voices around him but he internalizes them they are not it's not still the kind of encyclopedic text that the divine comedy will necessarily be where he has to involve all discourses all whispers, all all groans, all noises. Uh the whole world is to speak through his poem. That's part of uh uh the most inclusive vision that excluding anything. But this is a time is is an effort to try to find himself as a poet with a project and that project will be necessarily a project of the future. There is no poet that I know in the western tradition which is so given to the idea of the future and who is more of a poet of hope than Dante is. I call him a lot of things and I will call him a lot of things. I call him the the the poet of exile which he is. I call him the poet of love which he is. I call him the poet of peace which he is. There's an ironic uh thrust underneath his whole uh even his pmics fierce pmics. Uh but above all and now for now he appears as the poet of hope in the knowledge that hope is the most realistic of virtues because it tells us that the past or even the past may be dead. That really despair is the most crucial uh sin that one could have in this in this universe. Belief is to say that things are over and done with. Dante says, "I'm not done yet. I still have a project. I can't even begin to tell you about it. But let me stop now because I have other things to do. That's the substance of this poem. And in this sense, it's a preamble, a preparation for the the the divine comedy. And since I'm trying to give you a sense of Dante's own life as a the fresh and bone kind of guy that he was uh what happens after this uh poem, Beatatrice has died literally in 1289. She dies. Dante now is married. Mary's uh uh a woman he will never mention. um um the who belongs to a a decent family in in in Florence the Donati troublemakers and Dante doesn't really like uh and Dante will enter public life and this public life which also means that he will have a great interruption to his intellectual and his intellectual pursuits till in 1302 as I probably remember I mentioned his he's banned from Florence is to go into exile and once he's in exile then his production will start again. started writing about the language, the theory of language, the first treaties on language in the western world. He writes a text of uh of of uh ethics which is the banquet uh and then the divine comedy. We'll begin next time. We'll find them in the middle of uh the his his journey which is uh Kento one. But since we have a few minutes uh uh do we have questions? I said a lot of things. I hope it was uh I'll go back to some of these things. So questions about text Yeah. Yes. The question is, do I recommend that the students stick to the text that I mentioned in the syllabus or uh can they go on using other texts such as Mand Bomb's translation? And the answer is yes, you can. Uh it's a very good uh Mandal's translation is a very good translation. I don't use it for one simple reason because he's a dear friend of mine. He probably will hear me now. Everything will be on record. Poets have a weakness when they translate. They do it out of great love for the Texas. But deep down this idea, look at this. I can do little one better than even Dante. And he lapses into that and I have told him uh more than once. I like this unpretentious translation by Sinclair pros. Sometimes he's wrong. I will tell you when it is blatantly wrong. Uh but you can use Mandeb or if you have Singleton or you have Derling uh and Martinez or if you have uh actually which I think is really better than all of these Hollanders, Robert Hollander. Uh actually translation is by his wife Jean. Uh so that you can use any translation you want. Uh they are not really all that different from each other. It's usually the sound and of course Mandab as a poet has a sense of the rhythm in English. Uh absolutely. Yes. Yeah. The question is very good first of all and is uh why should I make a claim that love as a process of knowledge is better than friendship which you're really singling out that which is the one of the dramas of the vitan a book dedicated to bad dedicates to his best friend widow Kavakante and yet it's about beatric and when Kavakante appears he says forget about love uh just you know turn to philosophy uh in a set that is very well known and that I quote in some piece or rather uh so there is a tension between the two of love and friendship and we agree and you seem to be agreeing with the very generic not unusual uh description that I make of friendship and friendship is really the language of philosophers right uh philosophers who uh get together and believe in thought and believe also that you know friendship is a great virtue there's a lot of dramas within friendship in the in in uh in in in literature friendship ship and trying to outdo each other. I'm a better friend than you as than to me uh I'm a better friend to you than you are to me. As soon as you talk about that kind of rivalry, you realize that passions also uh uh get into that process. But I would say that Dante I I understand Dante to imply here that love is better than friendship exactly because it forces it does violence on our ways of thinking because it forces us never to take anything for granted and in and of itself because listen this is may even be something that ro you you find very romantic people can find very romantic the idea that in love you are going to be surprised by what the signs of love are and the oblquities of the idea of love. Whereas in friendship you really have a sort of the clarity of an exchange. In love you're going to have the secret signs that lovers can give each other. To me a great text that maybe Dante I'm sure Dante read is really oid. If you go and read oids stories, you know, great stories, but the story of Pyramus and Tisbe, you know, lovers who can see the smallest in the wall through which to communicate and all the inventiveness that comes with in a sense it's really with the idea that love uh can urge can I say can force us to think about in ways that we could never really imagine because it is tied to the imagination. Okay, that's what I would say. Other questions? Okay, I think that does it. I will see you next Thursday with uh KTO one, etc.