How can you tell the difference between recreational substance use and a substance use disordered? How can you tell if your patient uses substances at all? The best way is to ask your patient. One of the most cited reasons why providers don't ask about substance use is because they are afraid of what they might uncover and aren't sure what to do with the answers. In this course, we will equip you with various clinical skills to address substance use and screening is a key foundational skill. In this lesson, you will learn how to screen your patients in order to determine their risk for a substance use disorder. Universal screening for substance use is critical to understanding your patients physical and mental health. In most cases, it will open the pathway to prevention, equipping patients with knowledge on how to prevent any future problems with substance use. In other cases, it may be the initial step on a pathway to substance use treatment. Screening shouldn't take a long time if you know the right questions to ask. It can literally take seconds. For alcohol use, screening can be a simple question. Simply ask, "How many times in the past year have you had four or more drinks in a day?" for women or five or more drinks in a day for men. This amount of alcohol, either four or more for women or five or more for men, is the definition of heavy drinking. Having one or more heavy drinking days in the past year, is considered a positive screen for unhealthy alcohol use and warrants more investigation. For other drugs, you should ask, "How many times in the past year have you used a drug or a prescription medication that was not prescribed to you or took a prescription medication in order to relax or to feel high? I often like to give examples of specific drugs running through the major classes. For example, marijuana, opioid, sedating medication, stimulants. If the patient answers one or more times, it is considered a positive screen and warrants further probing. After a positive screen, you will want to quantify the frequency and quantity of use, documenting weekly and daily averages in the past month to understand how much and how often the patient drinks or uses drugs. For example, to understand your patient's pattern, you should ask the following. In the past month, on average, how many days each week do you drink? On days that you do drink, on average, how many drinks do you have? For this part, there is a key piece of information that you as a health care provider must know. And that is to clarify for patients what is a drink. We actually are talking about a standard amount or grams of alcohol. Standard is a key word here because what a patient may count as one drink might actually be much more. For example, cocktails are routinely more than one standard drink, sometimes as much as three or four standard drinks because they contain more than one shot of alcohol. In the United States, a standard drink is any drink that contains about 0.6 flu ounces or 14 g of pure alcohol. So, the following are standard drinks of alcohol. 12 flu ounces of regular beer at 5% alcohol, five flu ounces of table wine at 12% alcohol, and 1.5 flu ounce shot of hard alcohol at 40% alcohol. Of course, I don't expect you to carry a calculator with you or to crunch the numbers in your head. After all, patients might not know the ounce or alcohol by volume off the top of their heads. But by asking some follow-up questions, you can reveal a more accurate picture of the actual amount. So, if a patient says they drink wine at dinner, you may want to ask how much they pour in their glass. or if a patient says they drink a few beers at happy hours. Is it light beer which is typically a little under a standard drink or say a craft beer which tend to be more than a standard drink often as much as 8% alcohol rather than your typical 5%. Keeping track of average drinks per occasion and drinks per week is helpful to understand if your patient's pattern of drinking and to help identify the risk. The National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism deems the following limits for men below 14 drinks per week and below four drinks per occasion. For women, below seven drinks per week and below three drinks per occasion. And for all those 65 and older, below seven drinks per week and below three drinks per occasion. So where does your patient fall compared to these limits? Many people are at no risk. They never drink alcohol, and this category accounts for roughly one-third of US adults. People that drink under both the weekly and daily limits are low risk. This group has less than a 1% chance of having an alcohol use disorder. This group accounts for additional one-third But if a patient drinks more than either the single day limits or the weekly limits, they are at an increased risk of having alcohol use disorder. To put this into perspective, if a female patient drinks four or more standard drinks on days she drinks, she has a 20% chance of having an alcohol use disorder. It certainly doesn't mean she has a diagnosis, but it does mean you need to ask more questions. determine if she does have have alcohol use disorder and educate her about her drinking habits. About 20% of US adults have this drinking pattern, drinking over the recommended weekly or daily limits. Finally, there is the group with the highest risk, those who exceed both the per occasion and per week limits. About 10% of US adults fall into this group with about one in every two people having an alcohol use disorder. While drinking at this level does not mean someone has an alcohol use disorder, it means that they have A-50% chance. It warrants you educating them and negotiating a plan to help reduce the risk. Patients at any risk should be educated on these limits and the downsides of drinking alcohol. After all, drinking increases the chances of injury, is linked with personal problems such as losing a license or fighting with loved ones, and it can cause or exacerbate a number of health problems. For example, heavy drinking puts us at a greater risk of liver disease, heart disease, depression, stroke, stomach bleeding, as well as cancers of the oral cavity, esophagus, larynx, fernx, liver, colon, and rectum. Drinking can also interfere with managing conditions such as diabetes, high blood pressure, pain, and sleep disorders. These are just a few examples of the negative consequences of at risk or heavy drinking. For drugs, there is no level that is considered low risk. We just don't know enough to make recommendations. So, any use warrants further exploration of their use, the consequences of use, and assessing if they meet criteria for a substance use disorder. Please understand that any use is not diagnostic of a substance use disorder. Health care providers make this mistake routinely. A positive drug drug screen for cocaine does not mean someone has a cocaine use disorder, but it does mean that you need to get curious and ask more question in a non-judgmental way. At any point in the screening process, you may be met with skepticism or resistance. A patient may want to know why you are asking about their substance use. In this case, you can assure them that these questions are vital to understanding their health and providing them the best care possible. Screening can be done in any health setting from primary care to the ER by a variety of methods from interview style to patient self-reporting on a paper or digital form and conducted by any health care professional from health technicians, nurses, APRNs, PAs, and physicians. A common workflow is to have clinical assistants or nurses deliver the screening instrument and then the PA, APRN or physician go over the results with the patient. While we used a single item screen in this lesson, there are a variety of standardized tools out there such as the audit for alcohol or the National Institute of Drug Abuse or NAIDA modified assist screener that you and your medical setting can implement. We will link out to more resources in the next reading. The who, what, where, how isn't as important as just starting the dialogue about substance use. Remember, just ask. The goal of screening is to understand the frequency and amount of use. But while quantity helps you evaluate risk level, remember that does not signify or determine a substance use disorder. Screening brings you to a decision point. What do you do at various risk levels? If your patient is at little or no use, you will want to focus on prevention and stress the importance of staying below the limit. For those at increased risk, you will want to conduct a brief intervention in hopes of getting the patient below the limit. For high-risisk patients, you will want to go through the diagnostic questions to see if they meet criteria for a substance use disorder. You will learn more about how to do a brief intervention and how to diagnose in the upcoming lessons.