Welcome to week two of our introduction to medical software class. And our focus this week is going to be on the regulatory aspects of medical software. How are the regulatory agencies regulating software? What are the procedures one must follow? What is the process that they follow? And some emerging issues when it comes to things like artificial intelligence and machine learning. So this is the goals of this week lectures. We'll discuss the history of regulation, the history of the Food and Drug Administration in the United States a little bit. We'll review some key regulatory documents. We'll describe the current regulatory process primarily in the United States, but we'll take a little bit of a look at both the process in the European Union and China. And then at the end, we'll have a short discussion of emerging issues in artificial intelligence and machine learning. So this is the outline. These are the videos we'll have. The first video is the mission history of the FDA. The next two deal with the old regulations, the qual system regulation and the guidance, the general principle of software validation. This will take us to about 2002. Next, we'll take a look at the document documents from the international medical device regul forum on software as a medical device. This is a regulation that comes out in the last decade 2010 to 2019 or so. In the last two segments, we'll do a quick view overview of the regulatory process and we'll talk a little bit about emerging issues in artificial intelligent machine learning. Again, we'll pick up the thread on those in week 11. We'll revisit this topic. And as we'll mention every week, the in this class we follow the textbook and the material for this week is based on chapter two of the textbook shown here. So our first segment we're going to talk about the FDA and software how the FDA what is the history of the food and drug administration and how it progressively got interested in software. So it started looking at food then at drugs then at devices and then eventually software as they understood what the risks to people were from all of those things. So if you go back 120 years ago, there were almost no rules about any of these things and progressively this area became highly regulated and we have to have rules. We have to follow certain procedures before we can access the market. So before you can enter the market for any of these things, you have to get market clearance or market approval. That's the vocabulary. So you'll hear words like premarket, what do you have to do before you enter the market and regulations postmarket, the rules you have to follow once you have a device, a piece of software that is on the market. So let's look first at the mission of the FDA. This is from their web page. The Food and Drug Administration. This is paragraph one of the mission statement is responsible protecting the public health by ensuring the safety, efficacy and security of human and veterinary drugs, biological products and medical devices. Those are the three categories incidentally. So software is a medical device and by ensuring the safety of our nation's food supply, cosmetics and products that emit radiation. So the three key words will come back to this over and over again. And this tptic of efficacy, safety and security. So efficacy, the software must be effective in achieving the claims made for its intended use. This is a piece of software that lets you measure tumor volume in MRI. Efficacy means it's doing it well. Safety means that use of the software does not expose the patient or the user to any due risk from it use. Now this vocabulary is more from the perspective of a hardware device. When it comes to software, a lot of this comes under the rubrics of usability. That the software is designed in such a way that the user does not make mistakes in using it that lead down the road to issues for both a patient primarily here. And then the next element is security. Security is that the software is designed in such a way to protect patients and users from unintentional and malicious misuse. And in the software space, the primary consideration here is cyber security. So we'll talk about this and anytime we talk about any of these in a design we'll talk about efficacy, safety and security. How does our software achieve those three things? So we'll come back to these words over and over again. Again a reminder that not all software is subject to FDA regulation. This slide we saw in the last in last week's lecture. So software for administrative support of a healthcare facility for maintaining or encouraging a healthy lifestyle to serve electronic patient records transferring storing converting and displaying data and to provide certain limited clinical decision support is not medical device it's not a medical device it's not regulated by the FDA right now although again the lines may shift so you have to keep an eye on things so the history of the FDN we follow an article from the web page by JP Swan you see the citation at the bottom starts with the food and drug act of 190 06 and this is concerned about the addition of poisonous food additives in food products and hence the food and drug administration not just the drug administration and then we end up the next major landmark is the food drug and cosmetics 1938 this was a problem with an antibiotic alexis sulfanimite and this used a solvent which was very closely related to antivirus and this resulted death of over 100 people this legislation expanded the FDS scope to cosmetics and therapeutic devices and it authorized factory inspections and audits and this is an important part of the FDA's purview. They visit all these facilities unannounced sometimes as we will hear in the next video clip to make sure that they follow appropriate procedure. So here's a clip from Mr. Schwan from Vision 28 who'll talk about FDA audits in his experience with them. So every three years by um policy FDA is supposed to inspect every medical device company. Well, there's more companies than there are inspectors. So every 3 to 5 years, depending upon risk and your complaint activity with FDA, you can expect a visit from FDA to audit your establishment and products to see if you're in compliance with with federal regs. Generally speaking, they will call you up and tell you when you when they are coming. By law, it has to be during normal business hours. If they say, "We're going to come on January 31st." And you say, "Well, that's not convenient for me." They will say, "I'm sorry to hear that. We're coming on January 31st." Um because they don't want you to fix any glaring things. So they they just keep their schedule, but they don't have to call you. I got a call one day and said, "Rich, there's two F FDA inspectors at our front desk." And I went down and I had an audit and uh so they do not need to um give you pre-notice. The next step in the history of the FDA is extension authority to drugs officially now and this happens in 1962. There was something called the talidomide disaster. This was a mild sleeping pill that was safe even from pregnant women. This was primarily sold in Europe. It was not on the market in United States and this resulted in tens of thousands of children born with related disabilities worldwide. The pictures are gruesome so I will spare you but if you Google for that you will see what I mean here. And at this point Congress required drugs to get approval from the FDA before they get to the market. So this is the pre-market approval for drugs that we had talked about. The next step is now how we get to devices and you you can get that if you here see the pattern right all legislation all regulation moves from problem to problem. So something goes wrong with a drug we have drug legislation. Something goes wrong with a device you have device relations. Something goes wrong with software we now regulate software. And this is the history of law from the beginning of time. You can go back 4,000 years. Law is reactive. Something goes wrong we come up with laws and procedures to ensure that it doesn't happen again. So if we look at this case, the causal event here was the Dalcon shield. The shield, this was an intrauterine contraceptive device. You can see a sketch of it up there. And it was a long-term contraceptive. By 1974, about two and a half million women used this thing. And use of this device resulted in pelvic inflammatory disease, damage to the reproive organ sepsis, which is blood poisoning, infertility, sterility miscarriage, and even death. And this led to Congress passing the medical device amendment which now requires pre-market approval for medical devices, not just drugs now, but medical devices. So far, we're talking about hardware. The event that brought software into this picture was the the 25 accidents. So the the 25 accidents and what you're seeing here is a picture of radiation treatment machine. And the reason we use the radiation treatment device as a picture, you'll see this picture multiple times is because this is the origin story of medical software regulation. So, the 25 were radiation treatment machines. Remember, as we talked about last week, these deliver high energy radiation to treat tumors. Due to bugs in the software that was driving this device, a number of patients, there were six documented cases, received abnormally high doses of radiation resulting in serious injuries and deaths before the problem was identified and corrective actions were taken. And this case is the origin story. This is where a lot of the regulations come from that govern medical software. You'll hear echoes of the the 25 over and over again as we look through these documents. So the the 25 machine the best report, the best investigation comes from this paper by Levenson and Turner in 1993. They performed the initial investigation of these accidents and then Nancy Levenson who's not professor at MIT wrote this book software system safety and computers. And in appendix A of this book, which you can find online from her web page, she gives a more detailed description of what happened. So these are highly recommended and important documents to look through. So what is what happened in the 25? So let's look at the design of the the 25. The 25 had three modes. It could output electron radiation, X-ray radiation or field light position. So electron mode, this is radiation that doesn't penetrate deep into the body. It's used for surface tumors. X-ray mode. This is radiation that goes deeper into the body for deeper tutors and field light position. The system just output visible light and it's used to help place the patient so that the radiation is going to the right place. So you can almost think of this as an early version form of augmented reality. You put a light on the patient, you move them around so the beam is where you want it to be and then switch mode and you apply the radiation beam for treatment. The problem here comes that the X-ray mode uses a 100 times more energy and it's hazardous if you directly expose the patient to X-ray mode. So what the device did is that use AI a piece of harder called a flattener to absorb most of this radiation before it go to the body. And in a previous version of this device there were electromechanical interlocks to ensure that the flatten was there anytime you were in X-ray mode. In the the 25 they removed this interlocks and they use software to ensure safety and problems with the software allowed this extra radiation to go directly to the patient resulting in this injury. So if we look at this picture from the original Leverson paper the radiation comes from above and you see this turntable here. This rotates here and there are three pieces that can go in front of the radiation. There's the electron focusing magnets. There's a beam flattener for X-rays and there's a m mirror for visible light. So if you are out if your radiation from above is electrons, you want this part to be in front of the beam. If it's X-rays, you want this part to be in front of the beam. And if it's visible light, you just need a mirror so the light goes through and you can see where it's supposed to go. The problem happens if the rotation of this table is out of sync with the energy that's coming down. And in particular, if you have X-rays coming down, but this absorption device, the shield, the flattener is not in front of the beam, then this raw high energy radiation go straight to the patient. And this is where the injuries happen. And we'll we'll have a case study presented by one of the students at the end of this class that gets into the history of this in a little bit more detail. So what are the factors that led to this disaster? This is from the investigation from Levenson. The first was overconfidence in the software. There was no defensive design. There were unrealistic risk assessment. Software always worked up to now. So we don't have to worry about software. There was complacency. The prior versions of this device were safe. So people thought, well, we know what we're doing here. We don't have to worry about it. And there was inadequate investigation of followup on accident reports. So when these people got phone calls from the site saying well we had some issue with the device they never really followed up in any appropriate way. The other factors now we get into the more technical issues. There were requirements in the design documentation were written as an afterthought. So after the device was created then the documentations were written as if they were used. And that's a problem. this the process was not really followed. There was no quality system in place during the design or the development of the system and now you can hear why quality management is so important. The user interface was confusing to the user and the error message were cryptic. You saw things like malfunction 54 but no user ever was ever told what malfunction 54 meant. There's just something wrong and there was inadequate software engineering. The design was overly complicated and that's a compound problem and only system level software was tested. There were no unit levels testing. So the smaller parts of the software were not really tested and there were errors lurking there as we'll see when we discuss the general principle software validation document and the importance of all of this testing. And finally, and this is the most surprising of the issues, there was software used. So they use code from a previous device with minimal testing. But the thing is that the software that was safe in one environment may not be safe in another environment because there may have been latent bugs that only manifest themselves in the new environment. So the conclusion from the Levenson work and this investigation was that safety is really a quality of the system in which the software is used. It's not a quality of the software itself. Rewriting the entire software in order to get a clean and simple design may be safer in many cases. And this course again the commonly thought view in software you don't really want to ever reimplement anything that works in certain mission critical situations. you may be better off starting from scratch just because stuff that may have worked in one environment does not work in another. So this concept of safety being a quality of the system, just to give you another illustration, consider two chemicals, each of which is perfectly safe in isolation, but when you mix them, they're no longer safe. The software by itself may be safe, but when running on this particular hardware, maybe something in the hardware that causes you problems. This type of arrangement will also come again into practice at the end of this course. also talk about machine learning. Well, we now have machine learning software that you have to treat as an unsafe component that you have to put other safeguards around it to make sure that when it goes wrong, it doesn't cause downstream effects and harm to the patient or the user. So, this concludes this discussion on the history of the FDA and how the regulations came to be. In the next segment, we'll look at the actual regulation itself from 1995, the quality system regulation. Thank you.