In this segment, we're going to look at the actual regulatory process, the process that that the agencies follow to review your software before granting you approval to proceed to market. Now, we're going to focus on the big picture here on the principles that they follow as opposed to the details. The details are likely to change. As we begin, we're going to have a short video clip of Mr. Michael Nyla, which just explains a little bit the process and it's a good overview. So, we'll go to that video next. >> The FDA won't review your code, uh, but they will review your requirements and how you've defined your code. The other big thing, the other two big things for software, um, evidence are going to be the human factors, the usability, and I mentioned that earlier, and the cyber security. um those three items, you know, when most of the laws are written for a screw, you know, like a dental implant, you know, when you're looking at these things. So there, you know, a typical nonsoftware will have mechanical testing, biompatibility, electrical, those all that stuff things, all those sort of things. With software, there's only there's only, you know, those three main things that they can look at to show that your device works. So they you really should make sure that you're looking at the guidances and doing a full job of your software verification validation your human factors usability verification and validation and your cyber security as well. So those would be the three things I would focus on if you're getting ready to go to the FDA regardless of class level. >> Okay. So let's just recap here before we jump into talking about the regulatory process. This is from the mission statement of the agency. They're worried about efficacy, whether your software works. And by works, it means it has the appropriate functionality to meet it intended uses. Safety that it does not cause harm to the patient or to the caregiver. And for software, this a lot of that comes down to usability, making sure the user interface is such that we don't get into errors and security that the software is designed to prevent malicious use. And again, for software, a lot of that we have to worry about is cyber security. And those are the things that Mr. Nyl mentioned. your verification validation often means a lot of efficacy, your usability and your cyber security. Those are the things that come into play. So in our usual way, the device classification, we mentioned this before talking about the IMDRF guidelines in the previous segment, comes down to risk. So the FDA classifies devices and software is a device when it's regulated into three classes. Class ones to three and these are low to moderate risk is class one, class two is moderate to high risk, class three is high risk. And with these classifications come both the regulations you're under. General controls, special controls, premarket approval controls. We'll explain those in the next slide. And the actual review processes. Class one devices are usually exempt. You just have to file notification you're going to market. So it's registered so they can find you. For class two, we have two different processes. What's called the premarket notification, the 510k process or the denovo process. And for class 3, we have something called the pre-market approval process. So we're classifying the devices based on risk and the requirements in the review process just what I mentioned depend on this classification. So as in every aspect of medical software your risk level determines the process. It determines what you have to do. So let's look at the controls and the situation here. Most of the software especially software as a medical device comes under class two usually. So what are the controls we're under? We're under both general and special controls. So for general controls we just have to follow good manufacturing practice. So no alteration keeping sure the documentation is up to date that the payu is in place you know the declarations are correct. These are just the basics that the agencies ask for. Special controls are specific to the device special to the software and this involves often meeting performance standards. So if you have a piece of software to detect cancer from images your special controls may mean an accuracy of 80 or 90 or 95% depending on the situation. Many of these special controls in many cases come from predicate devices. If there's a similar thing that was approved by the agency before what they did may become your special controls. So to just give us an discussion on this topic, we have a clip from an interview from Dr. Nicholas Patrick from the FDA and he'll discuss this whole process. So general controls are the basic authority we have in the medical device laws. So things about adulteration, misbranding, device uh registrations, those rules that apply to those that you need to do, pre-market notification, records and reports that you need to keep the good manufacturing practices that are available. So those are sort of the general ideas of in the law, these are our regulations, you need to follow these regulations around these various aspects and you could if you do that then you know if if that was all that was needed, then we would say that this device could be marketed. So something like a class one device which are these lower risk devices um those would fall under just general controls if you special controls are used um when general controls aren't good enough that we they we can't um be satisfied safety and effect under just general controls. So they're usually device specific and includes things like um pre-market standards um postmarket surveillance requirements patient registry special labeling and then potentially pre-market data requirements. So that would mean there's some type of testing or data that's required pre-market in order to evaluate that device. We call them special controls because they're related typically to a device, a type of device, which which is in class two. So in in class two, you typically have um general and special controls which are these specific data and requirements associated with the device class. >> Okay. In addition to these requirements, we have three different review processes for the different types of software. The most common one in software and you have I'm sure many of you have heard the expression 510K here the FDA determines that the device the software anytime you hear the word device you can accept the word software in your mind is substantially equivalent has a similar safety pro profile to a previously commercialized product this is called the predicate so in this particular case if you have a piece of software that does something for example detects tumors from MRI images and there's a previous piece of software a different product somebody else has marketed that does more or less the same You can claim that that is your predicate and all you have to do is say we're similar to something you have already approved. So this is a 510k process and a lot of time in this business is spent looking for a predicate because that makes life simpler. In the cases where there's not a predicate but we're still in class one or class two. This is type one type classification there's something called the denovo process. This is a newer process here. We'll talk a little bit about more detail in a video clip in a minute. And these are your device here is reviewed on its own but you have to provide evidence of safety and effectiveness for the intended use and there's no predicate here. So you say okay we're setting the bar ourselves here and you have to convince the agency that this is good enough on its own right. Pre-market approval. This is where we must demonstrate reasonable assurance of safety and effectiveness. This is really complicated expensive and your company has to be set up with a full quality system as if your product was already on the market. We will not get into that for the purpose of this lecture. So to discuss the denovo process, we have a second clip from Mr. Nyl. >> So denovo process is for a class two risk product that there isn't a predicate out there. So um let's say we'll use that the imaging we just you know I used as an example if there was never a software that was used to diagnose saroma out there and there was nothing to compare it against then you would need to use the denovo process which is kind of the in between the 510k and the PMA because it's since it's going to be on its own the first one you need to show on your own. You're not comparing it to anyone else that this device works and works well in a safe and effective manner. Um, but the controls in terms of that quality management system requirement that we talked about is still in the class two bucket. So, you don't need to have it fully in place until after approval because Denovo will get you a class two or technically a class one, but that doesn't happen very often. class two uh approval and then once you have a class the a denovo clearance though you the next company behind you uh can come up and use your device as a 510k. So as a denovo though the other thing is you get to set the special controls that we talked about. Whatever evidence you put forward and think is really important to demonstrate their safety and effectiveness you can set as your own special controls. So the next group coming behind you or even your next product as a iteration will need to meet those requirements. So in a recent review paper by men at all and you can see the paper in the top left hand corner of the slide. They reviewed the state of AI based FD approved medical device and algorithms. This was a couple of years ago and they at the time there were 29. This paper has a live table. So if you go online and you look them up, you'll see there more now software listed there. Of these 29, 23 used the 510K process. So they found a predicate and they demonstrated the new software is substantially equivalent. Five used the novel process. This is new technology but it was not high risk. And there was one case that used the full PMA and this was for software to do a continuous glucose monitoring system. This is a high-risisk device and so it required more work. If you go to the table and find the number of the approval, you can search for that on the FDA page and you can actually see the paperwork that the FDA issues in approving. So some of these are short for the PMA. This is a very long set of paperwork because of the risk involved in the process. Now so this is a process in the United States. In Europe, in the European Union, the process is a little different. So we're now looking at the medical device regulation of 2017 that went into effect in May of 2021. It was delayed actually a little bit because of the pandemic. The MDR classifies devices into classes 1, 2 A, 2 B and three. Software always starts out as 2A but as a document says if it can cause death or a reversible deterioration of a personal state of health then it becomes class 3. If it can result in a serious deterioration of a person's state of health or a surgical intervention in which case it becomes class 2B. So that's typically of course just like the FDA the moment you move up from 2A to 2B to three what is expected goes up. One thing that makes Europe different is that the review is done by notified bodies. So these are private companies that are authorized by government agencies what's called competent authorities to review a set of products a group of products like a dossier a particular category of products. So you're not actually getting reviewed by the government. You see, you're getting reviewed by these private bodies which of course themselves are now audited by the government agencies to make sure they're doing the right thing. And the result of the review process is a conformance certificate, the so-called cart. You may see it on a whole lot of other non-medical products around you. Just take a look. I'm sure you'll find one that gets placed on the device. So to talk us through the European process, we have a clip from an interview with Dr. Andre Basuchi from the consulting company Confine AG in Switzerland. In Europe the structure is quite different mean that we have the European Commission that is a very high level um transnational organization. Then we have component authorities that are in every state of the union and that are uh component for their own market. So they monitor the market and they ensure that the market is safe and they take actions whenever there is a problem on the market. And then they have another entity that is interestingly a private entity that uh is a private company basically a set of private companies called notified bodies that receive the uh power from jointly from component authorities and the European Commission to analyze dosier dosier of devices and release C marks for certain types of devices. Now I know this sounds extremely complicated. That's exactly how it is. Um so basically the idea is that for certain device types namely class one devices pure class one devices the manufacturers can claim uh uh can generate a declaration of conformity on their own for class 2 A class 2 B and class 3 devices which are the other uh classes of the devices plus some special class one devices that have uh some special functions like measuring steroid surgical instrument and reusable instruments You need to ask a notified body to check the technical documentation for you and release a C mark for you. That's how it works. So you don't interact with authorities at this type when you submit your dosier. You start to interact with authorities at the postmarket level or if there is a problem on the market. >> To round up this discussion, let's take a look at the other major markets and we'll talk about China. the the regulator in China was called the National Medical Products Administration, the NMPA. This was formerly called the CFDA, the Chinese FDA. So you can see the sort of connections here. It has still uses three risk classes, class one, class 2 and class 3. China has it own unique process, but it shows a lot of similarities with the United States. It has its own good manufacturing practice and similar to the quality system regulation or CFR 820. The first guidance of software was issued in 2015. And here are some of the differences. The testing here needs to be done to Chinese national or any industry standard. So there's some differences as you work in the Chinese system. So we have one final video clip in this segment and this is from M. Ali who is a regulatory consultant at this company China Met device and she'll talk to us a little bit about the situation in China. >> In China the National Medical Product Administration is leading authority who evaluate medical device conformity before being placed on the market. The China NMPA has a similar role as FDA in the review and approval of medical devices. The China GMP regulation is similar to FDA's requirements in CRF part 820 and China NMPA ask for a QM audit to overseas medical device manufacturers. There are three risk classes class one, class two and class three. Something unique to China, the clinical pathway does not depend on classification. If device are not on an IPA clinical trial exemption catalog, they will either need a comprehensive comparison to equivalent device or undergo a clinical trial to meet regular high expectation. Regarding medical software, China listed it as a regulated product as early as 2003, but the first guidance about registering medical software was not released until 2015. They are emphasizing more on cyber security, mobile computing and um now they are working on providing more guidance in emerging areas like deep learning based AI software and AI classification. >> And as the clip concluded, this area of deep learning software and classification is sort of the emerging frontier of both medical software and the regulatory process. And we will take a more detailed look of all of those issues in week 11. But in the next segment, we'll provide a quick introduction to this topic. Thank you.