This lecture I think starts with a series of preliminaries. Uh but so the in the technical term for preliminaries of this kind in literary study is prolapsis. That is to say the form of anticipation uh which in a certain sense covers what will be talked about later. Uh they are uh prolapses of this kind. I I first I wanted to say that in entering upon the phase of this course which concerns a series of particular identities as perspectives as points of departure for thinking about the literary text and of course for thinking about identity itself. um we come upon a a a form of of critical endeavor which is in practical terms incredibly rich uh and productive. Uh, it is simply amazing how, as Jonathan Culler once put it, reading as a woman or reading as an African-American or reading as uh any of the other uh sort of uh focuses of identity that we're going to be talking about. It's simply amazing how this kind of reading, if it's done alertly, transforms everything. That is to say, it has uh an incredible practical payoff. Um you know, last time uh in the context of the new historicism, uh Steven Greenblat's brilliant anecdote begins with Queen Elizabeth saying, "I am Richard II. No, you not that." Whoa. Well, I mean, Steven Greenblat um isn't concerned in investigating uh a pronouncement of that sort from the standpoint of feminist criticism or indeed uh from the standpoint of something we'll be taking up later on, gender theory. Uh but still, it's rather an amazing thing for Queen Elizabeth to say, isn't it? Uh it suggests really that a kind that it's that it's after all remarkable that she, a woman, uh would find herself in a position not so much uh needing to endure the kind of suffering and peril that her own sex has traditionally endured, but uh rather end potentially enduring the suffering and peril that one would experience in the masculine gender position. ition made perhaps even more interesting and complicated by the fact that Elizabeth knows perfectly well that despite the rarity of her being Richard II uh it's nevertheless not a unique position she has sub subjected Mary Queen of Scots to precisely that position she has deposed uh and beheaded her ultimately uh in just the way that she fears the Earl of Essex will depose and behead her. So the way in which uh this remark uh I am Richard II, know you not that uh so easily commandeered and made use of from the standpoint of the new historicism can uh come to life in a completely different way when we think about it uh as a question of a gendered experience um is I think in itself a fascinating one. Now, um, at the end of the last lecture, just as by way of further preliminary, um, I told a little fib. I said that there were no women in Tony the Tow truck. And of course, in your pros text, the one that you've been clutching to your bosom feverishly for the entire semester, uh, in your pros text, there are no women. There are just guys talking. However, if to the pros text, and I've told you about these, you add the illustrations, uh, and this is one of them. Roughly speaking, I did it from memory. Um, uh, if you add the illustrations, you have to realize that it's not just the cars, you see the little smiles on the faces of the cars, it's not just the cars that are happy about what's going on when Bumpy finally comes along and pushes Tony, uh, but it's the houses in the background. the houses in the background which have been expressing disapproval uh at the reactions of Neato and Speedy to the predicament. They're big frowns on the faces of those houses in that illustration and now express beaming approval when the morally correct thing is done. Now in the Victorian period and in a certain sense I think Tony the Totruck in this regard hearkens back to the Victorian period there was a poet named Coventry Patmore who actually a rather good poet who became notorious however in the feminist tradition for having written a long poem in which he describes woman as the angel in the house. You probably are probably familiar with that expression. But the idea is an idea which is also I think embodied uh in the in a monumental book of some 25 years ago by Anne Douglas called the feminization of American culture. Uh the idea is that moral and aesthetic and cultural values are somehow or another in the hands of women uh in the drawing room at the tea table dictating uh to the agencies of society all of which are strictly male prerogatives. uh what a proper ethical sense of things ought to be. In other words, the role of the angel in the house is not just to wash the dishes and take care of the kids, although that's a big part of it. The role of the angel in the house is also to adjudicate the moral aspect of life at the domestic level. And that's exactly what these houses obviously inhabited by angels. How else could they be smiling and frowning? Uh that's what these houses uh are doing. And so it is the case after all that there are women in Tony the Tow truck. All right. Now, as I say, this moment is not exactly a crossroads uh in our syllabus. It's not like moving from language to psyche to the social because obviously we're still very much in the social. In fact, it's not even as though we haven't hitherto encountered the notion of perspective. uh obviously we have in all sorts of ways but particularly in the work of Baktine or Jameson uh we're introduced to the way in which class conflict that is to say being of a certain class therefore having an identity gets itself expressed in literary form dialogically gets itself expressed even as the expression of either as the expression of conflict uh between or among classes um or as a more cacophinous but and yet at the same time very frequently harmonious uh chorus of voices of the sort that in uh notions of carnal carnivalization uh and other such notions one finds in baktine. In other words, the way in which the language of a text, the language of a narrative or of a poem or of a play uh gets itself expressed is already h as we've encountered it uh a question of perspective. That is to say, it needs to be read with notions of identity, in this case, notions of class identity, uh in mind if it's to be understood. Well, what's interesting though, what's also interesting though about turning to questions of identity is that perhaps more sharply now than hitherto, although I have been at pains to point out certain moments in the syllabus in which one really does arrive at a crossroads and you've got to take you can't you simply can't take both paths. Uh nevertheless uh within the context of thinking about identity in these ways as literary theory we begin to feel uh a an increased competitiveness among perspectives. I'm going to be pointing out pointing this out from time to time in the sequence of lectures that we now undertake. But from the very beginning there's a a a a sense of competition between actually a a competition which is in some ways unresolved to this day. Uh for example between the feminist and the Marxist perspective that is to say what is the underlying determination of identity and consciousness? Is it class or gender? Just for example, and this is not a new topic. This is not this isn't a topic that we stumble on today um uh as a result of some belated sophistication we've achieved. Listen to Virginia Wolf on page 600 of A Room of One's Own where she says top of the lefthand column, "For genius like Shakespeare's is not born among laboring, uneducated, surviile people. It was not born in England among the Saxons and the Britons. It is not born today among the working classes." How then could it have been born among women whose work began according to professor Trallion almost before they were out of the nursery who were forced to it by their parents and held to it by all the power of law and custom. Yet genius of a sort must have existed among women as it must have existed among the working classes. Now in a way Wolf is pulling her punches here. She's not saying class has priority over gender. Nor is she saying gender has priority over class if we're to understand the history of the oppression of women uh or the history of the limits on the forms of women's expression. Uh she's pulling her punches and yet at the same time I think we can see a point of view in Wolf's room of one's own which is after all rather surprising. Think of the title. Think of the later title of attract in some ways similar about sort possible the possible scope for contemporary activity for women. Three guineies. Uh these titles are grounded in material circumstances. Wol stands before her audience her oxbridge audience of women and says all she really has to say is just this one thing. If you're going to expect to get anything done in the way of writing or in the way of any other activity that's genuinely independent of patriarchal limitation, you've really got to have 500 pounds a year and a room of your own. That's all she really says she has to say. In fact, as you read through the six chapters of A room of one's Own, you find that as if uh on an elastic band, after the extraordinary range of impress impressionistic thinking that each chapter manifests, she is pulled back to this one particular, as she sees it, necessary factual precondition, material precondition. You want to get anything done? You're not Jane Austin. You're not a g You're not a genius sitting in your parlor whisking your your your novel in progress under a piece of blotting paper every time a servant comes into the room. You know, you're not like that. You really do need today the independence of having 500 pounds and a room of your own. In other words, I think one could show that even in a room of one's own, which is which is if not the greatest, certainly the most eloquent uh sort of feminist uh treatise on the conditions of women's writing ever written, one could show that even in that uh there is a certain priority given to the perspective of class as opposed to the perspective of gender. uh gender uh will continue uh to be conditioned by the effects of money and power if in fact something isn't done let's face it to redistribute money and power on this view and this is a perspective which by the way is even clearer in three guineies uh and uh and suggesting that um despite u its main agenda which is a feminist one that underlying ing that there is a sense of the priority of class. These sorts of tensions continue uh to haunt not just feminist criticism but other forms of criticism having to do with other forms of identity really to this day. uh conferences uh featuring this variety of perspectives very typically are develop into debates on precisely this issue and the oneups persons of conferences of this kind are always the one who somehow ones who somehow get in the last word uh and say you're all naive um you suppose that this is the basic issue but there's an underlying issue which is the basic issue uh and that's the one that I'm going to demonstrate must absolutely prevail. It's not necessarily always uh the Marxist card which is played in this context although it frequently is. Uh it could be some other card but it's always a card played. It's always the last word at the conference which makes everybody go away say oh I I thought this was about women. Oh dear it must be about something else. And we will uh and and we will have to come back to that because uh in a way the material we cover today and the way that we're enabled to discuss it by its own nature um uh is something that uh calls for another lecture uh and a lecture that we will uh actually provide. Um there's a very real sense as I hope to show by the end of the lecture uh in which uh traditional I call this classical feminist criticism in which traditional or classical feminist criticism needs to be supplemented perhaps in the deridian sense needs to be supplemented by something more which is gender theory. uh and I'll try to as I say at the end of the lecture I'll try to explain uh what that might what that might entail and then come back to it when we discuss uh uh uh Judith Butler and Michelle Fuko a few lectures from now. All right. So Ru of one's own is an absolutely amazing tour to force. Uh it's actually one of my favorite books. I I I read it like a novel and in many ways it is a novel. Um uh and I think immediately that might give us pause because if Charlotte Bronte is to be called to task for tendentiousness that is to say for writing from the standpoint of complaint of perceived oppression and if Charlotte Bronte's tendentiousness gets in the way of the full expression of what she has to say which is to say the unfolding of a novel uh and if as Virginia Wolf I think actually rightly remarks At least from an aesthetic point of view, we wonder why on earth Grace Pool suddenly appears after after you know the sort of Jane's diet tribe about wishing that she could travel and wishing that her horizons had been broadened. Somehow Jane uh Virginia Wolf says Grace Pool uh is out of place and that there's been that there's been a rift uh in the narrative fabric. Um if this criticism of Charlotte Bronte is fair and we'll be coming back to it uh in other contexts then of course it could be turned against the narrative the choice of narrative style of narrative approach in a room of one's own itself. Uh this I suppose could only strike you forcefully if you read the whole of the room of one's own all six chapters which I urge you to do um because it's so much fun. If you read the whole of a room of one's own, you'd say, "Well, gee, this is sort of a novel, too." The speaker says, "Oh, call me anybody you like." Not unlike Melville speaker saying, "Call me Ishmail. You can call me Mary beaten. You can call me Mary Seaton. Call me Mary Carmichael." Doesn't really matter. Um, but I've had certain certain adventures. At least that person speaking has had certain adventures which are fictitious. Um, or at least I reserve the right to to have you suppose that they're fictitious. Uh, in other words, this is a narrative that moves quite by design in the world of fiction. In other words, Virginia Wolf is saying it really isn't true. As as as she tells us in the first chapter that she Mary beaten after sitting at the river thinking, wondering what on earth she's going to tell these young ladies about women and fiction. Um, as she's been thinking about that, finally she gets a little idea. It's like pulling a bit of a fish out of the river. Uh and the fish starts swimming around in her head. She becomes quite excited and she walks away across the grass. At that point up arises a beetle uh a formidable person, you know, wearing oxonian gowns and pointing at the gravel path where she as an unauthorized woman should be walking as the grass is the province only for the men enrolled in the university. Uh and so and then she has repeated encounters of that kind. She goes to the library unthinkingly uh only to be told by an elderly wraithlike gentleman that since she's a woman, she needs a letter of introduction to get in. Um and and so her day uh her fictitious day thinking about what on earth she say to these young women about women and fiction uh begins somewhat unpleasantly um as a presented fiction. In other words, A room of one's own is in a sense a novel. It continues um uh with a very pleasant lunch that she has. She's been invited uh to the campus as a distinguished writer. It's okay to be a novelist. Um to be a woman who's a novelist as long as you uh as as as as long as you don't uh uh rock the boat too much. Um and in that respect, in that regard, she can have been invited to such a lunch, has this very pleasant lunch because it's provided by men uh in an atmosphere which is designed for men. Then she goes to visit a friend who is uh teaching at this fictitious college. Uh she has dinner with the friend in that college's dining hall. Uh and the dinner is extremely unferior, inferior and plain. Uh and then they go to her rooms. Uh and they start talking about the conditions in which this college was built. Bunch of women in the 19th century had all they could do to raise £30,000. No frrills. Thank you very much. None of them had any money. There were no major donations. And so the grass never gets cut. the brick the the brick is plain and unadorned. Um, and that's the way life is in this particular women's college. Uh, then uh she uh the next day she goes to the she goes to the library because she decides she's really got to find out something about what people think of women. Um, and so you know what what you know what is a woman? I don't know exact. So I'd better I'd better look it up in the library. and she finds out that hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of men have written books about women. Uh you know the inferiority of women, the moral sensitivity of women, the lack of physical strength of women on and on and on and she lists them uh as items in the library catalog which actually are there in the library catalog. Um all of them of course uh getting themselves expressed in these hundreds and hundreds of books about women by men. Well, this is very frustrating, but as you can imagine, it's a cause. It's a it's an occasion for wonderful satire. Uh, one has to say tendentious uh um satire because obviously it's male bashing. Um, and my point is, my point is that she wouldn't let Charlotte Bronte get away with that. You know, Charlotte Bronte has Charlotte Charlotte Bronte has to suspend her anger, Virginia Wolf wants to say if she's going to get the whole of what's on her mind expressed. Well, Virginia Wolf, who is of course not sort of doesn't sound very angry, um but you could well be mistaken about that. Uh she's venting her anger in comic effects. uh Virginia Wolf allows herself because that really is the case uh a measure of anger. Uh so so it is in that chapter. Then she goes home uh and the rest of and the rest of the room of one's own takes place in one's home. She's in her study pulling books off the shelf of her library. Uh and this is more or less chronological. It starts with the with a time when she looks uh where on the shelf where the women writers ought to be and there aren't any women writers. Uh and then later, yes, there are women writers. Uh there are quite a few novelists. Uh and then later, uh in the 20th century, women writers get a little bit more scope for their activity. Um and as she passes all this in review, uh we continue to get her reflections on the state of literary possibility for women in literary history. So that is that's the structure of a room of one's own uh overall and uh it is within this structure which is an impressionistic and narrative undoubtedly novelistic structure. I mean there are there are precedents for it. Oscar Wild's portrait of Mr. Wh is is one in particular but which is um but which is um in a in a way what it's talking about. It is a novella. Uh and in the context of the novella, as I say, there's a certain tension or contradiction uh in an author who is allowing herself tendentious opinions uh while denying the right to have such opinions uh on the part of one of her predecessors. As you can imagine, what she says about Charlotte Bronte has been has been controversial uh in subsequent feminist criticism. There are a number of ways in which feminist critics feel that uh Virginia Wolf um is misguided or needs uh to be supplemented. Uh and this is one of them. By and large, feminist critics uh feel that Charlotte Bronte or any other writer has the right to be tendentious. uh will have more to say about uh Virginia Wolf's criterion of androgyny uh uh which is not thinking like either sex in part. We'll come back to that. Um but fe but but but but most feminist criticism has felt uh for a variety of of reasons that um um androgyny isn't necessarily the ideal uh uh toward which women's pros uh ought to be aspiring uh and take Virginia Wolf to task therefore for having taken this view of Charlotte Bronte. Now, yes, feminist criticism has taken a room of one's own to task in a variety of ways, but at the same time, and I think this is freely and handsomely acknowledged uh by feminist criticism, it is amazing when you read the whole text and even when you read the excerpts that you have in your anthology, it is amazing how completely Virginia Wolf's arguments anticipate uh the subsequent course of the history of feminist criticism. I just want to point out a few of the ways in which it does. Um, as Sha Walter points out, the first phase of modern feminist criticism uh was the kind of the kind of work that primarily pays attention to men's treatment of women in fiction. Uh, uh, Mary Elman's u Mary Elman's book of of uh of of 1968 called Thinking about Women. Kate Millet's uh sexual politics uh in 1970 are both books which um um which focus primarily on sexist male novelists uh who uh whose demeaning treatment of women uh is something that that the feminist perspectives perspective needed to bring out. Um this criticism is superseded in uh Elaine Shoalter's account by what she calls and prefers uh gyno criticism or the gyno critics. Uh and gyno criticism is not so much concerned with men's treatment of women in fiction as with the place of women uh as writers in literary history and as characters uh regardless whether they're characters in men's or women's books in their own right in uh the history of fiction. In other words, in other words, gyno criticism turns uh turns the topic of feminist criticism around 19 late 60s and and 70 and early 70s from the history of oppression by men to the history of a or the women's tradition. Now this this sense of the of the unfolding of things it seems to me is already fully present in Wolf. She too wants to talk about the possibilities for women writers about the need uh for women writers to feel that they're not alone. And above all at the same time however uh she frames this emphasis on the woman's perspective. She frames it with the sort of uh of of of trenchant uh frequently satirical uh observations about men's treatment of women uh men's way of demeaning women and keeping them in their place. Um as for example uh all the men most of them professors who wrote uh books about women uh as she discovered uh in the British library. All of this is very much in the tradition of that first phase of feminist criticism that Sha Walter identifies uh with uh Elman uh and Millet and others of that generation. So the capaciousness of Wolf's approach um is uh in one sense can be understood as precisely her ability to bridge uh both sorts of modern tradition. uh no longer chron chronological uh as Shoalter presents them as being correctly but rather as a kind of simult simultaneity uh in which um in in in in which the emphasis on on on on men's marginalization of women and the emphasis on uh women's consciousness and traditions uh can be uh uh set forth at the same time. Now, also in Virginia Wolf, there's there's there's what um uh since the publication of the fascinating book by Sandra Gilbert and Susan Gubar called The Mad Woman in the Attic. This is also uh an illusion to Jane Heir. You remember Bertha, the mad woman in the attic of of Jane Er. Um, since the publication of uh of the mad woman in the attic, um, feminist criticism has has talked about the mad woman thesis. The idea, in other words, uh, that because they could not, um, um, openly express themselves creatively as writers or as artists of other kinds. uh women were forced to channel their creativity into subversive, devious, and perhaps psychologically self-destructive as in for example Charlotte Perkins Gilman's uh the uh the Yellow Wallpaper uh perhaps um self-destructive forms. And uh you find Wolf already on page on page uh 600 uh just actually below the passage about class uh and gender that I read uh before you find her touching on this madwoman theme long before uh Gilbert and Gubar. She says, "When, however, one reads of a witch being ducked or of a woman possessed by devils, of a wise woman selling herbs," and then of course she adds, "And even of a very remarkable man who had a mother there, in other words, uh, one strongly suspects that there's a person whose creativity has been oppressed uh, and uh, unfortunately channeled uh, in uh, unsocial or antisocial directions. Um, and this, uh, as I say is, uh, is is is a tradition that's sustained. Uh, it still exists in Shoalter when she says on page 1383. I mean, it's not just Gilbert and Gubar. Uh, in other words, when Sha Walter says on page 1383, um, she does. I can't say that. I think she does. Uh uh yes yes yes yes yes. I what I wanted to say about Sha Walter um is that uh in her gyorritical perspective that is to say her her insistence on our registering chronicling uh becoming familiar as scholars with uh the history of women as well as the history of women's writing. uh the recognition of such forms of uh repression as witchcraft, as madness, as herbalism, as whatever it might be, uh need to be need to be taken into account. Um, also very much on the mind of Wolf already as it still is particularly for Sha Walter because this is Sha Walter's understanding of the task of dynino criticism is the notion that one needs a tradition that one of the great difficulties and shortcomings facing the woman's writer is that uh yes there are a few greats the same ones always named Austin the Bronte's George Elliot there are a few greats but there is not a sense of an ongoing tradition of a developing tradition within which uh one could write. So that uh Wolf on page 606 the right hand column talks about um the man's sentence you know the difficulty of coming to terms with uh with uh not having not just a room of one's own but a language of one's own. uh toward the top of the right hand column. Perhaps the first thing she would find setting pen to paper was that there was no common sentence ready for her use. All the literary models all the models of novelistic pros uh most of them in any case um are develop are are are are engendered male um because uh the atmosphere of writing uh and this is a point that we'll be getting to soon. The very fact of writing uh is something that we have to understand as having a male stamp on it. Uh further down the right hand column that is a man's sentence. She's just quoted a long sentence. That is a man's sentence. Behind it, one can see Johnson Gibbon and the rest. It was a sentence that was unsuited for a woman's use. Charlotte Bronte with all her splendid gift for pros stumbled and fell with that clumsy weapon in her hands. George Elliot committed atrocities with it that begger description. Jane Austin looked at it and laughed at it and devised a perfectly natural shapely sentence proper for her own use and never departed from it. Thus with less genius for writing than Charlotte Bronte, she got infinitely more set. Jane Austin. And by the way, this is disputable because um certainly it's possible to understand Jane Austin's pro style as emerging from the work of Samuel Johnson and Samuel Richardson in particular. Uh, so it is disputable, but at the same time, Wol's point is that that that Austin was able to shake herself free from this terrible problem of wanting to say something, but finding uh that one doesn't have one's own language, a language suitable to uh appropriated by and for and as one's identity for saying it. So I want to write as a woman, as a woman. I want to say the things that a woman wants to say, but all I've got to say it with is a man's sentence. That's uh Wol's point. Um and of course it has uh it has uh many uh and long ramifications. It is uh I'm I'm I'm holding at bay um the criticism of a great deal of this that uh has to be leveled at it by feminist criticism and gender gender theory roughly since 1980. But in the meantime, uh the ramifications are interesting and they are reinforced by the theoretically very sophisticated wing of feminist criticism that we call French feminism. Some of you may know the work of uh of loose irriguers of this kind um insist that there is such a thing uh as women's language. Women write not just you know with their heads and their fallacuses but with their whole bodies. Uh women don't write uh carefully constructed periodic sentences. Women write ongoing paratactic impressionistic uh uh digressive uh ad hoc sentences. Uh that this is a sentences without ego uh being without structure more or less corresponding to being without ego. We'll come back to this in a minute and show alter but in the meantime French feminism was willing to settle on and for an idea of women's writing and implicitly behind this idea an idea of what a woman is that it's very easy to to identify as somehow or another um essentializing. Why can't a woman write uh a rigorous periodic sentence? After all, that's the kind of sentence that Jane Austin did in fact write. Uh why can't why why can't um uh in in a great in a in in a whole variety of ways that one that one might think of, why can't a woman uh if she is to be free to be whatever she wants to be, write a sentence which isn't necessarily of this uh gendered feminine sort. Um, why does women's writing in other words have to be women's writing? It seems to me that this that that it is f it is French feminism and the critique the possible critique of French feminism that Virginia Wolf is anticipating in advance when she embarks on this perilous idea of androgyny of the kind of mind that needs to be both male and female uh and that needs to write in a way that Virginia Wolf says is actually very sexy uh precisely in the moment when one is not thinking about one's sex. Uh the moment in other words uh when there's no longer a question of the man's sentence and the woman's sentence. I think it has to be said that although one could emphasize in a room of one's own this sort of advanced criticism of French feminism and also of the idea that there is essentially something that we call woman and I'm not through with that topic. I think it has to be said that although we could read a room of one's own in this way, at the same time we have to recognize an ambivalence on Virginia Wolf's part on this subject. There is a difference between her insistence that Jane Austin wrote like a woman. That is that she shrugged off the tyranny of the man's sentence and wrote her own sentence. uh her own kind of sentence, a woman's sentence, regardless whether or not that is actually in literary historical terms true. Um the idea on the one hand that it's important to write like a woman uh and the idea on the other hand that it's important to write androgynously. We have to we we have to concede I think to the impressionistic form of these lectures that she's giving. uh we have to concede that she waivers on this point that there is that that somehow or another uh it's very difficult to pin down in Wolf the question whether there is essentially something to be called women's writing just as the question behind that whether there's essentially something to be called woman or the question on the contrary whether the ideal of all writing is to shed head as fully as it can precisely its gendered aspects. Uh there is there is perhaps a kind of con uh creative or rich inconsistency on this point that it should be said one also finds uh and needs to take into account in reading a w a room of one's own. All right. Now getting a little closer to the uh to uh to this whole question of beyond uh the gyno critical because uh Sha Walter for example in talking about the history of the novel uh talks about those three phases. First, the fa the the feminine that the phase in which women try very much to write as though they were men by deferring completely to male values uh in all the ways that they can. Uh perhaps um introducing a kind of uh uh again um Angel in the House uh cultural um uh uh uh benevolence and benignity into perspectives of men that can be sometimes rather militaristic and harsh uh but nevertheless hiding behind uh frequently male names Kurabel, Actton Bell, George Elliot and so on. um and uh not really uh not really uh entering into questions of um uh of the place of women in society. Uh Sha Walter then says this is a phase supplanted by uh a feminist moment in the history of the novel in which novels as the late work of Mrs. Gascal for example and other such novels become tendentious uh and the place and role of women becomes the dominant theme of novels of this kind uh supplant and by the way uh this takes uh Wolf's critique critique of Charlotte Bronte a little bit out of chronology because presumably Charlotte Bronte belongs to what Shoalter is calling the female phase in the history of the novel. Um but uh and and so it's interesting that Wolf finds a kind of proto feminism damaging to the texture of Janeire already in Charlotte Bronte's novel. And then finally uh what what Ela Shoalter likes best the supplanting of the feminist novel because Elaine Shoalter too is nervous about the tendentiousness of fiction. uh the supplanting of that by what she calls the female novel um which is the novel that simply takes for granted the authenticity and legitimacy of the woman's point of view writes from that point of view but as in Virginia Wolf having shed or shaken off the elements of uh uh anger or adversary consciousness that uh earlier uh novels had typically manifested. uh and this is very much very similar in the history that this history of the novel is very similar to what Sha Walter is doing with her sense of the history of recent feminist criticism that's in two phases. First the feminist as she calls it uh when the treatment of men of women by men in fiction is the main focus and then the gyocritical which is the appropriation for women of a literary tradition. show Walters at Pays to point out that the most much of the most important work of recent feminist scholarship, the feminist scholarship of the 1970s is in simply the unearthing of and expanding of a cannon of women's writing. Uh not exclusively novelistic because there had been a time uh when um the novel was sort of halfconceeded to women as a possible outlet for their writing. But this concession was accompanied by the um by the sovereign assertion that they couldn't write poetry and plays. Uh and so an expansion of the canon such that all forms of writing uh are available and made visible and recognized as actually existing in a tradition uh so that we can trace women's writing as Sha Walter puts it from decade to decade and not from great book to great book. uh so that there really is a tradition comparable to the male tradition that one can think about think within uh and draw on as a creative writer oneself. Uh so both Sha Walter's history of the novel and her history of modern feminist or modern women's criticism, one had better say, uh end at the point when it is still a question of the woman's perspective. But this raises a question and I mean and and it's and it it's it's I've I've been touching on it in a variety in a variety of ways, but it really raises the question that has to haunt thinking of this kind and we're going to be encountering it again and again and again uh as we move through other forms of uh identity perspective in criticism and theory. It raises the question whether if I say that a woman or women's writing is of a certain sort that is that is if I identify a woman in a way that I take somehow to be recognizable let's say I identify a woman as intuitive imaginative impressionistic sensitive illogical ical opposed to reason, a refuser of that periodic sort of subject predicate sentence that we associate with men's writing. I can appropriate that for women like the French feminists and I can identify women in so doing as such people. But isn't that simply inverting what men in Virginia Wolf's discoveries in the British Museum in the second chapter of A Room of One's Own? Isn't that just inverting all the negative values that men have attached to women all along? Isn't it ultimately to accept men's opinions of women, men's ways of saying that because they are avatars of reason, science, logic, uh, and all the rest of it, isn't it? Isn't it a way of saying that the head is higher than the heart and accepting in other words the lower or inferior status of this organ to this organ even though one supposes oneself to have transvalued them and insisted in promoting women's consciousness that the heart is higher than the head. one hasn't done anything in other words to the essential identities that have governed patriarchal thought from the beginning. It is precisely this characterization of women that has enabled and engendered patriarchy. And so and this is where the problem this is where the theoretical problem arises. And it calls forth it calls for it seems to me uh a a sense that somehow or another one has to put the possibility and there's really no other way to say it and this is something that Judith Butler frequently says and and and and people who work uh in the mode of Judith Butler one has to put the suggestion but perhaps the best thing one can say as a feminist is there's no such thing as a woman. There is no woman. Now, of course, this is perilous and this is what and this is and this is what drives such such an unfortunate wedge in the midst of feminist thought. In real life, in real material existence, there certainly are women. They are oppressed by laws. They are they are oppressed by men. uh and their and and their their rights and their very lives need to be protected with perpetual vigilance. The idea, in other words, the theoretical idea that there's no such thing as a woman is not an idea that can be sustained in life. And yet at the same time the implications of what the language of identity politics is always calling essentialism. The implications of saying woman is one particular thing. And it might be better if we said woman was one particular thing but it was something other than what men have been saying she was all along. But but making the problem worth saying that woman is one particular thing which is uh just what men have always said she was only it's a good thing right that that that that positions of this kind taken up in this way uh despite the fact that they're absolutely necessary for practical feminism for real world feminism are nevertheless uh detrimental to uh a more sensitive theoretical understanding of gender um and of the possibilities of gender. It's all very well to be um to be, you know, intuitive and em emotional and and and impressionistic. Uh but one wants to say two things about that. In the first place, a guy gets to be that if he wants to, right? And in the second place, why does a woman have to be that, right? And it's perfectly clear, it's perfectly clear in both cases that there are exceptions which go vastly beyond the exception that proves the rule. Uh it's perfectly clear that in both cases uh there are sensibilities across gender that completely mix up uh and and and discredit these categories. Uh and so for all of those reasons uh there's a problem. Um just very quickly ju I I want to point out that that I mean looking at show Walter's essay that this is a bind that criticism around uh 1980 really hasn't gotten past. I'm not going to take it's times up. I'm not going to take the time to quote passages, but notice uh her animus and here in a way we go back to the beginning. Her animus against Marxism and structuralism on the grounds and of course we've said this ourselves on the grounds that both of them present themselves as sciences. Aha, they're gendered male. you know, uh, Marxism and structuralism aren't anything we want to have to do with because this is just, uh, Virginia Wolf's beetle, uh, raising its ugly head again and imposing its will through its superior rationality, uh, on women. Uh, so we don't want any of that. What we want instead is a form of criticism, and this is what she says at the end of the essay on pages 1385 and 1386. What we want instead is a form of criticism that evades scientificity. A form of criticism that engages with the reality of texts and of the textual tradition, but doesn't trouble its pretty little head. Doesn't trouble its head with theoretical matters. In other words, dissociates itself from the logical from the o from overarching structure from scientificity. Sha Walter leaves herself in this position in a certain and and and she leaves feminist criticism in this position as um how might one put it um a colonized enterprise that can do anything it likes as long as it's not reasonable. Uh and if that's and and and and if that's the case uh then of course it imposes an essentializing limit on the possibilities of feminist criticism just as of course the characterization of men's criticism uh in the way that it's characterized needless to say also imposes limits on that uh fair and legitimate limits or perhaps exaggerated limits u is open to question. That's not nearly as important a point as the the reminder uh that um there's a kind of marginalization of the possibilities for feminist criticism uh involved in saying that it has to be uh something other than the sort of thing that Marxist and structuralist paradigms make available. Um okay now I think that uh Henry Lewis Gates will have a very influenced by Baktine will have a very interesting way of coming to terms with this question of what's available for a marginalized minority criticism uh once it avoids or has succeeded in avoiding the terms of the mainstream criticism. Uh and I want you to read Gates's essay uh with that particularly in mind. Then we'll come back with the question of as it were the future of feminist criticism. Feminist criticism in a way since 1980. Uh when we turn to the work of the gender theorists uh in particular Judith Butler