Good morning everybody. We have talked in the course of the semester many times about the helenization of Roman architecture about the impact that Greek architecture had on Roman architecture. And we've talked in particular about the two Phil Hellenic emperors, Augustus and also Hadrien, and the kinds of monuments they commissioned during their reign, uh, that were so clearly based on those in ancient Athens, uh, Athens, especially of the classical period, cradle of civilization, and and where one some when where where scholars often speak of as the birth of democracy. I want to turn full circle, go full circle here and return uh to the whole question of Athens by looking at Athens itself because Athens also became a Roman colony. And you won't be surprised to hear that it was built up under primarily two Roman emperors, namely Augustus and Hadrien, just as one would expect, the two major Phil Hellenic Roman emperors. I show you a spectacular view of Athens as it looks today. Uh and you can see here uh that the city of Athens uh and it's some of its antiquities extremely well preserved. Uh is a city that is located is actually a city that's located in plains surrounded by mountains. Uh and it also has three major hills as I think you can see from this extraordinary image. Uh, one of those hills, of course, is the famous Acropolis. And I think, by the way, if one were to make, I don't know how many of you have been to Athens, but if one were to make a list of the 10 places that one really must see at some point during their lives and experience. Uh, Athens is certainly one of them, mainly for the Acropolis, which you see in the center of this image here. That's one of the major uh, hills. The other two are Mount Lavittos, which you see in the uppermost part. That's actually the highest hill of Athens. And then there's another one called the Museon Hill, which we're going to actually talk about today because there's an important monument there. The Museon Hill or the hill of the muses that's located off this image right where I'm standing here. And those three hills uh as you can see rise up uh in the city of Athens. And it's not surprising. and the rest of it surrounded essentially by a city that was constructed primarily after World War II. Mainly residential houses of six, five, six stories, residences uh that are uh that are mostly white in color as I think you can see here. But the Acropolis rising up in the center in an amazing way. Uh the city of Athens um we know uh was was founded in the Neolithic period was found in the Neolithic period. So it goes way back in the same way that Rome does. And it's not surprising to see them founding the city of Athens on one of those hills. And which hill do they pick? They pick the hill that's the flattest uh which makes it easiest to build on. And that is the rock of the Acropolis itself. uh so they put their religious structures on the acropolis and then over time uh the city begins to grow up around the rock of the Acropolis. Now this is very interesting because if you think back to Rome and its beginnings you'll recall that Rome too was founded on a hill because hills can be most readily fortified. Uh so Rome was founded you'll recall on essentially on on two hills on the palletine hill by Romulus where he established residences but also on the capine hill where they built the temple of Jupiter Optimus Moximus Capalinus. So that being the religious center of the city, we see the same sort of thing happening here, the city growing up on the Acropolis. And then we'll see that the meeting and marketplace is down below uh the in a valley below the Acropolis in the same way that the Roman forum or what became the Roman forum was in the valley beneath the Palatine Hill and also the Capitol Hill in Rome. So very similar beginnings uh for Greece as also for Rome. As you all know uh Athens thrived particularly Greece in general thrived particularly in the fifth century BC under Pericles and continued to thrive uh into the Henistic period. Uh but it was in 86 BC that Sullah the Roman general Sullah uh sacked Athens sacked Athens made Athens a Roman colony and in fact destroyed the walls of the city of Athens. Uh so that a very obviously a very major uh point in the history of Athens. When when scholars talk about architecture that was put up by the Romans in Athens during Roman times, they talk about it as being primarily uninspired and rather derivative. And you'll find this in your textbook. Ward Perkins talks about how derivative uh Roman architecture in Greece is of its earlier counterparts. that is from classical and henistic Athens. And I think he has a point and it's something that we should all think about as a group whether we think that the buildings that we look at today are for the most part derivative uh from the classical and hellenistic past. But I think to say only that is to miss the point in part because what we are also going to see as we look at these buildings today is that the extraordinary marbles uh that come from this part of the world Greek marbles and we'll talk about a number of them today the quality of those is so high that it's hard to imagine any building made out of these not spectacular just for the materials alone and also because the artists and the architects and the artisans who were responsible for carving uh this marble had been carving it for centuries and consequently they were particularly skilled at carving marble and so what they produced uh has great beauty as I think you'll see today. Uh so those two th again a very important point I believe about the quality of these works of art and we're also going to see works of architecture. We're also going to see that at least two of them in my opinion are really distinctive uh structures different than anything we've seen before. Uh and I think that you'll find they're quite innovative in their own way and we will look at as I said both of those um today. uh the city of Athens uh began to be excavated by archaeologists in the 1930s and those excavations which were scientific very careful scientific excavations. Those excavations combined with information that we have from a writer of the Greco Roman past, a man by the name of Palsanius, P A S A N I A S. Posanius, who was a Greek of the 2 century AD, who traveled around Greece and described everything that he saw and he created in essence a guide book uh to the great Greek and Roman antiquities. The combination of his descriptions from the second century, firsthand descriptions of the monuments that stood in the second century, along with the scientific excavations of the 1930s and since uh allow us to get an excellent sense of what not only what as we look at the remains today, not only of what was there, is there now and was there once upon a time, but what these buildings actually were, their identities uh and uh what their function was in Athens either in Greek or in Roman times. And we will use the information provided by both of those today uh to allow us to reconstruct this city, the Roman city in particular. Now, the building uh as you could see from uh the view of the Acropolis, uh there are a number of Greek structures on the top of the Acropolis, and I'll show them to you later. These include the uh great Greek entryway of the fifth century BC, the so-called propile, the famous Parthonon, of course, the small temple of Athena Nikke, and also the Eric Theon, which is the only building we've really discussed in any detail in the course of this semester. A fifth century BC building. You see it here in an extraordinary view now on the screen. The Eric Theon, which we believe was built sometime between about 421 and 406 BC. And the reason that it's important is not only because it's an incredible example of fifth century Greek architecture, but also because of the buildings up on the Acropolis. It is the one that seems to have captured the imagination uh of uh of Augustus and also Hadrien when both of them visited the city of Athens uh but also of the Romans as a whole. And you'll remember the reason for that is essentially uh the porch of the maidens which you can see so well in this view uh the porch of the maidens that exerted a very strong uh impact on Augustus and Hadrien. Before I talk a little bit more about the porch of the maidens though just something about uh the rest of the construction. You can see as you look at the columns that they are of the ionic order. Uh a particularly attractive and elegant version of the ionic order with the ionic capitals with their very attractive voluutes. Uh you can also see the materials that are used here. What you can't see is what's used for the foundations. That material is called poros. P O R O S. Poros used for the foundations of the Eric Theon and also many other of the buildings that we'll look at today. And then uh most uh most importantly the most of the building the walls and the columns are made out of pentelic marble pen ti pentelic marble which is from mount pentelicon in Greece and is the marble that is used most often for uh gre for for buildings in Athens both in Greek times and also in Roman times as we shall see today. And it's characterized by being gleaming white, really blindingly white as one looks at it in the very bright uh Greek sun against the blue sky. Uh with regard to the cared porch, the porch of the maidens, the very famous porch of the maidens, you'll recall uh that both Augustus and Hadrien visited Athens. They both saw this monument. The Eric Theon had fallen into disrepair uh by the age of Augustus. And Augustus was so admiring of this porch that he made the decision to have his own architects and artisans come to Athens to repair the porch. Uh and they not only repaired the maidens themselves uh but also replaced one. One was in such bad shape, I think it was the one in the back right. It was in such bad shape uh that they uh restored that one entirely. when they were there looking at those maidens, restoring them, uh they were so taken by them that they made plaster casts of those and they brought them back to Rome. And you'll recall uh that they were used in Rome as the models uh for uh maidens that were put up. Here's here's a view of course of those on the Acropolis from the front. uh they made reduced scale copies for the forum of Augustus in Rome. The second story of the forum of Augustus as you'll recall uh and then down here you'll be reminded of the kotteds uh also based on those of the Eric Theon in this case two scale same scale as those in Athens used to line the canopus of Hadrien's villa at Tivoli. So both emperors again Augustus and Hadrien very admiring of these works of art and wanted copies of them for in Augustus' case a public structure in Rome in Hadrien's case a private villa at Tivoli and we even believe uh that Herod's Attacus and the tomb that he made for Ana Regilla in Rome that brick tomb the 2n century AD on the via uh there were two female figures that were found near excavated near that tomb and it has been suggested that they too may belong to that tomb and while they are variations rather than copies you can see that they too uh owe their origins to the kotted. So this building the Eric Theon uh cast a spell on Augustus and Hadrien and was widely imitated in Rome. What we're going to see today is that this building continued to have a very strong impact also on the buildings that these same emperors Augustus and Hadrien put up in Athens itself. Before we look at Athens uh I want to take a very short uh short trip uh to another city uh the city of Elusis. E-leus in Greece. uh because I want to make one more point about the karatids and about the important exchange uh that we believe was going on between Rome and Athens already in the late Cesarian period and into the age of Augustus. Augustus is sending his architects. Uh but we think we think they are going back and forth and that there is an important exchange of uh building techniques as well as architectural ideas that is happening between Rome and Greece in the age of Augustus. Elusis and you see what it looks like today uh is a is a hilly uh town that is located not too far from Athens. uh and it was particularly popular uh in the Greek period because or particularly important in the Greek period uh because it had a sanctuary of the goddess Demeter the goddess Deer and the goddess Deer or surrounding her was this very important mystery religion the so-called elucinian mis mysteries after elusis elucinian mysteries uh that took place here and people came from far and wide to partake of those elucinian mysteries. And so the city was built up in classical and hellenistic Greek times. It also remained important uh in the time of Caesar and into the time of Augustus. And a dec and actually into the the first and second centuries AD. And over time decisions were made to add to the sanctuary of Demeter by the Roman emperors and generals and also a at the and and using of course the service of their own architect architects from Rome but working in concert with those in Greece. And one of the one of the decisions that they made was to provide the sanctuary of deer with two additional gateways an inner gateway and an outer gateway. The outer gateway which is the larger of the two was put up in the 2n century AD by the Antonine emperors. But the earlier one, the inner uh inner or smaller gateway was put up already in 50 BC. So uh at you know the late republican period put up in 50 BC and uh there are some remains of it enough that we can come up with quite good uh reconstructions of what it looked like. And I want to show you those uh fairly quickly in passing just because they underscore this important connection that is going on between uh Rome and Greece uh in this period. Uh we see uh one one side this gateway actually has two sides and we see one side of it here uh with columns and a quite traditional pediment above. The triglyphs and metapes that you see here have representations of sheav of wheat and what are called cyi c i s t ae which are baskets both of which have to do with the elucinian mysteries and the worship of deer but what's most interesting for us and it may be a little hard for you to make this out in the in this reconstruction but what's interesting for us are the capitals because the capitals are examples of the so-called zuomorphic capitals that we've seen before capitals in which uh the the upper parts of the bodies of animals uh take take the place of the spirals and grow out of the ecanthus leaves and I can show you a one res one one preserved example uh from elusis over here on the left hand side of the screen made out of pentelic marble uh we see it here and you can see the ecanthus leaves and you can see a part of the upper part of a bowl uh that is growing out of a bull proto that is growing out of the aanthus leaves. That should remind you of something we saw much earlier in the semester. Does anyone remember where this capital comes from? I know you all know not the forum transitorium. No, the forum of Augustus. the forum of Augustus uh had these capitals some of these capitals that included pegasai growing out of the aanthus leaves. So this suggests to us this whole idea of having animals growing out of a canthus leaves uh you know roughly at not exactly at the same time but roughly in the same period period into the Augustine period suggests that ideas uh were floating back and forth between Athens and Rome uh in the time of Caesar and in the time of Augustus. Now if we look at the other side of the gate uh we see something that would seem to confirm that even more and that is on the other side kotteds replace the columns with their zuomorphic capitals. These are not as you can clearly see you see how they have their hands up. They are not based exactly on those of the Eric Theon porch. They are variations of that but they are carotted nonetheless holding the capitals on top of their heads. Uh so we are seeing here even in even as Greece becomes becomes Roman uh in the Cesarian period and into the age of Augustus even as Greece becomes Roman well it already does as I mentioned to you before when solosaxid in 86 BC so in 50 it's already a Roman colony uh and so we can see the these ideas that are that are going back and forth uh between Rome and Greece during this important period and we see the power of the katids even in Greece itself. itself as they are imitated there as well. Uh from this point on for the rest of the lecture I do want to concentrate on Athens. Uh and I want to begin again with the Acropolis. This is actually a very interesting Google Earth image of the Acropolis where you can see as it looks uh today but where you can see superimposed on the current uh on the the present remains uh 3D versions of the ancient buildings and we can see the ones that I've already mentioned. Uh as you enter over here you see the group Greek propile of the of the fifth century BC the entrance gate. uh you see the parthonon which is the largest building a doric building on top of the acropolis and then to its left uh you see the Eric Theon uh and in the back the remains of a uh museum uh that I mean not the remains a museum that is in part underground which is why it looks so flat that houses the original katids and a lot of other sculpture. The ones that you see on the porch uh today are are copies of those originals that are in the museum as well as other sculpture that was found on the Acropolis. And you can also see here the the Odon of Herod's Attekus which I have mentioned uh to you where the Yanni concert took place on the slope of the Acropolis here. And then you can also see a theater. You see the theater in this corner right here, which is interesting because we believe it dates to the Neuronian period, which is interesting because you'll remember that Nero competed in the Olympic Games and that he came to Greece to compete in the Olympic Games. So, it's not surprising even though we don't think of him as one of the great philhelenic emperors, is not surprising to see that there was some construction in Greece uh during the Neuronian period. Uh I want to turn to what's interesting actually about what the Romans do in the age of Augustus when Augustus goes up here himself sends his architects to repair the porch is a decision is made to build a little shrine uh to Augustus and to Rome to a temple to Augustus and Roma and they decide to put it in the back left corner uh of the uh of the Parthonon and you can barely see it there but it's a small round building at the uppermost part of the Parthonon between that and the museum and I'm going to show it to you in detail in a moment. And they build that from scratch. But they also take a pillar that is located uh right at the beginning of or right in front of the propa that was put up in henistic times and they transform that into a Roman monument. And it's those two to those two that I want to turn first. This is Google Earth again. You can see the Parthonon, the Eric Theon and these 3D versions. Can you see just that little, you know, that round circle right next to the edge of the of the Parthonon? That is the temple of Augustus in Roma. And the fact that it is so small, I think, is strikingly interesting uh because it shows that although Augustus was willing to have a building put up to himself and to Roma on the Greek Acropolis and he so he wanted to make his presence known, he did it in a very modest uh and very respectful way. It seemed to me he could have built much larger than he did and he opted not to do that which which tells us something about Augustus and perhaps his reverence for things Greek. Uh we are looking at two views of what survives of this small round shrine. Uh actually quite a bit. I mean it's not standing any longer but you can see parts of columns and parts of the curved intabe curved archetrave and and some of the other building elements very clearly here including one of the capitals. Again it was a round structure. It had nine ionic columns. It had it was made entirely out of stone. Uh and it had a sloping stone roof. Uh and this restored view uh shows us exactly what it looked like as well as how small it was in relationship to the parthonon which absolutely dwarfs it in scale as you can see in this restored view here. This the small temple of Augustus and Rome. It was built sometime after 27 uh BC. Uh and you see it here. Ionic capitals uh and then a sloping stone roof. Uh, and if I show you the remains again where you can see one of those ionic capitals still preserved here and we compare that ionic capital to the ionic capitals of the Eric Theon in Athens uh on the Acropolis, we see the close resemblance between the two. Uh, and the reason for this almost certainly that because Augustus' architects were working on the Eric Theon were restoring it, we're repairing it. They were captivated not just by the carotids but also by the rest of the of of the structure by the quality of the marble by the attractiveness of the of the ionic columns with their c with their spiral voluudes at the top and they not surprisingly use those as the model for the capitals that they carved for the small shrine of the temple of Augustus and Roma. But I think it also shows their reverence uh for things Greek and their desire to establish a dialogue uh between the fifth century BC structure and the Roman structure uh built right after Augustus became emperor. I I wanted to mention one other material that is used in the Eric Theon. We talked about the poros for the foundations, the pentelic marble for the walls and the columns. But if you look here, you'll see the slight blue cast uh to the marble that is used for the freeze. Uh that is so-called elucinian marble from that part from the elus area of Greece. Elucinian marble with a slightly blue cast and that is used in the Eric theon as well. I mentioned that the the temple of uh Roma and Augustus was put up uh was built from scratch. it was there was nothing there before and it was built a new during the Augustine period. Uh but I also noted that there was another uh monument that we could call a Roman intervention uh to the Acropolis uh that was was actually already there but was transformed in Roman times and I show it to you now. Here we are making our way with all of these other tourists up to the rock of the AC to the top of the rock of the Acropolis. We've climbed up the stairway which is not at all it's not particularly steep. We've made our way up. We're about to enter into the Greek Greek propile of the fifth century BC. Note the Doric columns, the triglyphs and metipes of fifth century Greek architecture. And we see next to it this pillar. It's a very interesting pillar. It's very prominent. It's the first thing you see when you enter the Acropolis. So, it's whoever built this initially wanted to be noticed. That's for sure. Uh and we know it was a henistic king. uh a hellenistic king by the name of Eesu M-sese II uh who was king of the uh Hellenistic Greek uh kingdom of uh Pergamon P E R G- A M U M or O N whether you use the Greek or the or the Latin spelling Pamon. Uh and uh he commissioned this monument in 178 BC to honor himself. And you can see that the purpose of the monument was to create this pillar upon which a statue of him would have been placed. And I show you the pillar once again here. And you can see its shape. It has a stepped base and it tapers at the top. And you have to imagine uh a statue of Ees II of Pergamon on the top of this monument in the 2n century BC. And it was altered in the first century BC when uh Marcus Agria, the close childhood friend, confidant, right-hand man of uh Augustus son-in-law in fact, uh decided to replace the statue of Ees with one of himself. So he transforms this Greek Hellenistic monument into an Augustine monument, an Augustine monument that honors Agria. And Agria, it's not surprising to see Agrippa honored in the east. He was involved in eastern military campaigns. Uh and we'll also see that he not only uh he he not only and I mentioned this earlier in the semester, he not only had a building, he not only re renovated uh he not only instituted a building program in Rome, he was responsible for the so-called baz of agria that bear his name. Not much is preserved, so I didn't show those to you. uh and also uh a uh pantheon. The first pantheon that I did mention, the pantheon that agria built that's referred to in the inscription that Hadrien placed on the pantheon. Marcus Agria made this building. As you'll recall, the pantheon that we know had a carotted porch. So, Agria in Rome uh is also carrying the cared imagery into Rome and his building his building uh program, but he also instituted a building program in Athens as we shall see. So it's very important. It was not surprising to see him honored along with Augustus on the Acropolis and actually in a way that that was much more uh noticeable uh to be hit by that statue of a grippa as you climbed the Acropolis and went into the propile must have been very striking indeed. Uh this particular structure is made of a different kind of Greek marble called Himmatian marble. H Y M T I A N from Mount Himetis Himmian marble. Uh you can see a little bit of pentelic here, but much of it uh is Himaian marble. So the Romans using the Greeks and the Romans using a variety of marbles, but a variety of marbles that come from Greece itself. We're not talking about imported marbles from elsewhere in the ancient world. I mentioned already that below the acropolis was the Greek agura or the meeting or marketplace. I show to you here a view from Google Earth of the Greek agura as it looks from the air today. You can see it is essentially an open rectangular space. It has colonades uh on some of its sides. One set one set was reerected. This is a um a structure covered colonade that comes from this from the Hellenistic period that was reerected by American archaeologists who were responsible for excavating Diagura. They reerected it in part to use as a place to display works of art and for offices and so on. Uh but there were more there was more than one in uh Roman in in um in in Greek times. Uh, and this Stowa is the counterpart to a Roman portico, a covered colonade. Uh, but they call them stoas. So, we look at the Stoa here from the Hellenistic period. There's a classical Greek temple, the Hepistion over here. Uh, but, uh, and in the center there is a building uh called the a music hall that was built by Marcus Agria, the so-called Odon of Agria uh that we know quite a bit about and that we're going to look at today. But again, what's particularly interesting, I think, is the fact that we see uh the Greeks building their religious structures on the Acropolis and then down below the meeting and marketplace. Uh and you can see the impact that this sort of thinking must have had on the Romans when they made their own decisions about building Roman forums. But there are distinct differences and we've talked about them already this semester between uh a Greek agar and a Roman forum. What Greek aguras do not have is that central that that focus of having a single temple on one end dominating the space uh in front of it and they're more square uh whereas Roman forums as we've discussed are more rectangular in shape with again the temple at the short end. Any of you who've been to uh Athens know that the Agura is surrounded by an area of Athens called Placa P L A K A Placa. Uh a great place, a fun place to go. It has been very gentrified in recent years. It now has these wonderful pastel colored uh restaurants and shops with the ubiquitous uh white umbrellas just as you see them in other Mediterranean countries like Italy. Uh I lived in in Athens for two years in the 1970s. Uh and a pla did not look like that then. Uh but it was an an incredible place to go then as it still is now if you want to really get into the Greek spirit and dance on tables and break plates. You could definitely do that in the 70s. A little less ubiquitous today, but there are still places that one can find to sort of play Zorba the Greek in um in Placa. Uh here is another view, a panoramic view showing once again the agura, the Greek agura of Athens as it would have looked as it grew up uh from the uh classical through the henistic period. But the building in question for us is the one that is smack in the middle of the Greek temple and of the henistic stoa over here. And that is this music hall or Odon of Agria uh which was put up we believe in around 15 BC. And it's to that structure that I want to turn now. And this this building this odon which agrippa commissioned himself is very important to us in large part because it demonstrates that ideas were not only flowing from Greece to Rome as we've already both discussed today and in the past but from Italy to Greece. uh and this is a prime example of that because if we look at this axonometric view of the Odon of Agria as designed for agria in 15 BC and this is in Ward Perkins. If we look at that we will see that the plan of the Odon of Agrippa is exa is based very closely on an Odon that we've already seen this semester. The Odon of Pompei you see it here from the air next to the theater of Pompei. You'll remember that the Odon of Pompei dated to 80 to 70 BC. It was quite early built just after the Romans made Pompei into a colony. Uh and it is that exact plan that is used here. So clearly again an important exchange going on of ideas of architects uh between Greece and Rome uh in the Augustine period and uh in this case using a an Italian plan a plan from Italy uh as the basis for a structure in Greece. We see that it follows in the main it follows all the features of the Pompeian structure the semic-ircular orchestra the cavia divided into kune a stage front here uh pasters on uh tall plasters uh on some of the walls an open stoa on this wall over here you can see two sets of columns an inner row and an outer row we know that the spectators entered the structure through this porch when they were coming to a musical recital. And over here there was another entrance way that was used by uh the part by the uh musicians and also by visiting dignitaries. This was a smaller entrance way that was made up of a small temple front with a pediment uh and uh Doric columns uh here and uh we can also see tall palasters on the outside of this structure. And of course uh this building as all uh odia was roofed in antiquity for the acoustics and the one in Pompei was of course also roofed. Another view a cross-section of the uh of the odon of agria. You can see it here uh which shows you the same sort of thing. The tall palasters on the outside of the structure the entrance way through the stoa uh for the uh for the spectators. the other entrance way over here or the smaller entrance way into that part of the structure. All very well shown and maybe and this may even be better this model of the Odon of Agria where we can see what it looked like from the outside. We're looking at the northern end which is the end where we have that small entrance way uh with the um with very simple temple-like uh in in appearance. Uh we can see a series of columns engaged into the wall down here. than the very tall palasters with windows between them. A quite conventional building uh but one again clearly based and this is the most important point that one can make about it clearly based on uh an earlier model in Italy. The capitals are interesting. You remember the stoas that I the two opened uh colonades that I showed you as one s one wall one side of the building the inner one and the outer one. Uh the um I'm gonna forget which way. The outer the outer one I believe. No, the outer one I think is the they're two different orders. One of them is Corinthian as you can see here. I think that's the outer but I may have that backwards. Uh the one of them had Corinthian capitals and you see those here uh with the narrow the elegant voluutes growing out of the elegant spirals growing out of the eanthus leaves. And the other is of this type uh a type that we have seen before but not frequently where we have lotus leaves growing out of the aanthus leaves. Uh and that of course is a kind of capital that we mentioned is inspired by capitals in Egypt and was used also much later in much later times at the forum uh at Leptus Magna the Sean forum at Leptus Magna. So a type of of um of capital that is uh characteristic of Egypt that turns up here. So it's another example of the way in which uh these architects and patrons are looking at models from all over the world not only the Odon uh in Pompei uh but also structures from Egypt and combining uh those motifs in a very in a new in a new way in a very fertile mix as you can see. With regard to the later history of the Odon of Agria, over the years, students sometimes have asked me, I haven't heard gotten this question this semester yet, but uh students have asked me or have said to me, "Professor Kleiner, you show us in the course of the semester, uh all of these great works of Roman engineering and architecture, uh the Pantheon and the Colosseum and aqueducts and so on and so forth and everything. You do tell us about fires that fires sometimes destroy these works of art or their works of architecture or they're destroyed because of other natural events like events of nature like earthquakes and so on. But you never tell us uh about the buildings that failed. Did were the Roman architects always successful or did they build buildings sometimes that fell down? Uh and so I always use this as an example because yes they they sometimes did make mistakes and some of their buildings did collapse. Uh and this is one of them. The Odon of Agria after it was viewed and described by Palsanius uh the roof collapsed collapsed entirely. Now it lasted quite a while from um from uh the time of Augustus to the time to the second century of Palsanius but nonetheless the roof collapsed entirely and the roof had to be completely rebuilt. uh and at the same time the architects decided to modernize the northern end of the structure and to add a new portico uh to the building. Uh they also changed its use by the way from an Odon to a general lecture hall uh during that period. So in 150 AD we see that the uh that the northern end is completely redone and it's interesting to see what they decided to do. They replace that very small conservative Doric entryway with something with a lot more pizzazz. As you can see, a series of of male figures. These are male tritons. T R I T O N. Tritons, which are essentially male mermaids, uh male tritons. Tritons that are essentially male mermaids on these tall decorated bases as you can see here. and their their uh their gestures or mirror images of one another or reversed images of one another which creates a certain liveless uh to the facade to the northern facade that this building did not have before and that happened again in the mid 2nd century AD and interestingly enough uh much of what survives today uh is are those tritons. You can still see them on their bases here on their tall bases or part of them here. And you can see the relationship of the Odon of Agria in this very good image to the Acropolis in Athens. You can see uh the Eric Theon peeping up over there. You can see the great pedestal that Agria would have had his statue on right here. So, I'm very tempted to say, in fact, I will say that I don't think that was lost on the designers that when they chose the spot for the Odon of Agria, they had very much in mind uh that it could would be in one of these interesting architectural dialogues uh with the with the pedestal that had the statue of Agria on at at the entranceway to the Acropolis. I think that was certainly very carefully orchestrated in the same way you'll remember Julius Caesar and his architects orchestrated a relationship between the temple of Venus Ganetrix uh and the temple of Jupiter OMC on the uh on the capital line hill in Rome despite the fact that you see when you visit uh the Agura the Greek Agurat today and look at these statues despite the fact that they are all that stands there's a lot you will see that there are lots of other remains on the ground and with those remains and the excavations that were done by the American archaeologists in the 1930s. Uh they are the reconstruction that we looked at from Ward Perkins we believe is a very accurate reconstruction of what the odon of agria looked like. I want to look uh at the uh Roman agar because the Romans themselves added an agura to Athens. If they were going to have a Greek agura they were going to have a Roman agar. We don't know if there was a practical need for it, but I guess Caesar and Augustus wanted to uh emlazen their name on an an a on an agura or a marketplace in Athens. Uh it was put up again in Cesarian and started in the Cesarian period and completed by Augustus. It is right near the Greek Agura. We see a view of it here. A large open rectangular space with a colonade around it. uh in this case stoas. We would call these stoas in the Greek context with tabari or or shops at the uppermost part. Uh an entrance way an elaborate entrance way on the western end and another entrance way on the uh on the uh eastern end. But as you can see it differs. It is it is done in the mode of a Greek marketplace because it is more well it's sort of in between a square and a rectangle here. It's not quite it's not as long as a Roman forum and it does not have uh a temple on one short end and that so it it follows in the mode of Greek aguras rather than uh Roman fora the you can see if you look at Google earth uh one can see uh the forum today the Roman here's the stow of Atalus in the Greek agura so you can see his proximity to this new Roman agura that was added we're looking at that open space here with the colonades. We're looking at the uh western entrance way as well as the eastern entrance way up above uh in this very helpful view. Uh and this is a view I took from the acropolis looking down on the uh on the uh Roman agar and showing the back of the western entrance way which I'll show you from the front in a moment. And there you can see pla actually pre-gentrification. Uh it gives you a sense of what I mean it was really crumbling as you can see with some of the buildings that are surrounding it. Um but nonetheless it was fun. Uh so here we go. Uh this is a view of the uh of the gate. Uh it's called the the gate of Athena Argatus as you can see on your monument list. That is the western gate into the uh Roman Agura. We see it here in two views. Uh and you can see when you look at this building, you can see what Ward Perkins and other others mean when they say uh that architecture in Greece under the ro in Athens under the Romans is derivative and uninspired. Uh it's this kind of thing that I believe he's talking about because you can see how beholden it is to traditional classical uh Greek architecture in the way in which uh we see these great Doric columns looking very similar to those of the propile or the or the parthonon. Uh you see them here you see the triglyc a a triangular pediment. We never see we never see the Greeks at least the Greeks in the Roman period uh breaking their pediments. they always have complete pediments and in that sense of course very a very conservative approach uh to architecture during this period. Uh we know that this the gate was begun by Caesar, completed by Augustus and there's an inscription that tells us that uh and we believe although this is somewhat speculative that there may have been a statue or portrait of the uh the grandson of Augustus, son of Agria, Lucius Caesar in the pediment of Lucius Caesar having died in uh in the year two. Here's a view uh where we see uh the Roman Agura as it looks today. the open space, the columns around it. Uh, and you can also see this very curious building that looks very well preserved rising up on the eastern end, a building in the shape of an octagon. Uh, and here's another view of the eastern end showing that octagonal building more clearly. This is the so-called Oralogon of Andronicus or as it is nicknamed the Tower of the Winds. The Tower of the Winds, which is easier to remember, the Tower of the Winds. Uh it's very controversial in date. Uh I I date it here to the second half of the 1st century BC. Uh which is when I do believe that it dates, but uh there are others who think otherwise and I'll tell you about that in a moment. Here's a view that I took from the Acropolis showing the Tower of the Winds as it looks from up there as well as a closer view of this amazing structure. Again, you can see how well preserved it is. Uh you can see that it is indeed eight-sided. Uh you can see one of the porches. There are two porches that had temple fronts with uh tri triangular pediments columns below. On those two sides there was also a staircase that surrounded the structure. Uh the what this was we believe is some kind of a clock tower a very inventive uh clock tower and uh although again I think it was probably uh built in the cesarian period uh late republic uh John Camp who's an expert on things Athenian who wrote a book on the archaeology of Athens who has been excavating the Greek agar since the 1970s uh and is a true expert of architecture in this part of the world. He thinks the date is earlier than that. He dates it to 150 to to 125 BC. And he brings it into connection with the Tamies of Egypt, the TMIC uh rulers of Egypt u because of their great interest in the telling of time uh and uh and and the fact that they did have important connections with Athens during this period. I think he has a point. He could be right. Uh but I would add that um connections with Egypt were very strong uh in the late republic as well. I mean keep in mind uh the affair between Julius Caesar and Cleopatra. Keep in mind that we know that statues of Cleopatra and Mark Anthony were put on the Acropolis. We know that there was a lot of interaction. Cleopatra herself came to Athens. So I don't think it's inconceivable that if one wants to connect this to things Egyptian uh that one couldn't date it also uh to the uh cesarian period. But whatever its date, it's fascinating in its own right again because it's octagonal. Uh we've talked about the fact that we don't have octagons in Rome until the time of Nero. Uh but we do see them. Uh we saw another example also in Leptus Magna, the market there of the Augustine period. Uh it's interesting to see this form emerging possibly under Tameic influence. Uh we're not sure uh emerging in the provinces before it seems to emerge uh in Rome itself. And this this being another example. Here's a view of the monument again, but also compared to a an engraving done by Steuart and Revette. s t u a r t and reve and revette who made drawings of monuments that were in better shape in Athens in the 18th century. Uh and what this tells us uh besides showing us what the porch looked like uh and you can see it well here uh it also shows us that there was a weather vein on the top that would have uh would have uh gone in the direction of the prevailing winds. Uh, and the reason that we call this the tower of the winds is not only because of that weather vein that once stood there, but also because of the depictions of male personifications of the winds on all eight sides of the structure. And those are extremely well preserved as you can see here, a freeze of these male winds. And if you look carefully at the Steuart and Revette drawing, you also see uh the that there was a sundial on all eight sides of the monument. So its purpose needless to say to tell time the capitals uh from from those porches are these these lotus leaves growing out of a canthus leaves. So another Egyptian touch here uh this looking back to uh Egyptian uh Egyptian type capitals using them here. The same kind of capitals that we noted turned up much later uh at the uh sever uh forum in Leptus Magna. a detail of those winds. Uh, and here a better detail of at least one of them to show you what they look like close up. And each one of them has a different attribute which has uh led scholars obviously to speculate about which particular wind, which of the cardinal points of the compass, which wind uh they were uh in actuality. We won't get into those arguments here, but there's been a lot of time spent by scholars on trying to sort that out. What is also interesting is the interior of the building which is also extremely well preserved and you can see here all in stone uh the way in which the octagon becomes a dome. Uh and it is done extremely well. Uh and when one I mean this is this is goes way beyond uh the any kind of stone dome that we see either in at Truscan or Roman architecture in Italy. uh and it shows us once again it underscores more than anything else uh I could show you the talent of these particular architects who had been carving this Greek stone for centuries. Uh it the way in which they are able uh to make this transition from octagonal shape to regular dome here is is extraordinary. They did not need concrete to create a great dome uh in this wonderful uh structure the oralogon of Andronicus or the tower of the winds uh in in Athens. The other great Philh Hellenic emperor was of course Hadrien. We know Hadrien came to Athens on three occasions and we know the exact dates of his visits. 124 the first visit 124 to 125 Hrien was in Athens. He came another time in 128 and he came a third time in 131 to 132. And all the buildings that I'm now going to show you date uh to roughly to the times of those three visits. Uh the first one you see in an engraving here. Uh this was an aqueduct. When Hrien came to Athens for the first time in 124 to 125, he said we need to supply water uh to the people of Athens. Uh and so he set he set he set his architects at work to build an aqueduct for Athens. Uh they created a a reservoir on Mount Leavas that high the highest mountain uh in Athens a reservoir and then on the side one of the sides of the mountain facing the city. Uh they had uh a they built a kind of a structure uh that a kind of a bridge uh that in part carried uh that water into um the city. Uh it no longer survives. A couple of bases from it. That's it. Uh but we do fortunately have engravings uh that were made when it was in better shape when part of it still stood. Uh and we see one of those engravings here. And what we can see right off ionic capitals. ionic capitals clearly based on those of the Eric Theon. So the Eric Theon still a beacon uh for architects, still a monument to be emulated, emulated in the time of Hadrien as it was under Augustus. We see an inscription and then we see something quite extraordinary. If we look very closely above the right hand ionic capital, we see the beginning of an arcuated lintil. Straight lintil, the beginning of an arcuation. So what does that tell us? that tells us clearly and here's a Steuart and Revette drawing of that element wi when it was in better shape again uh a straight lintil and arcuated lintil with an inscription mentioning Hadrien that is the same kind of archuated lintil that we saw in at Tivoli at the canopus that we saw in Ephesus at the uh temple of Hadrien in Ephesus showing that this particular motif this arcuated lentil very much associated with Hadrien says this is a hriicic building essentially and used not just in Italy but elsewhere in the Roman world. So again these these exchanges of ideas and motifs and artists and architects uh during the Hadrianic period as was the case under Augustus. Over here we're looking again from Google Earth at the Roman Agura. next to it, a library of Hadrien, a library that bears Hadrien's name. Uh that was also put up in Athens during the Hrienic period, specifically in 132 AD, connected to the last visit that Hadrien made to Athens. uh we can see that it is a great a large open rectangular space uh with a the library itself at the uppermost part and then a a facade that has projecting columns and I'll show that to you better in a moment. Here's a view I took again from the acropolis uh showing uh that open rectangular space as it looks today. There's some later buildings built into it. And here we're looking at the back wall of the facade which we'll see has projecting columns on it. Uh here's a plan of the Library of Hrien of 132 here on the right hand side of the screen. And you should be struck immediately as you look at this plan with its open rectangular space uh with its with its um a pool here in the center with the columns going all the way around with an entrance way in the front with projecting columns on that facade with a series of niches that are alternating uh segmental and rectangular. uh with again the library located in that uppermost part with other rooms forming a kind of wing on either side. This should remind you without any question of this. And what is this Sam? The forum of peace the forum caucus the forum of peace or the templum caucus of Vesbasian in Rome. Uh so once again and it is a near clear duplicate even though this is a library and this is a temple or a forum although we talked about the fact that we weren't absolutely sure how this was used. It may have been used as a kind of museum uh in Rome for the spoils and other works of art uh that Vespasian and the Flavians wanted to display. But once again we are looking that the influence does not flow only from Greece to Rome but from Italy to Greece. And in this case they are also using as a model for the library of Hadrien an important building type in Rome. They're using it you know perhaps for in a different way. Uh but nonetheless they are using almost that exact plan for this second century building. And I show you here a model of the library of Hadrien in Athens where we see that it was planted with greenery. The library was located in the back. There was a fairly conventional entrance way looking like a typical Greek temple. Uh but then these columns that project in front of the wall with statuary on top looking very much like the forum transitorium which you'll remember bordered uh the forum pockus in Rome and that probably was also something that they were looking at. Uh and here creating this is as far as the Greeks go to creating one of these you know undulating walls with the projecting and receding elements. It's not it's it's still fairly conservative. Uh but nonetheless, they've injected a little motion here using the traditional vocabulary of architecture. And here we see a view of the wall of that facade. What survives of it today. Uh the wall is made out of white pentelic marble. And the columns are made of a slightly I don't know if you can see it from where you sit, but a slightly greenish tinged marble that comes from a place called in Greece called Kristto. K A R Y S T O S. So again, this interest in varied marbles, varied marbles that come only from the very rich quaries uh that Greece has for. They did not have to go anywhere else to get uh high quality marble and to get marble of a wide wide variety of colors. Uh, I want to turn now uh to a structure that has one of the most complicated building histories of any building I've shown you in the course of the semester. Uh, and I'll run through that relatively quickly. This is the temple of Olympian Zeus, the so-called Olympion, uh, that was put up or that was dedicated by Hadrien in the year 131 to 132 on the time on the on the occasion of his third visit to Athens. Uh but it had again a very long building history. It goes back to the archaic Greek period when it was begun. It was begun by the so-called pyistrids. I put these words on your monument list for you. The pyistrids who were Athenian tyrants. They began to build it in the archaic period as a Doric temple. Uh it was the construction was stopped however at the end of the 6th century BC in 510. It was resumed in the henistic period uh in 174 BC when Antiochus Epiphanies and his name is also on the monument list. Antiochus Epiphanies, a king of Syria uh decided to employ a Roman architect by the name of Cassudius, also on your monument list to finish the building. A Roman architect. That's interesting that we see a Greek Hellenistic ruler hiring a Roman architect. speaks to that exchange again that is going on. Uh he Cassudius decides to use the uh Corinthian order, the Corinthian order uh and he finishes it up to the archetra the building up to the archetra uh and um when Antiochus dies in 164 uh the that's where he's up to that's where they're at 164 they've built the building up through the archetype using the Corinthian order. Sullah Saxs uh Saxs Athens in 86 BC and you'll remember what Sullah does. This is that very temple with the 55 foot tall columns that Sulla eyes and says I want those. And he brings several of those back uh to Rome to be used in his renovation of the temple of Jupiter OMC. those very columns uh that it was it was the introduction of those Corinthian columns and capitals to Rome that made that the most popular capital in Rome and in the Roman Empire as we've seen. Augustus wanted to complete the structure. He did not do so and it was left to Hrien to finish it and Hadrien finished it according to Cassudius's plan in 131 to 132. Uh and what Hadrien did was uh was was uh put in this structure uh statues of himself and Zeus Zeus the Greek equivalent to Jupiter. Statues of uh Hadrien in one part of the structure to Zeus in the other part of the structure and tons and tons and lots of statues additional statues of Hadrien outside the temple in the courtyard. Uh and uh you see that you see this ex temple here as it as it as finished by Hadrien as it would have looked in the Hrienic period. Uh you can see that like a typical Greek temple as opposed to a Roman temple. It does not have a facade orientation. It has two entranceways, one with a statue of Hadrien, one with a statue of Zeus. Uh and that it has columns that encircle the entire monument, a peripheral colonade as well as a staircase that goes all the way around. So a typical Greek temple 131 to 132. It's the same time that we see the temple of Venus in Roma going up in Rome. What I described as a Greek import. Hadrien is responsible for both. Uh and so we see again this important interchange between the two at this particular time. A view of what survives of the Olympia Eon, its columns, its Corinthian columns. You can see the small people wandering around. So, this is a very large uh structure uh that I took from the Acropolis. Once again, here's a wonderful Google Earth version of the Olympia Eon. This combination of what it looks like today with sort of this 3D imaging that makes it look also like it looked in antiquity. Here you see some of the columns of the Olymp survive. They are incredibly large and incredibly handsome. And I think when you look at the high quality of the carving, you are struck as I am at why the Romans decided the Corinthian order was the order for them. When they saw uh these these exact columns uh on the temple of Jupiter, Optimus, Moximus, Capitalus in Rome. when Hadrien made his visit uh to Athens in the the last visit to Athens in the 130s uh the city busily benefactors busily got together to put up an arch that would be ready for Hrien when he arrived and that he could parade through and that is the so-called arch of Hadrien which you see here in a view of what it looks like today and in a Steuart and Revette drawing on the right hand side of the screen again a quite conservative arch very simple single arcuate arcuation in the center uh pas masters done in uh with Corinthian order. Columns would have been added here. A second story with a pediment, no split pediment here. Uh we see a straight, you know, conservative uh pediment uh here. And the Steuart and Revette drawing tells us that in antiquity there was a marble slab uh that was located in the center of that pedime of that of that addicula in the second story. And we know there were statues. The inscriptions tell us that there were statues on both sides of this. And the statues are very interesting because on the side that faced the ancient Greek city, there was a statue of Thesius and an inscription that said uh this is Athens the city of Thesus. And on the other side, of course, uh a they put up in order to pay obesence to or honor Hadrien and to try to extract favors from him. Undoubtedly uh they put up a statue to Hadrien on the other side and that inscription says uh this is the city of Hadrien, not the city of Thesus. The last monument that I want to show you is a monument that is near and dear to my own heart because in the two years that I lived in Athens in the 1970s, I was working on a book on this particular monument. Uh the monument uh doesn't date to the Augustine period and it doesn't date to the Hadrianic period which makes it all the more interesting. It dates to the time of Trajan and it has nothing to do with either of those two emperors but with a man whose name is a mouthful and that is gas Julius Antiochus Epiphanies Philippopus. You don't have to remember all of that. Uh I like to call him Uncle Phil. You can call him Uncle Phil. That's the easier way to refer to gas Julius Antiochus Epiphies Philippopus. Uh nonetheless uh he was a very interesting man and we know a lot about his bio. Uh we know for example that he was the son of a king of Komaene a helenistic kingdom in the eastern part of the empire in ancient Anatolia what is now Turkey. He was a son of that king of uh of Komaene cm m a g- nee and that and his relatives had been kings for some time. Uh but he was unfortunate although he was slated to become king himself. He was unfortunate that Vespasian the Roman emperor Vespasian conquered Komaene made it a Roman colony deposed the kings uh and uh you know became ruler himself in a sense and so Philippopus because of the Romans never became king of Koma. He seems to have made the best of it uh by uh by making his way to Rome uh using his influence and his high station as a deposed king to finagle for himself uh a position as sufect console in Rome. What was a sufact consul? A sufac console was kind of a console in waiting. By that I mean that if one of the regular consils couldn't do his job, the sufac console could be brought in as a substitute. So, uh, Philip Papus could sort of stand and wait and hope that someone got sick and he could come in or got, you know, was in war or involved in a military campaign and he would be called in, uh, to take his place. So, he hangs around Rome for a while. Uh, and then he eventually goes back, goes to Athens. He moves to Athens. He's honored with all kinds of titles in Athens. Uh, and he eventually ends up being dying in Athens and being buried in Athens. uh and uh a tomb gets put up in his honor between 114 and 116. And we know the precise date because of an inscription on the monument, the still surviving monument that makes reference to some of Trajan's titles, titles that Trajan held between 114 and 116, but does not include titles that he got after that. So, uh we know that it was put up between 114 and 116. And we're going to see that it features a freeze uh depicting Philippopus at the high point of his life. Uh his procesus consularis, his consular procession when he was made a console in Rome. I show you a view from the air where you see once again the Acropolis and the relationship of the Acropolis to the Museon Hill, the hill of the muses. Now what's most extraordinary is that there is only one ancient monument on the Muse on Hill and that is the monument of Uncle Phil. We are standing on the Acropolis. Uh we are look this I love this picture. I took this picture myself but I'm very proud of it because it just happens to work especially because these two guys were happen to be standing there taking pictures of the Odon of Herod's Attekus here. But we're standing here. Looking back toward the Museon Hill and you can see not quite at the apex but almost near the apex apex the monument the sole monument that stands on this hill the monument of Uncle Phil. How did he rate uh to be able to get the sole monument on one of the three major hills you can see it uh in it's marble. You can see it popping up pentallic marble. You can see it popping up almost near uh the apex of the hill. If we look at this site plan, you will see that it is cited exactly. You see it here on the top of the hill of the muses. Cited exactly in relationship to the Acropolis lined up with what building? The Eric Theon. The Eric Theon. This building that was so revered uh by the Romans. It's lined up exactly with that midpoint between the Propela and the Parthonon exactly on the uh Eric Theon. And this is the view. Here we are standing right in front of Uncle Phil's monument looking back at the Acropolis. Even if you don't if you don't want to go see Uncle Phil, which I hope you will if you're in Athens, visit him for me. I I hope that you will stand at the very least you want to stand there with your back to Phil's monument and look at the Acropolis. You get one of the best views of the Acropolis from the Museon Hill. You see it here and your view is lined up exactly uh with the Eric Theon. Now, why is Uncle Phil buried on this hill? Uh this is interesting because if you think back to tomb architecture that we've looked at in the course of this semester, we didn't see people buried on hills. The Romans don't bury people on hills. They bury people on flat ground outside the walls of the city in their necropolises. Every tomb we've seen was on flat essentially on flat land. Why is Uncle Phil built buried in a tomb near the apex of a hill? Well, as I was writing this book, I looked back to his own ancestors uh to people in this part of the world uh to uh a group of dynasts also in Anatolia. And I show you one of their wellpreserved tombs here. Uh and you can see uh that uh the tomb is built not quite at not at the apex of the hill, but on the slope of the hill. uh in this case not not as close as Uncle Phils is to the apex but moving uh on that uh moving up on that slope toward the apex and if you look very carefully at this monument you will see among the remains some seated statues of the dinas of uh dog of this part of this this area uh that Philippopus also comes from. This is the Philippopus monument on the left hand side of the screen as it looks today made out of pentelic marble beautifully carved. It is a kind of a tower tomb with a plain base, a curved uh second story that has the scene of Philippopus in a chariot, the time of his consular procession, and then uh some statues in Nich's seated statues looking very much like those of Nerd Dog. Up above, we think it's Philippus himself with a bare chest headless in the center, a figure and a toga over here, and certainly another figure flanking him, another male seated figure on the right hand side of the screen. Why do I show you the arch of Titus in connection to this? Because we know that Philippopus' father and uncle uh participated in the Jewish wars on the side of the Flavian emperors in order to gain fa even though they'd been deposed, they wanted to gain favor with them. Uh and when Philip Papus went to Rome, this is a monument that he would have seen. This monument that the mission put up to those Jewish wars that his father and his uncle had participated in on the Via with that representation of Titus in a chariot. And I think there's no question and I present this in the book as a theory that the percessus consularis of Philippop is closely based on the triumphal scene of uh of Titus. And perhaps it's no coincidence we don't have too many pentelic marble buildings in Rome. The arch of Titus is made out of Greek pentelic marble. Is that a coincidence? I don't think so. Here's a restored view of the monument of Philippopolis as it would have looked in antiquity. the base, the consular procession, the statue of Uncle Phil in the center, uh the inscription to the left, the this is the the plaster that survives with the inscription making reference to Trajan's titles that allow us to date it. Uh and then uh probably a missing attic with an inscription at the uppermost part. This view and this view over here shows you some graffiti that have fortunately since been erased. I show you the interior of the or what survives of the back wall that would have been the burial chamber. Here's a restored view showing that burial chamber. The sarcophagus of Philippopus where his remains would have been placed. A statue of him on a console that still survives. and then columns and a and a straight lintil that formed what we call a niascos n AI s k os which served as a kind of shrine uh to honor him on the inside of the monument and if we look at this cross-section of the tomb uh which was which which are in my book we see the sarcophagus we see the statue of Phil and we see the way in which it is lined up with the representations of Philippopus on the outside in his ch kind of midway between the scene of him in his chair Harriet and the scene of him uh with the n with the with the bare chest in heroic nudity. So during his lifetime in the consular procession after death up above so honored three times and three statues on this monument. Here's a view of some of the figures that accompany him. They're wearing Roman togas because the scene is taking place in Rome. That's where the consular procession is. Uh they're carrying uh fascues do for an emperor. uh and that too uh shows the relationship of this to the arch of Titus. Here we see the scene of the arch of Titus triumph and the scene of Philippa's triumph. Uh clearly the one on the right in my mind based on the one on the left. If you look at details of the chariot, you see a Niascos again decorating the chariot. A nascos that has a figure of none other than Hercules. We can see him wearing the holding a club. So once again just like Caracala uh we see in this case earlier uh uh Philippopus associating himself with Hercules. If we look at a detail of his head which is fortunately not that well preserved we see that he is bearded. We see he wears a raid crown. So although he is uh represented in this consular procession his kingly what he that he might have been a king is referred to but also uh his triumph over death. And if we look at sculpture from Nem Dog, uh we see once again this interesting reliefs and there's more than one of these of Dinass of Need Dog shaking hands with Hercules with his club and wearing a raid crown. So this is another one of these wonderful examples of this fertile mix uh that one gets so often in provincial Roman art where you see uh a monument clearly based in part on Roman precedents but also based on uh the bio of this particular man and and more local uh precedents. The se a scene of uh Philippus in the uppermost uh the uppermost area showing him in heroic uh nudity. And the last image that I want to show you is just to make the point that interestingly enough uh this monument was put up by uh Philippopus' sister a woman by the name of Bal Billa B- A L B I L L A and BA I mean I show I wanted to make this point because we have seen so few examples it's not that there were none but they were small in comparison to those of men that very that that there are many fewer women seem to have put up monuments than men but the examples that we have are very interesting indeed. And in this case, we know that the tomb was put up by Belbella, a woman who became very friendly with Sabina, wife of Hadrien. In fact, the three of them travel together to Egypt to thieves uh to see the colossi of Menon, which I show you up there. And Belbila leaves an inscription when she goes that she was there. Uh so she tells us that. So, a very just to close today, a very interesting example of an extraordinary uh tomb in Athens uh but one that was built by a woman. And I think that's a great way to end on this beautiful Thursday. Thank you all.