So, where are you going to find all this information? Well, there are a few good places that where you can start looking when researching your challenge. One really helpful place is international development agencies. For example, there are specialized UN agencies that focus on specific topics like environmental topics, gender, labor, food and agriculture, health, etc. An example of where you can find information from all these agencies is the sustainable development knowledge platform which is at sustainable development.org. Another really handy place is the world bank and they have a website data.worldbank.org where you can look up statistics from around the world. And one good way to approach this is to start globally. Look at what are the global statistics about this challenge and you can look at these global resources like the UN and the World Bank. Then narrow down to your region, then your country level, then your local. As you narrow down, there may be more sources of information that become more handy like local NOS's for examples and think tanks and universities. Universities are great for both global and local information. One example of that is povertylab.org. This is a network of university professors and research affiliates in almost 100 countries. And this website has a searchable database of more than a thousand randomized impact evaluations of social programs. So they really tell you what has been tried before and what has worked and what hasn't. A complimentary organization, poverty-action.org, or conducts randomized control trials around the world and shares key findings and raw data on its website. So these have stemmed from universities and there's a lot of data that you can get from there. Yet other universities provide practical portals that help you get started in organizing information and turning this data into action. And one example of that is the community toolbox at ctb.ku. ku.edu. This includes resources, tools, and best practices in community building. One thing you'll find on that toolbox is the proceed model, which is this nerdy public health model called proceed proceed. It helps you start with a statement of the problem before you proceed with intervention mapping. and it was originally developed for public health but then it extends from understanding the quality of life of people affected and the different factors related to the problem and so definitely check that out. Another university portal is the social entrepreneurship hub sehub.stanford.edu edu that has a lot of really helpful guidance, videos, and templates to help you explore complex problems, develop solutions, and understand how to navigate the challenges of implementing those solutions. So, these resources both contain information about the problem and about the solution. And there are a lot of sources of information out there. So, as you get started, you're going to start feeling a little bit overwhelmed about all the information that you're finding. So, it's really important to be organized and track everything. Keep track of where you search, what keywords you use, and what you find. You can either create a spreadsheet or keep a log book and take notes from each source and make sure to link them back to the source. And that way you'll keep track of all the wealth of information that's out there. You'll also come across many types of data. So it's important to keep in mind that there's quantitative data, which is basically numbers and statistics versus qualitative data, which is firsthand accounts and interviews and focus groups with people affected by the challenge. And it's important to look for both. There's also you may it may be important to be familiar with the idea of primary versus secondary data where primary data is data that you've collected which we'll do later in this course versus secondary data which is data that others have collected. So for now you're looking for both quantitative and qualitative and it's most likely going to be secondary. You might also find raw data versus aggregate data. Raw data means like the exact entries and numbers that the researchers collected. Sometimes they make it available to you to analyze yourself versus aggregate data which is like when they tell you the summary statistics that they've already analyzed. So you'll probably start with aggregate data and then later on you might move to raw data. So now that we've talked about the different types of data, we're going to talk about the different types of studies that generate these data and what that means. So you're going to need to put on your nerdy public health hat because this is kind of a crash course in epidemiology 101. So for example, you have observational studies like epidemiological studies and these might track individuals over time and you have ecological studies which is a type of observational but it's more reliant on country statistics and you can make different inferences when you have ecological data versus individual data. You might not be able to infer causation. for example. And a rare type of study that provides valuable information about causation is randomized control trials. And these are often conducted by economists to prove that something causes the other. But you can't always find a randomized control trial for every setting. So you definitely need to look for all sources of data, but just under understand that different types of studies have different implications in terms of understanding the directionality of relationships, the causality of relationships between different factors and also the generalizability, whether a study in one setting is generalizable to another setting. And lastly, think about the strength of evidence. Like how much evidence is there for any one piece of information you find? Because for every paper you read that says one thing, you'll probably read a paper that says the opposite. So you want to start thinking about like how many papers say this versus that? And is there a systematic review? So as you explore all these different sources of data, you'll start to get a sense on where the body of evidence is leaning towards what types of sources of data are providing strength of evidence and then you can make your own conclusions and take the next step which we'll do in the next module of setting out to talk to people yourself. So try to explore as many different perspectives and sources as possible. Keep in mind that no one source will paint a complete picture. And you are going to have a chance to build on this knowledge by speaking with the people directly involved in your challenge and by experiencing the challenge firsthand if you haven't already. But for now, start with systematic research on the internet of a journal database if you can ask access one to find peer-review journal articles, academic dissertations, institutional reports, and interviews with subject matter experts. and keep track of your research methods and your results so you can syn synthesize and analyze these later. So, in the next video, we'll talk about what to do with all this data you've collected and how to use it to strengthen your understanding of the challenge that you're setting out to tackle and the way you're going to communicate it to others.