So, at this stage, you probably have come across a lot of information about your topic of choice and might be feeling a little bit overwhelmed. Do not fear. We are going to get organized, get nerdy, and analyze your results. Now, you've done, if you listen to me, you've done a good job of tracking your research, keeping track of all the sources and all the results, and might have some kind of notebook or spreadsheet or something where you're taking notes in. So, how do you take a step back and analyze your results to sort through the data and recognize patterns and figure out what story do the data tell? So, since you're not conducting uh primary research at this stage and and analyzing data, you're you're really analyzing multiple studies where other people have done that. I find that a good way to analyze your results is through visual tools. Okay, so the simplest visual tool is a table. Like if you've read a lot of studies, you can make a table of each study and what it said. So a table is a very easy visual tool to sort through your data and analyze your results. A diagram is another. You can use dotted lines or colored lines to indicate the strength of evidence or the direction of the relationship or whether it's a causality causal relationship or not. You can also put plus or minus signs to indicate feedback loops. So some diagrams are going to indicate um as cyclic relationships like A causes B. Others are going to be cyclical and there's going to be feedback loops. And one example of that is in this diagram where you're looking at the relationship between education and health. So if you look at any given individual, your education influences your income. how much money you're able to make, which then influences your health, right? But it's also the other way around, like your your health influences your education, how much you're able to learn, which influences your income. And so it's pretty cyclical. And then if you think about across generations, a parent's education influences a parent's income influences a parent's health. And all these factors also influence the child's future. what kind of education the child can get depends on the parents health, education and income and then that influences the child's future income and the child's current and future health with ripple effects across future generations. So this is an example how a diagram can help you really capture that story and have it you know stick and visualized in your own mind. So that's a very simple diagram. Then there's also something I love to use personally which is called the inverted Ishiawa which I kind of invented but not really. So the Ishiawa is a fishbone diagram that was originally used in industrial business where it's like the head of a fish and then you know like the spine and the tail and all the different thingies that are sticking out of the spine. So this was you know started in industrial business and then adapted to studying social and environmental problems. And I like the idea of inverting the ishiawa so that you can visualize root causes. Right? So at the top you have the social challenge and then you have the factors related to the challenge. You know going from upstream to downstream in terms of what comes before the other and then at the end you have the root causes and that's what you have to keep digging for. So we can look at an example of an inverted is Ishiawa for example on the topic of maternal mortality. What causes mothers to die during and after childirth? So the social challenge you're tackling here is maternal mortality. And then you're looking at all the factors that are related to maternal mortality, right? Like some of these are include unattended births or lack of prenatal care. And what causes these? Well, there could be lack of facilities. There could be limited time and awareness and money to get to appointments, for example. There could be social factors where a woman is not making her own choices. So, you keep digging deeper into the factors. And there could be underlying reasons like weak health systems and infrastructure in the country, poverty, corruption, and unstable governments. So you start with the challenge and then you think about all the different causes and what causes them until you get to the root cause. You usually you're not thinking about solutions now. When you start thinking about solutions, you'll try to get as close to the root cause as possible. Sometimes you can't. You might not end up working on corruption and unstable government. You might want to work on facilities for example. But for now the idea is to just understand what all the factors are. clarify them and visualize them. And that's what the inverted I isawa and other diagrams and simple visual tools like tables can help you do. Another really helpful tool is the impact gaps canvas which was developed by Daniela Papy Thornton and you can read more about it on tacklingheropeneurship.com and this helps you map out the challenge like we just did and also the solutions what's already out there what have people tried what has worked and what hasn't and why. Then you can step back and look at what you know about the challenge, what you know about the solutions and what's missing. Where are the impact gaps? Where might you be able to fill in the gap? So impacts gaps canvas is really helpful. And Daniela has a another video explaining it that you can check out on tacklinghero.com where you can also download a PDF and fill it out. So these are some of the helpful tools to visualize and analyze and sort through the data that you find to be able to understand it for yourself and to communicate it to others. Next week you're going to set out to talk to people affected by this challenge, working on this challenge, even contributing towards this challenge potentially. And you'll continue to add that information to the data that you have and to your understanding of the problem. you'll have more work to do to collect information and analyze results. So, this module and these tools are just a starting point. You get started by understanding the problem. And we want to make sure you've done your homework, started out with this desk research before you head out and talk to people. So, in the next video, we're going to talk about dos and don'ts in researching your challenge.