So the case study for this module is health leads a social enterprise that was founded in the US. The reason I like it is because it kind of demonstrates not just entrepreneurship but also entrepreneurship and extrepreneurship and it really sto shows how you start by understanding the challenge. So here's the story. There was a student named Rebecca Oi who was a legal volunteer that was spending the summer in a busy Boston hospital and she was an undergrad student. She was observing the patients and the providers and realizing that the same patients were showing up again and again in the emergency room. So she started by asking why. She conducted interviews with patients and with physicians and she investigated this pattern and realized that one of the reasons why is that patients were coming in to the emergency room and being treated for medical symptoms that were all rooted in poverty. So remembering how we did that inverted Ishiawa for maternal mortality and we saw those root causes. It's the same thing with a lot of re the reasons why people end up in emergency rooms in the US. It's all related to things that have to do with poverty. Some of the pathways by which poverty led to these symptoms included inadequate nutrition, shelter, and lack of decent wages to provide for basic needs. And so after mapping out these pathways and learning more, she did conduct desk research to learn about what is out there characterizing this challenge. Who has tried other things before, what has worked and what hasn't. She realized that there are resources available to address these factors which we call drivers of health which you might have referred to heard referred to as social and environmental determinants of health. So when she did like her mental impact gaps canvas in terms of mapping the challenge and mapping solutions, she realized that the problem she wanted to solve in this big social challenge was that people were not accessing the existing resources that could help address drivers of health. So she took a huge sticky complex problem which has to do with the US health care system. Learned as much as she could about it and then narrowed in on the challenge she wanted to tackle by figuring out what it is, who it affects, where they are, why, and what has, how, and what has been tried before. And she learned when she finished her desk research and started talking to people that doctors in particular were not asking patients about drivers of health. You know, she even quoted in her TED talk one physician who said,"I know this patient lives in a moldinfested apartment and I don't ask about these issues because there's nothing I can do about them." And that's what she wanted to change. So, first she started help desks in the hospital where she was interning. So, it started out as an entrepreneurship venture. It was called Project Health. It was not her goal to start a new organization. She got student volunteers because this was a college town to provide information for free to patients coming in whose medical symptoms were because of social and environmental factors like pollution for example. After implementing this entrepreneurship project, she realized that in order to scale, she really did need to form a separate entity. And that's what I meant in the last module when I said I really only encourage you to start something new if you if there's a reason for it. Right? if you had to. So that's when she registered a nonprofit organization called Health Leads. And then once she did that, so that was the entrepreneurship aspect. Then she started practicing the extrepreneurship, partnering with other hospitals. Eventually, she partnered with a health care system called Kaiser Permanente and developed a call center where they would screen patients for drivers of health and they would continue in their research and data collection by studying the health of patients receiving non-medical care and the medical savings and they became a national hub connecting patients and providers with social services. They developed a screening toolkit for other health care systems to ask these same questions that their call center was asking. They provided a resource library and a network of practitioners and even in a design accelerator called the equity oriented primary care innovation collaborative bringing together communities and primary care practices to redesign health care. So health lead started from an entrepreneurship project to an entrepreneurship startup to an extrepreneurship initiative connecting across the boundaries of multiple institutions. And that's how you start with a complex problem, narrow it down to lack of access to information, and then take baby steps in figuring out what you're going to do about it. That's really what we're going to do in this course. I hope that this module's videos have been helpful for you in one selecting a social or environmental challenge that you want to focus on. Two, having a framework to start characterizing that challenge, knowing what questions to ask. Three, knowing where to start looking for information on that topic. Four, learning some tools you can use to then synthesize that information. And five, knowing the dos and don'ts about how to approach this. And I hope that the health leads example has helped create a tangible story that you can wrap your head around and how this is implemented.