The question is what story do you want to tell about yourself? So you're really crafting a narrative, not crafting a self. And so I would I would I would differentiate those those those things. Um because the pressure to kind of cave into your ideas of what the world would find convenient from you is to me one of the crises of our of of our times in terms of people being able to align with their values because the world's pressures of what they want you to be and how people read that >> represent a little bit too much risk to eradicate the self. And so I I I I might um use the language of what narrative do you want to tell? Um yeah rather than what self do you want to uh to craft. And so then the narrative can speak to an audience which is different than crafting a self that conveniently puts itself into some shape or form. >> So >> especially for more transactional. So the self is this emergent discovery and real. >> Is that right? Like as in >> I mean the self just it it just is >> and is developing and growing. >> It's always changing. But yes, I think where I was going was not to make us uncomfortable that we're bending the self, more that that we're we've got I think the difference between a job searcher and an and an emergent leader in in like in whatever they're doing is they have a a one ch chance to craft a narrative in front of a person be it an approach please can I get an interview or in an interview so that's that's that idea of of preparing the stories and the narrative >> ahead of time. >> Not necessarily. B I I and I what I love about your distinction is please don't bend yourself to get the job, but yes, craft your stories to get the job. Craft your narrative to get the job. Is that is that a distinction? Yeah. That's valid. >> I I I think that that that feels um Yeah, that feel that feels more aligned with the way that I would I would teach. Yeah. >> And it's not it's not just that I mean like it's it's all emergent and changing. Like you don't know what's going to happen in the interview. And so that's why your your narrative needs to be somewhat clear to you. So then you can be responsive to what's actually happening in your conversation with an actual person. >> Yes. >> In real time because you you can't predict all of that. >> Yeah. Two ways but what I was listening to you there is like one is that that making sure that that interview however well or badly it went informs your search again informs your reflections. It's like oh I don't actually want >> let that be a learning experience. >> Yeah. I don't want I actually want a company like that or oh my goodness I love companies like this and and and it informs that that process >> or or even more dynamic when I asked a question about from that person they leaned into me like they thought I was more interesting which is very likely to happen when I asked a question about their interest their values their experience they experienced me as more textured more nuanced more responsive >> is just on that is is there like a nugget of a question that you think an interviewee could ask or is there a they would just sort of get that curiosity flowing two-way? >> Yeah, sure. I mean, I I think you can ask questions of like, you know, what's it been like for you to be in this firm? How long have you been I mean, just any questions that are about the other person, but you might ask questions that are um kind of more open-ended. So, not just factual where the uh the person that you're asking actually has something more textured to say. So, if you say, "How long have you been there?" That's a question, but it's not particularly curious. It's kind of factual and you probably could have discovered that through some sort of search ahead of time, right? But a question of like, you know, what's your favorite thing that's happened this week or um you know, how you know what what's inspired you to stay so long? That's a long time in a company. Or you know, what's what's it been like to be there for for your for your first year? And then genuinely listening to what the person says. >> That in itself that interaction will have an impact on both of you. >> Yeah. And so if you get a little bit more micro about what's happening in the interview, these these themselves could actually be experiments to see what's working, what what kind of questions that you ask do you where do you feel most like yourself and where you yourself are showing up consistent with your narrative.