So, I'm not sure how long this lecture is going to be. We could be finished in 10 minutes, though I doubt that. Um, and if we're not finished at the end of the 50, um, there are some things that I've reserved for the end of the lecture that I definitely do want to get said. I don't know if you've noticed, there are times when, uh, the last point or two that I appeared to have been preparing to make never did get made. uh but in this case I want to make sure that they are made so that if I don't finish today uh or if I still have a point or two to make I'll definitely be taking up those points at the beginning of Thursday's lecture. All right. Now, um, the African-American, uh, tradition of literary production is rich and longstanding. As Henry Lewis Gates tells you, uh, the first, uh, really rather important poet in the tradition, Phyllis Wheatley, is uh, a an American colonial writer. Uh, the flourishing of the slave narrative form begins in the 18th century, continues into the 19th. uh incre the 19th century witnesses uh extraordinary works of fiction and in the 20th century of course most conspicuously in the Harlem Renaissance but throughout the century uh there has been uh extraordinary work uh done in the African-American literary tradition. It's a very rich tradition. In other words, uh somewhat in contrast with the very rich but also very recent tradition of African-American literary theory and criticism. It's possible to argue that the development of theory and criticism in this tradition was somewhat boked by a preliminary way in which it found itself at odds with itself. um black criticism and black feminist criticism from the beginning saw that they didn't have quite the same agenda. This is something that can resonate perhaps later in this lecture when we move to other topics. Uh but in the meantime, critics like Barbara Christian, Barbara Smith, Deborah McDow, Hazel Carby, Bell Hooks um were in their variety of ways uh working with emphases that uh other uh and sort of typically male uh African-American critics uh weren't quite comfortable with. And so while uh work especially beginning in the 80s uh proliferated there was as I say a kind of internal divide which has been a complex matter to negotiate and which uh is I think now largely uh sort of dant has been achieved uh and uh African-American literary theory is moving forward unfettered any longer by these concerns or at least uh by any excess of these concerns. But in the meantime, that may partly account for a certain delay in the emergence of theory and criticism uh given the uh uh sort of longstanding richness of the literary tradition. Now, the role of Henry Lewis Gates in uh African-American criticism is it seems to me uh exemplary, although there are some rather harsh moments in this essay, moments that I that I I wish to take up uh that would suggest uh an element of what shall I say extremism or overkill uh in uh Gates's thinking. This is actually not at all the persona uh that he has uh projected. Uh indeed um what's extraordinary about Gates whose whose uh uh administrative power whose whose abilities as a program builder as we say are remarkable. after he left Yale to go to Harvard, he was able to gather to Harvard, Anthony Aia, Cornell West and others uh who have since departed from Harvard. Um but Gates is in a way an empire unto himself and uh he he has been an extraordinary figure. the earliest work which is actually sort of among the earliest work is is is what you've been reading for today uh established his reputation together with um a his discovery of not so much discovery of but authentication of a manuscript by Harriet Wilson which he published uh an important contribution uh to 19th century uh uh uh our our knowledge of 19th century African-American literature uh In any case, uh what happened then was that Gates who some who by some miracle or or other, he was a perfectly good writer in the first place, but gradually became a marvelous writer began uh writing for the New Yorker. And during this phase of his of his career when among other things he produced a a remarkable autobiography about growing up in West Virginia. Um during this phase uh Gates really became a spokesperson for a day among uh uh races and racial factions. In other words, uh he was um a voice of moderation without incurring any imputation of Uncle Tomism or anything of the sort. uh his very his sheer urbanity as the remarkable writer that he is uh in those years uh when he wrote under Tina Brown uh for the New Yorker uh was just a remarkable achievement and his career uh is still is is still going strong. Now for Gates, as for Elaine Shoalter last week and for Wolf before her, uh the problems surrounding the the concept of identity persist. identity. Uh which of course is um uh an important anchor for the thinking of people who feel the need for voices for a place uh in the literary and cultural horizon is nevertheless at least potentially as we've begun to notice already uh a kind of quicksand. um the problem that there are two problems really that dog uh the the issue of identity. One of them is the problem of essentializing which I'll take up now and then as I'll take it up next also the problem of what might be called the identity queue. Uh in other words I am a um a lowerass uh black uh lesbian feminist whose uh whose uh uh nation is Palestine. Uh needless to say, I have a variety of identity options to choose from. Uh but the result is the result is I've got to figure out which of them has priority. In other words, which of those identities do I suppose is has a underlying uh integrity and essence, essentiality uh that can motivate um as it were the characteristics of my other identities uh which are therefore somehow or another placed uh further down the queue. U so this uh is a is is a topic that I'll come back to in a minute. But in the meantime, the problem of essentializing as we say uh as we call it um for example uh uh as Gates describes it on page 1893 in the right hand column where he's very clear on the dangers of ascribing whether positively or negatively attributes to any group that is constituted as or thought of Because of course the notion of race and whether there is race is in itself according to Gates problematic. Um the problem of ascribing attributes uh even honorifically uh to a race is as he describes it on page 1893. Hey the s the sense of difference defined in popular usages. Uh finally finally my voice is changing. Uh the s The the sense of difference defined in popular usages of the term race has been used both to describe and inscribe differences of language, belief system, artistic tradition, gene pool and all sorts of supposedly natural attributes such as rhythm, athletic ability, celebration, userie and fidelity. In other words, obviously aortioning out stereotypes to the various uh groups that may uh come forward as candidates to be racist uh and pointing out that all of these stereotypes do nobody very much good. Um so the problem of essentializing which which under girds the wish to make manifest the existence of race because because think about it um on the other hand Gates seems to be divided in the beginning of of his essay between a certain cander about race as in the work of Epolite 10 that he describes in which race uh millure uh and cultural moment are considered the key determining issues of any kind of artistic or cultural production. He says, well, at least race is being talked about while at the same time obviously wincing away from the implications of race and from the belief that there is such a thing as race which goes all the way back to Montscu and others uh in 10. Nevertheless, he's rather cheerful about the fact that at least race is being discussed. Unlike the 20th century when the whole thing is swept under the rug uh and a kind of ursat and hypocritical politeness prevents anybody from talking about such categories at all. Uh and gives rise to the idea that we all exist in the same great tradition. uh that work either belongs to that tradition or if it for some reason seems egregious or outside the tradition it just can be shoved aside and neglected. That's the supposition of the 20th century when folks don't talk about race. And so you know the the very question whether it is an issue uh is part of this problem uh that is dogged uh by the more complicated uh issue of essentializing. For example, suppose as and of course you've been reading about this in in in Sha Walter as well. Suppose um you ascribe positive value to what another person might call a stereotype. This is what uh the uh the important uh franophhone African poet Sar does uh as Gates says at the top of page 1901 the right hand column. Gates says, "When we attempt to appropriate by inversion race as a term for an essence, as did the negritude movement, for example, we feel therefore we are, as Sor argued of the African, we yield too much, such as the basis of a shared humanity. Such gestures as Anthony Aia has observed are feudal and dangerous because of their further inscription of new and bizarre stereotypes. So you can see there are a lot of landmines to be avoided in negotiating the discourse of race. Uh and certainly uh certainly Gates is aware of them. Now there's also the problem as I say of the identity cue and Gates himself may have a little difficulty with this at least from time to time because as I said at the beginning he does have this sort of uneasy day with feminism in the African-American uh critical tradition uh still to work within and soam for example on page 1894 um a somewhat problematic passage in which the identity queue uh seems to be at issue about a third of the way down the left hand column. He says the sanction of biology contained in sexual difference simply put does not and can never obtain when one is speaking of racial difference. Yet we carelessly use language in such a way as to will this sense of natural difference into our formulations. So what he's saying is in biological term there's definitely a difference between the sexes but in biological terms uh there is not necessarily a difference among uh the uh so-called primary races. So that so that at least when one speaks of women and men in the feminist tradition, one has to come face to face with a with the problem of actual difference. Whereas when one speaks of black and white in the traditions of discourse about race, one isn't actually talking about a genuine difference at all. And there and and and that therefore uh the uh the discourse with the greater integrity of the two is the one which is about differences that are absolutely ephemeral as opposed to the one which is about differences which whatever one thinks of them and whatever one wants to make out of them are nevertheless essential. Now plainly when we go back to feminist criticism particularly the the gender theory of Judith Butler we'll see of course that the whole question of the biological basis of sex uh the biological uh difference between the sexes uh which essentializes uh what we will be wanting to talk about is of course something that is profoundly in question and not just because of so-called transg transgender issues, but also at the same time uh because of the way in which uh our very sexual identity is something which according to Butler we construct. And so there is um a an insistence here on biological difference between these two forms of discussing identity which may uh or may not um uh seem to us to be problematic. Now I think this is the point at which I we can see the importance of the extraordinary essay that I've also asked you to read by Tony Morrison. You know her best of course as a novelist but she's also a distinguished critic as she has been a distinguished editor uh of of of other important work. Um, and here, uh, it seems to me that her reflections in some ways give us a sideways exit from the predicaments that I've been talking about, the problem of of essentialism, the problem of the identity queue, because what Morrison wants to say, and I think she borrows uh, here particularly from the famous discussion of the master slave dialectic in Hegel's phenomenology of mind. What Morrison wants to say is that it's not is that identity isn't so much a question of what something is, but rather a question of what it is not. She says it's not that we should be so much preoccupied with what it is to be black, but rather as we think about the way in which uh being black is inscribed within the white tradition, as we think about that, we need to think about what white is not. about, in other words, as she says repeatedly about black as absence, as negation, as negativity. And that we and we have to understand the absolute and this is where uh this is where she derives her argument from the master slave dialectic. uh the absolute necessity in the construction of white identity for there to be as an absence as a lack uh over against white identity the existence of the African-American and more particularly for the better part of the American cultural tradition of the slave. Uh let me quote then uh uh from her essay on page 1795 left hand column where she says construction of black this is third of the way down construction of blackness and enslavement could be found not only the not in in that construction of blackness and enslavement could be found not only the not free but also the projection of the not me. The result was a playground for the imagination. What rose up out of collective needs to allay internal fears and rationalize external exploitation was an Africanism, a fabricated brew of darkness, otherness, alarm, and desire that is uniquely American. And then she points out that although her subject is the American tradition, there also exists a European Africanism with its counterpart in its own colonial literature. Um to reinforce this she takes a remarkable example which must have reminded you those those of you who know Faulner of Thomas Sutpen at least reminding reminded you in some ways of Thomas Sutpen of this character Dunar uh who actually rose up not so much out of the swamp as out of the Scottish enlightenment uh and came to the United States and according to Bernard Balen the historian from whom she takes this information um uh who became a transformed character. Um, I won't quote to you the long passage from Balen's text which makes what uh Morrison wants to take from it clear but rather from what Morrison summarizes of it uh on page 1796 the top of the right hand column. I take says Morrison William Dunar to be a succinct portrait of the process by which the American as new white and male was constituted. It is a formation that has several attractive consequences, all of which are referred to in Balon's summation of Dunar's character and located in how Dunar feels within himself a power a sense of freedom he had not known before. This is uncannily parallel by the way to the rational rationalization for slaves in Greek culture. The way the Greeks always said that the reason they had slaves was so they could be free. In other words, uh so that the home or ruling population could was liberated uh in the case of the Greeks from uh performing the daily necessities of of uh that are life sustaining and keep us going. Uh in other words to be free uh according to the citizen of the Greek polus is to be free from work. Now, in a certain way, this is still a rationalization that Tony Morrison sees in uh the American slave owning tradition, but it's not so much in the case of this Dunbar, of freedom from work. It's it's the case of a more broad and insidious idea of freedom, freedom from responsibility, freedom from the need uh to acknowledge otherness as human. freedom, in other words, from the sorts of confr constraint imposed by old world civility uh in Scotland and in London. Uh freedom on this frontier, in this wilderness, in this swamp simply to be whatever one wants to be. And that freedom is uh achieved on the backs of the black slave. It is uh in some ways similar as I say to the rational rationalization for for slavery in Greece, but it is in a way more insidious uh and certainly more uh in the terms that Morrison's giving it to us in more dialectical. That is to say, it is the the the question whether a person could become white without the availability of a black absence of a of of that which of of of that which can be oppressed like a kind of like like like a kind of uh spring uh for the Jack in the Box which allows the white Jack in the Box to leap out of the box uh because of that which is suppressed down below. All of that uh is part of Tony Morrison's concern and it colors her well certainly controversial uh reading of Huckleberry Finn which nevertheless it seems to me uh has a a quite profound interest. Now uh my own first instinct when when people single out Huckleberry Finn is to wse away because uh it's an extraordinary novel. Um the controversy about it uh in the school districts which made it um a banished book um had mainly to do with the n-word uh to which we'll return the question who has the right to use the n-word which is not an easy question to answer uh as we'll see. Um but that controversy while it had uh an authentic basis um seemed was nevertheless certainly in literary terms and in terms of the imagination uh perhaps um perhaps rather limited. Uh Morrison gives rise to another equally and intensely critical way of thinking about Huckleberry Finn. She argues that to liberate Jim, which of course is the tremendous failure at the end of the novel, uh, a failure of imagination on the part of Tom Sawyer, uh, a failure of, uh, will or independence of mind on the part of Huck himself, uh, that the failure to liberate Jim, which would have been the easiest thing in the world, all they had to do was point was point out the right fork in the river, is a is an absolute necessity for the ongoing self-defin whiteness as it's available both to h to Tom and to Huck and after all by implication to Mark Twain himself. He couldn't figure out how to end the novel. He wrote it uh it lay on his desk for a long time because he just couldn't figure out what to do with it. And he finally comes up with this, as we all agree, appalling ending. Tony Morrison says it's the only ending available. It's the only ending available because in ways that the uh as she as she sees it sentimentality of the novel, the sentimentality of the relationship between Huck and uh uh Jim, which is so strong uh that it caused another critic named Lesie Feedler to talk about a um homoerotic relation between them. the the the title of Feedler's famous essay is come up on giraffe huck honey. Uh you know with all w with with all that uh in the background uh Tony Morrison says the basic structure of consciousness in Twain's novel is obscured. A basic structure which makes it absolutely imperative that Jim not be freed. If Jim is freed, then there is no other over against which whiteness can define itself. That's the way in which she makes use of the general argument about the traditions of American literature and culture uh in applying it to Huckleberry Finn. All right, let's go back to uh Skip Gates. Oh, Henry Lewis Gates. Sorry, we another person who was at Yale and whom I knew very well. I actually had a little bit to do with the origin of the notion of the signifying monkey. Uh I'll come back to that later. Barbara Johnson also now at Harvard. Um and I u had a lot of conversations with Skip at that period uh about this. And um so it's not that I feel proprietary. It's Skip's idea. Um but I you know I was in on that. Um and so u and and so um I you it's not just name dropping. I get to I get to call him by what his friends call. So so in any case it's it is however I'll try to remember to say Henry Lewis Gates. Um and uh in any case to return to him um I want to talk a little bit about simply in before moving on to this to this crucial central issue. I want to talk a little bit uh simply about his understanding and the understand the understanding of other African-American tradition uh critics both of the critical tradition and of the literary tradition. First of all, the grasp of the critical tradition as basically a two-step or two-part progression is something that he shares with Elaine Shoalter from last time. You remember Sha Walters says that the important movement of um of feminist interventions in literary criticism begins with the moment that she calls feminists, that is to say the moment of Kate Millet uh and other authors who talk about the degradation uh and unfair treatment of women in male books. And then what Sha Walter prefers and supposes to have super to have to have uh uh uh uh supervened uh and to have become more important gyncritical uh criticism which is women's appropriation of literary traditions for themselves uh the uh the archival work uh that makes the canon of women's literature not just uh leaping from great name to great name but an actual unfolding and continuous development from decade to decade as Sha Walter puts it. Um now Gates on page 1896 uh the right hand margin uh sees it in much the same way uh for the development of African-American prison. You can do two things basically says Gates. He doesn't put them chronologically but you could see you could you could map on to what he's saying here the same chronological sequence. He says, "What I mean by citing these two overworked terms, he's talking about the other in particular, uh, is precisely this. How blacks are figures in literature, that is to say, how they're represented in literature demeaningly, even perhaps honorifically. How blacks are figured in literature and also how blacks figure, as it were, literature of their own making. You can see in other words the same movement in his thinking about these issues. Now as Shaalter argued the question of the literary tradition is more complicated. It has more steps. The in other words the powers of self-expression available to women from the beginning of their uh creative expression um passed through more than just two stages. And the same thing is true of African-American literature. Now, I think that uh Gates simply takes for granted as an implicit premise uh the work that was done the year before he published uh this essay in critical inquiry uh by another colleague of ours here at Yale who died tragically not too long thereafter named Michael Cook who in 1984 wrote a book called African-American Literature in the 20th Century: The Achievement of Intimacy and Cook Cook argued in his book that the history of af African-American literature passes essentially through four stages. It begins with what Cook calls selfveiling. Uh the period in other words in which people attempting for the first time uh uh to write and of course Gates talks about the way in which uh writing is really writing oneself into the human community uh for black people. The people who first attempted to write used white models. Phyllis Wheatley, the poet whom Gates talks about, uh, a remarkable poet and a very interesting one, nevertheless wrote, uh, in the manner of Alexander Pope. So much so that a great deal of her work is almost impossible, which is of course, you know, a point of praise, almost impossible to distinguish from that of Alexander Pope. So she is an instance of the first phase uh uh which which Cook calls self-veiling. Second phase which Cook calls solitude involves continuing to use white models a white pro style uh a way of uh of narrating um which is obviously derived uh from uh white teachers and white models but which nevertheless involves as its central theme self-defin. here uh you might want to think of Douglas uh and of slave narratives in general where the emphasis where the emphasis is on being taught by white people but nevertheless uh the tension which nei which exists uh and which founds uh and governs the possibility of self-liberation and self-fed. In other words, uh the slave narrative uh as an ongoing form uh partakes of uh this second phase in the development of African-American literature as Cook understands it. Thirdly, there's what Cook calls kinship. Uh a literature in which African-Americans reach out to each other, identify themselves as a community and not as individuals struggling to be free, but rather as a community. And Cook identifies this phase with the experimentation with dialect uh and uh the a and a way of of of of of narrating and poetizing uh which is which which which involves a self-conscious uh uh insistence on verbal and linguistic uh difference. You can think of many of the poems, for example, of Langston Hughes in this regard and of a great deal else that goes on in the Harlem Renaissance. So that's the third phase, kinship. And then the last phase, and and what I'm going to want to say is that Gates doesn't think we've reached this. Uh, in other words, the point of disagreement between Cook and Gates is precisely about this. The last phase which Cook calls intimacy is the freedom to expropriate any and all models. Not, in other words, to insist necessarily on one's own uh uh on on one's own creative paradigms uh as a racial tradition uh to expropriate anything that comes ready to hand. Ellison's invisible man, for example, is a masterpiece of high modernism. Uh it it it takes freely. In other words, from whatever traditions seem come come to hand uh and are most readily available for the kind of work that Ellison wants to do. Uh Cook identifies this perhaps rather optimistically with what he calls intimacy. In other words, a merger, a finally achieved merger of traditions such that and this is plainly the ideal of Virginia Wolf as well. such then one such that one no longer has to write as a spokesperson. One no longer needs to be concerned uh for thematizing uh the kinds of identity that out of which one writing one's writing has arisen. one can write just anything one wants to. Uh in other words, a the utopian vision of no matter who I am uh having access to absolutely any forms uh and themes uh I care to work with. That is the vision of Michael Cook which Gates um I think unfortunately rightly feels that we haven't uh quite arrived at. And that's why um I deliberately used the word expropriate in talking about Cook's fourth phase. If I use models other than models made available by my own tradition, I'm not just kind of pulling them out of the air. I'm using them with a calculated purpose. I always have something in mind in choosing the model that I choose. uh we're we're not, you know, we're not really quite at intimacy because self-defin is still at issue. You can talk about the high modernism of the is in invisible man all you like, but think of what the invisible man is about. The invisible man is still about what it means to be black. You know, what is it? So, what is passing? Uh what does it what does it mean? In other words, uh to have um this racial identity. So that yeah, traditions uh manners, styles have been have been expropriated. But at the same time, the business of writing a as an African-American continues and it is as much after all a question of self-defin uh as it has been hitherto. So that as as Gates sees it uh is is continues to be the issue. We use other models. We need to make them our own. Otherwise, we're just colonized by them. And after all, we're back in phase one, right? We're back in self-vailing because after all, Phyllis Wheatley used other models. Phyllis re Phyllis Wheatley actually aspired to the idea that she was just a poet. She could write about anything she wanted to write about. The tears of Naive and the painting by Richard Wilson. Whatever it might be, she could write about it. Uh because um she was just a poet. That was her great aspiration was to be was was to be received not as uh you know that amazing thing uh a young black slave woman who could write. She wasn't interested in that. She wanted to be a poet. And so in a certain sense you can see the problem. If intimacy is achieved in the fourth phase, fourth phase, well then that's finally just the realization of what Phyllis Wheatley wanted in the first phase. And uh we have to admit uh for all of the complicated reasons that these critics go into that this is not a moment which can be said yet to have been achieved. Okay. Now this brings us to Gates's key concept. What does it mean? And what is the advantage of ex to to expropriate uh uh other people's traditions a more particularly uh the white tradition? And here uh Gates is after all thinking primarily about criticism. How can we do theory and criticism in the white man's language? How can we appropriate, expropriate for ourselves the white man's language? And the necessity of bending language to one's own purposes is what is emphasized in the remarkable epigraph on page 1891 that Gates takes from Baktine. Uh this is it seems to me as central a passage in Baktine by the way as anything that we studied when we were actually reading Baktine. Uh and I'd like you to make note of it uh because I think it really can illuminate a great deal uh that's going on in Baktine that we didn't uh perhaps fully articulate at the time. This is what Baktine says. language for the individual consciousness lies on the borderline between oneself and the other. The word in language is half someone else's to become one's own only when the it becomes one's own only when the speaker populates it with his own intention, his own accent. And you can you can hear Gates wanting to emphasize that word accent, his own accent when he appropriates the word, adapting it to his own semantic and expressive intention. Prior to this moment of appropriation, the word does not exist in a neutral and impersonal language. It is not after all out of a dictionary that the speaker gets his words. You know how true. How true. It is not after all out of a dictionary that the speaker gets his words but rather it exists in other people's mouths in other people's contexts serving other people's intentions. It is from there that one must take the word and make it one's own. Now actually uh during the course of his essay uh uh Gates echoes this sentiment of uh Baktin by quoting Dereda at the very top of the right hand column on page 1901 where he says uh we must master as Dereda wrote how to speak the other's language without renouncing our own. Now how do you do this? What is h how do you set about taking the language you are given? And this isn't of course just a question of the difference between the races. It's a question of all of us in relation to each other. As Baktine uh says in what you have already read most of the time we're speaking other people's languages. um are it it is rare indeed that we can say uh feeling very much like creative writers when we do so that we've somehow wrenched other people's language out of its conventional usages and made it our own slightly rewritten it so that it is truly our own. So uh more broadly speaking this is the challenge that faces uh a theoretical tradition or a theoretical enterprise I should say that doesn't want to be just derivative uh from what other folks have already said the word the concept that Gates brings to bear on this because after all he recognizes as does Shaalter too that the notion of the sign is probably the corner cornerstone of white male literary theory. He recognizes that in order to perform this expropriative act, he's got to do something with the notion of the sign. And so he talks about the way in which one can signify on something. He introduces it very quietly uh on page 1900 uh the right hand column just seemingly in passing since top of near the top of the right hand column since writing according to Hume was the ultimate sign of difference between animal and human. These writers implicitly were signifying upon the figure of the chain itself. Notice the accent. You don't necessarily pronounce the G. They were signifying on the chain. And of course, the great chain of being, which is hierarchical, is very different from the vertical chain of the chain gang, isn't it? It's very difficult. It's very different from the chain that holds slaves together. That's part of what it means to signify on something. the signifier, at least allegedly, the signifier in the white male uh theoretical tradition is just a kind of placeholder in a play of linguistic differences. The question of the underlying sociological and cultural basis of this play and of the way in which this play takes shape isn't taken into account. again allegedly because well, you know, in ways that you can probably grasp from from what we've said all along. This is slightly to oversimplify, but this is the position taken up. Uh and in any case, you therefore need to take the signifier and signify on it. Well, what is it to signify on something? This is an expression that Gates takes from the trickster tradition, the tradition of African storytelling in which the weaker is also the smarter and the monkey or an spider. Some of you may remember the songs of Rafi from your childhood about Anoni the spider in which the monkey or the spider tricks the big bad guys, the elephant, the lion, all the bad guys get tricked because they're stupider. And the little guy uh is always able to signify on them to trick them to lie to them without their realizing what's going on. And this way of talking about signifying is very much in the tradition of African-American folklore and is and and and is first comes to public consciousness uh in a song by the scat singer Oscar Brown Jr. written by Oscar Brown Jr. called the signifying monkey. If I could sing I'd sing it to you. Uh fortunately I can't sing. Uh but you can. it it it it became extremely popular and was picked up by various instrumental jazz groups uh and was and and and was a staple uh in the jazz tradition of the uh 50s and 60s. Uh in any case uh Oscar Brown Jr.'s 's notion of the signifying monkey uh is where Gates takes his essays title from uh and which is where uh also um uh he gets this idea of uh taking somebody else's discourse out of its context uh and insisting on bending it into an African-American context. In other words, a context which is one's own and not just the context one is given. Now, uh the other example of signifying on uh that Gates gives is the culminating example of uh of of uh the color purple uh and the conversation about getting the men getting the man out of your eye uh which uh is a way of taking back a a problem that exists even within the African-American tradition. As Gates has been pointing out, Wheatley and later Rebecca Cox uh or rather Rebecca Jackson um take their models uh of education and selfdevelopment from white male figures who have taught them how to read. And in each case, of course, this is pernicious because the existence of the white male figure is um is uh very much still in the in your eye. You got to get the man out of your eye, at least according to the dialogue Gates quotes from The Color Purple. Well, the interesting thing there is that in a way the issue of feminist criticism comes back to haunt Gates's argument because plainly Suge doesn't just mean the white man when she says the man. A big issue in the color purple of course is the emergence of a possible feminism uh from uh social constructions that aren't just defined by race. So that when Gates says, you know, the man which all of us recognize uh as shorthand for the white man, uh can be signified on by an AfricanAmerican tradition, making it a term of approprium, right? Get the man out of your eye. At the same time, it can be signified on by the feminist tradition making it a term of appropri overlapping and partially different way. Uh and Gates in emphasizing the one as opposed to the other is perhaps tilting again uh toward a certain imbalance. Now finally I want to take up uh the example uh the most controversial example in his essay one uh which is a source of outrage for most readers uh at the bottom of page uh 1893 in the left hand column he's been talking about the new he's been talking about the new agrarian moment uh out of which there emerged a number of figures associated with the new criticism uh including Robert Pen Warren who very early on repudiated the new agrarians uh and became um uh a politically progressive figure in his own writing. You many of you have probably read all the king's men uh certainly in his poetry as well but who was uh an avatar a central figure in the in the development of the thinking of the new criticism which uh we have briefly studied. Now, Warren wrote a poem called Pandi Woods, which uh is quoted completely out of context by Sterling Brown uh and unfairly out of context uh in the passage, which I'm not going to read because I don't think I have the right to speak the n-word uh and so uh I'll just have you look at it. Um but then and I'll come back to that in a minute. Um and then uh uh the Sterling Brown's response uh is also recorded there uh for you. Well, the problem is this for this from the standpoint of anybody who's actually read the poem. But remember in some ways it's a problem raised by a new critical perspective and I'll show and I'll explain uh what I mean in a minute. That expression is spoken by a buzzard or vulture from I forget whether it's Tennessee or Kentucky. The episode takes place in northern Louisiana. Uh and the buzzard is sitting expectantly on a tree waiting for a fugitive slave who has been chased into the swamp by his white pursuers to die. And the vulture is sitting there. Well, if it could, it would be rubbing its hands with glee, waiting for this to take place. And it's the vulture that says it in the poem. Nothing to do, in other words, as we say, with the author of the poem, Warren, who is writing a completely sympathetic evocation of what it's like uh to be a fugitive slave in this state of terrible uh and overwhelmed panic. And so it seems completely unfair and it is I think unfair as Sterling Brown took it up and as Gates then perpetuates the idea in his own reference. The one thing I would add, however, is that it's a new critical idea that we invoke to say that it's unfair. It's the new criticism of which Robert in which Robert Waren Warren was a participant that tells us we shouldn't confuse speakers in poems with authors. In other words, an author is someone according to new criticism who's dispassionate and who introduces dramatic voices even in lyric poems. voices with which we are merely confusing ourselves uh uh if we associate them uh with uh with an author. Now this is uh something that we just take for granted when we read poems. All poems for us are to some degree dramatic monologues on the model of Browning and others uh in the 19th century. We read them that way now. But it is, as I say, a new critical idea and it comes back to the question, who has the right to use the n-word? It's a frequently, it's a frequent sort of term used on the street, as you know, in African-American culture, used almost with a certain fondness, uh, as a form of mutual greeting. But at the same time, it is a term that continues rigorously to be rejected as available to anyone other than someone who belongs within this community. And so that issue lingers. It's an issue that Warren because of course he wrote long before uh this sort of controversy began to arise around the word. Uh the controversy really boiled over precisely at the time of the banning of Huckleberry Finn from public schools. uh uh and so uh there's a kind of innocence perhaps uh in Warren's use of the word but nevertheless uh in the critical tradition it's a question who has the right to use it and this gives rise perhaps to the suggestion of a certain insolerity in the thinking of the new criticism take the let let use any model you like the model of the Freudian unconscious the model of the political unconscious in other words we've been reading reading a lot in this course about our never quite saying what we mean to say of our never quite being fully in control of our discourse because it bubbles up from the unconscious right now if you take a model like this even though it's a nasty buzzard from Kentucky that's saying what Gates quotes nevertheless there is an author and it has bubbled up from the unconscious of that well what are you going to do with that there's a kind of impass there we feel distinctly and vividly and even bitterly because I love Warren I love Py Woods and I also am something of a new critic. So we feel a bitterness about the expropriation, the signifying on what Warren says in this fashion. But at the same time, we have entertained these ideas of a subliminal author, not an authority, but an author welling up from below. And if that's the case, if that's the case, then we have to worry a little bit about how an expression like that got into the poem afterwards after all. Um, and so that too I call it a lingering problem because it strikes me as one of those moments when probably would have been better if Gates uh hadn't followed Sterling Brown. uh one of those moments when there is a kind of uh overkill in the zeal of argumentation uh but which at the same time we can't absolutely dismiss out of hand for the variety of reasons that I've mentioned. Okay, I'll leave it like at there and we'll return to many of these issues in a new vocabulary and in new forms when we read uh the examples of postc colonial criticism on Thursday that you've been assigned.