Welcome to module six. This is our short final module on hunting together. So, let's look back on some of the core ideas from the hunt. In module one, we saw that job searching isn't just about getting a job, but finding a better fit for who you are, your purpose, and who you're becoming. Anchoring your head and your heart and doing the internal work are important aspects of that journey. Job hunting and life can be overwhelming in normal times, indeed, if there ever is such a thing. But it's a time of deep uncertainty and profound change now. It's also a time for deep need and opportunity. And we took steps to help you anchor yourself in what you have agency over and freedom to choose when you mapped your spheres of concern, influence, and control. And you wrote down key actions for each sphere. In module two, you began the internal work required to articulate the why or your purpose. You've questioned why you're here, what gets you in flow, and explored your icky guy. You've also crafted an impact statement, one that will have many iterations throughout your long career. In module three, you thought about your priorities, your rocks in the jar, and the demands on how we really want to use our time. You created your two triangles that clarify what you're really really looking for to work on and what you're really excited to bring. Most importantly, you use those triangles to articulate your personal pitch and structured pyramid of highle headlines, key elements, the approximately four wants ABCD and four brings EFG, and a ready set of highly personalized career stories that support your journey and bring your amazing unique perspective to life for the hunt. In module four, we talked about your potential and creating motivating goals connected to the process more than the outcomes of the hunt. And you're going to measure them and celebrate them as they will by definition be toastable. You also considered the potential of people around you and identified real allies, mentors, and truthtellers that could help you build that purpose-driven career. In module five, you pulled all the work together to build your own personalized hunt dashboard. Your hunt all in one place that empowers you to be accountable for making progress. You also thought about how your personal pitch tailored for each approach feeds into your outreach, your networking, your informational conversations, and your formal interviewing. So now some concluding thoughts to help you on your way.