In the course, we have discussed a variety of tools that can change child and adolescent behavior. Our focus has been on helping with the usual challenges of parenting and child rearing. These challenges include having children comply with parental requests, not having explosive tantrums, finicky eating, completing homework, interacting appropriately with other children, and many, many more such challenges. But what about more extremes of behavior that go beyond the normal challenges? This lesson focuses on how to tell when problems in childhood and adolescence are just temporary and part of normal development and when behavior is extreme and it is appropriate to seek professional help. In a separate lesson that follows this, I focus on how to obtain help if your child may need that and things to look for in treatment services. Let us begin with the topic of deciding whether your child may need help because of a psychological problem or mental disorder. Let me begin with three critical points about mental disorders that I believe will be of great interest. First, many psychological problems are not a matter of having or not having a problem. Instead, many of the problems are on a continuum. For example, we can tell professionally when a person is clinically depressed because of extremes in sad mood, not engaging in any of the usual activities, low energy, changes in sleep and eating, and feelings of hopelessness. Yet, these characteristics are on a continuum, and someone who has less extreme versions of these features could still have problems that interfere with their life and happiness. even though they do not meet the formal requirements of clinically depressed as a psychiatric diagnosis. The same applies for hyperactivity and autism spectrum disorder. When symptoms are very clear and extreme, we know there is a problem that warrants intervention. But these are on a continuum and that is why the term spectrum is used. I will comment in a few moments on characteristics that are clear signs and red flags. But in so many instances, the question for the parent will be, is this behavior or are these signs enough to seek a professional opinion and maybe even treatment. Second point I want to make is a general rule of thumb. If you are deliberating whether a child should get help, then you should probably get help. Trust your intuition. There is no harm in pursuing a professional opinion and great benefit if your intuition is correct. Let us say you go to see a psychologist or child psychiatrist to get a professional opinion. If the professional says there's no problem, this is great and you have the assurance you need. But if there is a problem, it is really good that you identified this early. It is better and more effective to treat a psychological problem in its early stages than much later. A third point has to do with parents blaming themselves for problems the child may have. Your child may be extremely anxious, hyperactive, or depressed. For many parents, particularly mothers, the first thing they do is to blame themselves. You might feel you did something wrong and caused the problem, and that if you'd only done something different, the child would not have this problem. Now, my brief comments here cannot be expected to erase all of that. But the chances are quite small that you led to the child's problems. We know that parenting and child rearing can have huge effects on development, but that psychological problems and extremes in emotions and moods, thought processes, problems of attention and the like have strong underlying genetic and brain influences. It is not at all likely that you had anything to do with the child having this particular problem. Understandably, you might be stressed and frustrated if normal efforts to help your child are not enough. In all of that, try not to blame yourself. any bad mothering or bad fathering is not likely to be the basis for mental illness and related problems. The exception would be harsh punishment, neglect and extremes of parenting practices. Well, there are some points to bear in mind, but still now we haven't talked about how can you decide whether your child might need professional help. Here are six warning signs that serve as guidelines. The first is impairment. Impairment refers to whether the problem of the child or adolescent interferes with meeting the usual demands and expecties at home or at school. Now, in the early years of being a toddler, the main activities for a child might be sleeping, growing, engaging in daily activities at home. Here, there aren't too many demands and expectations. At some point, perhaps a child begins daycare or preschool, and some demands increase, like fitting in with others and following routines in that setting. Not much ought to be expected of your child in these early years. So, if your three-year-old is not a social butterfly at daycare, or does not nap at the time the rest of the children do, these are perfectly normal and no cause for alarm. However, if the child is to be regularly isolated in daycare or is repeatedly kicked out of preschool, these would qualify as impairment. Impairment becomes more easily discerned as children age and enter elementary school, and more is expected of them. Is your child's aggressive behavior or high levels of activity, anxiety, or depression getting in the way of routine activities such as going to school, completing homework, participating in extracurricular activities, and getting along with peers? If yes, it would be wise to seek professional help. A second guideline is to consider whether that the child is of any danger or there any risk of danger. Is the child's behavior any danger to himself or to others? Some things to look out for are repeatedly being aggressive with a sibling or cruel to a pet, playing with matches and setting fires, making threats to kill classmates or teachers, self mutilation, and thoughts of suicide. The key is to evaluate how harmful the actions are. Threats should be addressed as soon as possible. For other potentially harmful behaviors, the pattern and consistency are caused for alarm. For example, hurting a sibling by accident and fighting with a bullying might not be signs of an enduring psychological issue that needs treatment. If any of these things occur regularly, you should seek professional help. Threats of danger to others now are more of a concern than ever before. Children may make comments that they will kill a teacher or a peer at school in light of school shootings and other kinds of catastrophes. These often lead to a course of action on the schools and referral of a child to juvenile or mental health services. That is, threats are viewed as signs of danger. Here too, when in doubt, get a professional opinion. A third guideline is to look for unusual or questionable behaviors and signs that raise questions. Does your child or adolescent engage in endless repetitive behaviors with toys or objects for hours on end? Do they see things that aren't there or believe that some spirit is controlling their minds or hearing voices that tell them to do dangerous or harmful things? Many of these behaviors seem to be qualitatively different and clear departures from what one usually sees in a developing child. Are any of these behaviors there? If so, they probably warrant professional help. But here we have to factor in age. A five-year-old muttering to himself in two or three different voices while playing with soldiers or toy hospital workers is quite normal. Much of early childhood and normal development includes imaginary play, imaginary friends, dialogues between stuffed animals, and just plain talking to oneself, sometimes in different voices. However, a 12-year-old sitting in the same place by herself, muttering in different voices, bears closer attention, especially if it happens more than once. There may be other behaviors that you should worry about, such as not making eye contact with you, pushing you away when you are just trying to hold your child, and avoiding other children. Trust any suspicions you might have and get an evaluation. A fourth guideline for whether to consider seeking help is to look for a stark change in behavior. A significant change may occur in any area of life. Look for changes in relation to what your child or adolescent is usually like. Your child will set the benchmark for what is normal for them. So, a sudden and sustained deviation from their normal pattern may be caused for concern. An abrupt change may show up in school performance from doing fine or adequately to doing very poorly. Struggling with a difficult subject matter or failing one test are not reasons to seek an opinion from a mental health professional. But if there's a drastic change across all subjects rather suddenly, then you may want to seek guidance. Other changes in patterns can involve eating or sleeping or signs of anxiety that weren't there before. Be alert to a change in behavior that goes on for more than a day or two and that cannot be explained easily by some event you know about. A fifth guideline is to look for signs of distress. Is your child showing signs of stress that coincide with exposure to some event or stressor? There are two separate considerations here. First, what is going on in the child's life? And second, what are the child's reactions to those events? As for what is going on, many events can lead to signs of distress. Prominent examples of stressful events for the child are a loss of a parent, parent separation and divorce, moving to another city, starting a new school, and change in the family in some significant way. And of course, natural disasters like hurricanes and floods that lead to a change in living conditions. With any of these, a child may show psychological problems that are marked but temporary, lasting perhaps up to a few months. These are often referred to as problems of adjustment and usually pass with time. You probably can tell these reactions by knowing the event and your child. The decision to seek help pertains to the child's reactions and whether these reactions continue. Even temporary reactions that will pass may deserve treatment if the child shows extreme distress. Sometimes it is difficult to tell if the child is having a difficult time. Parents and adults in general are great at picking up conduct problems, oppositional behavior, and hyperactivity, but much less able to pick up depression, anxiety, and withdrawal. And those may be the reactions to stress. Depression, anxiety, and withdrawal are more inward focused problems and do not usually result in conflicts or clashes with the environment. This makes them much less obvious than aggression and related behaviors. As an example, many children are victims of bullying either at school or cyber bullying online. Children are greatly distressed by this. Yet most parents do not pick up that their child is a victim of bullying unless there are stark changes in behavior like the child refuses to go to school or is unusually fearful. Here all you can do is to be sensitive to the signs of being distressed and look for a change from how the child usually is. The common signs of distress would be problems in sleeping, nausea, headaches, nightmares, anxiety, and more clinginess. Of course, if you can discuss possible stressors directly with your child or adolescent, that would be great. Certainly try to get a better understanding of what is happening and identify whether some action is required on your part in relation to the source of stress. The final guideline I want to mention is if you find the child unmanageable at home or at school. By unmanageable, I mean all the usual efforts aren't working and the child or adolescent is now a bit out of control. He or she may be doing fine at school but is uncontrollable at home. Perhaps damaging things, threatening or harming siblings or parents and completely running the house. Maybe your child has been so out of control that you have taken her to the emergency room or called the police in a desperate effort to do something to help. You might be surprised at how often emergency room visits are made and the police are called for unmanageable child behavior. I mentioned that the child may be doing fine at school but is completely unmanageable at home. The reverse situation comes up too. The child may be doing well at home but is completely out of control at school. The school will certainly let you know and often demand that the problem be addressed. That problem is likely to be hyperactivity, disruptive or aggressive behavior that the teacher sees as interfering with the rest of the class in addition to not being readily controllable. In any case, being out of control and unmanageable would be good grounds for seeking help. Let me summarize what I have covered. I have provided six guidelines to help decide whether seeking professional help for your child is appropriate. Sometimes they can be difficult to identify because there's no clear line between temporary behavior and something more enduring. For example, if your child has a nightmare or two or feels stressed or moody for a couple of days, you probably do not need to seek any outside help. Other behaviors and activities, such as self-injury and threats to kill oneself or others, require immediate attention. These varying criteria for how long should one wait before seeking help introduce doubts about when to contact a professional. Add to that the fact that children and adolescence are changing pretty drastically as part of normal development. With changes going on, it is more difficult to tell if the problems are something to wait out or to react to. When in doubt, consider airing on the side of seeking help or at least an evaluation to see if your concerns warrant intervention. More often than not, people delay way too long before getting into treatment. Needless to say, it is important to protect your child and perhaps others as well and to get her back on track in everyday life as quickly as possible. The default position for many people is just letting things go with with the hope that they'll get better. I encourage you to avoid waiting it out and get the problem checked out to see what if anything is needed. In a separate lesson, I discuss the topic of getting professional help, what to look for, and key questions to ask to be sure you are getting the best treatment.