I want to spend a little time now talking about finding the candidate market fit. This is inspired by two of the additional resources I've mentioned. Phil Terry's Never Search Alone and Tim Urban's Wait, but why? They liken the job search process to a product finding its market. You, the hunter, are the product ultimately and the market is the job market. This means you have to figure out how to find a role that fills your purpose, your non-negotiables, what you really want, but also how to align your skills and experience to the unique needs of your target employers. Having a clear understanding of your own market value is crucial, and we've been working on this with your two triangles exercise and more. The diagram shows the overlap between what you want and the reality of what is out there. And finding this sweet spot is where you'll find that next role. This spot might change. It might grow. It might shrink as you and the world change. And you learn, reflect, and adjust accordingly. Agar Wells and Schwarz warn about doing better but feeling worse in their paper of the same name. What they say is that the pursuit of the elusive best induces them to consider a large number of possibilities thereby increasing their potential for regret or anticipated regret in gendering unrealistically high expectations and creating mounting opportunity costs. So having done the hard work and creating our new options to pursue, it is important to place a bias on action. And when a door opens for you to walk through and commit and passion and expertise flow both ways, influencing each other. It's not enough just to follow your passion. And indeed, Professor Scott Galloway at NYU has said it's potentially catastrophic to do so. And I hope you don't take our course as just a merely passion finding exercise. Rather, it's a complex journey to develop both expertise and passion on your way to walking in purpose and having a meaningful career. We've covered four Ps on this course, but need to add a fifth to underscore the times we're in. Persevere. Job searching is hard, and as the external environment changes around you, it's understandable to feel overwhelmed by the day-to-day process of the hunt. These can be tough times emotionally, mentally, and spiritually. I hope this course has given you some renewed energy where you need it. And remember, that's also where your accountability buddies come in, your fellow hunters. They are your source of ongoing support. And you can choose these people to be as informal or as a formal relationship as you like. Your kind of billet buddies know where you are in the hunt. and they've seen you grow and change through their process. This is invaluable because they can reinforce your internal work and they might take different roles in your life as they go along. The fans, the truth tellers, the supporters, but they can offer critical feedback and advice because they've seen you change and evolve over time. Finally, and most importantly, your accountability buddy can hold you to account on your goals and on your metrics. Compare your spreadsheets. I want to recall some strategies by Hermania Ibara who wrote an influential and useful book called working identity and we've posted a reference summary article in the course notes. I'll summarize a few key points that resonate with our course but I encourage you to read our book if you're moving into a new field or taking on a change that feels particularly daunting. First, as we say, is like make sure you act and not just introspect. The internal work that is essential to the hunt is only useful if you take new roles and projects into practice. To paraphrase one of Abara's direct quotes, you can only learn who you are in practice, not in theory, by testing it out. You can step back to reflect briefly if you need it, but check that you don't do this for too long or replace action with overthinking. Second, embrace your many selves. As a bar suggests, perhaps your identity isn't fixed, but is a range of possible selves. Creating, testing, and reiterating on your purpose-driven life is better when you're not constrained by tunnel vision on your working identity. You may need to allow for a flexible liinal space between old and new career identities and balance holding on and letting go your different selves as you navigate a transition. Trying out side projects and temporary assignments that are interesting to you can reduce the pressure. Increased learning and giving you a better feel of your career change. Anchoring your emerging identities in new connections and social support systems, whether they're accountability buddies, fans, truthtellers, might help them all take root. Ibara says that change happens in nonlinear unexpected bursts. So Carpedia sees the day. There is everything to be gained in the life that you have envvisaged over this course. Another of Barara's central ideas is to find meaning in each day and clarify your story over time. The little P of purpose, not just the big P. This is also compatible with what we know about the hunt. Don't wait for one single moment to change. Keep refining and iterating the triangles, your purpose and career worksheets, and all the resources that we've started you with. Your sense of purpose develops through the accumulated experiences, big and small, that you've had over time, not through sudden events. And as you refine your ideas of what you want and what's possible, I hope that you grow and progress in surprising and exciting ways.