We've been going through the generations of organic chemistry from Lavoisier to Pzelius and Gayutak to the Duma Liebic and Vuller and last time we got to Cooper and began with kelet talking about their discovery of or invention really of veilance the in particular the tetra veilance and the self-linking of carbon but the other thing that ke is most noted for is the structure of benzene And we started looking at that a little bit last time with his sausage diagrams for for drawing uh structure. And this time we'll go on in more detail with that idea in the determination of actual position in at in molecules the positions of atoms in molecules. And this is largely due to students of kelet. So the next generation, Wilhelm Kerner, who was both in Germany and in Italy, as you'll see, and uh Johannes Henrikus Vanto from the Netherlands, and also Albert Ladenborg from Germany. And we'll even have a little message of your own. Uh Whoops. What happened here? Okay. Well, we won't send, but we presumably will launch again here and get back. I think I saved it. Uh, you never know. Where are we here? Oops, wrong one. If we're lucky, this is it. That's still loading. There we go. Okay. So, we Kerner Vanto Ladenborg and EP Kohler who uh uh is your uh great greatgrandfather academically. Okay. So, benzene and molecular structure. This is the simplest of the so-called aromatic compounds. Actually obviously the name comes from the smell that it has an aroma but it was generalized from benzene which benzene was discovered in 1825 by Faraday who isolated what he called by cararbureet of hydrogen which was C2H according to his formula but actually it's C6H6 because he had the carbon doubled and it's six times what he thought it was and he got it from gas oil which is a byproduct quite a bit. you get a gallon or they did at least then I don't know what happens nowadays per m for making a thousand cubic feet of the oil that was an illuminating oil uh illuminating gas pardon me so in 1833 Mitzerish named the compound benzene instead of bicarbure of hydrogen and the the origin of the name is interesting it came from gum benzoin via benzoic acid so you knock the CO2 somehow off of benzoic acid and you get gum and you get uh what Mitzerish called benzene. Now gum benzoin itself has an interesting etmology because it came originally from luban jawi which I'm told is Arabic meaning frankincense that's lubon and jawi is from Java so it came from the Southeast Asia but when the French saw this name they assumed that lu was like la lei and so on an article so they knocked it off so it became banjawi which doesn't mean anything in Arabic but that then became benzoin and and benzene. Okay. The French in 1841 named the the alcohol version acid phenic because it's acidic and we'll see why shortly. Uh we call it phenol and we call C6H5 fennel and abbreviate it ph for fennel or f the Greek letter for fennel and it comes from fine which means to bring light because of its association with illuminating gasp. Okay, so we know that calcul structure for benzene is hexagonal even though he uh he wrote it with that sausage thing originally. And now why on what basis did he think it was hexagonal? Well, this is the paper where he proposed it's hexagonal. And I'll show you all the evidence he gave in his arguments for it being a hexagon. First, all aromatic compounds, so for example, benzaldahhide as well as benzene and so on, even the simplest are significantly richer in carbon than analogous compounds from the class of fatty substances. Okay, so it's rich in carbon. That's the first evidence that it's a hexagon. The second is that aromatic compounds, as for fatty compounds, they're numerous homologous substances. that is those whose composition differ by an integral number of CH2 groups. So if you if you replace a hydrogen by a methyl group, you add CH2, right? Or if you put a CH2 into a CC bond, it it becomes a little bit longer, a homalologue. So there are homologous substances in the aromatic series. The third line of evidence was the simplest aromatic compounds contain at least six carbon atoms. Okay. And the fourth line of evidence is all reaction products from aromatic substances show a certain family similarity constituting the group of aromatic compounds. More vigorous reaction can remove part of the carbon, but the major product contains at least six carbon atoms and decomposition stops at this point unless there's complete destruction of the organic group, for example, burning it. And that's it. Those are the four lines of evidence. So would you conclude from that that benzene is a hexagon? It's quite a stretch. So was this just a wild guess based on the idea that carbon should be tetravalent and even in a sense that doesn't help much because there's a question of what you do with that last veilance of carbon right so he did have some support for this but he didn't cite it in the paper he didn't publish it until later it had to do with counting isomers okay so remember this was the formula he drew in 1865 of chlorobenzene But in the next year when he started trying actually to say that it was a hexagon, he drew a hexagon. He didn't try to use his sausages at this point and he contrasted it with what you get with a triangle of carbons with a carbon in the middle of each edge. Okay? So he labels the the vertices the carbon atoms ABCDE F and counts isomers. And this is his table of that count. So mono bromoenzene there's only one form right obviously if it were a chain of six carbons you could have it on the end or the carbon that was next to the end or the carbon next to that right so there'd be isomers but in fact only one was known of mono bromo now how about dbrroomo benzene it turns out that there are three modifications he says ab and a d how about ae ae would be next nearest neighbors like AC and AF would be like AB. Okay, so three modifications that's consistent with it being uh with it being U hexagon. Now how about dry try uh dry how about tri bromoenzene there are three dry modification okay ABC so all successive right or skip one how about if you skip two how about ab should we have that one how about abate what do you Should we count AB as another one, Steve? What do you say? Why not? Cuz I asked. Yeah, but I wonder if you agree. Maybe he's wrong. There's precedent for people being wrong. Sam, right? Because if you count the other way, B A E is the same as AB D, right? You go two in a row and then skip one. Just go the other way around. Okay? Because it shouldn't make any difference which way you go around. Okay? Or there would be ACCE, right? Where you skip every time, but there's only one way of doing that. Okay? Okay, so three modifications and if you go to four, five, six, it's the same thing except hydrogens are what you count instead of broines. Okay, so that was consistent with experimental observation of how many isomers there were of these mono die and tri substituted benzines. Yes, Kevin. So, how would he know they were different? That there were three different substances. Suppose he had them. He had to prepare them. Of course, maybe they were not preferable, right? In which case, you'd have a count that was too low. But how would you know you had three different things? How could you tell things were different? Yep. Boiling point, melting point, color, maybe, although these aren't colored. Uh, density. Okay. Some physical property you have to measure, right? The analysis obviously is going to be the same because they're isomers. But you have to and of course if you're not very good at measuring things, you might get a melting point between two samples that differs by two degrees. You guys are experienced in lab. Does that mean they're different? What do you say, Wilson? Your experience is that it doesn't tell they're different? Okay. So, it's not it's not trivial. You have to be a good experimentalist. You have to be able to prepare them and you have to be able to tell when things are the same and when they're different. But if you do, then you can count isomers. But you have to bear this in the back of your mind that you might be making a mistake because of your experimental observations. Okay. Now, how about if it were a triangle, right? Then if you had a mono bromoenzene, you could have the bromemo either at A or at B. Although it's conceivable you couldn't prepare one of them or one of them would be reactive for some reason. Okay? And if you had two, you could have AB or AC or BD or A D. There'd be four modifications instead of three, assuming you could prepare them all, right? And then you can go on to the tri bromo and see there would be six. Okay? So by counting isomers, you could get information about the structure. Okay? In fact, the paper that I xeroxed this from uh had written in in old brown ink the letters from the bottom U K E K E L going around the ring for A B CDE E F and written next to these things was names for the compounds eluc and so on echaluke echle for the order of these things you see what's funny right No, echoac they said was Arabic for hexagon. That's what was written in the book. So you got humorists in all ages. Okay. Now let's try applying the idea of isomer count to see if we can distinguish among doers models of benzene that I showed you. Uh so first there's the the one up top and center which is what we call the keleta structure of benzene. Okay. Single bond, double bond, single bond, double bond. How many isomers? Okay. Uh, how many mono substituted isomers if you put just one bromine in and that were the if that were the structure, a a faithful representation of the arrangement. How many different ones could you get? Just one. Okay. All the hydrogens are in that sense equivalent. Okay. How about if they're die? How many could you get? There's one, two, three, four, five. Right. So, are they all different? Kate, what do you say? You say the purple and the red are the same. And anything else? The two blues are the same. Uh, now does everybody agree with that? Sherwin. Aha. The red one is across a square and the the the purple one is across just a single bond, right? So those are different if this model is faithful in that respect. Okay. So, but we should take that one out because that one goes across both a square and a single bond. Ah, that's somebody else. Okay. Okay. Okay. Now, so there'd be four disubstituted isomers if in if it were that and ke found three. Right? Now, how about if it were this structure? How many monos? If you replace just one hydrogen, how many different hydrogens, Elizabeth? Six. They're all different, right? So, there'll be six monos. How many dyes? Well, let's count them. So, we'll start from the top left there. There would be those sets of dyes, the ones connected by those arrows. And then we could start from the top, probably five of those. Then we could start from that one, and there'd be four and three and two additional ones and one from that that hasn't been counted before. So we'd have 15 die substituted isomers. Right? Now, how about if these notice for these two that in both cases it's a a bb aa. In the bottom one, it's turned on its side, but the same relationship, the symmetry of it. Right? Everybody see that? Okay. So, these will have the same number of isomers, even though their structures are obviously different, but the same number of isomers. So, uh there'll be two mono substituted isomers, either an A or a B. And now we've got the dyes to figure out, and it turns out there'll be six. I'll let you do that yourself. Okay, so two six there. Now, how about if it were this, which is a a b c because it doesn't have as much symmetry. The the red ones don't have as much symmetry as the blue ones, although they're the same as one another. So, it turns out there are three monos, A or B or C, and they're nine dyes, and you can work those out if you want to. Okay? So, you can't distinguish among the red ones or between the blue ones, but you can distinguish a black one from a aqua one from a blue from a red. Okay? So again, you can get information about structure by counting isomers if you're good enough and you can prepare them and you can tell them apart. Okay. Now, here's a problem for you to do for Monday and you can work in groups if you want to. But take that this is uh uh planer and two-dimensional, right? But in truth, because carbons are tetrahedral when they form four four single bonds, the others are not planer. Right? And I've drawn here how each of them would look in three dimensions with some things the wedges coming out toward you and other things the dotted ones going back into the page. Right? So if you consider these in three dimensions, how many isomers can you get? Right? That's the question. Mono and D substituted isomers. Will you be able to distinguish these if they're three-dimensional and uh that one remember is called derbenzene. And the one that's not included was prismain or what's called ladenborg benzene. Remember I said we'd talk about ladenborg. He's coming up. So that's another possibility. A three-dimensional symmetrical prism, right? which obviously do or couldn't make with his models because they would unless he distorted them, bent them, right? Okay. So, the question is how many mono and die substituted isomers can you get from these if they're three-dimensional? So, you guys can get together and talk that over and tell me on Monday. Okay. Now, there's another way to get uh to infer structure and that's from synthesis. So Keul in 1867 reported that three acetone molecules shown on the left there you see the C double bond O and the two methals attached to each central carbon. So three of those come together at A at B at C losing water and they form the double bonds on the right. So if that's the way the stuff forms then the car the three carbons in this compound called missylene should be on every other carbon of the ring right because of the way it was put together by losing waters between them. So that's another way of figuring out where something is by synthesis. Notice incidentally that there are little dots in the middle of some of these bonds. Why do you think those dots are there? I think it's because this is a picture of a real model that was made with wire coming out of balls and that was the thing that screwed them together. Right. Derer had sent to Kelay when he wanted to come work with him a set of these brass strip models. So this I think is is Kelet's version from brass strip models. Notice the funny bonds between the carbon and the oxygen. The double bonds, those triangles, those are made of stiff wire that come straight out and then were fastened together at an angle. Okay, here's a picture actually of the model that Keullet used in his lectures to show benzene. And you can see that the carbon is tetrahedral. Okay. Yes. Yeah. That that he made up in 1890. This is long after this. It it's conceivable that he had such a dream, but it was a a story told for amusement. Okay. Okay, so here he is at the time he did this in 1865 in Gent and he was surrounded with some uh hot shots. Kerner for example uh who was a young man he acted as keilelet's secretary at this time as well as a lab worker and suffered from rheumatism. He came from central Germany uh and which is a very sort of damp place a lot of the time and cloudy and so it wasn't good for his rheumatism nor was Gent in Belgium. So on his doctor's advice, he went to sunny Polarmo in Sicily. Uh so Polarmo is down there on the northwest coast of Sicily. And Sicily is a very interesting place in history. It was liberated in 1860, just before this time after 2,700 years of occupation by successive cultures. Okay? And the most recent one was was Garabaldi who came down uh with his uh his uh red shirts in 1860 to free Sicily from the Bourbons from the Spanish crown. Okay. And Konataro came along and established this laboratory in Polarmo. uh in 1860 he helped both Garabaldi and the late Avagadro and Gay Lusak. Both of these were revolutionaries although in different different senses. Garabaldi uh was revolutionary politically and Avagadro was revolutionary about knowing the atomic weight and molecular weight of compounds through gas uh density. But in his way, Konataro was a cautious person. This is what he said when he spoke in London in 1872 on chemistry teaching. He said, "Above all, we should take care that the pupils do not form to themselves any mechanical or geometrical conception of the cause and effects of the quantillance, that is the veilance of atoms. They must frequently be reminded that chemical facts neither prove nor disprove anything relating to size, form, continuity, distance, relative disposition etc etc of the atoms. That is don't use these arguments for this purpose of finding where thing where atoms are in molecules. This is just uh fancy that will appeal to students but isn't anything real. This was a very cautious conservative point of view but was shared by all the leaders in chemistry. If we are sometimes obliged to speak of the relative position of atoms in the molecules and even to give graphic representation of these positions, we must hasten to remark that these figures are nothing but artififices of the mind intended to represent to the site that which in reality we perceive only through the veil of transformations. So it's only through reactions that you try to infer something about this. It's not something real. But that we do not really know what it is that corresponds to that which we call position either in space or in the mutual action of different portions of matter. But he was one of the leaders right the followers the students were more didn't take this right. So Kerner who had just come down for his health and joined Kanditsaro in 1869. He came down or he came down in 186 I think or seven. He wrote a paper called facts serving to determine chemical position in aromatic substances. Right? So a completely different point of view from what Konaro advocated three years later. Right? To determine position. And the re Konetsaro to be fair to him was saying that you have to be different in what you teach and what you do research on. Teaching should be things you really know for sure and research should be things where you're trying to push the push back the frontier. But anyhow, Kerner wrote in this paper in 1869, "The dogma of the impossibility of determining the atomic constitution of substances, which until recently was advocated with such fervor by the most able chemists, is is beginning to be abandoned and forgotten. And one can predict that the day is not far in the future when a sufficient collection of facts will permit determination of the internal architecture of molecules. A series of experiments directed towards such a goal is the object of this paper. Right? So that's what he's trying to do. If he came along um uh 50 years later, what would he have used to find the position of atoms and molecules? X-ray, right? But he's using only reactions and counting isomers, right? So only the properties of things and elemental composition. Okay. Facts will permit architecture. So this was a really new idea and the paper when it was published was introduced and warmly endorsed by Kitsaro who went on to say later that the that you shouldn't be teaching this to students but it is a good thing to study. Okay. So Kerner had there's a thing called the Kerner proof which indeed he proved uh but it's not what he did in 1869 but this is very interesting. So you have among disubstituted isomers you have these possibilities. Okay. Now how could you tell which is which? Suppose you had three bottles. One has black, one red, one blue, but they're not colored. They're just white crystals. How can you or liquids maybe in this case? How could you tell which one is which? How could you put a label on the bottle? Well, you could label them just with names. Call them something like orthome, meta, and parah, which doesn't mean anything, right? But how do you know which structure they have? Corey can't hear very well. Oh, that differences in melting point will show they're different. But how do you know which one will have the lowest melting point? You have to have some theory about melting point as a function of structure which didn't exist. Or do you have such a theory? Uh polarity, but but notice to be uh yeah uh one of them would be non-polar, but people weren't measuring polarity at this time. So that was out of the question. Okay, here's how Kerner did it. He added a third identical substit substituent and counted the isomers. So suppose you start with the black one, you add a third one down to the right or down at the bottom or uh and that's all because if you added down to the left, it would be the same as down to the bottom. And if you added over to the right, it would be same as down to the over to the left would be the same as down to the right. Everybody see that? You can only get two isomers starting from there. If you start from the red one, you can get either of those. Can you get anything else? from the red one, Andrew? Yeah. Down to the left will be a different one. So, you'll get three from that one. And how about if you start with the blue one and put a third one in? Maria, what do you say? If you start with the blue one and put a third blue substituent in. Okay. Speak up a little. Uh right. You can get the one in the middle. Yeah. Nothing else. Right. The only one only one possibility there. Okay. So one will give one, one will give two, one will give three. Supposing all the reactions work, right? So it establishes the identity not only of the disubstituted but only also of the tri substituted isomers. One comes from one of the original bottles, one comes from two, and one comes from three. So you know it pretty clever. And these were called we these are called now orthomea and parah. But those aren't the names that that uh that kerner used or more properly they are the names that he used but not to name the way we do it now. If anybody, he had the right to name him, but he didn't get it because he was off in left field down in Polarmo and the people up in Germany who were influential were the ones that finally named him. Uh, but notice that this argument is holds if ben benzene is a hexagon. But if it were a pentagonal pyramid or some other geometric structure, then this argument wouldn't work at all. Right? So you have first to know that all the positions are equivalent in benzene that it's not like some of those doer structures we were just looking at. So how can you do that? This was proven in this paper in 1869 by kerner. The paper was published in Polarmo in the journali natural economic demo which is the journal of natural science and economics of polarmo. It's a beautiful big journal with big wide margins on the pages and so on. But it had no circulation whatever. People in Germany years later were still trying to prove this what he proved. Okay. Now here's a question. Are the four veillances of carbon equivalent? That is are they all the same or might one of them be a a thick bond say different from the other three? Right? Or might it even be that that two of the bonds are different? one's long or one of them's curly there. Might all four be different? Can you think of any evidence to say that the bonds in methane are equivalent? How could you prove this? Allison, you got an idea? What technique is Kerner using? Pardon me. Counting isomers. So, what do you expect if you have four different bonds in carbon? Right? How many isomers would you get if there were four different you could have a chlorine on the fat bond, the long bond, the curly bond, or the normal bond. There'd be four isomers if you could make them all and they didn't interconvert, right? So, there's only one uh methyl chloride. Nobody's found a second methyl chloride. So, does that prove that they're all equivalent? Yeah. Pardon me. Yeah. Okay. That doesn't prove it alone because maybe there's only one that can be substituted, right? That that is of the one if it had the structure on the right with four different bonds, maybe you could make only one monos substituted one. How many disubstituted ones could you make then? the if the first one went in one place, the second one could go any of three. So you'd still say get three dice substituted unless you could only make one of those. Then there would only be two. So it doesn't really prove it the way a mathematician would like things proven, but it's a plausibility at least. Okay, but it turns out that that uh so the evidence is there's only one isomer known, but it's not really proof. Now Kerner in order to make a real proof had to make some assumptions and these he stated in 1867 two years before the paper we're talking about and the first is direct replacement and he wrote if one grants that in simple transformation the new substitu substituent assumes the position of the element displaced. So you can take a substituent off and put a new one there but it will go in the same place that the old one came off. everything doesn't rearrange. You need that in order to make arguments like he wants to make, right? And in fact, that's often true. It's certainly logically parsimmonious. It's the simplest assumption you can make and it usually is true, but there are arrange rearrangements that do sometimes occur and we'll talk about those later on. But anyhow, he for his argument, you have to assume direct replacement. And the second assumption is that experimental distinguishability which we've been talking about most of the demonstrations are based on establishing the identity or difference of several substances of the same composition but obtained by different reactions. So you have to be confident that you can tell when things are the same and when they're different. We just were talking about that. But Kerner was in an especially good position to do this because he was really skilled in the lab. In fact, he got a silver medal at a Paris exposition, one of these international exposition for his collection of beautiful crystals that he had lovingly prepared. And they had different shapes and so on. That's one way you can tell things apart. And in fact, this bottle here uh says uh up at the top, I don't think you can read it, but it says Laboratorio demica organica and it says acid acicilico. So what is it? Salicylic acid. This is Kerner's sample right of salicylic acid. And here's his here are his beautiful crystals of 26 d nitro 3 bromoaluine. You can't see them so well. Well, you can see that they're still beautiful crystals, right? So those are some of his prize crystals. And here you can so crystals are the best way to tell and there are pictures of those things that were kerners. Okay. Now here's his proof based on those assumptions. Okay. So there are three known isomers of hydroxy caroxil benzene. So you don't know anything about the structure. All you know is you have C6H4. You originally had C6 H6, but one of the H's has been replaced by O, and another H by CO. And the names of these things are salicylic acid, which I just showed you, hydroxybenzoic acid and parahhydroxybenzoic acids. The names don't mean anything, but those are just what the bottles are called. Right now, you want to use the existence of at least three. You don't there might be 18 for all you know, die substituted ones. All right. But you know there are at least these three and you can do experiments with them. So these are the experiments. First you treat it with HCl and heat it up. This was done by Graba in 1866 and it loses the CO. Remember we talked about how you could take benzoic acid take the CO off and have benzene. Here it's done take the CO off but you're left with still the O. And that compound as we mentioned before is called phenol. Right? But you can do the same trick with parah hydroxybenzoic acid and you get the same phenol not a different one. What does that tell you? It tells you that the difference between salicylic acid and parahhydroxybenzoic acid is not where the O is right. They have to have the same position of the O because or at least equivalent ones because you get the same phenol out. And it was found also by gravy that you could convert hydroxybenzoic acid to methyl anate. That's the O becomes OCH3. And so same for the acid. And then you can convert it to anic acid taking the CH3 off on the acid group from the esther that is to say. And you can convert phenol by way of brooanosol. Ker I believe did this. And then by with sodium and CO2 to get the same anic acid, right? So the O position has to be the same in hydroxybenzoic acid as it was in salicylic and parahhydroxy. Right? So the conclusion is the difference among the three isomers that are known salicylic hydroxybenzoic acid parahhydroxybenzoic is not where the O is since the O survives in identical compounds. So it for example it couldn't be like these three isomers of doer's uh structure here. Suppose that were one of the acids and that were another one and that were the third. Then when you took the co off you'd have three different O compounds. Everybody with me? You see that? So the difference among these three whatever it is that makes them different can't be where the O is because you can remove the CO and they're all the same. Okay, f that's the first step and the conclusion is the sites occupied by O are either identical or or equivalent. Here's what's equivalent. So suppose they could be this. There's O CO. See, did I Yeah, here. Uh so you could have that O that O and that No, there there's Okay, I'm sorry I'm messing this up. There's one one two three. The O's in those are not the same position. One's the top right, the other's the top left, but they're equivalent, right? Once you got it, you could flop it over and they're the same as one another. Okay, so we know at least that much. So let's call the O position, which is either the same or exactly equivalent, call it omega just for a name. So O is in the position of H omega that we know in all three compounds. Can you guess what you do next? Next. Yeah. Ah, take the O off and leave the CO, right? And that's possible too. You can treat it with uh phosphorus pentacloride which converts O to Cl and then with sodium and water which takes the chlorine off and leaves hydrogen. So you get benzoic acid and what do you do next? Do it to one of the other compounds right there and you get the same benzoic acid or you do it here. And I think Kerner is the guy who did that although I I can't haven't found a paper to that effect but anyhow he says that you get the same benzoic acid. So what does that prove? So the CO positions are not fundamentally different in the three compounds. So the O positions are equivalent and also the CO positions are equivalent. How can then be different the three compounds because they're clearly different. It must be their relative positions that are different. Okay. The the three isomers do not differ because of the absolute position of the CO. So the three sites of CO are equivalent and we can name them X and Y and Z. None of them can be exactly the same because if they were exactly the same then the those hydroxybenzoic acids two of them at least would have been the same if the cohes because we know the O's were the same. Okay. So for example it could be this way in doer's benzene. You could have that position for X, that for Y, that for Z, and they're all different with respect to omega. Okay. The omegas will all be the same. So that that would be a possibil possible structure according to this. In this particular case, omega would be the same as X, Y, and Z as a site for a single substituent if it were this structure. So Arpe a chemist had made a compound which he called nitroanoline which was benzene that had NH2 and NO2 in it and it was known by transformations that the NH2 was omega that position O omega and the NO2 was in Y that is you could interconvert groups and make it into one of those known hydroxybenzoic acids. So you knew it was omega and Y. Okay. Now you do a transfer and and it's related to that particular hydroxybenzoic acid. Okay. Now you replace the NH2 by Br. And we'll talk about these next semester. What particular reactions did that? And then you change NO2 to NH2. And then you replace the NH2 by chlorine. So now you've got benzene with bromine that must be in the omega position because it replaced the first NH2. And then chlorine is in Y because it substituted for the second NH2 which came from the NO2 which was in Y. Okay. So it's omega and Y. Can you see what he's going to do next? He replaces the NH2 by Cl and then changes NO2 to NH2 and then replaces it by Br. Why? So now he's prepared a compound which clearly has chlorine in the position omega and bromine in the position Y. I see pursing of brows and so on. Is everybody clear? So he's prepared two com from the same compound. He's prepared a broomemide chloride, right? One of them is omega broomemide uh y chloride and the other has them exchanged. And what do you think he observed? They're the same. What does that show? It shows that omega is the same as y because otherwise these be different when you put different atoms in them assuming you have the experimental technique to tell when things are different. Okay. So now so it couldn't be for example a pentagonal pyramid which one had bromine and y and the other had chlorine and chlorine and y the other had chlorine and omega and bromine and y. It couldn't be that. Those would be different. Okay, so there must be at least four equivalent substituted positions omega, y, x, and z. Okay, and that would be consistent with that structure we showed before, this one. So it could be that doesn't have to be a hexagon. Now, here's the next step. So you start with a compound that's known to be in the meta series. It's got O and omega and nitro NO2. He wrote a Z O2 in X. And you have another one that has again O in the position omega but broine in X instead of nitro. And now you start doing substitutions. Remember he used meta differently from the way we do. Okay. Okay, so first he put in a bromine someplace and then a nitro someplace and got broo nitro metan nitrofenol. Okay, he added the bromo and nitro group. So you know that's the benzene core with H2 with a nitro someplace with a brmo someplace. Those are the ones you just put in. But the others are still where they were. O is in omega and nitro is in is in X position, right? And now you go to the other compound and put in two nitro groups. So you don't know where those two nitro groups are, but you know omegas that O is in omega and bromine is in X. Everybody see what you've done now? And you know what he observed? Those two compounds are identical. Can you see what conclusion you get from that? These are identical, right? But one of them has bromine in X and the other has nitro in X. How can they be identical? There must be a second X position that's equivalent. Right? Now, could any of those positions be ones we already know? Could it be omega? We we already know omega xy and z are the same, right? Could this new x be one of those? Could it be omega? No, because we already got omega. So, it can't be omega. Could it be y or z? No, because those would have started from a different compound in the first place if it were y or z. Right? You know that this is in x. It's not y, not z, right? So, there must be a second x, right? We'll call it X prime. There must be two positions, X and X prime. None of they're not equivalent to X or Y. They're not equivalent to X or Y. They're not the same as X or Y or Z or omega. It's a new one. Okay. So that's what they are. So there must be at least five equivalent positions. Now, that would be consistent with that pentagonal pyramid, right? all the five around the base of it are at five equivalent positions, but you can't get three different dice substituted ones among those positions, right? So, it couldn't be that. So, none of doer's models work with this. Although the perfect hexagon will work, a perfect one, not alternating single and double bonds. And the equilateral triangular prism, the Ladenborg benzene, will also work. So as I said that it would work with either of those except that the one on the right uh doesn't give the right number of disubstituted isomers. Now Kerner's own argument that the sixth position is equivalent was was faulty because it hinged in a subtle way on assuming that the benzene was hexagonal before you proved it was. Wasn't obvious but it's true if you look at it carefully. But it is possible using group theory to construct a logically rigorous argument on the basis of his evidence. His last step of his argument was wrong, but his evidence was adequate to prove it. So he was right in his intuition that this proved it. And he was right in his conclusion that all the positions are equivalent. So he deserves enormous credit for formulating the logic of the first true structural proof. Not just one of these plausibility things like there's only one mono substituted methane chloromthane therefore all the positions are equivalent. Right? That's just plausibility. But this is a real rigorous proof. Now how many isomers do you think there are of C2H4 Br2? Think about it. ethane with two broines. How many isomers? Pardon me. Somebody guess, John. And how would you get three? Uh, no, no double bond. There's six things on it, so forget that one. Yeah, if it were double bonds, you'd be right. But there no double bond, Corey. And what would you call them? How would you distinguish them or describe them? Oh, good. So, you could have two broines on one carbon or one bromine on each carbon. So, there should be two isomers. Now in that same journal, the same volume of the same journal in 1869 in Polarmo, a guy named Paterno said the three isomers of dyromoethane supposing they actually exist can easily be explained without assuming any difference among the four veances of carbon. You don't need curly bonds, long bonds and stuff like that. And here's how he explained it with this pictures. Right? So both the on the leftmost they have two on the same atom. The other two have one on each atom. And how are they different? One on each carbon atom. But how do they differ in the phase of rotation around the carbonarbon single bond? Right. And at the bottom he says or actually notice there's a little black thing in the middle. What do you think it is? Dino. What do you think? Right. Right? It's a piece of rubber tubing because this is an artist's picture of an actual model made out of sticks and balls, right? And sure, those things aren't superimposable, right? And he but he says at the he says at the bottom, it is superfluous to say that this is only a way of representing the facts and that all these ideas need to be tested experimentally. So, we'll see next time what kind of reception this received.