wrap it up. I want to talk about a couple things at the beginning and then I want to talk about the suburbs uh to end with because that's going to be a big problem you know uh in the future and I guess uh couple things in the beginning uh in somewhat particular order I suppose is just that you know you kind of I kind of torn between uh between uh be you know and thinking about Paris one of the old alliances that you had in the rebuilding of of uh you of trying to protect Paris from from the pompydos and the planners and the horror of the tour mernas that you had this sort of classic alliance between people on kind of the far left like me and then kind of traditional conservatives like a great French historian called Lu Shalier the historian of Paris and then um so I guess I kind of feel like that in in in trying to think about ways that you know how important is that France uh France remain France and and I mentioned this once in passing when I was talking about education But we got involved in our village and trying to save our one room schoolhouse. Uh because if we lose our school then we just are another beautiful place full of uh mobbed by German and Belgian and northern French tourists uh you know in the summer and Dutch also. And um you know I if things change and and uh regional uh I mean uh one room schoolh houses disappear because I mean people say that's that's progress and and and uh lots about rural France a lot of villages that do survive survive because they're they're what you call vula or they're sort of bedroom uh villages for people who work in towns nearby. But lots of France, lots of rural France really only exists now because of tourism and that doesn't make make it uh in itself uh I mean it's important that people survive in some way but that doesn't uh provide these places with a kinds of kind of vitality and and and uh uh you know ironic would be is if it's if the gem mich the uh the green guides for every region if if those are one of the sole ways in the long run along with cuisine qu tra traditions of cuisine that that help regions maintain their identity. That would be very sad indeed. They're going to do um I have great ambivalence about the European Union and about the European Constitution and encouraged most of my friends to vote against it. Uh and some of my friends in Leon and in Paris voted for it. Uh but most of the people I know almost all of them whether they were provincial academics or whether they're very ordinary people producing cheese or getting by in every way they can uh voted against it. And one of the things that they're going to do now, which is it doesn't mean anything to to most people, but it still reflects the kinds of changes that Europe is apt to bring that Europe in quotes is apt to bring to French regions, is that they're going to get rid of the license plates. Um, which seems like a silly thing, but one of the things that I always do when I'm driving, which I drive constantly, uh, in France, is you see, you know, you see cars go by and you see a 23, you think, oh, the K, that's the that's a really rare bird. It's the the least populated department after the loair in France. And you kind of imagine this person with a 23 is going up to see his or her aged grandmother in in the Moselle 57. And you do this sort of games of where people come from and what and and and what and I mean that's interesting and and it's important but they're going to get rid of the license plates and then all the license plates will be just very much the same and they'll look like English license plates or or they'll look like u German license plates. I don't know if they're going to get rid of those two or the K for con or the B for Berlin and all this business. And it's just one of the the sort of threats to the way things are that that that that the European Union has brought. And there are a lot of people at Yale, including some of my friends who are big sort of union European Union people. But, you know, we have friends who scrape by. They produce goats cheese. And they um um they um are told now that they must you know conform to European Union rules which are which are barked out in in Brussels with full of these empty apartment bu I mean empty office buildings that were overbuilt or barked out from Strazbour which is another important capital of the European Union. tells them that they uh that they have to produce uh uh produce cheese in a very different way and um you know part of old France will disappear and but but in a way I mean you know it's sad I don't want every part of France to be like every other part of France and we will had to really struggle to to to mir to arrive in a world in where you have actually TV announcers speaking with an accent that's not a Parisian or or a valley of the law accent you know and and that's very good I I'll tell you a funny little story um that that has to do with this in in some ways we have these friends who have been together for about uh uh oh maybe 25 years and like a lot of our friends in France they don't have any money and they they didn't get married and we have a lot of union li I mean they're just together I mean they're a couple there's much as a couple as my wife and I are who've been married for 27 years um and um they're one they have two sons and their oldest son is my my son's best friend uh and um they make goats cheese that's what they do and one one summer we got this invitation to their wedding, you know, they've been together for 20 years and that, you know, when you were together for 20 years, you're saying, "Oh, our best years are behind us and all this stuff," which isn't necessarily true, but they were getting married. They were sending out invitations and the people that don't like them said, "Oh, they're sending out invitations. They're getting married because they want to have uh presents. They want people to give them presents, you know, which is I mean, simply not true." And then people who, you know, like them and and who felt, well, you know, this is a, you know, they're they're getting married because their their parents are both religious sets of parents were fairly religious. One Dutch, the other uh Dutch Belgian, and the other French from the north of France. And so they're they're making it right in terms of the church. And people said, "Wait a minute, you know, is that really the case?" And so, uh, you know, the wedding, the wedding was when it was early September and we couldn't go because I was back here doing this and and happy to be here doing this. Uh, but we missed the wedding. And then we finally found out why they got married probably. It had something to do with Brussels and Strab because the somebody went over to the cantonal uh capital. I mean, this cap place called Valon. uh and there was a big sign that said that that those people who want to continue in the new Europe to produce goat produce goats cheese will have to conform to European norms about how to do that and and there will be a course that's offered uh by this the by the European Union and that will this was about 2000s before the shift to the UO maybe more about that in a minute and the course will cost 2,000 Franks which is a huge amount of money for these people but will be free for the wives uh of for the wives of uh of farmers. So they got married. They were kind of forced to get married because it would be cheaper for them to do that. Now that's kind of a silly example, but it's still the risk of Europe is that that people who want to live their own lives are somehow or produce goats cheese their own way and it produce very good goats cheese. Um which I always bring back in huge bundles double triple wrapped here won't be allowed to do that anymore. And and France voted against the election. I mean against the constitution and it happened in in the Netherlands too and everybody in France and this plugs into what I'm going to say and talk about in a minute. You know, there's this fear of the Polish plumber. You know, that that's the example they use that because all these immigrants from Eastern Europe will come and and that the European Union is going to have to pay all the money to make Polish uh agriculture. Well, I'll be in Poland in two days actually back yet again. Uh make uh you know, Polish agriculture competitive and will cost everybody a lot of money and that the Polish plumber will put French plumbers out of work. And so this this fits into, you know, both fears that people have, uh, all sorts of people, not just right-wing anti-immigrant people, whom I'll talk about in a minute, I can assure you, uh, but also just people that are afraid that that that, you know, their META, that their possibilities of their children finding work in a country in which work is very hard to find, in which there's no light at the end of the tunnel for uh, very very many young people. Uh, that all of this is is going to happen. and many people many ordinary people not in Paris if you're working with the George Bush dollar and trying to afford a single uh cafe in Paris uh but for very many ordinary people the the the euro that is the currency that that became uh January 1st year 2002 I actually wrote something about the the transition of to that currency um that that this was this this currency uh to most people seems like what you say in French is an alak it's a sting uh it is all it's done is pushed up prices and the government can trot out all the information they want to try to show there hasn't been you know massive inflation inflation due to the euro and that's simply false because things that people buy in in their lives I don't mean rich people but I mean ordinary people uh buy have been become extraordinarily high and expensive because of because of the yo uh and um on the other hand my own personal thing is that look I view the European Union as and this is you don't have to believe this uh uh you can probably guess that I would have this too. Uh, I believe that that a social Europe might be kind of a could counterbalance the kind of of just runaway, you know, bandit capitalism of the worst excesses of of of capitalism. Uh, and and that that, you know, in America, we live in a live in a country in where civil rights, civic and civil rights are saluted, but which human rights are there is no human rights uh are no human rights encoded uh uh in the United States. Thus, Guantanamo Bay thus uh you know exceptional rendering to torture camps here and there uh because there isn't an assumption that human rights counts. There's that that that civil rights is what counts and the way you get civil rights is becoming an American citizen or a permanent residence. Thus the big debate which I'm not going to get into about immigration in this country which is a very very a big debate but I always sort of view that Europe would well you know maybe the British would would um they didn't want to come along and they don't want to get rid of the pound and and all this business but but that somehow the social Europe with the basis of Germany and France whether it was parties of the right or part or center or parties of the left would you know be this kind of block that that would would would uh would do what what what de Gaul ironically here am I singing the praises of de Gaulle of all people me uh uh you know had had that Europe could could have the role of sort of France as sort of this this honest broker in in a world now without not uh two big powers but uh but only one sort of throwing its weight around and I don't even know what I think anymore about that because um you know there are some advantages to Europe it's if you live in Strabour if you live in Leon you live in Paris well you know they it helps the economy but if you live in the Avon or you live in Alashsh it doesn't do a damn thing. It hasn't brought anything at all to anyone as far as anyone can anyone can tell. Um but and one of the things that may go in the next years especially if Sarosi gets its way and one of the things that's dear to me anyway but I realize that there are excesses is the providential state. The idea of the welfare state which we've read about in Sarine's book and you all know exists and I've said this before and I'll say it again. If you don't have any money and you're sick, uh you're a hell of a lot better off, you know, going to any doctor and you can pay 20 euro or 22 euro now, which is, you know, every day more and more in dollars, but uh say now about $35. If you get sick and go down to St. Rfields, they will keep you. They will help you if you're very very poor. But there's a big sign at St. Raels that said that the minimum charge is $300 or $400. I can't remember what the big sign is. Um now, um the health plan is terribly expensive and there are all sorts of abuses. I mean, there are people who, for example, have to go from where we live to Leon to get treatment for this and that. Sometimes very serious illnesses. An ambulance takes them, and the ambulance will cost maybe $1,000, cost the health system, thousands. Well, there are people around that can drive them uh and that kind kind of situation. And there are the unemployment benefits are lavish to say the least. There are people that that we know that are professional sh professionally unemployed that don't do a damn thing and they don't want to work and they never work and and you know it's probably is you know unfair but but you know as human beings human rights that's something that that they pay attention to they ought to have the right to a minimum and and in French you call them remiss they get a really minimal little amount of money and uh now there strikes you know the railroads workers go on strike because they they want dwata da dwata key that they acquired rights they ought to be able to as I said this the other day if you're driving a high-speed téja vast train big pressure you know they they almost never crash hardly ever uh but big pressure and that they think they should have the right to retire at 55 or 50 now this seems like it's bit of exaggeration to us in this country we don't even have a retirement age um we don't have one at all it doesn't exist uh so there are abuses in all of this but but the the kind of total Americanization of of French social services would be in my view a disaster. You don't have to share that, but I mean they're abuses, but you don't sort of dismantle the whole thing. Uh and and sort of turn it into an, you know, Americanized version of of this and that. People are always trying to measure happiness. I have a student who wrote a former student who's a great guy, uh TA this class. Now he's at Florida State, wrote a book called Happiness, a history that did rather well. It was on NPR and all this stuff. And people are always trying to measure how happy you are. And when they when you ask people in France what makes them happy, it's the right to have a vacation, you know, and you got a lot of rich people in this country who are very unhappy even though they're they're loaded because they don't take the time to have vacation and all this. And we can, you know, we can debate the we could go on and on about I could lapse into into nostalgia for the next 10 hours about the favorite meals I've had through the through the long hours into the early morning with with friends of ours and and and how you know family things together count and your friends and all that. But in France, uh, you know, France remains in many ways a happy place and and that be some of the anxiety of life is taken away by the state. And I don't necessarily I don't think that's necessarily a bad thing. What's going to happen to to to young people, of course, you know, I'm going to talk about the suburbs in a minute, but that's part of it. It's not just it's not just uh an ethnic question. It's not just a spatial question. It's not just unwanted people by the center relegated to the margins of urban life. Uh it is also a question of what happens to young people not only young uh young uh West Africans or young North Africans uh or young uh people from the Caribbean but but also young whites too because uh uh the unemployment rate uh is is always been it's considered a great success to have the unemployment rate anywhere near 10%. Where sometimes it's at 12 13 and 14%. And for all the faults of this American system uh we have where people don't declare their unemployment often because they get discouraged but we have a much less uh employment rate uh and uh the chances of of young people not everybody goes to Yale uh not everybody goes to Harvard or Princeton or Wisconsin or Michigan or Oberlin or or Grenell you know for a lot of people that you know I mean they don't have those kinds of options that you have um in France it's a much more serious you know condition and situation and people we know that are very well educated have no future people we know that have no education uh you know are just scraping by too and it's uh um you know the French economy remains remains a problem and maybe Europe in the long run is going to help catapult ordinary people not just uh big capitalists big business people toward a toward a better life you know I don't know uh but again as I said I encourage my friends to vote against it we're not yet citizens so we we we couldn't vote uh we can't even vote in the municipal elections even though we've been legally resident in France for for 20 years uh miton put forth that we should be able to vote not just us but everybody who legal residents because we have an interest in what happens in municipal life. Uh but the high court overth over overturned it but that's neither here nor there. Now what about the what about the but about but about but about but about but about but about but about but about but about but about but the riots and they started up again the other day but just very briefly when these two kids were killed uh young people. They weren't kids but yeah they were young. They were 15 and 16 when they were uh killed um through their own fault alas uh uh when they ran into a a police car. Uh uh but that that was these there was trouble in Tulus but not very much trouble. Uh and that the trouble in this place called Vil Lubel uh ended fairly soon. Um in October and November I mean even two years ago and you were senior you you were juniors will maybe remember this and you could remember it if you were in high school too. Uh there were riots that began in the northern suburbs of Paris and those who've been to frown flown into France and flown into Wasi uh when you you land at at the airport Charles de Gaul which I still insist on calling was uh you um you know your your next thought is that you know what you'll do the first day in Paris whether it's seeing old friends again or where you're going to eat or what you're going to visit. Well, around Wasi uh are not only is DRS the transit camp where so many people were in World War II were uh had to stay before they were set off to the death camps to die, but they were the they're the grim suburbs. And I and as I told you before, I explained why why French suburbs and other European suburbs are very different. They're just the opposite of of American suburbs. They're largely the domain of people unwanted by the center by the center. And this has been uh been a tradition in France and in other places uh since uh since these ceased to become agricultural uh truck farming communities and became uh places where there were factories and where there was a transient population and it's been like that. It was the worst troubles worst rioting in France since 1968 uh were uh um a year that we've already talked about. Uh again the precipitating event was the death of two ado two adolescents who were 15 and 17 on October 27th 2005. This is only two years ago. They had fled along with another person who was very seriously wounded and was taken care of by ironically by the coincidentally by the mo the mother of our of our French godson at the opal shield. Uh they were believed they were being chased by the cops in clichi sua clichi uh c l i c h a su like underneath and then the bua the woods there no ba left they're underneath the housing projects because that's these were built in the 60s and 70s ain't no woods in kishi sua um and it's population 28,300 people the sixth poorest commune in France 70% of the population uh live in these housing projects in French the word is cite ci with an accent now the first cite were cite u pier they were created by uh established by Napoleon III in Paris just a couple he liked to clip ribbons and that was the end of it um 70% live uh who live in these projects which are just awful um are Muslims like the two boys who died they tried to hide um in an electric transformer and were grilled basically electrocuted and the other the boy who survived had um had burns over you know almost the entirety of his body. He's still alive. uh he lived um and so the incident and the events that followed have to be and seen in the resentment that I've talked about before and resistance of young people but in particular minority young people to the police to the CRS and also to the municipal police uh in u the gr grim suburbs uh of Paris but also Venice outside of uh Leo among others and outside of of uh of Marseilles you know where Zidon the great the great soccer player and as I said the other day the most still the most uh respected person admired person in France and Zidon grew up in such a project uh and unlike Bree Shiovalier he didn't have his picture taken the back with his back in a fancy suit to the project he uh had he was proud of where he grew up and it was part of his life and he's he's he's very good or if you follow French soccer there's no reason why you should but Lilian Turam who's a great defense player who's an older guy now and he took on Sarcoi after this and Sarosi say what do you you millionaire know about the projects and uh and he took him on and he said you're calling these people scum because of who they are and because they live there and he says I know the projects you don't know the projects and start closing he doesn't go to the projects uh because he you know anyway that we won't get off on that but we might who knows um so in two months more than 9,000 cars were set ablaze and 3,000 people were arrested most of those riding rioting were young uh young minority males of North African particularly but also West African uh my uh e extraction along with uh people from you know Guadaloop and Martineique and all sorts of other places too. Uh, and as I as I argued the other day, I mean, these are people who because they don't know Algeria, they don't know Tunisia, they don't know Mali, uh, they don't know Seneagal. Uh, they feel like they belong nowhere. Uh, because they don't share the culture of their parents. Uh, and they share with their friends a culture of exclusion that can also serve as a way of, you know, of solidarity. uh that the excluded can also uh in their language as I I described the other day and and and in these unfortunate events uh show that they can stick together, they can hang together too. Um and the trouble spread to the suburbs of Leon to Le to Satan to Strabour and other places where um um you could anticipate such reactions but also amazing enough to places like Gor you know and the lot or in B which isn't too far away and and just all sorts of places or uh where you wouldn't think there'd be anything and trouble may be described as you know lighting a a pubel a garbage can ablaze and throwing it through a storefront or something like that. That's not a good thing to do. uh but they spread to all sorts of places. There was also incidents in Belgium uh and which has a huge population from exire from from from Congo uh and uh in Germany as well and most most immigrants in in in Germany the majority not most but the majority of people who are there are either from Turkey or now from from ex Yugoslavia and and ex Albania and the forms of resistance were not themselves new hurling molotov cocktails and burning cars. I mean this had happened in in Strazbour for years. It happens in Detroit. Uh you know I said this the other day. There had been riots on a much more smaller scale in 1983. Uh uh and in 2000 in the town of Mela which is fairly near Bzanso in the east. The name doesn't matter. Um but there was violence more violence than before and it was directed uh particularly against the police. And the difference between those incidents and the incidents now that have occurred uh last week is that people were using guns. They were using pistols and they were shooting at the police. And that takes it to a different level. That didn't happen uh uh uh two years ago. And that's not a good sign. Surprisingly, there was only uh one death, a man who was um beaten to death while trying to put out a fire uh in in a place called Staf, which is a suburb of of Paris. And there were a few injuries. That's all. Not very many for such big trouble. lots of burned out cars, lots of anger. The army was never called in. Um damage was was surprisingly limited. Uh it was limited basically to cars uh and a few shops and things like that. There wasn't to lose. Somebody set the library on fire and this is what happened in Kishi in um Yale Leel uh last week as well. uh but um there were occasional attacks on on churches on synagogues because there has been a rise of anti-semitism uh uh particularly in Muslim communities uh in France uh in contemporary France there was an attack on the Leon subway the metro uh and even against stupidly also against sporting facilities in France there are not a lot of places for young people to do sports and they've done been better about that uh you know I mean sports are not exactly part of the program in French lies and they run around the the you know they run around the gym twice and they're all hacking and coughing and grasping for their gulwis uh but you know they've been doing better now and one of the reasons that that France does so well in soccer is because you know the they they take particularly young minority uh youth who are very good good soccer players and they get good training and and and that's why you know when when we won the World Cup in 1998 and Jean Marary Le Pen said uh the leader of the national front. He said he said it wasn't a French team that won. Why? Because when you count it up, there was Dominique. There's no reason you should know this, but there was Pet uh there was Blon Blas. Uh there was the uh quite uh some quite flip in many ways. Uh uh uh Vortez uh the goalie and did I forget somebody? There was a guy who never kept missing all the time. U was his name of Bratton. I can't remember who, but the great players were Toam, Zidon, the Sai, uh, you know, the these were the really great ones. And so, Le Pen said, "Well, that's not really France because they may have French nationality, but he doesn't count them as French, uh, because his his racist view of the world, which doesn't differ that much from that of Adolf Hitler when push comes to shove, uh, they don't count. But happily, most people in France celebrated uh, joyously uh, because they certainly are are French. Um, and and the damage was far less than, for example, in LA during the Rodney King uh uh riots in in in 1992 after the the police who beat up this guy on camera uh beat up this this minority guy from downtown LA. You know, the LA suburbs are not where the underprivileged people live. They do not live in in uh you know, valley in the valley and all and all that kind of stuff. Um and when there were attacks on buildings, they were attacks at night so nobody would be in in the buildings and the destruction of empty cars. Well, well, stupid, you know, does not did not kill people. Now, again, I don't mean to sound like I'm defending violence, but uh u not a single despite a generalized hatred of the of the police, not a single policeman was killed or even seriously wounded. Uh though there were a few live round fire, there were more policemen hurt the other night, you know, were shot, uh hit by bullets than by uh than happened uh uh uh two years ago. Um so um the government strategy of criminalizing petty misdeeds, I mean that seemed to have worked in New York. I guess that's what you know Giuliani is going to say over and over again. uh that zero tolerance. I mean the arresting of people who are hopping the metro, getting on the metro for free and all of this. Uh they tried that in France and that may have increased the resistance, the hatred of the police because sometimes you you know you you see people get picked up when they're trying to get through the metro and you you'll see police from there and get on for free because they don't they don't have any money and and uh you know I when I let you know I let people through behind me if they don't have any money and if they they look like they have money then I knock them about 20 feet back uh when I'm going through by stopping and knock them backwards. It wasn't very nice but I believe in public transportation. Uh anyway, the Shrek government had eliminated funds not only for voluntary associations uh but for the kind of beat policing that has worked in many areas and you know and sometimes in in this country that in tough neighborhoods where there've been a lot of problems by having the policeman become part of the community and therefore not just seem like a foreign presence but that's not the case in Kishi subwo that's not the case in Boi that's not the place in Kuvo and places like that or in Veniceu outside of of Leon there. When the police are there, they're not the same guys. And when they're there, they're the ones saying, you know, your papers, your papers, your papers, or they don't go at all and they don't protect the other people. I mean, most of the crime that occurs there is, you know, are minorities against minorities because of the the sheer numbers. And the police, one of the complaints there is the police aren't there to help anybody. And when they do, they come in huge numbers and it's up against the wall, baby, and that kind of stuff. So, the rise took on a political dimension. And here I again again I'm I'm saying I'm not trying to give a political interpretation into this. This is a fact. I mean this is what happened. Um Nicolas Sakuzi the minister of interior um he manipulated the the situation. He referred to the riers as riffraff or even scum. Rakai a word that I've used before. Rakai. Scum which can you know it can also be tough guy but but it means scum more. And he said what we need need to do is get these big hoses that they use. is this brand that you clean out gutters specifically for cleaning out gutters. We have to get these hoses and get rid of them. Get them out of the gutters. Well, who's them? You know, these are people who are non-whites, who are poor, who live in the suburbs, who are condemned, who are marginalized. Uh uh the word suburb even lost its neutral sense in the French language long ago at the end of the 19th century. I did a book on this a long time ago, not just on that word, but on on some of this stuff. Um, and so that he said that suburbs should be disinfected to get rid of this scum. And I'm not being too over the top to say that, you know, that you you in his view, you're scum. This is a son of immigrants, by the way, Hungarian immigrants. You're scum because you exist, because you're there, because you're not rich. And when he got elected, then he gets his big vacation in in Malta, spending as much money as humanly possible to say, "Well, if you work hard like me, Fes, you you will become rich, too." Well, it ain't that easy. It seemed like a blatant attempt to win the supporters who who supported the violent extreme right of uh Jery Le Pen. And after the election, Le Pen said, "All he's saying is what we've said." He said it to be sure in a more tactful way. uh he does not believe that the camps were a minor the death camps were a minor minor detail in the history of World War II which is what Le Pens said. He doesn't believe that uh and he didn't sort he would not give sort of nodding approval when some of his thugs drowned Moroccans in the in the uh in in the Sen you know after Jon of Arc Day March Jon of Arc Day March uh and sort of say well you know boys will be boys and this kind of stuff. Um, but he took the the rhetoric of racism and made it respectable. And you don't have to agree with this, but this is my view. This is what happened. That's what happened. That's it. It was a strategy that Charlotte Pasqua, who had been a ministry of interior long ago, had tried to use and had not worked, but it worked this time around. Now, again, I don't exaggerate the problem of of uh, you know, there has been increased criminality. There have been attempts to prove that the that the greater increases of criminality uh um you know uh shle you know with with immigrant populations and non-immigrant populations uh you know that's hard to say whether that's true or not. We're not talking about crime waves like like like lots of murders and things like that. France still operates on a very civilized uh uh scale in part because they have very harsh gun laws. Uh and it's you can't just sort of uh you be 15 and not old enough to uh to vote or old enough to drink in this country. Uh but you're old enough to buy a machine gun practically. Uh and that sort of thing. Uh Tram uh turm whom I mentioned a while ago the the the footballer uh denounced the remarks as contemptuous and humiliating serving to awaken latent racism in France. And he got that right. and Jacques Sharak as usual tried to uh more concerned with his bank accounts in Japan or whatever tried to remain above and and the indictment which subsequently has followed I mean his not indictment yet but all the scandals when he was mayor of Paris he tried to remain above the fray uh he u had the declaration of the state of emergency on November 8th read to journalists on his behalf instead of actually reading it himself but he seemed to be as he was in the end more and more ineffective isolated ated and virtually ignored rather like his predecessor Charles de Gaulle in 1968 and 1969. Um, one of the one minister on the center right said that one of the reasons this is all happening is in the suburbs is polygamy. That was his his definition for what happened. Uh, Shakoi the other day said this is not a social crisis in uh the suburbs. What? Not a social crisis. It's a crisis that's an enormous social crisis. He said that he referred to a voyu to a a thugocracy a thugocracy and there's no social crisis. The social crisis is that that a huge percent of the population living in France particularly 5 million Muslims but not just 5 million Muslims more than that do not feel part of France and are not integrated in France uh in part because of of uh spatial considerations where they live lack of opportunity also because of discrimination uh and lack of of of education. opportunity the same that other people have had. Um it's hard to get people to teach in the Seni that is the department of number 93. When you say Kat Vantra which means uh the Senini which is has many of these places you can't get teachers to teach there because there is violence you know not big-time violence but there's there there's violence and the whites out there of course uh uh not all of them but many of them vote uh uh uh na national front and they voted for sarosi massively. Uh this was discovered actually about 10 years ago also that in uh some of the neighborhoods in Paris at Mach and then the 18th and 20th small but above all on the 20th that the white population voted overwhelmingly uh in some areas for uh for the the national front uh in in part because they you know they were afraid of the fact that they would be minorities in their in their own calier and all of this. And you also had this crossover vote between the old communist party, white workers voting for the national front as well. And you found that in in places in the north of France and you found that in other places. Um it it's given all this it's surprising that the troubles didn't come uh uh uh before uh because uh the the the the immigrants as you know really were attracted to France in larger numbers by the booming economy uh in uh the 1960s. And all this slowed down at a time that I can remember with, you know, the the oil uh crisis of 73 and 74, which is just, you know, when I was when I got to Yale when that much older than you guys, uh that uh that was that that stopped it. And suddenly all the people that you know all the the announcements of come to France we'll find you a job posted in Tunis and and uh Alier and Marash and Fez and all these places uh th those were taken down and and uh and uh they're there and the economic slowdown came but there were fewer jobs awaiting those people and their descendants and the Muslim population of France is now about 5 million people. One of the interesting things also is that there was no really way of counting the number of people of any ethnic origin in France. There is none because it's illegal to ask on a census what is what are your ethnic origins. You can't do that. So there's no official way of counting up. Now that that then France can say we we have no we have no ethnic crisis but also you can't they they can say that which isn't true. Uh, I mean, hello, that just isn't true. But also, the problem is if you don't know where all the where you have strong ethnic minorities or even majorities, then you can't really go out and try to solve the problem because you're not really sure. Municipal statistics are much more accurate. But there's no I don't know any global kind of statistics, but they they think about about five uh uh million people and many of them live uh in the suburbs, live in these ashelms. are called uh uh abitas alo mo or or or uh well cite you know they're housing projects uh uh uh basically uh and in which um uh so many of the people are poor uh many depend on on state uh assistance and and crowd more and more relatives into tiny spaces. We know a good number of people from Zahire uh who were brought to to France thanks to a a French friend of ours, a lawyer, and some of them came as basketball players. A couple of them did. And you know, they're living in rooms out in the suburbs and and they they you know, 15, you know, people living in a you know, in a small apartment. Um and what and so the rate of unemployment in France in 19 2005 is about 10 uh about 10%. 3 million unemployed. That's a lot. But young people among young people is 23%. And in the suburbs, uh, uh, the unemployment weight rate rose from 28% to 40% for young people between 1990 and 2000. And the unemployment rate for foreigners and French with origins in non-European countries stood at about 36% of the population. in cliche this community that I said was the fifth or whatever I said sixth poorest community in France I think fifth at the time 80% of the population lived in what were classified are classified still as zone urban sibler difficult urban zones and 35% in public housing in clichi subwo the unemployment rate for young people between 18 and 25 your age stood at 60% and for 33% of the population as a whole. And there were constant complaints when all the journalists would go and the reporters go and you know Lobes would send out reporters and and and and they've recounted all these stories of their lives of trying to find jobs and with the same qualifications being turned down systematically and they've done all these they've done they've done these secret things. I've seen this on TV where they'll they'll take people uh you know and and set up companies in a way to see how they react when they're confronted by candidates for a job uh in which you know the white person will be less wellqualified than the North African or uh West African and time and time again just right down the line wouldn't get the job wouldn't and there's no use there's no use ignoring this fact even if Sarosi uhh says uh that this this isn't true and many of them particularly those people from North and West Africa depend on this informal economy uh economy of barter an economy of of you know black marketing to to an extent or or petty drug deals and things like that uh because there's nothing else uh to do a man of Arab origin put it this way he says I raise my children hiding from them the fact that I no longer have any hope for them but the real drama is that they understand all of that. They grow up in this bloody chaos and they suffer. There is no future for the children of immigrants here. That's a tough thing to say. And that's not that was a thoughtful it's not just somebody who's reacting to to a into a city in flames and to violence between the police and young people. uh it's somebody who's who for whom that experience was a part of uh of uh uh of their lives and he's reflecting the fact I mean in this interview when I wrote all this I wrote this for a piece uh you know I was doing you know reading magazines that's how you you know you doing kind of instant history I wrote this just a couple uh weeks after this happened for an encyclopedia uh maybe six months after that you know you you you end up reading things like this but but but this is a form of history also uh and he's reflecting the gap between himself and his own children. They don't believe that they belong anywhere. If you don't believe you belong anywhere, you know, then then you know, then society's got a a a big uh problem. And they say that they don't feel French. And they've been controlled so many times. It's not just their control once in a while where some you know zealous policeman sees a a West African or North African and says, "Hey, hey, let me see your papers, man." Uh it's just time and time again. And I told you the other day that you know I I never am pro I'm never never never controlled anywhere never never never and I've been leaving metro stations with all sorts of people where you know Barbara or some place like that where with all sorts of people who are minorities and and more French than I am more French than I am and I have a residence card. I don't have a passport and they have passports and they're ones are controlled. It's not me that's controlled and I don't dress any differently than they do as you might have uh been able to tell. Uh and it it uh the recent law against fool, you know, against the headscarfves of which there's been much to do. And my friend Joan Scott just has who lectured up here a couple weeks ago, you know, this also I mean my argument not everybody agrees with me. Not even people on the left, some of them don't agree with me, but but uh um you know, you can twist and say, well, this and not twist it, but you can take the take on it that this is really an anti-feminist thing. It's anti-women's thing. People wearing fool are not generally feminist. Uh but not necessarily. Why not? uh that it I I think it's anti-Muslim. Uh they say, "Well, you know, you can't wear big crucifixes in the class, too. Uh you can't wear yarmakas in the class." Well, I don't know. Uh my kids have been in Liuno and Tulus and in um Marcel Jim and Ubana and they never saw anybody wearing huge crucifixes. Uh no crucifixes allowed. I'm not sure if they've seen yamas. It is a problem because the rate the growth of anti-semitism and not just among Muslim populations but it's directed against Muslims. There's no question about it uh in my view. And furthermore that I mean you can understand the position of some Muslim women. I'm not saying anything about uh why people wear fool. I mean I don't know but there some are under pressure from their their fathers or their older brothers to wear headscarfs and that's very you know one can understand these family situations. I'm not saying anything about about this but I think that that that this is a law that's aimed at Muslims. I think uh you can invoke the the secular republic. You can invoke the separation of church and state. You know, we talked about that this country went to the inauguration in North Haven, Connecticut of uh our dear friend who was just elected selectman the other day and and it was supposed to be separation of church and state and they were you know there were prayers and there were invocations and and all this business. Uh, but I I see this as directed at Muslim women because they're they're Muslims and other people don't agree with me, but I think but this has been a lightning rod for for the way that people treat each other and who has the right to be who they are in, you know, in France. Um, and and as I said, the French Republic has even refused to to acknowledge the the existence of ethnic groups. They're not counted. They're not countable. And part of that, as I said, is you don't want to make people feel different by saying you are so many people from Mali. you are so many people from Seneagal, you are so many people from with Algerian background uh or whatever. uh but uh what the government did is talk about the necessity of order of imposing order and that's what Sarosi talks about is order and the police and order and there's no talk much anymore about equality uh and gets lost in this is that old French commitment to human rights which is something that one can only value and given that the total degradation of of the views of human rights in in uh in uh you know well We won't get into this, but in in this country uh recently uh I um you know, one could only wonder. It's amazing. Um and ironically, the state of emergency that was declared in 2005 in the fall was based on the state of siege law that had been imposed in 1955 during the Algerian War of Independence to try to impose order on Algerians who wanted to be free. And they used the same law without any kind of oh excuse we're very sorry. this law. We understand this is a different situation or is it? Who knows? Uh and uh it was this fact was not lost on Arab minorities. Uh the Portuguese immigrants may be the largest single national ethnic or other from other places group in the Paris region but but Algerians are not far away. And what this riots did and this is a good place to end since we indeed we have to end uh is that it made clear that in the civil that there's been a breakdown in civil society in the French suburbs and that obviously something has to be done and there's been a lot of talk about how we're going to pump more money into voluntary associations but nothing has been done zero that's what people said uh the other day uh the red belt uh remains uh uh you know a dream of the past no the communist party is hardly No, no one's out there defending these people. There are no political parties. There's SOS Rasm. Uh, uh, Harlem Deir is an old group. Uh, but I've yet to see a political party uh, embrace the cause of these people. The way, for example, even the Communist Party embrace the cause of of of uh, the small percentage of French peasants, that is 8% uh, or 5% even now uh, in uh, left in France. Um and uh the credits that have been locked off by the previous government uh still have never uh have never been returned. Um there aren't enough funds at the moment to create jobs. They tried to create these employ people to help old ladies on with their on the trains with their suitcases. But these are temporary work. You know there I mean the problem is uh is an enormous problem and it's not something that can kind of be dreamt away like saying well they are out there and you know Paris will still have all of its American and English and German and Belgian visitors because they don't go to Clichi Subwo they go to look at Nostradam and the Eiffel Tower and when they fly over places like Sarscal or or Garconess you know they don't pay much attention to it and so one one thing people have to do and I suppose that's what I'm doing now uh is that one can only uh you know encourage public awareness of the kind of marginalization of of of of lots of people. You can't turn Europe into sort of fortress Europe. You know, you can't imagine the kind of thing that the Americans want to do or some Americans want to do is build this huge wall, a new Berlin wall, you know, between Mexico and the United States. You know, what are they going to do in Paris? Put a hu huge wall around the periphery uh of the highway running around Paris and then leaving it open to Versailles, of course, in the fancy suburbs on the on the west. Um so uh for a moment I mean a lot of people in 2005 at the end or if you ask them in 2006 you ask young people even who participated who set a garbage can on fire what do you think has come out of this that the ones who are most charitable about all of this said that look uh what's come out of this is that we have tried to make France and and the world and and Europe people that comfortable places that don't think about these issues uh aware of these problems But this isn't a problem that's going to it's going to go away. And once you see it as a problem, it's a challenge. Uh and because you know France believes deeply in the tradition in this course, the course is you know I mean the history of France and liberty fraternity equality and there's the times when push comes to shove and you have to actually show that you mean it. So uh hopefully France will remain France. uh but hopefully uh this situation uh will improve but it's going to take a lot of action and not just kind of polarizing talk and and appealing to to electorates who just want the whole problem to go away. Um your final won't yet go away and I want to thank you for taking this course and I'm going to put these things outside and you can sign up and once you sign up you're signed up. So be sure to know where you're supposed to go for your final, okay? and have a wonderful break and have a wonderful end of the semester and see you see you around Yale next semester. Take it easy.