So here we are talking about recapitulating the work done on uh in uh reading part the poem selections of this poem um and it it it's it's a little difficult um so rather of course I'm not going to tell you exactly what we have been talking about we have been reading from uh uh the work outside of the divine comedy we started with the vitan over uh which we read as you recall as a visionary text as a story of an education as an autobiography and we tried to explore uh what um those terms mean and how they interact with each other. How does one term shed light on the other? What does it mean to write an autobiography and at the same time having an education? The two converge of course in Dante's uh imagination. Uh you can only write an education a story of your education if you have a sense of what your whole life is about. If you have some some pattern of coherence and intelligibility that you can impose on and extract from respectively uh this the sense of uh of your life. But above all, I was interested in uh in that in that uh autumn partial because it's it's sort of inter inter it's truncated at the end as a sort of interruption deliberate interruption because what kind of preparation it gives us to what extent is it repeated that adventure Dantar in the vitanova uh it's kind of an adoration of the the divine the divine comedy uh in many ways the two texts really uh are implicating each other in the sense that Dante finishes the the vitanova stops writing the vitanova that's the uh inconclusive the unfinished quality of that text so that he can go on writing the divine comedy if you see what I'm saying the vitan nolva ends with the statement of a project of a project to come which therefore will be in a certain way the fulfillment of what is only hint that in uh in in in the Vita Noa. So the two textes are are literally one is preparing for the other the other one. But then this the divine comedy turns out the way we were reading the divine comedy last time. Um the divine comedy itself has a sort of inconclusive quality about it. uh Dante reaches uh and and and experiences the botific vision and yet his text um succumbs to the enormity of the task of describing it and there were a number of reasons why we said Dante does that. I mean what seems to be and is a defeat at the level of the imagination turns out to be uh a great triumph for Dante's own theology right because it's in the measure in which that the poem ends in a kind of defeat and a sort of the with the admission of the impossibility for Dante the poet's language to contain and therefore raifi circumscribe that which he has seen right uh he sort of uh ending with this uh um this this question mark this this vision of our effigy as he says our own image in that's all that is left in for him to recall which really means that uh in the refusal to pinpoint describe and define the so-called botific vision some people can be very disappointed why doesn't he tell us what he really saw because that would be the statement valid for him. He wants us at the end of the poem to adventure to take to take our own journey and and make our own discoveries about that which remains the essential point of the divine comedy as is the essential point of all great texts of our tradition. The encounter between the human and the divine. That is the point of all the great epics. Whether it is in the form of the anered where the hero is always uncertain about what the aura the the gods are telling him. Uncertain how to def decipher it. And yet he nonetheless pursues uh what he takes to be and m and makes mistakes and he is along the way uh but what he takes to be God's will. This is the the way he can live out his own sense of ethical imperative to himself to his people the refugees that are coming from Asia Minor and going to to an unknown land and the divine imperatives or whether it's going to be Renaissance texts from from uh Spencer's fairy queen to Tasos to Milton all to creatures what I say not theological epic the idea He wants to to to cure his readers. His he has one reader in mind, a young Epicuran and this is Lucriccius whom Dante had never read. He he read in parts and was very fascinated by what he read who wants to educate one young manus a young Epicuran to the real and bitter truth of what the the uh the Epicuran philosophy may be. And the bitter truth, the harsh truth, Lucriccious thinks is that there is no such a thing that the the that ours are that the Roman world is a desecrated world that the gods have fled. That's the but that is still in the mode of an atheism atheism it is still a theological concern because and the implication of what I'm saying is that atheism itself may be a way of addressing of course is a way of addressing the question of god uh the unknowability of god the distance of god maybe the non-existence of the gods the divine comedy from this point of view partakes of this extraordinary tradition but he does it in a way which is remarkably different Dante does his theology in a way which is remarkably different from anything else that's gone on before him and in many ways after him. So that I think there is a mode of recapitulation. This is what I have to I will have to uh briefly illustrate and give you the chance to ask more questions specifically about the poem about some of these things that I think have said the whole poem moves toward this kind of theology uh condensed in Kanto 33 of paradise recapitulated right there. Of course, Inferno goes on talking about issues of politics which is not that they are easy. They are very complicated but in some ways they're rooted in Dante's own theology. There's it's too easy to believe that you know this is politics this is theology they are always imbrecated with one another. In fact sometimes the best way to understand the theology is to talk about the politics and the best way to talk to understand the politics is to really talk about the theology. They are completely always implicating uh each other and Inferno talks about the ethics and and the politics. Purgatoria talks about aesthetics and ethics. Above all, the possibility of reconstructing the human their uh human beings uh so flawed they seem to be so incredibly sunk into the ditches of their own perversions of our perversions. How do you how do you so radical Dantis condemnation of the political realities the civil war people cannibalizing each other and not in a metaphor that man is a wolf to man but literally they are doing this so how do you get out of it it's very difficult you know to to be so uh to ostracize politics from the possibility of the human imagination and then at one point say well I still need this how you going to make a persuasive case for your readers that they can follow you and This was the great challenge of uh of of of Purgatorio. And we saw the the the the the question of time, the great problem of freedom that all of a sudden seemed to surface in Purgatory with Kato suicide. You remember with a debate about the soul the soul and uh and created in freedom and by an act of freedom of God's freedom to the attainment of the free will around this extraordinary concern of freedom uh and therefore the possibilities of the moral life uh we came to the the the conclusion of purgatory with uh with with the garden the garden of Eden the the the place of pleasures the place where pleasures are not damned in and of themselves. And the question becomes now because that that is the Sabbath. That is the moment where uh you you uh pleasure can be seen as a crown of work that which crowns the correlation of one's own labors and so on. But that is also rooted in theology. And then we ended up in paradise where we really talk directly because I think that's really the substance of paradise. the possibility of thinking of an aesthetic theology. How art and theology go hand in hand because what joins them is the question of not just the question of the art being the temptation, ethical temptation but now the question of beauty as the mode of revelation of the divine and therefore the implication was and I hope I have said that very clearly that art becomes a way to know God, a way to know the divine. So we are moving away from from traditional assumptions about what is the path to go and encounter God. What is really the discovery of the sacred uh is the sacred going to be found some some text and Dant seems to have believed that at some point in a particular in the animation of nature is it going to be found in the love that you have for your for your beatrice or you beatrices for your Dante or whatever. you know and he goes on thinking about these concerns uh and how everything that that belongs to the world of art is the part of the path to the divine. theology and aesthetics not just as well aesthetics is a way of making beautiful the the reality the the theological content of Dante's faith and not just that but not just that it's not it's no longer the question of an ornamentation that was a problem by the way of lucricius who at one point says I really write poetry because I want to make pleasant the bitter medicine that that that that uh Epicurus goes on are administering to you what the way he says Is it that the gods have fled that there is no such a thing as sacredness in the cosmos? That's too bitter to bear. I'm going to say it nicely. Now, that's really not so for Dante. The the actual exercise of art, it's an aesthetic exercise. You got you move through art, you refine, you think, and you question all the things. It's not just an ornamentation. Ornamentation being the word for cosmetics for beautifying that which if one has to what that that which he will say. So these were the concerns and we came to KTO 33 of paradise and I I maintain to you and as a way of recapitulation I think I have said to you uh I hope that I have said it all to you. uh but I will gladly go over it and I hope that uh if you if you see more or or not quite haven't seen what I think I have been saying to say that's that's really your last chance as far as I go uh in this public mode here the first thing that we we understand about Dante's theology is the extraordinary rootedness of his theology in the human reality. Kanto 33 is the kanto of the a prayer and we'll talk more about a prayer as a mode of theologizing. Why is it a special mode of theologizing? But the first thing is a prayer to the Virgin Mary. That is to say a way of thinking about how the divine has entered the world of history and the human flesh. So there is not such a thing as an extraordinary. I I think even talking about the cosmology of Dante I tried to hint try to say look the physical world and the metaphysical world are all part of one universe there are two separate hemispheres and yet there is always a cross there's a chasmos that will connect them but will make them because that's the the irony of every cosmos you know what I mean by cosmos comes from the letter the Greek letter he in Greek right that's a chasm an x and when you have a casmos you have a point of intersection of the two arms but that becomes also a point of flight. Things come together and can be seen to come together but things also seem to be divergent seem to be going away from each other. Okay, this is uh the the cosmos of Dante is an extension of what he will say in the prayer to the virgin the the the uh the human rootedness of the divine not dualities. Okay, that's really a primary item and this will conclude with the idea that with the and makes it persuasive that what Dante sees and remembers at the end is our effigy which is clearly is a throwback to Genesis. Let us make man in our image and and and likeness. That's what Dante will see. But this also means that we are in the world of images. That Dante's own journey ends in the world of images. But are not in images as deceptive appearances only that which he we saw that the whole of Purgatorio is full of now somehow the image probably because that hour the shared quality of that image becomes the locus of the sacred itself becomes not something that just hides but also reveals the divine. The second thing that I think that we have learned to understand about this theology of Dante is freedom that the foundation of uh Dante's own uh the foundation of his beliefs as his theological beliefs is in freedom and we talked about the theological virtues as you recall the theological virtues faith hope and charity 24 25 and six with the various examinations that Dante goes so on and if you recall we are talking about the fact that uh uh Dante thinks of faith uh as an act of freedom. That's not unusual for those who have any theological interest to to even find uh traces and and and implications of this kind of statement. Faith is for Dante uh a way of knowing. He connected with knowledge which is not a way not just a way of saying that you know faith intervenes when knowledge stops here by stop because someone who is interested in his curiosity of knowing now I don't know I'll try hard maybe tomorrow I will know I don't need any faith right if you really think about the relationship with knowledge and faith you can't say faith emerges at the boundary line of knowledge because that boundary line is always shifting and that would imply the progressive reduction of a a a kind of receding and and uh diminishing fragment of the com of of of uh the dimension of faith. But Dant is saying by connecting a university examination and the problem of faith is that faith itself is a way of knowing. I have faith and that means that I see the world in an entirely different way. I can see myself disengaged from everything around me. I can see that nothing really matters that all the patterns and and parameters of reasons are going to be found wanting. That's really so it's tied with freedom. Hope introduces the question of the future and you cannot have freedom without the future. We talked about this temporal issues. You can only think about the possibility of a future if you believe that there is a novelty. If there is a freedom, if you're in bondage, you cannot really think of it. But theologically, because I don't want to confuse you at all, you remember that all the three kantos were literally woven with references to Exodus. All three kantos and the story of Exodus which is crucial to Dante's poetic figuration is the story of the freedom from a state of bondage. So this is the way we understand freedom. But Dante also knows that freedom can you only have to shift. You know this is this is Luther of course that freedom and faith are one in the same thing in this attack you remember that I mentioned this to you doesn't concern Dante but concerns the issue and so I will mention it for clarity they debate the two of them Luther and Arasmos over the idea of what freedom of the will means and they're really debating a text written a century earlier by one humanist by the name of Vala and they disagree about what that text means and and Luther says what to Arasmos you really are are interested in uh in in uh uh in faith as a form of order. Uh I'm interested in faith as a form of freedom because that frees me from all loyalties. It's a little madness, the sublime quality of the statement. But you only have to shift that the ground a little bit and realize that freedom can really become and is the source of atheism because I atheism all of a sudden becomes important because human beings don't want to be subjected to anybody. It's part of the project to say I am my own man. I am my own woman. I want to do exactly what I want. I don't want to have any loyalties or accept uh anything that I don't even see. I mean like we can we can bear with a master you know that we see and maybe has a knife arrest but someone that you know is a distant and remote we and button then says that's the peculiarity of this religious belief of mine which is really all about freedom including the freedom to deny the divinity. This is extraordinary. Never heard of in the history of as far as I know and I have a very limited knowledge. Believe me, there's no rhetoric. Very limited knowledge. But I have never seen anything like this. The third element about this theology is really the the great element of love to discover that the way to God. Yes, it's hard. There are many ways first of all to God. There is the philosophical way of going through knowing. There is the the linguistic way through the language and I'll come to this issue in a moment. There is poetry. There is the world of beauty that I see the language of the heart but that primarily it is the the path to the divine is love right because that in which to Dante and Dante understands I wasn't saying that love is so mysterious because I know that deep down you are all young people many of you a couple here are younger much younger than I am but not really that young so they are not surprised by any of this but you know but I know that deep down I remember being young how you think about the mystery of love. Ah, that really speaks to everybody's heart. I wasn't meaning it that way, but it is really the four point that the principle of election which is so crucial to love, it's really can cannot be quite explained. I really was meaning it in in as theological a way as possible. I was already thinking about the statements that I was going to make today about Dante's theology. Because this is these are some of the issues that Dante has. The other day yesterday the day before I was asked the question about one line in Dante and I was very actuated. It was a very good question about that fact that Dant is allowed to see the true that that the light he saw was the truth. That was a very good question. said, "What does it mean?" To me, it was so clear and I apologize because you know, I said, "Well, this is really the biblical idea. In your light, which your notes will tell you, in your light, uh, I see the light. We see the light." What does it mean in your light, we see the light. And what it is is that it's part of this mystery that if you are a mystic and you think that the divine is wrapped in a kind of uh transcendent darkness, you know, that's the language, or that it is really all wrapped in uh impenetrable light. It's both the same. Neither light has the peculiarity of never letting you see the origin of the light and darkness has that peculiarity of never letting you see the origin of the darkness. When Dante reaches paradiso 33 and that's the meaning in your light I see we see the light Dante sees finally the origin of light that's the point that's the point so there are moments where his sight can become so incredibly sharp and so penetrating so look at all these ways the ways that the many ways in which we can take available to us and it seems that we are always stumbling against something that in the long run you have to stop and yet if you love If you if you think that beauty is uh is a part which is part of love. Beauty is is part of uh love is the hunger for beauty. The neoplatonists will say in in the Florentine Platonist Lorenzo u I don't know where he found it probably in Proinus uh love is the hunger for beauty. But all these are ways that Dant uh keeps opening for us uh opening for us in our journey to the divine. And then there is the prayer which is the question of language. That has also become one of the ways in which I indicate that there is a a theological uh uh a theological root to the question of language. You know, not only that we speak out of and speaking a language is an allegory, a parable of of of a desires, right? A parable what we lack. We speak because we don't have that's the specific and we speak because we are designating and we are pointing maybe without really knowing to what we uh uh what we need. It's always a question of need and that has always way of connecting language and desire. We talked about that all the time. That's one of the themes we discussed and then all of a sudden in paradis 23 though I said I said to you look the language now changes all of first of all the prayer to the virgin is all about longing the state of longing but not languishing. And there is an ethmological connection there somewhere which is not I'm not going to get get into but this a longing for the divine to show it's a Bernard of Clairvo the great mystic he who is the great fierce opponent of Abalard appears on the scene and therefore they you got over here the polemics which we haven't got time for the pmics between Abalard and Bernard that are clearly behind his apparition in Paradiso 33 they all are waiting for the divine to show itself forth, right? And this language and yet this desire all of a sudden becomes the language of joy, of enjoyment. And that's such an extraordinary shift. Why? Because Dant understands uh the problem with desire. Of course, we like to, you know, we're always talking about how much how permanent we like to be in a state of permanent desires because that's what makes us feel alive, young, right? You desire, you want something. But and it's true. It's true. It's part of the great power of desire and the language of desire. But if desire were without an object ever, then desire becomes of the greatest absurdity and futility. If we go around thinking that we're in a labyrinth of desires, then really that is this a joke. Desire becomes a joke. So Dante places this idea of enjoyment, the possibility of this sweetness that distills in his heart. These are the issues. And then finally, this idea of prayer. And I want to stop there uh and stop with the question of pray and then uh get get your questions because the whole poem I think from the perspective of Paradiso 33 taking a retrospective with a view. Not only that the fact that there are references to uh the first words Dante uses in inferno one is a prayer right m says have mercy on me. He doesn't even know whether you're a shade or a man. He sees something a shape in distinct turns out to be Virgil. This is poetry that lends itself lend offers itself completely freely. You know you can go to the library and pick up a book a free act of of someone's generosity. There it is. He turns to it and begins with a prayer and the poem ends with a prayer and ends with a begins with a prayer because the whole poem the real quality and nature of of language is to be a prayer. A prayer implying the tension that we have all the time to what forante to what necessarily transcends us. There is always a reality that is touched directly by the hand of God but escapes the world of uh of of the human plans and human uh the human projects. This is what I think the whole poem is about. Um and it's above all a poem addressed to the future, addressed to us. That is to say it's not a poem about the past. Dante is the least nostalgic of poets. It's so easy. You know, if you really go go ever and you tell your grandchildren, you read Dante, I thought that Dante is a nice little story about the middle ages. We are all nostalgic about the middle ages. Maybe some of you are here. How are these guys? How are they living in a world of absolute certainties, right? Dant is the poet of openness, the poet who understands reason and and understands understands uh the the uh risk. Now that's really what it what what what this poem is about. The poem about the future the poem addressed with a number of apostrophes to readers and whenever you read apostrophe to readers from the beginning of inferno to roughly paradiso 10 every so often that addresses us. You remember then I said at one point he stops he made this point. What are these addresses to readers? We can read it. Whenever you have that kind of uh up to the 18th century, you're always read novels. Now, my dear reader, now my gentle reader, they're coaxing you, pretending they're coaxing you. They wouldn't care whether you read it or not. I don't think ultimately and a doesn't really care whether we are reading him or not. Now, who are you following the little ship of poetry? The few of you, and I think he means it, who are not afraid of how uh how how rough the the seas are, right? you could you could shipwreck and all of that. Of course, you can read those those those apostrophes as a way of saying look um I need you readers because if I have readers I'm constituting myself into an author, right? Because in in the measure in which there are readers then I am the author. I am I'm an author because I have I managed because the poem has made me into an author. Of course, there is that. But what I think this is about is you are going to use my poem as the boat with which you can start your own journey. That's the understanding of the future. The poet Dante is a poet of the future which is a way of saying and there is a little bit of irony as I say this uh that Dante is not the poet of the past. His were the poet toward which we are going. The middle ages may not be a time of the past. May be the middle ages in a different form will certainly will come back will probably come back in the future. This is what Dante clearly thinks. So let's go now with your questions. I hope you have many and uh not many I mean few so that we can talk a bit about this. Yes. Uh whoever wants to uh you came in late so I must say I must repeat this. you have to sign and there is that beautiful young woman right there, Maria Deanska. That adjective, you forgive me, but it's true. But also, uh, and the other thing is, uh, you have to talk very closely to a microphone, right? Okay. Um, well, I wanted to talk a little bit more about desire, and I'm glad you brought that up because it's been on my mind for the last couple of days. Um, I was just reading Shakespeare's 147th sonnet yesterday in which he says, "Desire is death." Yeah. And it struck me how different Dante's inception of desire is. And that it's something that he seems to want to stay in and relish and it's it's almost life to him. Um, we started this course with the Vita nolva and I I got so frustrated reading it because I I part of me was saying if you love this woman so much, why don't you do something about it, you know? But it's like Dante, no, he wants to stay, you know, in this place of longing. Longing is is life for him in some way. Um, and so that seems to me something vitally important to understanding what the divine comedy means. And I wonder if you could just go back and talk a little bit about the courtly love tradition, how that might have influenced Dante's thinking about desire more specifically in a spiritual sense as to um Dante's theology, how desire played a role in Dante's conception of of his relationship to God. Yes. Okay. Um well good good good question. I like the fact that you bring in I will take the points as I remember them but but also following it my own lo in the logic I like the way you bring in uh Shakespeare's understanding of desire and that desire it's not that it's really death but ends in death right that that desire leads you to death right that this is a kind of uh that is in many ways also uh a view largely shared by Dante in this sense but it's not only that Dante does not stop there in this sense that you have to understand that there is such a thing as a metaphysics of desire I don't know if the term is new to you or not what could that phrase possibly mean what do we talk about what does it mean other than it's metaphysics of desire some of you may be a little bit uh unusual it really means this that desire that there's a dialectics to desire a movement to desire that necessarily I want this today then I want that that desire is inexhaustible that's what it means and and from that point of view it's very important for uh all those like Augustine in it's part of this restlessness of the heart as St. Augustine mentions that's the the a theological understanding of desire. We call it metaphysical because it really wants the absolute desire by definition. I want now this you know the smoking of a cigarette for a great novelist and Italian novelist of beginning of the last century uh was the the true emblem of desire ending in ashes but always like a phoenix you can start over again etc. This is but it really means that it always it will come to an end either in death in nothingness and finally you renounce all desire which is the death of desire or some idea of the absolute or god that's really that's what we mean by the absol the the this absolute uh tension that desire entails now then you asked me to uh talk about the vitanova and the uneasiness you had I mean you expressed the uneasiness and the respect uneasiness. I know a man of action like you, a student of philosophy as you are, uh then you you obviously have have that kind of I think that you're supposed to have that there is such a thing as a passivity of the of the state of dejection, the sense of the mastery of love that throws the lover poet into who doesn't even understand what love is at this point. That's what part of the education is. He wants to you know the story of the vita nolva is a story of a poet who knows he doesn't know beatatrice he calls her beatatrice only because in when in the nearness of her he would feel beatitude that's what he says you know so uh there's a kind of arbitrariness to names we don't care about that now we we go on with so there is this idea that he is uh the power of love dejects him it's not yet a virtue it's a passion And the word passion really implies that we think that the passion is what makes us go. But Dante makes a careful distinction uh of uh the will that becomes paralyzed, the desire to be discovered by the woman he loves. You know, it's very important for him that she says hi uh when they meet in the streets and he she won't say hi. And so he goes home and this dejected one saying I'm worthless etc. So that is he's explaining that kind of uh that sort of state of dejection that love can bring in or the passion of love can bring into the mind. The mind is is is clouded uh unable to think straight but that for him also sheds light on the way he understands poetry. So because he waits for poetry comes he's a sort of poet very romantic poet who doesn't think that poetry entails discipline. Yeah. You you it's almost like somebody else says know it's almost like going to the the office at 7 a.m. You sit down at the at the desk and keep at it and then maybe you manage to come up with a great line. He hopes for romantically for poetry to come to him, for inspiration to come to him. And then he realizes that his understanding of love was as wrong as his of the love passion was as wrong as his understanding of poetry. That you got to really get down and do something about it. When he understands it, it's too late for him because Beatrice has died. So now the poem the the project of the divine comedy she maybe he has a vision he sees her uh at the foot of of uh god's majesty says I want to go there and meet with her that's by action that's action you agree that that really is quite uh has completely changed how does this understanding of love connect with uh the courty love tradition uh that is really not a difficult question in In fact, I would give you a little bit of bibliography that um uh CS Lewis has written a very good book on uh the allegory of love, a book written probably in the late 50s, but last time I read it, which was recently, some 20 years ago, it was still very good, very powerful. Um the idea is this, and I'm really paraphrasing CS Lewis more or less. I mean with a lot of uh uh gaps in my mind about the the the richness of the text uh that clearly what we think of love today as a romantic understanding it's really a discovery of the middle ages and I have been talking about the fact that as you may all recall the Greeks didn't have this romantic understanding of love the Romans didn't have this understanding of love you know when you read Catalus uh the passion for a woman is something you know that uh he's always uh uh a little uneasy about that's not what a virtuous man should be doing. It's a weakness. It's a weakness of the will. The weakness of the will, you know, it's a vice. What can you do? We are fallible. We are Romans, but we are also occasionally a little fallible. But the idea of romantic love comes with provincial poets in the south of France. Uh what you call courty love. I would distinguish that. That's that's all the only thing I would say about it. you go and don't read CS Lewis uh who ends up with love and and the history of love in the in the in how it changes that is to say in the renaissance but I would distinguish between the two I would not use indiscriminately courtly love and medieval ideas of love uh courtly love implies a formalization of love and and it goes back some of you I know are writing a paper on this uh on Andreas Scapellanos the art of quarterly love which is a way of setting rules setting rules for love in the perception that love is a potentially disruptive experience. And so let us make it into a joke. That's the idea, you know. Let us let us establish protocols, a code um by by means of which the women and the man can really interact and tell each other uh what what what this is about. uh don't hope marriage because that's a serious business concerning property and wealth and status. So within the fairly uh closed boundaries of the courty love tradition then you can go on making certain assumptions about yourself about you can play oh about uh the the the um the greatness of women the secret of love you know there's there's a a certain code okay um in the other forms of uh courty love the or the sweet style the way it develops another book that I could mentioned to you is valency v a l e n c y uh which is uh uh love something I can't remember the title Maurice Valenci uh he also discusses the shifts between provenal understanding of love and the sweet new style articulated by Dante and his kri of uh of poets okay that makes it I hope Thank you for an extraordinary series of lectures. I was curious about the ending and I wondered if you could comment on Dante's views about the papacy. I thought his choice of Bernardo Clervo was very curious. Um, and throughout the uh Divine Comedy, he previously was grumbling about uh papal papal intervention over temporal powers. So I wondered if you could comment on that conclusion. Yeah, very good good good good question. Um, of course I I didn't talk about it. And I think that what you're really referring to, I don't know. Uh, but I think what you're referring to is the fact that Bernard of Clairvo uh wrote a great book called consider own consideration which seems to be about contemplative life. you know he is uh the great reformer of the Benedicting movement monastic movement in uh in in France and the the so-called sistersian monasteries which became uh the centers of culture where they would copy they would do poetry they would write music uh they would sing I mean the the the arts the way we know them really uh originated with him but he wrote this text on consideration which actually in spite of the title because you know that you know what consideration is a step before you come to contemplation you know there are a number reflection consideration and then contemplation he he chooses to write on contemp on on consideration he dedicates the book to this treatise to Pope Eugene IV who had been his disciple he had been a Benedict with a Frenchman who had been a Benedicting monk with him and it's it's and And this is probably one reason why Dante chooses Bernard. Bernard the contemplative monk, the reformer all of paradise is populated with founders and great reformers, founders of orders or Justinian and the law etc. Right? Francis, Benedict, Dominic, Bernard, etc. So, uh, in spite of the fact that he's a contemporary, Bernard did not hesitate to write a text for the spiritual edification of his ex uh, disciple Eugene IV who is now a pope and he's aware how the office of the shepherd of the church can distract him from the loftier spiritual aims and the longings. So it's really a sequence of arguments about what you should how should you administer your time so that you're never really going to lose sight of what your uh your uh true aim is heaven. Uh Dante mentions this text by the way in a letter that so many people not I go on uh uh challenging the authority of you know the the letter to Kang grande that maybe I have no not with you with my graduate students we have gone over uh but to me that is actually the indication the fact that he refers to to the to the treaties by Bernard that the authority of he is the author of that letter. Now you see clearly another way in which I can understand your question is that you see some kind of divergence some sort of break on the one hand this kind of invective the mode of the invective in Dante when talking about Peter St. Peter in Paradiso 27. I mean he he doesn't sp he looks back after the examination on on on on faith. He looks back and he starts attacking what he stakes to be the usurppation of my place. my play. Remember that that incredibly uh uh moral voice that rises right at the very end and then but you seem to be worried about the fact that Dante seems to be so moral and and when it comes about the popes and then becomes mystical all of a sudden. Is that really one of your concerns? Uh it could be it could become one of your concerns in asking this question about at the end of paradise 33 he talks about Bernard such a mystic and yet all over he's been talking about the papacy. Um well if you were if you were interested in that I would say uh there is no divergence in that between the prophetic voice and the mystical voice. That is something even even those who read the Bible will go and saying well the prophets were visionaries in a way it's true but in a way it's not true the prophets were not visionaries the prophets were readers of history that they don't need to have Daniel gave an interpretation Ezekiel has visions but Isaiah doesn't have visions so it's you see what I'm saying uh the there is no clear-cut distinction between the prophetic and the mystical certainly not inante the two belong together okay so that's I don't know that I'm answering your concerns but I I I overheard a number of let's say rumblings in your question I'm trying to take care of it reconciliation no no no not in the sense no uh that to talk about uh even Bernard is someone who understands how uh way the the the the office can be and he was obviously writing because he must be aware of what has been happening and what was likely to happen. You don't have to to become a a chronicler and a historian to do that. You you can imagine you know this can happen. Uh no there is not that it's not I think that Dante's judgment about history is always very clear till the very end very clear um history needs a reform and of course he would say because he's one who believes in the sacramentality and presence of the self how the self is crucial before I start talking about that the world needs reforming Let me just begin here. That would be an in an obvious way to say it. So I call it the language of presence in him. the sense that I am present to my own self and therefore I have responsibilities toward my own self before I became I start using the megaphone saying uh let's reform the the the the world that probably if there were ever to come and Dant is not a utopian thinker it would come only because so many people of goodwill uh men and women of good will his saints his be uh blessed the blessed souls that he meets are willing to do something about that. No, no reconciliation, not a sense of finally things will be coming together. I don't think actually I hold on to that. Yeah. Um just thinking more about um desire and love and the fact that the will is what loves and the will always contains some element of lack or desire it seems. So even if it, you know, can attain plentitude, it still seems that Dante in talking so much about the will and the will as loving, Dante says that love always has some element of lack. It's not just lack. There is plentitude, but still there's always this restlessness. And so the love at the end where there is plentitude, it seems to be a completely like transformed understanding of love that it's not possible to go to return from. You know, in the botific vision, if you have this planitude, you know, is it possible to go back? because it does seem like it's a completely transformed understanding of love when you have just the planitude and not lack anymore. So with that in mind, um does is Dante ever able to attain this love? because this love that does have plentitude seems like it should end in silence with no language. And Dante does go back and speak and he does um he he is still he is a pilgrim and a poet and so does he really ever move from the images to the essences and is the uncertainty at the end not just because we have to go on the journey oursel but because he is still on the journey. Yeah. Uh well the um I I know you are you are really voicing a very delicate issue in the poem. It's a very controversial issue. Um because that really also implies the status of the poem. You understand what I'm saying? In other words, if you really think that Dant has seen has had the botific vision and he has and now he's writing the poem to tell us about it, then you're really saying that the poem itself belongs to a higher level of experience because it's written by someone who is in full possession of grace. That's your point, right? That's a that's a very delicate point because I have not been teaching Dante that way, right? I have not were I to say this at the moment of recapitulation uh I probably would uh have wasted your time all along. Uh one little detail that I want to bring you to your attention then I will go to the more general problem. When Dante meets Beatatrice in Purgatorio 31 this is getting really to be a recapitulation. We're talking about everything in the poem now. He meets Beatatrice in Pleatorio 30 and then in 31. In Pleator 31, Beatatrice forces Dante to go into a confession. You have to go on into an admission of who you are and has to be public. Cannot say well you I know you know but you have to be duly ashamed because only that way you can transcend whatever it is that you have within you. Dante uh reluctantly will agree to do that and then Beatatrice will say I want you to go through this so that another time the future tense when you will see we'll meet the siren I want you to be stronger and this to me implies that's one of the many Dantes gazella another aesthetic temptation one doesn't have to have the temptation to kill someone you know to to really feel that one is out of has fallen out of grace. But this is he meets Cazella and he remembers how sweet was that that song he heard from Cazel and that sweetness still resounds within me. Now Dante is writing is talking as a poet. He meets Ulysus. I grieve then and I grieve now. I so there's a way in which states within the pilgrim do not really uh go on changing they they are the same implying that there's some kind of continuity between pilgrimage and poetry writing and to me the writing of poetry is an extension of the pilgrimage. Dante though goes on saying I have had the beatotific vision. I am now I know what enjoyment means not just desire but I'm coming back to the earth and therefore I cannot come back to the earth as anything less than a human being with one project the project to write a poem because I want to retrieve that joy and because I want to share that joy so I have said done two things in my answer to you one talking about the question of the pilgrims experience erience and the relationship of the the pilgrim's experience to the writing of the poem. But I've also said that the poem stands as a sign for us you know a hermeneutical moment heante means it for us so that we can and he his journey continues. Okay that's my answer you don't have to agree with it because there are I know there is there is uh there are other people I have been fighting those people for a long time in my life. I don't want to go back to those fights but I think that this is uh my way of looking at it. Okay, I can give you more bibliography. I would rather not actually tell you the truth. I don't want to tell you about those people who are writing the other way. I I have written about them though in my my books. So, um I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about how Dante views other religions. If like in particular Judaism um and if it sort of falls underneath his idea of religion as freedom and that if you have the freedom to become an atheist, you also have the freedom to choose a different religion. um and if he views Judaism and Christianity as sort of a continuity um both driving from the same basis or if he um ascribes the idea of successionism that um Christianity has um succeeded Judaism and invalidates it and for that reason we don't find from what I can remember any Jews in in paradise. Oh yes you do. You do? Okay then that's that's my fault. Well, but I have to to correct you immediately because then maybe you rephrase stay there there because you probably will rephrase the question when uh uh uh Dante goes on listening the in the in the in the in the mystical rose. We even are told that Beatric sits next to Rachel. She's she's a way of elevating her. And then he goes on describing all the other we talked at length about Solomon who is a Jew I think right who's a Jew right in the Bible um we we went on talking about Nathan uh I tried to make light of it because I want to tell you that Dante of his own name but it's Nathan the prophet of David and also in the harrowing of hell which is inferno 4 where Dante describes what happens to Jesus after his death you know what does he do he harrows hell he goes into hell what is he doing in hell? He goes there to take the patriarchs and the women of Israel and take them to heaven. That's these are facts. You want to change your your question or I can go on telling you more and answering the real questions that you are you are raising. That is to say the relationship between Christianity and Judaism and uh and the other religions. you want me to talk about that question that I have that whether Dante um I guess like I said before like I guess by um having Jews in paradise um and having the figure of Christ come in and collect the patriarchs if he's trying to um integrate Judaism within Christianity or somehow I don't find a way between the two that is uh okay uh so you're interested especially about Dante's sense of the relationship between Christianity and Judaism or you want me to also address the other issue of the way he looks at the Hindus uh and and the Muslims. We talked about Dante and the other religions. In fact, when I we talked about Dante's relationship, the sense of Christianity to the other religions, I never mentioned the Jews. And probably that to you may have been a kind of glaring of missionary. This guy is talking about the big the big religions. What about the matrix of the religions? The the uh Judaism It's it's likely uh I occasionally thought maybe I should say something about that said no because Dante doesn't talk about it and so I wouldn't um but Dante does talk when he has and he's not the only one centuries before him they were talking a man like u a great theologian by the name of Bonaventure a professor of theology at the University of Paris I mentioned that text I'm sure uh in uh the year 1274 which is also the year of his death. He was invited to Paris. He was teaching there but he was invited to deliver a number of lectures and he g gives these lectures and then he goes on talking about uh the other religions the religions he knows Hindu and the Muslim religion and it's an argument I mentioned that because it seems to me that Dante follows Bonaventure fairly closely when in the Kent of St. Francis Kento 10en the description of the that that legend of St. Francis uh Francis is said to have gone to the Sultan to try to convert him and fails and then Dante also talks of uh uh the the Hindus with a with references to the the Ganges. When talking about justice, Dante is talking about Europe, but in between he alludes to the Per he talks about the Persians and the Hindu, the guy from the Hind who is born on the river uh Hindus, he says the river of the Hindus. Um so what is their conception there? The critique that they are talking as Christians and they're talking from the point of view of Christianity and the position that Bonaventure will have and Dante I think follows him uh is the following. How does it how can be can they be distinguished? What do they share? They talk about what they share. What do they have in common? uh and they have in common especially with the case of the Muslims the biblical the biblical uh the Jewish tradition. Let me just mince words here the Jewish tradition. That's really the the common matrix for him. Um he also notices differences that for instance the theology of the Hindus is one that presumes the diffusiveness of God into all things. Okay, that's not I don't think that's something that unusual. What does it imply? Because then become critical of it. It then implies the the the difficulty of making judgments about what's good and evil. You know, if God is everywhere, you have to the sacrality of all things, which is a great idea. And yet, you know, there are some aspects of reality where you don't like to think that they are all alike. There is a way in which this is pantheism and and and can become uh therefore uh can become can be critiqued as the lack of distinctions and hierarchies and ordering when they come to the Muslims. Since the Muslim religion is one that talks about the absolute uh impenetrability of the human mind cannot ever hope to understand the divine. We are here at the mercy of God and we live only by the mercy of God. We cannot go on and say well but I I live by reason and I die by reason and I can get to know God. This is well there is a great distance between the human and the divine. So that's the critique. If this is true then we have nothing to then it's an absolute transcendence. And he sees Christianity as that which literally mediates between the two because there's a transcendence, an absolute transcendence of God, the way the Muslims understand it. But there is also a possibility of a mediation, not total mediation the way the Hindus understand it, but the mediation of the cross, the mediation of the incarnation. This is the way Dante takes the other religions. when it comes to the pagan religion because there are the pagan religions for instance and and Dante there follows very much um the pagan religions the religion of the Greeks the religion of the Romans and Dante follows very much uh Santagastian who is the one who talks at length about about this issue uh and and and that's the ambiguity they are uh admirations of the divine but at the same time they can become also blasphemous idols of the infernal powers. So there is this way of really the smashing if you wish of the idols when it comes to Judaism which is really the the the question that that uh with which you started actually I think that Dante is uh uh I talked about that I shouldn't say that I didn't talk about it um you may recall that I made a point uh in uh at the beginning of uh the readings of the poem maybe you perhap was not very didn't see didn't seem to be very important. It was important to me. Uh I I made an I I sort of went on talking a little bit at length about the question of birth. You remember how there are some characters representations of all characters and and Dante continued I could have said the same thing in the prayer to the virgin virgin mother daughter of your son. Two birds. Two birds in one stone and half half half a line as it were, right? Daughter of your son. Dante focuses on on birth. And I did say I went home talking since talks like this about Virgil then talks about the birth of uh Francesca Jack in Kanto 6 uh Farinat and Kanto 10 endlessly talks about this whole issue. Uh and then I went on talking that this concern with birth is uh specifically Roman. I said this is really a Roman insight into the importance. It's really what distinguishes uh the the the Greek tragic understanding of birth. you know children can really become a curse in in when you read the uh the theide for instance when you read the story of Idipypus which stationas being half Greek uh sort of incorporates but then I added after saying that this is a Roman concern because it's a whole it's tied to the notion of foundation the Roman idea that you can start things over and over again with the foundations of cities and the birth being the way in which nature becomes historical and therefore I potentially like all of you potentially can change everything around you. It's not true. As someone at a round table the other night in my department was saying that you have no experience. There are no events. Of course there are experiences and events. Every birth is an event. That's Dant's understanding because it can change history. It can change the future. After making this statement that it's a Roman idea and for Dante that's crucial because he is a Roman and he thinks of himself as a Roman. Florence is the daughter of Rome. Then I added that this is also a Jewish idea of creation. That that's really where we have mainly the great invention that we have in the Bible that the world was created and that Dante is connecting two ideas a Roman and the Jewish idea which are miraculously convergent. Is this an act of usurppation? uh because that's really the the the what I read in your question. Is that an appropriation uh of culture? I think that that's really what uh you do. But you can say that about the Bible. You read the Bible is a reading of history over 800 years of its composition. It's a reading of events around them and the culture and values. And that's exactly what Dante does. So uh how does he look at uh uh he thinks that the the Jews are I guess he's really saying they are not Christians but they believe in a Christ to come and that will save them. I mean this really means that there is a an acknowledgment of the dignity and and and uh uh and certainly originality of that vision. I answered clearly. Okay. You may agree, you may not agree but it's clear. We agree about that. I was wondering if you could just brief here. You are much taller than any any microphone in the universe. Thank you. I was wondering if you could discuss the presence of violence in all of these texts that we've been reading. I'm thinking particularly about the Vita nolva and the depiction of violence in these dreams filled with passion and a very strange um representations of the color red and all as both a lustful color the fear of death in these depictions of love which reminds me of courtly love and this idea that um our passions are sort transcendental violent dreams and images that come to us. But so that's one question of one part, but the other is the presence of violence and violent imagery in Paradiso. I'm thinking particularly about Marshes at the beginning in KTO one also um the implied moral violation of Picarda and these continuous images that remind us of human violence and passions violence and I wonder how they fit in with the final vision of trans of the beatitude and human love. Yeah, that's that that that brings us right back to the the the relationship between the historical and uh and the sacred really. So that violence is uh um a parody almost of the sacred and in many ways the alibi for the sacred because the sacred is is to be understood as that which tries to redeem the violence. And Dante, you're absolutely right never flinches from uh uh the understanding that the world of of history is an economy of of of this ongoing ongoing violence. It's true. Um he uh he even addresses you're right the human beings uh the Kato who kills himself uh hoping that with his death he can bring an end to the civil war in Rome between Caesar and Pompei. Um but then the violence that someone like Picarda you absolutely uh how love engenders violence the incredible things is that you have perversions it's not just you know that I I I kill because I want to steal someone's shoes you know but then there is a way in which I think I'm engaged a more tragic understanding of violence because it's sort of it's so mediated and so disguised as love right I can love proud and Franchesca and yet that engenders a lot of uh uh a lot of violence uh and that has gone through all the phases for this this sort of thinking uh that of thinking that maybe that's really what history is about. It's all about violence and that any effort to redemption, Christ's redemption or violence. That's really what uh the whole story of of of uh Christian salvation is about. Dante mentions that this is not a kind of an opinion. Dante will mention it in inferno 33. You remember with uh the story of Ugorino uh in the background of that scene of that that famous cannibalizing there is the story of the children uh have been have been killed to his children. Um and you know and that's always the death of the innocent is really the beginning you know what happens to the children which we can go on arguing but what about this these kids who have no responses were innocent as Dante says and then you overhear in the background and I think that Dante wants us to overhear the experience of uh of of the cross that was meant to redeem of violence and didn't seem to work. So there's a way in which he thinks that violence has even to the notion and to the god of violence even the redemption succumbs to that vision the the idea of redemption loses in connection with uh and in relation to violence. So that that would be the way we can uh we can come to uh to to understand it. And there are a number of other extensions even when we read Dante will say when we read it seems to be such an innocuous bland operation that we're engaged in right and the in the quiet of our studies etc. Then we are still violating the integrity of a text. We still extract we still break up that unity. We isolate a passage. We make part of what we want what I wanted to signify. Hermeneutics is linked interpretation is linked to experience of violence. What gives? Okay. So we agree there. That was your question. How does Dante get beyond that and and somehow manage to arrive to the botific vision? I think that what Dant is doing is denouncing all forms of violence, confessing to them, admitting them, dramatizing them. It doesn't mean that he's espousing them or he shares them. Okay? The whole point of the divine comedy is to acknowledge that it lodge it violence lodges even in him and within him, but he wants to move beyond it. And that's the aesthetic aspect of his text. aesthetic in the sense that he's literally climbing up the ladder of uh transcending that which is holding him back. Uh and I don't think that you know if you're looking for a way that does then he does he get away from it because that's really the the the the other question. Does he ever get away? Not in the measure in which he's human and wants to remain human open to these temptations all the time. Okay. Okay. Oh, please. As a as a pilgrim who has become a senior citizen, I have had a question throughout the entire course and having read hourback and Thomas Bergen and Mary Reynolds and others. The question has not been answered for me and I'm not sure you can either. Uh the question is you know who who is Dante? uh as we've been responding to these you've been responding to these questions here I've jotted down human man citizen exile lover poet pilgrim visionary theologian saint uh Paul and Terresa John of the cross bernard of clarvo had their visions and they became saints is this man a saint Well, I I I I I'm taking a little bit of time to uh to answer because uh I you must know I think you know that actually there are people who think that he should be canonized. You probably do not know that. Who think that they should be canonized? Actually, I was actually interviewed once about soliciting my ideas. I said, "I hope not because I want to teach him for what I think he is. A poet, you know, a poet, a man of extraordinary imagination who dives our time." That's what I think he is. The power of the imagination and who understands that the greatest call on him and on us is really the possibility of the encounter with the divine. I don't know. I hate it. If I were to make a movie about that, I have been I have been sometimes some people have been uh I have been mentioning it to people actually the I would make him uh uh I would make him into a rebellious type you know who uh seems to understand everything that he touches but he also has a way and takes as he should from everything and transforms it. So he has a vision from that point of view. The vision of how the world is and ought to be. He invents the world. He invents the world. His world. The world of the divine comedies. It's an extraordinary invention. But a saint, I don't know what these other guys have done exactly to make them deserving of saintthood. Uh but maybe I'll leave it there. I don't know. I don't know. Thank you. I think it's time. Thank you so much for your great questions. Thanks,