Our environment is the earth. The earth is final. It capacity to provide space to produce food and to supply energy are all restricted. We depend upon these limited resources for survival. And yet we are increasing our population as a global Indian. This dilemma is at the root of our most critical environmental problems. On this map, population growth will be recorded from the year 1 AD to the present and then projected to the year 2020. Population totals and locations are indicated by dots, each of which represents 1 million people. Historic reference points are provided by the images on the right. Okay. Let's go. This is nice. There we go. Austral I hope that's Can you turn this down? Well, I think you got the message. Uh that I was actually going to show you. This is the end of the course. I'm going to show you the beginning of the course, a little video, but it was not not in the right format. and it shows our favorite dung beetles copulating and it's very it's very graphic and it looks just like humans with the same rhythm everything same motions. So the and the the message of the course was this is what this course has been about. Start with insects doing their thing and you end up with humans doing their thing and in between nothing really has changed. um the desire to engage in sex uh has not changed. The quest for status to determine sex. I mean, we we've had this over and over again in the chorus. And I hope you realize by now that we've discussed so much from the Princeton project and and other projects how much uh social acceptance is an important part of fertility that people determine their own fertility a lot because of what is the acceptable norm in the community. And aside from the direct status of having a lot of sons and a big family gives you big status uh because of protection and and political power from the large family and economic security but it's all tied in uh with status and I think I mentioned to you that for instance in in Bangladesh uh they looked at fertility as a function of religiosity and one factor that had some effect was the religiosity of the particular family but the much bigger effect was the religiosity of the community. It's all community acceptance. It's all status. And we just that comes directly uh from the chimpanzees. And of course, you're aware that a vast uh percentage of of human consumption and and more and the richer you get, the more of it is is status consumption. I mean, the difference between a Mercedes and a Ford is is basically status, that kind of thing. Uh so and you've also seen that between groups the hostility between groups has not basically not changed since chimpanzees the uh the maltreatment of females the the battering of females among chimpanzees the battering of females among humans it's all stayed about the same. So if I could have shown you that that video uh you'd have gotten the message that uh and why then also why this is a biology course or at least part of the reason is because the the fundaments of almost everything that we've talked about are the same set of behavioral propensities that are apparently wired into us in some way since our chimpanzeee days. Okay. So this last this video that you did see the the main point is that the situation we are in now with respect to population is totally unprecedented in in the history of humanity. There's just never been anything uh like it. And you also know something about the future. It'll come. Oh, oh, it might help to put I just put in Here we go. Here we go. What year was that video made? What What year was that video made? That video was made in uh I wrote that in I think 1990 and the projections the the the actual numbers are pretty uh good for their projection uh uphill. This is not not a new video. I'll show you the situation. Okay, good. Why is this still there? Go away. Hang on. Now it should work. Okay. So what's usually these are the projections that the UN uh has put up for the future of population. So I think I showed you uh the early in the course when I was discussing quantitative methods uh the US Census Bureau uh projection and that more or less mimics this one. But the UN shows you that there's a range. They do not know uh what's going to happen. And so they give you a range of possibilities for the future. And they do not call them predictions at all. They are simply projections. Meaning that if XYZ, P or Q happens, then this will be the course of population. But they don't say which of these things is going to happen if any of them. So uh what would you consider uh in terms of say uh fertility what would you consider the most conservative projection? We know what's happened in the past. We know what the status is today. What should how should we make our future uh projection? Fertility staying the same. Fertility going up. Fertility going down the thinks down. Okay. So the UN that's one of the projections to my mind. The most conservative projection is that whatever we're at today, that's where we we continue to be at. That it's in the sense that's what I think conservative means that you preserve what's been in the past. Well, that's this projection that the fertility that the world is at today uh continues just just as it is. And the projection is carried out to 2050. And assuming that we are where we are, it will be population will be 12 billion. We're now about 6.7 billion. Uh population will be not quite double what we are now and rising ever faster. So that's that's the status quo uh assumption. The other assumptions are optimistic that things will uh that fertility will come down and they're not unreasonable assumptions. And the reason why some of you chose fertility come down because fertility has been coming down. So it's not a it's not a crazy uh presumption. But how much is it going to come down? So the UN gives you three possibilities. So this projection uh which they call the high projection assumes that fertility will come down another half of of a child. Uh right now this was based on the average fertility between 2000 2005 was about 2.8 uh children 2.85 made five children and they're presuming in this projection that it'll come down another half a child for every the average for everyone on Earth to 2.35 still above replacement level fertility. With that degree of optimism that comes down another half a child population keeps increasing not as fast as this and by 2050 we get to roughly 11 billion and it's pretty much going up in a straight line. Now you can get a little bit more optimistic and say well it's going to come down a whole child's worth and that's this uh scenario here. Now uh we're at 1.85. The whole world has come down to a quarter. The replacement level fertility as you know is 2.1 children. So 1.85 is a quarter child below replacement fertility. And uh you can decide for yourself how much optimism is involved in assuming that's going to happen. Uh but if that's the case then population is like 9 billion in 2050 and continuing up but clearly beginning to level off at that time. Now they get really optimistic and they do this uh this line and that's it drops a child in a half uh in in this short amount of time and that goes down to 1.35 children way below replacement fertility and that's for the whole world. Uh the assumptions are are they're what is going on. Sorry about this. I don't know what's problematic here today. Yeah. So these are the the the UN's own statement of its of its assumptions. Uh the constant fertility one fertility remains constant at that average of more or less 2.8 2.85. The high fertility assumption they're calling a reduction from now high the high fertility 2.35 children medium 1.85 1.35. And then they have a really miraculous assumption, the instant replacement assumption, which they don't bother to graph, which is each country immediately like tomorrow comes down to just the birth rate that will replace its population. No more uh no less. So what what should we notice about these things? Uh obviously they're pretty arbitrary assumptions. Uh no one knows what's h going to happen in the future. No one uh claims to know what's going to happen in the future and it's a sign that uh you know we don't we just don't know enough about this issue. I mean I I've told you a lot of what's of the basic stuff that's known but we have we do not know enough to really predict you. We asked at the beginning of the course, the middle and the end of the course, you know, why has fertility been coming down? What are the determinants of fertility? And you've gotten a whole lot of answers. If we knew the answer for sure, we would be able to predict, but the future is is not uh terribly predictable. Okay, so these are projections, not not predictions. They've got a huge range there from about 8 billion to about 12 billion. That's an uncertainty in the not terribly distant future of 50%. That's a very very large degree of uncertainty. Uh only the most optimistic assumption this last one only the most optimistic projection has population decreasing by 2050. All the other assumptions show it continuing to increase right through 2050 with no no statement about what might or might not happen uh beyond that. So in the medium variant, this is the one that they call the medium variant. And because they use that word medium, the press sort of takes this as well the most likely or something. The UN does not say anything about the likelihood of any of these estimates. Uh but hey, take your choice in this rise that we're now increasing at like 70 19 2000 up to 2007. the average rise was about uh 78 million a year. In this scenario, by 2050, it's population is still increasing by 30 million a year. So that's their medium variant. As far out as they're willing to even project, not predict, but even to project population is still increasing by 30 million uh a year. I keep saying these are optimistic. Remember, none of these assume that fertility starts rising again. We have indeed had a a fall in fertility and there are certainly reasons to believe that if the world we've had a fall in fertility and we've also had really rather great progress in the world say since the end of World War II. I mean people are staying alive. They're getting more educated. all parts of the world, China, India, Indonesia are are just unbelievably richer than than they used to be, although still very poor and and pockets of real poverty exist. I mean, most of the world has just improved tremendously both in the rich countries, the West, Japan, and in the poor countries. If you had to choose a date that you would like to be alive, but you couldn't choose who you would be or where you would be, the only reasonable date to choose is now because because the average human being on earth was worse worse worse go going back as far as you want. Now if you could choose to be a rich person that's maybe another story but if you if you just would be randomly seated anywhere you choose to be now. So things have been getting better. Uh there's no question about it. If things continue to get better, we uh it's very reasonable presume that one of these maybe not this curve, but one of these more optimistic curves uh might take place. But there are a lot of reasons why things may not continue uh to get better. And uh in the paper that segments of a paper that I wrote I list a number of them. Uh one of that I list there was economic collapse and I was talking about the fairly small economic collapse in Asia in 1997 which had just happened at about that time and I did not envision as did no one you know this we have really now a global uh kind of a mega crash and will we recover or not? uh who knows but if economic progress is one of the things that's required or economic increase is one of the things that's required uh for population to keep coming down then the global economy who knows what's going to happen it may very well turn around religious fundamentalism is is another thing that we know that it's not a particular religion you Christianity or Islam or or or Judaism that matters but it is the religiosity the degree to which people are religious in whatever their religious tradition is. That latter makes uh a difference and religious fundamentalism is basically increasing all across the world uh including the United States. Of course, I read an article that Notre Dame is one of the great Catholic universities in America. And the priests, a number of the priests that of the order that founded Notre Dame and still run it didn't want the President Obama was invited to be uh uh the speaker at graduation this year. And the priest didn't want him to be because he's proabortion. So the the conservatism in at at one end of the spectrum of all religions is is there and increasing. You see the Taliban which are at one end of the of the Islamic spectrum. They are powerful now increasingly powerful not only in Afghanistan but now in Pakistan and I don't know if you've been reading the newspapers but they're they have now taken a provincial big city or capital. It was only like 13 30 miles or something from Islamabad, the capital of Pakistan. So they're they're increasing. Uh the population of Orthodox Jews in Israel, because they reproduce so much faster than everyone else, uh is is very close to overtaking the population of more moderate Jews. And the Palestinians and the Orthodox Jews are in in in Israel are having a battle to see who can increase their their fertility fast enough to sort of out out reproduce uh the other and etc. Another factor is the decline in support for international family planning programs. As you're undoubtedly aware, the population explosion, which was a very hot issue for the press and for all kinds of activist organizations in the 1960s and 1970s, has just fallen off the map. Uh, our own school of environmental studies here, Forest Street, does not have a single person that pays any attention to human population. Uh, courses like this are taught basically nowhere else. A very few places elsewhere. environmental organizations won't go near uh the population issue and so governments not under any pressure from the citizens uh are reducing their support of family planning and this has already happened in in large degree as well as a lot of other good uh good programs and with the economic uh problems of all governments now it's going to be even further and not yeah but don't economic problems exacerbate social problems that would incentivize governments to want to control their fertility. It's a very good saying. So do do economic problems exacerbate social problems so that people will want to more control their fertility or the government has a much more vested interest in control. So what you say is reason but the opposite of everything that we've sort of said in the course that it's when things are getting better that when when people come from being except for land availability that when when infant mortality goes down people reduce their birth rate when education is available people reduce their birth rate. When countries get richer people reduce their birth rate. So no, it's exactly the opposite of of of and that you should take that definitely take that away from from this course that good things happen when things are already getting getting better and the reduction in fertility goes along with I didn't say cause but goes along with an improvement in every kind of condition that that you you can count and when the e economy goes I mean in the in the in the 1997 Asian crisis uh the lot of women working in the cities and not having at factories and sewing and so forth, not having children. They lost their jobs. They went back to the villages and guess what they did? They started having children. So, it's it's improvement in situation that that gets fertility down. Sort of to go along with that question, maybe because it's more of a short-term economic decline, it's more of a shock and more of a depression that might cause people. Okay. Excellent. So what uh her question was because this is a short term more of an economic shock than a depression uh maybe people will temporarily reduce their fertility and that's that's a wonderful uh u observation and economists really don't know how to answer that. So when I when I started teaching this course, I taught uh co-taught it with a professor of economics and uh he was teaching sort of the economic determinism. This is really what he believed and he thought that as countries come up economically fertility will come down uh more or less automatically and he was of the mind that development is the best uh contraceptive. I've shown you since then the data has shown I think clearly shown that's not not the case but that was his belief then then comes this 1997 uh economic collapse in Asia and I go up to this professor who I was not teaching with anymore and he says I say to him hi gee here's this economic collapse in Asia what do you think will happen and uh he said to me I think fertility will go down which is what what what you're saying because conditions are getting worse and what what you're saying and I was shocked and I said but and I won't say his name but that's exactly the opposite of what you taught in the course and what he said to me was I think the theory is flexible enough to accommodate both results which means the theory didn't predict anything if you can predict this and on the opposite it doesn't predict anything so we don't know the answer to this I mean first of all we don't know if this is a temporary economic collapse I mean we hope it is But no guarantees and the the the data to to figure out the difference between what's short-term which is undefined and what's long-term which is undefined very difficult to do. You may be right, you may be wrong. I I think we just can't be certain about that. So of course the other factor which uh could cause things uh to go to hell in a hand basket is environmental uh collapse. that if the environment gets bad, if things start getting used up, if people really start starving or lose not having water or whatever the environment will will do first and we'll talk maybe a little bit about what what might happen first. Uh then again, things could go backwards very very fast. So uh none of this is uh are predictions that I'm saying. I'm just saying that here's all this optimism. All of these uh except the top the constant one all of those are optimistic presumptions that may take place but there's just as many reasons to think that no things will turn around and fertility will go back up and we just don't know uh the future. Uh but what we we can say that by all any kind of reasonable assumption for the next uh 40 years at least we're in for a very significant increase in population that is going to happen. So how does how does one concept I'm trying to make this lecture at least somewhat about the environment. uh how does one relate uh this population increase to environment to environmental destruction to decay of the environment? This is not an easy uh question. There's so many variables between human population and and uh environmental destruction that it's hard to pick out, you know, what's just uh due to due to the population. And the simplest statement that you can make is that the total human environmental footprint footprint is an is an idea come up by I guess some environ I don't know is there a name attached to who came up with the use of the word footprint anyway the idea of the total environmental impact of an individual a city a country uh an industry whatever the to the environmental footprint is what said and in the simplest way of thinking about it uh the environmental footprint footprint is proportional to the number of people. Each people on earth have an average footprint. The more people the bigger uh the footprint and that holds at any any level any assumptions you want to put on it. More people bigger footprint. So that's that's fairly obvious but it's not doesn't tell you an awful lot. And so uh many years ago guy named John Haldron uh proposed an sort of a expansion of that idea and he is now Obama's uh the director of the office of science and technology just recently appointed by President Obama. So at least you have now have someone in power who thinks about population. And what he came up with as as was this equation the impact the environmental impact he breaks it down he says you don't have to worry only about population but how rich is that population there's a difference between rich people and poor people what about the technology uh involved so uh affluence is that we clearly know that rich people consume a lot more than poor people uh between the poorest groups on earth and the riches are factor of something like 40. Uh depending on how poor you want to go and how rich you want to go, that number can be almost anything, but 40 is a reasonable number to to to keep in mind. So affluence is certainly important. Uh the amount of money your population has and technology. So uh nowadays, if we want to knock down a forest, we use bulldozers and chainsaws. You know, chainsaws that'll cut down a 40ft tree with one swipe. And clearly that technology allows you to have a much greater impact than if you're going out there with a with a little hand hatchet or or maybe even a stone axe to try to chop down your tree. The amount of technology that one has um clearly uh makes a tremendous difference in how much destruction uh you can do. What you should notice is that like all so this is symbolized by iPad the impact is population affluence technology all multiplied together. You should keep in mind that this is a tortology. Tautology means something which is always true. The equation is always true and you can just see that from the you define population just people. Affluence is the income per person. the number of dollars that person has. And technology is defined in this nice way of the impact per dollar spent. Right? So that's the how you're defining these terms, how you're measuring these terms. And you'll just notice that if you if you cross multiply the the persons and persons cancel out, the dollars and dollars cancel out. So your equation ends up that the impact is equal to the impact. So that's a sign of a true equation. true vision all you know it's a tortology is always always the case uh and I should show you that for instance this is a standard thing out of science magazine one of their stories about population and what are they doing impact here's the first thing that last uh impact per dollar so that in this case the impacts they're interested is carbon budget so they're talking about the carbon budget they even use the word budget uh for that and it's for each US dollar. This is a global figure they're going to give you, but they're calculating it in US dollars for each each dollar spent on something in the world. How much carbon is used? And so that's kilograms of carbon per dollar. And it's about now about a quarter. And it's changed somewhat uh over time, but not uh enormously. So it's gotten better. This is this is the lower the number the better that for each dollar of stuff that you buy there's basically less carbon used uh to make it. So that uh so this kind of way of uh thinking about uh environmental impacts is now actually rather standard and you really can't avoid this kind of thinking. One of the real important things about this that people make uh mistakes on all the time is that the factors multiply that you you don't add the population plus the affluence plus the technology you multiply them and one of the uh there's a very important book so I think it's called nothing something new under the sun and the guy who wrote it uh Yale tried to hire him as our environmental historian And he was adding uh these factors and making all kinds of totally wrong uh conclusions uh saying that well uh the rate of growth of affluence is so much and the rate of growth of population is so much so this one is more important than that one. Just saying utter nonsense because he didn't realize the importance of the fact that the the anything per capita is multiplied by the total population to get your global impact. And the global impact is something you're interested in. The total impact, the total amount of carbon dioxide. Not interested so much how much carbon dioxide I put into the air, but how much the the six seven billion of us put into the air. Okay. Now the equation looks simple and it's always true and uh and yet it's not as straightforward as as one uh would like because people take something beyond the toaological fact of it being true. What this as I've described it what this makes you think is well an increase in population is always bad. It always increases the impact. An increase in affluence is always bad. It always increases the impact. An improvement in technology is always bad. it increases the impact. That's not not true. That as people get richer, as affluence goes up, they tend to spend a somewhat larger fraction of their income on environmental issues that once you have a nice house and a nice nice car and nice school and nice clothing, you may actually want to breathe nice nice air and look at something green and have a park to to go walk into. So rich people do indeed spend uh more than poor people on uh environmental issues. So affluence can work both ways and that's very important to remember. However, you have to step back a little bit and say well in the world what fraction of our increasing affluence have we actually spent on the environment and the increase we've spent a very small fraction of it. So in fact the overwhelming dominant effect of our affluence has indeed been to have a greater impact on the environment and we've ameliated that a little bit I mean very noticeable the rivers in America rich place rivers are really a lot of rivers have been cleaned up uh a lot of smog uh has been cleaned up so we have made progress in certain very visible ways we've exported a fair amount of our environmental concerns to other parts of the world by having them manufacture ure stuff and bringing it in here and bring knocking down their forests to bring in wood and so forth. And the Chinese and the Japanese have done uh just the same kind of thing. Similarly, with technology, uh it doesn't always work one way that yes, technology allows you to blow off a mountaintop to get some coal. You know, you've seen these these horrific pictures of West Virginia and so forth where a be you know, more or less beautiful mountain that's covered in trees and look, you know, just gone and and and all that mountaintop becomes slag and pollutes rivers and acidifies rivers and does horrible things and you have this ugly scarred up land. So technology does that, but also improvement of technology for with the mining of copper. So when you replace uh copper wires with fiber optics, they're made of glass and glass is made from sand and the harvesting of sand doesn't do an awful lot uh of environmental destruction. So that's an improvement uh in the environment. And there's a number of examples uh of that and and again you have to ask uh oh cars. our current push now to make cars that use less gas so that the good that it does use it gets you how many to drive a mile you use less gas not enormously less uh but but somewhat less. So technology uh can help you and again the standard question is has our improvement in technology over the last 20 30 40 50 years whatever time window you want to deal with has this allowed us to do more environmental destruction o of of the earth or have we used enough a biggest a big enough fraction of it to improve the environment our our our efficiency of use of the environment that the things have gotten net uh better and the answer is there's no question about what's happened uh because you see in this again this is more CO2 stuff that here is the uh the sources of of CO2 addition into the air which is a very good index of of what's happening in the total economy and what you see is the land the land use so land adds into the CO2 by uh uh we're you know deforestation uh and and using wood for for her timber and everything. So the amount the land use the changes in land use has not enormously changed. The the width of that line is more or less the same over time. So the change in land use is putting about the same amount of carbon into the air as before. There's a little bit of other emissions which we don't have to worry about. But fossil fuel combustion has just gone up up up. So whatever the balance of our affluence and our technology, whatever the balance, what we can see that is the balance of our use between using it to ameliate the environment versus uh messing up uh the environment. Okay, we'll come back to this slide if we have uh a chance. Um the in terms of the efficiency that first factor the uh well not the first factor the the dollars per carbon use that is here actually the carbon use per dollar is quite uh interesting that it has been coming down from 1970 it was about a third of a of a kilogram of carbon per dollar and that's come down to now something like a quarter of a kilogram uh per dollar spent and that's just carbon. So you multiply that like by almost four to if you want to measure in CO2 because carbon is about one quarter of each CO2 molecule. So it's basically we now for each dollar spent uh we uh put out a two pounds a kilogram of of carbon. So every time you go and buy something just you give them a dollar and say that's two pounds of carbon I'm putting into of carbon dioxide I'm putting into the atmosphere. It's it's a not crazy way of thinking about things. Um so what is worrying people now is that this has been a pretty good decline but actually this is now turning out to be more significant than people thought. The rate of decline here that's decline in efficiency of use of carbon was about 1.3 uh% a year. It's no longer declining and this seems to have have continued. It's now going up by 3.3% 3/10en of a percent a year. So it looks like the the that we've we've picked the easy apples, the easy the lowhanging fruit as they say in improving our carbon efficiency and now we may be getting uh worse again. Okay. So all of that is about how to think about one of the one of the ways of putting in a quantitative uh view of the relationship between population and the environmental impact. so there's many many other considerations the relationship between population and impact. One is the expansion of humans into almost every habitat uh on Earth. There's almost no no limit to this. So uh I'll show you some limiting some extreme cases of this. I mean what's going on? It's something that Mthus talked about. Remember we described what Martha said was living in England just about 1800 and uh the population was increasing and what did they do? Uh so there were farmland the best farmland was already farmed but as there were more farmers the farmers had to move on to more marginal land less good land. And what he was thinking was that there's a law of diminishing returns that you have farmers on good land. They're producing so much per farmer and it's fairly good. England was not a very poor place. As population increases, they have to move on to drier land, swampier land, hillier land. And the uh the production per farmer for these new farmers is less than those that had the best land. So while the total production grows and remember Mthus showed a linear rise in total production that with new people total production grows but population is growing like this since each new person produces less than an old person he has to farm on worse land than the than the earlier farmers. the average productivity goes down. And that is a thing that has happened all through history that of course humans uh when they have a choice of land when there's they're not crowded when nobody else is is standing around they choose uh the best land the easiest to get along with to get to uh survive in. But then uh what happens is uh people move out into uh less good land. Uh the pictures I'm going to show you uh are from Nijair which is in Sahel just south of the Sahara Desert. It actually sticks up into the Sahara Desert. And this is uh a province of Nijair called Azawak. And it's a huge province because there's not many people there. It's a it's a big thing right on the edge of the Sahara. The population is 50,000 people and in the dry season they have two wells in the whole for that whole huge territory for that whole all those 50,000 people there only two wells and only one of them works works regularly during the rainy season thing this and this is what it looks like in that country they have you can see there's there's there's no no water nothing can grow in the ground and some of the trees that can survive. Grass doesn't survive this. It's too small and when it loses water, it's gone. Trees can store water basically and survive fairly long periods of drought. So, you get some what's called scrub uh in a sense scrub uh forest. In the wet season, they're very joyous. They have lots of water. Uh they think lots of water, but this is the amount of water that they have. And the people use it for all their their functions. the animals. I know you can see an animal back here. The animals use it to drink and and relieve themselves. And here's girls uh washing in uh this water. And this this is in in in the good time uh of the year. This is this is the water that they have to uh survive on. The dry season is nine months long. You have some rain, not a lot, but some rain uh for three months. Then uh the dry season uh is nine months long. And then the this is the labor value of children. These young girls must travel 35 miles to one of the two wells uh that are available. That's the average depending on where they live that they go they have to walk no mechanized transport. They walk 35 miles and they can carry back only enough water so their families can drink one glass a day. Remember, we used to be told it's now shown to be not really scientific. Drink eight glasses of water every day. They're living on 1/8 of that amount of water. So, you have to ask yourselves, why do people live in such a god-forsaken place? You know, this life is so hard and so miserable. And what is the answer? The better places have somebody in them already. So the story, if you can do the sort of anthropological history, is virtually always that this tribe at one point lived in some much nicer place, but some tribe got more populous, got stronger in one way or another, was more vicious, and they got pushed out of what was their original aboriginal fairly decent uh land onto more marginal land. And so while they may have been living there now for hundreds of years, in a sense it's not their own choice to live on such a miserable part of of the world. The uh when you read and I think in the the war before civilization the I gave you some readings from this book which calculated all the violence. It describes some people some peoples that have been pushed out into these marginal lands by stronger peoples. It gives you a number of examples of that. And of course the big example big modern example is in America that the the European settlers pushed the the American Indians, the Native Americans uh into horrible lands. The the stories of of of pushing the Cherokees from nice farmland and nice productive land in say North Carolina and putting them into Oklahoma which is half dry or or the Apaches various Indians push them off into the desert. So you go see how miserably a lot of the the American Indians now live in in the Navajo reservations and so forth and say, you know, my god, why do they want to live there? And they don't they didn't want to live there. That they they weren't given a choice. They they were pushed pushed out. So it and uh we're talking about dryness, which is one of the things that people just absolutely can't exist without water. So this is really uh the the border of existence. But where it's very wet, you remember you read in Bangladesh that people living on the mud flats and the the monsoon comes season comes in, the water rises or a flood comes and they're just washed out. Those people didn't choose to live there. There's no land anywhere else. So they they do uh whatever they can. the Eskimos that live up on on the polar ice cap. There are some Eskimos that are constant apparently constantly on the ice ice cap and don't have a base on land. So when we think of of people living in these very marginal circumstances, one attributes I mean there's famines. The people live in this region have famines every so of uh there's great drought as you know right now. Uh parts of Africa have have terrible drought. California has a terrible drought. The Colorado River basin is having drought. So when this happens, it's always when then the people get into great trouble and they can easily starve to death and some advanced countries may or may not send them food and sending them food has its own problems. Um but it's always attributed to uh environmental variability to to climatic uh troubles and no one ever asked the question why have these been pe people been pushed into this incredibly inhospitable region. I mean, part of the e ecology of that region is you're going to have droughts every so often, and sometimes they're going to last for years and be very severe. In California's has the drought in California has now lasted uh for years. So, um everything in the environment, the relation between the population, environment is circular that people affect the environment, then the environment comes and bites them back. it it it it comes back to them. And uh water is one of the is one of the key things and probably what will give out first when we really reach environmental limit. It'll almost certainly be fresh fresh water. And there's a lot of information that that you can get on this very easily. It's it's not secret at all. There's two sources of of water that humans can use which is fresh water. you you can desalinate salt water, but the energy costs are enormous. So, it's it's not unless you're an Arab and sitting on an oil well, you really can't do it any reasonable way. So, there's renewable water, which is rainwater. When it rains, that is renewable. There's a cycle of it goes up into the atmosphere and comes back down as rain. So, you have renewable water uh coming eventually into rivers and in one way or another, you tap uh the rivers. And then there's mind water. What do you mine it just like you mine coal? You dig down and you suck up uh the water and the greatest productivity of a lot of the the farm regions of the world is comes from mind water. So the big the Midwest of of the US especially as you get further west in it is not have enough rainfall. So they use uh mind water. And you probably have heard that the reason they can use mind water is that underlying our Midwest is what's called the Ogalalawa aquifer. Ogala is a name of one of the Indian groups that used to live there. The Ogalala aquifer and the farmers all over the west there just sink down a tube and and and suck up uh the water. Well, you have to think of uh you know being a scientist always want to know how, why, where, all this kind of stuff and since a kid you read about you know artisian wells and wells underwater and then eventually ask yourself how does water get into rock? I mean and the reason is the way is it drips in there and the Ogalala aquifer actually filled from the meltoff of the last ice age. Apparently, the peak of the last ice age was about 18,000 years ago. And then it took about 8,000 years to melt till something like 10,000 years ago. Those are very approximate numbers. But for 8,000 years, ice was melting. The water, the ground was soggy and drip drip drip. Rock is never totally solid. There's always somewhere some little crack and the water slowly uh drips through the cracks and goes in it. any kind of uh you know when the the rocks get folded there's there's caverns in there and any kind of space eventually water will find its way uh drip in. If you've ever paid attention to the roof on your house you know the water gets in no matter what what you do. So it's it's uh the filling of these aquifers is I don't know I can't remember when that ice age started but something it took 8,000 years to fill but that depended on a glacier which was there for the previous 10,000 years. So we're talking about a resource that is one of the shorter term resources and it's something like it fills in 20,000 years. Now we're sucking it up in decades and it's very much uh uh going going way down and I there were some slides and the reason I was a little late I could not find the slides this morning. I had them yesterday and I don't know where they went so I didn't put them on but they show some interesting uh kinds of things that when you're sitting on top of this uh aquifer uh you've got the rock and the water is there. Water is incompressible, so it holds up the rock. You suck out the water, there's now a space there, and what happens? The rock starts crumbling and falling down. What happens is the land actually falls. And the pictures that I that I that what I could not find show first uh from Houston, Texas, a farm there, and it's shows you a pump. It's just a concrete platform with a pump. and you know where the land was and then the land is several feet uh beneath that the land has just shrunken has collapsed. Then the second picture I want to show is Galveastston, Texas, not so far from Houston. Now the land has has fallen again all due to irrigation but they're near the sea. So the salt water has come in and now what used to be good agricultural land is now flooded with the Gulf of Mexico. Are you from that region? She's shaking her head as maybe she knows. But the most impressive picture uh comes from the Sanwaqen Valley of California. Um now you have probably that's where all our fruits and vegetables come from. That's that's the huge source of American food supply. And probably almost all of you today have already today eaten something that was farmed in the Sanwaqen. Anybody from that part? No. Nobody. Nobody from there. We don't have too we don't have enough farmers at Yale. Well, this is a picture of a pole that they put in to measure the drop of the land. And what you see is this very large pole and a man. The man is sort of down here. And and what the pole is is the top of the pole is where the land was in I can't remember like 1957 or or something like that. And the land has dropped 30 feet in that time. the man is now, you know, five and a half foot man or six foot man is a small fraction of this poll. It's really a shocking kind of photo. And of course, the agricultural activity in in the valleys of California has only increased since then. The amount of water pumped has increased and the land uh keeps falling at a very noticeable uh rate. So, it's it's a very graphic uh thing. So now from when you suck out the water, it takes quite a while for the for these the rock to sort of collapse and and fall down because it's got some structural strength to it. So if you can see that how much the land has fallen, you can just imagine how much the water table itself has fallen many times more than the actual land has fallen. And and in some places they you can measure this fairly readily. So, in parts of uh uh Texas and Arizona, water tables have dropped hundreds of feet. Even in northwest of Chicago, there's been a 200 to 300 foot uh drop in in in the water table now just sucking it out. 3/4 of Texas's irrigated area water tables are are falling. And this is true all over the world. I mean, United States is very technological, so we do a lot of drilling. But the north China plane which is again where the wheat in in China is grown drops 40 inches every year. Tamil Nadu in India, southern India, another very productive part of the world 100 inches a year. The the the water tables are are falling. the there's just just a study that that uh that just came out uh this in February um which measures the groundwater levels that are coming on the water coming out of the Himalayas. So the Himalayas as you know sit right in the center of of of Asia and uh the Yellow River and the Yangza River are sort of feed China and you have the uh the the Helman River feeds Afghanistan. The Indis river feeds Pakistan and the Ganges river feeds North China and you've got uh the the the Ganges goes into Bangladesh. The Brahmautra, the Meghna all feed the Bangladesh area. Then you have the Meikon and the Salawine and the Irwati which do uh Vietnam and and Thailand and Cambodia and Burma. So all of these come out uh of the Himalaya uh mountains. And what's happening the groundwater in these regions is going down 2 to four meters a year. So that's uh six to to 12 13 feet every year the water table uh goes down. Venice uh is sinking for similar reasons. It much smaller only 9 in in the whole century. Bangkok is sinking 13 centimeters a year. Mexico City. Now, do I hope I have those slides here? No. Forget it. Uh, Mexico City is sinking in a in a drastic way. And there's very since it's so prominent, uh, there's very good data from Mexico City. So, Mexico City put in a subway. If you have a wonderful subway, if if you I had a young lady with me when I was in the subway and aside from getting squeezed, you get groped in the Mexico City subway. But they laid it flat. But now with the with the ground, the sucking out the water, the ground is sinking and it doesn't sink evenly. So now the the subway is like this and some of it that was underground is now above ground because the ground is just sunken away uh from from the subway. The sewers and the water supply have exactly the same problem. Oh um water pipe in Mexico City uh the city itself has uh sunk 30 feet from from when this was was the subways originally put down. water pipe that was lay laying flat on the ground in 1934 is now 26 feet over everyone's head. Um, and some suburbs are sinking about two feet every year. And how come all the stuff doesn't also go down the ground? Uh, because it's all it's it's uneven. And I don't really know the answer to that. It's because why doesn't everything sort of just sink evenly? It just doesn't happen. So, a flat subway ends up like this pole in California. Why didn't it just sink to the ground? What is it attached to? Um, yeah. I don't I don't know how they arrange that pole. You'd think everything would sink. Yes. I I don't know. They may I don't know. Just don't know the answer. Um, in Mexico City, the water supply, uh, as more water is pumped, of course, the the city the rate of pumping is faster, the the city sinks faster, and there's the pipes eventually get twisted and they rupture. So, there's now 40,000 uh, repaired ruptures that they repair each year and many more that they that they they they're not even reported and they they don't get around to repairing them. And apparently onethird of the water in the system uh leaks out and a lot of the city lies below the sewer lines now. So the sewage doesn't leave the city anymore. It collects in pools and they have now had to construct vast pumping stations to pump it out the sewage back out from from these pools. They have uh they're building a whole new much deeper sewage system. They're building 124 miles of 80 foot sewers. Okay. Uh that that's enough. I think you get uh the message here. We only have a few more minutes. So I've I put in your reading and just something that you may think, well, why did he put that in is how much is being paid for caviar and fish and and and things like that. And it was part of a longer piece that I'm not going to have time to talk about, but there's a lot of fish in the sea, but there a lot of lot of people that want to eat fish. So fishing is one of those industries that's really just cleaning out the sea of fish. Uh when there were small boats, uh things were okay. The fish could regenerate. But now uh Korea and and East Germany and Japan uh have these huge huge ships that have miles their nets are miles and miles miles long and they just suck everything out of the sea. So the fish uh are are disappearing. And you'd think that economically that as the fish disappear uh and and even when they can't reproduce themselves, it would get the uh uneconomical to catch the the fish anymore. But in actual fact, what happens is that uh in the fishing there's there's presumably good fish that people like to eat. And what happens is as those get fished out, you go down to the next level of fish. If you been going to restaurants for a while, you'll see there's every couple of years there's some new fish on the menu that I've never heard of. Have have you had had that experience? And that's because the the fish that you ate two, three years ago are now gone because they've been fished out. So the quality of the fish goes down and down. But the people if people have money, they still want to buy the better quality fish. And it turns out they will pay almost anything uh for this uh this better quality fish. And so what happens is that instead of the economics working for you that as it gets more expensive to catch fish, you let off on the fish, the price of the fish goes up so that it's still worthwhile to catch those fish. And what happens then that the because of that economics the pressure to catch these fish to extinction uh uh keep keeps up there and and some of the outrageous prices that that I that that I gave you. That's the point of of that kind of stuff. Okay. So what you should realize is that environmental destruction is essentially irre most of it is a lot of it is irreversible. Loss of species is irreversible. I mean if you want to wait 100 million years yes species will differentiate you'll get new species but that's basically irreversible so things like fishing out uh various species in the sea so that they don't recover uh is an irreversible kind of thing loss of habitat is generally irreversible that I I think I described to you northeast of Brazil where or all of Brazil all of any jungle region where the whole ecosystem is kept going by the mat of fungi that recycle the nutrient in in in in the jungle. And when you cut down the trees, the sun beats down, kills the fungi. You no longer have this mat of fungi. So now something falls into it. It doesn't get decomposed. The nutrients don't go back into the trees and the whole land dries out and becomes what they call laterite, which is hard soil, hard like like rock soil. And it's not clear that that ever ever can recover. uh fish stocks. Uh they the cod stocks uh declined like 20 30 years ago and they really have not come back. Even though they've really cut down the fishing and banned it mostly uh they're not they're not coming back. This apparently too small of a population for the reproduction system uh to work well. Um because this is irreversible. Because this is very important point because environmental damage is irreversible. As population increases, as the world economy increases, the pressure on the environment gets worse and worse. You can imagine a nice scenario where eventually population comes down and maybe some of the pressure is let off. But what you have to worry about is that peak because the things that are going to disappear irreversibly your species, your habitat, your so forth depend not on the level now but on the maximum demand that once the maximum once and if the maximum dam comes off it's okay. So what we have to worry about is this peak uh issue of of population and other demands on the environment. And it's this peak issue that that becomes important. We've seen the great range of variability in in the UN uh projections. U we could reach a peak at a at a billion more people or two billion or three or four or five or six or seven eight or 12 or you know who knows how many more billions. And which of those curves happens is not going to be a random minute. It depends on what humans do uh right now. And because of momentum, the people that are born now uh are going to have children and they're they're they're a cumulative factor in the environment. So whatever the birth rate now is, whatever the population growth rate is now, if that eventually stops, it's still momentum for another 100 or 150 years. And I showed you the data from various countries showing that even after they reach replacement level fertility, their population grows for another hundred years or so forth. So again, what we do now determines the maximum environmental destruction that's that's going on. But I think one of the most important points is that environmental solutions are difficult. It is not an easy job to to fix the environment. like global warming. The huge arguments whether we should try to prevent it or should we just try to adapt it. And I think half your courses in the forestry school are no, it's better to let it happen and and and it's going to be cheaper to adapt to it. And the other half of the course is saying it's a horrible thing. We've got to uh try to prevent it. And mostly like using solar power, wind power, the costs, nuclear power, even the costs are so very high that in with current technology the alternatives are are not are really not feasible. So what's happening is China is building a new coal plant every week. They're just they're not they would love to reduce their their pollution. They've done whatever they can, but they have their population is still growing. They have a huge poor population. They need the energy. They have no choice now but to uh build power plants. And what do you tell the Chinese do? No, your people should should keep being poor. Don't build the the the coal power plants. Well, we don't say that and they're not going to do it anyway because their people demand some decent standard of living which requires energy. So the CO2 in the air uh goes crazy. So uh it there are no easy fixes uh for the for the environment from from that kind of side. It's a really very hard job. The only success that one can really claim in the last say 50 years for what you might call the environmental movement is the population is on the population front. You've seen I've shown you many many times that in around the third world up till 1950 1960 the birth rate was 678 uh people per children per woman and now it's dropped to below half that in fact to about 2.8 8. So something like uh less than a half of that enormous progress in that area. I've shown you again in many different ways that people want fewer children than every country, every developing country of the world that you ask how many they want. You ask you find out how many they have that in every country the number that they're having is above what they want and massive effects. like Bolivia, which is not one of your most advanced countries and universally around the world, 70 80% of the women want to to not have children. 70% just totally don't want it. Another 10% well not in the next two years. So the technology we have uh condoms are not wonderful, uh birth control pills are not wonderful, it's not wonderful, but it's it's good enough to do the job. So population is is is the rare issue where a lot has been done and a lot can be done. We don't have to win the hearts and minds of the people. They're already telling us they want fewer children than they're having. We don't need new technology. It's dirt cheap compared to the compared to like getting rid of carbon in the atmosphere or reducing its dirt cheap. I mean a cycle of pills on the world market is 80 cents. A diaphragm is a buck and a quarter. I mean we're talking dirt cheap. And the medical knowledge to provide these things is almost at the barefoot doctor level. So you don't need very highly trained personnel. And as I mentioned to you, labor in even educated labor in the developing countries is is cheap. So um so so the it of all the possible things one can do to improve the the environmental situation looks to me like encouraging the continued decline of fertility is is the is the easiest thing you you you don't have to spend a lot of money uh most of the people in the world will be yeah rah rah I I want that and and we've seen from Ryerson's lecture here that with a very little bit I mean he puts on one soap opera you know which runs for two three times a week for like a year which is significant but very small intervention and very cheap and the number of people going to family planning clinic doubles and triples I mean just in incredible amount of progress with a very small input so this is a very very doable thing and we have a long way to go the fertility as I've said has come down from 678 to 2.6 as as a global average but 2.6 six is still a 30% increase every generation. So population growth I just showed you is about a billion people every 13 years now and uh it's still very high. Bringing it down further is probably the only feasible reasonable realistic thing that one can do to to massive I mean the environment is going to hell in such a massive rate. We need some massive change and I don't think anything else comes close to what you can do uh with population. I challenge environmentalists all the time. I say uh look every 13 years is another billion people. Add up all the environmental uh uh envir all the conservation that environmentalists have ever done, all the restoration. Add that. I mean, compare that to a footprint of a billion people in 13 years. it it's not in the same you're just not in the same ballpark and yet that message doesn't doesn't get through. There's a there's a wonderful quote and this is maybe the cameras don't even want it uh that uh the Peter Beard who's one of the most famous conservation writers in Africa and he's very outspoken and does not use polite language all the time. This is a quote from him. I broke my ass to do these conscientious books. He did all kinds of books on the environment in Africa, but the public's not getting it at all. You show them photographs of 30,000 carcasses with the ivory tusks still in place. That's elevant. 30,000 ivory elephants and the tusks are still in place. And they try to tell you that we should prosecute poachers as if that was the issue. Doesn't anyone realize that people are hungry and using these animals for food? People still think it's wild Africa. Doesn't anyone realize that that this is all about population pressure? What the And he uses the f word. What the f's going on out there in the conservation world? He capitalizes con as as as as as for conjop. Nothing but lies. Fundraising lies. And I I think we are I mean he overstates things and as you know that's one of my pedagogical tools is to engage somewhat in overstatement. uh you remember it though and uh so you know that the whole environmental movement has got his head in the sand about the one thing that that could really probably make a big difference. So just to conclude and I can that the the earth is in a big race. I've shown you population is increasing environmental problems are increasing but fertility is coming down depending on how these two counterveiling forces work. In the future, we will either come to a smooth landing, a soft landing that fertility will come down fast enough that takes the pressure off the increasing environmental issues and we'll have or it won't or population won't come down fast enough and then we're off into who knows what. So that's I think that what to take away from this course. a tremendous race between the increase of population, a billion people every 13 years, the decline in fertility, a decline since 1960 in about 40, 50 years, inclined to more than half. How is that race going to be won? And what do we who side is going to win that race? And uh what can we politically what can we do about it? Okay, have a good summer. Have a good test.