Well, I'd like to welcome the uh prospective students. Uh I I won't say the word Yale prematurely, but of course I hope you all come. And uh I wish I had a chance to provide a little context for what I'm going to say today, but uh maybe you'll scramble into some sense of things as we go along. Uh this this lecture uh concerns uh an essay uh written to immediate uh widespread acclaim and controversy by two young um at the time quite uninfluential and untenured scholars trying to make their way in the world. Um they certainly succeeded with this with this essay uh which was published in critical inquiry then certainly the leading uh organ for the dissemination of innovative theoretical ideas and they were um uh generally speaking uh gratified by the results. Almost immediately, the editors of critical inquiry decided to publish together with Against theory in book form decided to publish a series of responses to Against theory. All of them sort of polite uh careful uh thought through responses which made a very interesting thin book uh which uh which you which is is still available. I think it's still in print. Um, and well worth having if you take an interest in the controversies that the that that the article generated. And of course, I'm hoping uh in the time remaining to get you to take an interest in them. uh Nap and Michaels were then still are uh what's called neopragmatists which is to say um they are influenced most immediately by an important book uh written in the 1970s by the philosopher Richard Roerty called philosophy and the mirror of nature. uh but but royalty writing in a tradition that goes back through the important work of John Dwey in the 1930s and 40s uh and before then uh not only to the great philosophical interventions of William James Henry James's brother uh but also a theory of signs by Charles Sanders purse um a theory pir a theory which at the time uh didn't generate uh too much recognition or controversy. It was taken up by the so-called Cambridge School of Literary Critics headed by IA Richards. He and CK Ogden uh wrote some reflections on Pers's semiodics. But today with pragmatism neopragmatism uh a fairly important strain in academic theoretical and literary thinking uh persist semiodics is in a way receiving more attention uh uh in a way it's in a way also challenging the hegemony in the field of literary theory of soo's semiotics. This sense of the sign as something different from what Sosur said it was is going to be the underlying theme of the central the second and central part of of this lecture. 1982 was probably the high watermark both of the fascination and the frustration with literary theory in this country. It was a hot button topic. Uh we've gone into this before in ways that it is not really today that our interest in literary theory is at least in part historical one might want to say. Uh in 1982 though where you stood on these matters just made all the difference and it was in that atmosphere that Nap and Michaelels's against theory uh was published. Now as I say they were neopragmatists and what that means basically is that one knows things which is the same thing as to say that one believes things. One acts in the world unhesitatingly as an agent. It all sort of everything that matters in being human has to do with one's powers of agency. but that there are no actual foundations in what we can know objectively for our beliefs and actions. In other words, it's a position uh which is called antifoundational or anti-foundationalist but not a position that as such a position might imply uh somehow entails nealism or a kind of crippling radical skepticism. Uh on the contrary, it's a position that insists that we just do what we do. That we are always doing, thinking, believing, saying something. That we are always uh exerting an influence um as social beings in our surroundings. Uh and that the only thing that needn't concern us about our powers of agency is that perhaps we don't really have a full adequate objective account of how and why it is that we do and say and believe and influence things in the way that we do. So that the that that position is essentially the position taken up in Nap and Michaels. Now you saw it last time already uh in the essay of Stanley Fish. Stanley Fish who takes it that we are largely produced by the interpretive community to which we belong. Uh his understanding of this community as that which constitutes our values. In other words, nothing intrinsic to ourselves. uh nothing unique in our own modes of perception but rather the ways in which our educational circumstances uh uh bring us to believe and understand things. This too is a neopragmatist position. Now you notice that in the third part of the nap and Michael's essay uh they engage in a kind of polite disagreement with fish. uh they are un that there is an underlying very broad disagreement with him. But remember in the third part of the essay they're talking about the synonymity the identity of knowledge and belief and they point to a particular passage in one of Fish's arguments where he kind of slips in to the idea uh that on the one hand you have knowledge and then the on the other hand you have in relation to that knowledge uh belief and they say no no no you can't separate knowledge and belief. Um and just on those grounds they disagree with Fish and Fish writes one of the responses uh in the book that's then subsequently published uh concerning against theory but it's a completely friendly controversy about about a a transitory and superficial matter. Um and as a matter of fact while I'm going to pay a lot of attention to the first two arguments there they're basically three arguments in this essay. I'm going to pay very little attention to the third argument in which Fish is engaged about the relationship between knowledge and belief. Um, in part at least because it's an argument that does belong to philosophy. Uh, it is the cornerstone of Rory's argument in philosophy in the mirror of nature and uh that perhaps not so immediately relevant uh to the kinds of things that we think about in doing literary theory. So to turn then to uh what they actually uh do say uh in relation to this movement that I'm talking about. You notice for example that in tone their work is very similar to that of Stanley Fish. Uh it's a kind of a downright uh nononsense um let's get on with it kind of tone that after reading you know Dered and and and and other writers of that kind uh you're perhaps not quite ready for. Oh yeah, pros can be like that, too. Um, and in a way it's bracing. I mean, it it must be kind of a relief um uh to get these this sort of nononsense attitude toward these issues. After all, the tacking and veering that we're likely to have experienced uh in earlier writers. So, the tone in in a way the tone comes with the territory. You take these views and in a way the tone seems to follow it from it because what they're saying is, you know, you just do what you do. You think what you think. As a literary interpreter, you're bound to have some opinion about what you're looking at it. So just get on with it. Express that opinion and that's your job of work. The only way you can go wrong on this view and in this tone, the only way you can go wrong is to grope around for some theoretical justification for what you're doing. It's just fine that you're doing it. Don't worry about it. Get on with it. But don't think uh according to the argument of Nap and Michaels that you can hope to find anything like uh an underlying or broad theoretical justification for what you're doing. Obviously, um that rather challenging and provocative, uh notion is something that lends itself readily to the sort of nononsense tone that I'm talking about. Okay. So, turning then to to their argument. They are they they argue that people become entangled with issues of theory all of which in their view should be avoided when they do two when they well three but as I say we're going to set knowledge and belief aside when they make three fundamental mistakes and the first uh is to suppose that there's a difference between meaning. In other words, for example, to know a meaning, you have to be able to invoke an intention on the one hand or uh in the absence of an intention uh we cannot possibly speak of a meaning on the other hand. That's their first argument. People get become embroiled in theory when they make one of those two mistakes. And we'll come back to uh that in a minute. The second argument is uh the insistence that there's no such thing as a difference between language and speech. In other words, the source idea that we have language somehow or another virtually present in our heads as a lexicon and a set of rules of grammar and syntax and that that language long produces speech what I say from sentence to sentence. P that this notion is simply false because there is no difference between language and speech. That's their that's their second premise. Now before I launch into those arguments, let me say one more thing about their attitude toward theory, let me call your attention to the very first paragraph, which uh in your pamphlet is on page 079. the very first paragraph of against theory where interestingly they exempt certain ways of thinking about literature certain quai scientific ways of thinking about literature from their charge against theory. They say the term theory is sometimes applied to literary subjects with no direct bearing on the interpretation of individual works such as narratology, stylistics and proity. Despite their generality, however, these subjects seem to us essentially empirical and our arguments against theory will not apply to them. Well, now this is a little surprising because I mean for one thing in this course which is presumably devoted to theory, we've talked about some of these things especially about narutology, stylistics which is um you know the the the science of style and how one can approach style syntactically statistically and in the variety of ways uh in which that's done. and poetics, which is general ideas about what constitutes a poem or a text written in some other genre. Um, which which all of which for for example must remind us very much of the Russian formalists. Uh, narutology as we studied it, it's largely derived from structuralism indeed also from certain ideas of Freud. Um, and all of this sounds suspiciously like theory. What point are they making about it? Well, simply the point that those ways of thinking about literature which they exempt from their diet tribe against theory are the ways that they call empirical ways of thinking about literature that are based on observation. And that of course would certainly it seems to me apply to the Russian formalists at least what the Russian formalists think they're doing. Uh ways that are empirical in the sense that they observe data they build up a kind of database and they generalize from what they have observed. They begin uh in other words with the object in question uh and then draw conclusions from it. So empirical approaches to literature the simple observation of data from which one can generalize uh they exempt from the general charge against literary theory. All right turning then uh to the idea that intention and meaning just must be the same thing. uh and then subsequently the idea that language and speech just must be the same thing. In the background, I'd like you to be thinking about some of the implications of this sentence by Stanley Cavell which is written in another one of the responses to this essay that was published in the book against theory. I don't want to reflect on it now. Um but um it's uh it seems to me um uh a strikingly vivid way of posing a challenge to the nap and Michael position uh which um in a variety of ways uh if only by implication we'll be touching on. All right. So what do nap and michaelels do in order to convince us? And I'm and I'm going to be going a long way with them here. Uh indeed almost all the way even though I'm going to be taking a sharp turning toward the end of the road which I hope saves theory. I I mean after all I mean I it it it's scarcely consionable to stand here uh sort of 26 times in front of you for an hour each and then finally to confess at the end that the thing we've been talking about should be banished from our vocabulary. And so so so so needless to say it's incumbent on me to save our subject matter. I will but you're going to have to wait a while because as I say I am going to be going uh a long way down the road with Nap and Michaels. Now I'm Michael say well you know what the thing about the way in which we we we approach any text any utterance any instance of language floating before us is just to take for granted that it has an intention. As theorists and critics, we worry away at the question of how we can know attention and and all of this uh is is is a dangerous mistake. Uh because the fact is in everyday practice any piece of language we encounter we just assume to have an intention. All right? So they give us an example in which this assumption is tested and makes us realize what's at stake in supposing that we know the meaning of something. Ordinarily we just spontaneously say I know what that means or if we don't know what it means uh it must mean something even though I don't know what it means. That's I mean that that that's our normal uh approach to a piece of language. But then they say, "Suppose you're walking on the beach and you come across uh four lines um uh lines is already a dangerous thing to say. Scratches in the sand that look an awful lot like the first stanza of Wdsworth's A slumber did my spirit seal. Slumber did my spirit seal. I had no human fears. She seemed a thing that could not feel the touch of human years of earthly years. There it is on the beach just right in front of us. And we say, "Oh, well, somebody's come along. Some Wdsworth lover has come along here and scratched these lines in the sand." So that the intention of the text is unquestioned. Werdsworth wrote it. Uh, somebody now wants us to remind us of how of what a wonderful stanza it is. And and there it is. And of course, um, it's very difficult to know what it means, but at least I can ascribe meaning to it because no doubt, you know, it's an intended pet. Whoa. But then what happens? Huge wave comes along and leaves on the beach underneath the first stanza, the other stanza. And and this of and and this of course is highly problematic. Uh, you know, there it is. No motion has she now, no force. She neither hears nor sees rolled round in earth's dial course with rocks and stones and trees. Now we're really puzzled. Maybe as Nap and Michael say the sea is a kind of a pantheistic being that likes to write poetry. Uh you know so that the sea wrote it. Maybe they say later on there are little men in a submarine, you know, who uh who who uh look at their handiwork and say, "Gee, that was great. Let's try that again." Um, in other words, we can infer um all sorts of authors for the stanza. But it's much more likely that instead of saying the sea writes poetry or instead of saying there are little sort of homunculi and submarines writing poetry instead of saying that it's much more likely that we'll say this is an amazing coincidence truly amazing but it's just a coincidence. What else could it be? will say Nap and Michaels's point which was the same point that you might what that that you might make about a parrot saying my boss is a jerk for example you know you know the parrot doesn't mean that you know the parrot is just the parrot is just making words somebody else meant it maybe but the parrot is just you know that's just words for the parrot okay or monkeys at typewriters writing Shakespeare you know we're we're told that um given eternity this is a task that could be accomplished. Always supposing somebody were there to whisk away the sheets whenever they wrote a word and finally put it back together. You know, all of this uh these things are possibilities. But we suddenly realize that those texts, my boss is a jerk. A slumber did a spirit seal written by chance by whatever it is. And it's and already there's a sort of an intentionality entailed in the idea of writing by something but just left by chance. Uh we suddenly realize according to Nap and Michaels that in that case those words are only like language. They are not actually language because nobody wrote them. Nothing wrote them. No entity or being from God on down wrote them. They are just there by chance. Therefore, even though they look like language, we suddenly realize that it would be foolish to po to suppose that they have meaning. I mean, they there is a poem that exactly resembles this bunch of marks that we see in front of us and that poem has meaning, but this bunch of marks does not have meaning. Now I think probably most of us and I and that's why I think in a way nap and Michaels could have chosen a better example. I think probably most of us would resist the idea that we can't interpret the bunch of marks. They're identical to language. We should we feel free to interpret them. After all, nobody knows what the poem means anyway. I mean it's it's it's it's been the subject of critical controversy for decades. That's one of the reasons Nap and Michaels choose it. Um, and so, okay, there it is on the beach. I'll have my stab at it. You know, it must mean something. So, here it goes. Uh, and and and so we resist that. That's why I gave you this other example because it seems to me in a way the other example is more compelling than that of Nap and Michaels. Now, you see these two ladies looking up at the tree. The upper what do you call them? Bololises. What what what do you call those? the branches saw it off and eventually there's a kind of a scar formed. What's what's pardon? Burl. Uh the upper burl certainly looks an awful lot like Jesus. And it was and these and and this went and when this appeared in Milford about 15 years ago, um not just these two ladies, but hundreds and hundreds of people visited the site. Now, they of course believed that that was on the tree because God put it there. Therefore, it had meaning. We knew what it was. It was a representation of the face of Jesus. And and and and the feeling that one could know what it was, interpret it, take it to be an actual representation of something was therefore unquestioned. as we would all agree, you accept the premise. God wrote it or I should say put it there. Uh and and he's been known to do the same thing with toasted cheese sandwiches and tacos and so and you know it it it it happens, right? You you accept that premise and you're all set. But suppose you say, "No, no, no, no. God didn't write that. God didn't put that there. It's just an accident." Wouldn't you then say, "Oh, therefore, it has no meaning. It's not a representation of anything. It just looks like something." In other words, in this case, however you feel about a slumber, did my spirit seal. In this case, you would accept Napan Michael's argument. You would say it really does depend on the inference of an intention. If I in if I infer no intention, I ascribe no meaning. If I infer an intention, I ascribe meaning. So Nap and Michaels are simply making the same argument about a slumber did my spirit sealed. And I think it's a very strong argument. You know once you realize or once I should say you accept the idea that meaning just is intention and think about it etmologically when I say I mean that precisely means I intend right it's not doesn't quite work that way in all languages but it certainly works that way in English uh and it's worth remembering to mean is to intend and so it makes a lot of sense to say that a meaning just is and intention and that it's perhaps against the grain of common sense to factor them apart to say well I could see uh you know I could see this sentence and I have a certain notion what it might mean but I still don't know what the author intended to say which is forbidden from the standpoint of Nap and Michaels of course you know what the author intended to say you've just ascribed meaning to the sentence now mind you you may be wrong Okay. But that isn't to say that you're being wrong hinges on knowing what the author intended in a certain sense. App and michaels agree perfectly well with the new critics and with Fukco or whoever it might be uh and say, well, you never know what an author intended. Um that's not the point. The meaning of the sentence in itself entails intention. If it weren't a sentence spoken intentionally by an agent, human or otherwise, it wouldn't have meaning because it wouldn't be language. And in a certain sense, this then can carry us to our second argument. Because having established in their own minds satisfactorily that for any text the meaning of the text ju must just be its intention. In other words to be understood as language at all to repeat myself once again to be understood as language at all an intention needs to be inferred. The argument being you know we ought to be able to recognize supposing we succeed in not inferring an intention that what we are looking at is actually not language. It's just a simulacum of language an effective copy of language like for example the speech of a parrot or the words produced by monkeys on typewriters and so on. We should not from such simulacra of words infer not only intention but meaning as well. It is meaningless to speak of marks that are not signs as language. Okay. Bringing us bringing us to the notion of sign for CS pur who actually discriminated among hundreds of different kinds of sign. All signs are active. That is to say, they have an agency. They have a purpose. They have a function. Pur in other words does not understand them as as as in the way that Soosur does as being differential. He understands that too. But for him, the central point about a sign is it's is is the agency of the sign. All right. Now the implication of this is clear and it's the implication that Nap and Michaels draw on in this argument. Their claim is that there is no distinction to be made between language and speech. Now first now now let's just pause over their argument. And I would think the fact that as we think about that especially since we've been exposed to soo and and and and I think and I hope have come to accept the idea that language is a virtual synchronic uh entity laid out in space and speech is an actual diiacronic performance derived from language laid out in time. Right? Since we have absorbed that and since we just have this sort of spontaneous if we're students of literary theory uh belief that there is a distinction between language and speech what do we do when we come face to face with this claim of nap and michaelels now I think that they make the they they make their most effective case in a footnote uh this is the last footnote I'll be calling your attention to this semester Uh, and it's like all footnotes, uh, perhaps the most telling thing in the essay. Uh, and it appears on page 08. Why can't I find it? On appear on page 084, footnote number 12. Not going to read the whole thing. I'm just going to read a single sentence uh at the top on page 21 footnote 12 in which they say a dictionary is an index of frequent usages in particular speech acts not a matrix of abstract pre-intentional possibilities. Think about that language we suppose is in addition to being uh a set of grammatical and syntactical rules also a set of definitions made available for speech acts. That's that that is the assumption that a course in literary theory provides for us. Nap and Michaels are denying that in this footnote. They're saying that dictionary definitions are just a sum total as it were of words in action. That any definition is of a word which is already a speech act. OED you go through all 18 definitions of a word they're all of them uh embedded in sentences speech acts and can be taken out of sentences uh and still understood in their agency as performed any word in a dictionary in other words according to to to Nap and Michaels is a word performed and the record uh fossilized as it were in the dictionary is a record not of meaning per se, but of performance of the way in which the word works in speech in history. And so a dictionary is nothing other than a composite or sum total of speech acts. And to distinguish therefore between language as something which is pre-action and speech which is the implementation of language is a mistake. Language even in the sense that it's always there before us is nevertheless always active. It is a record of those actions that have taken place before our own actions as speakers. There's no difference between me acting through speech and language pre-existing as something which is not action. It's all continuous as an ever deepening, broadening and self-complicating record of action or speech action. Now this is a very interesting idea uh and I think again it's an idea that one might well go a long way a long way with I think it should be said in defense of Soosur by the way that in a certain way he anticipates this position remember I told you that although for purposes of learning to understand structuralism and its aftermath we only distinguish between language and speech long and parole but in so there's actually a third category, a sort of intermediate category which he calls langage. And langage is actually the sum total of all known speech acts. If you could codify or or or quantify everything that's ever been said or written, that would be longage. You can see how it's different from long, which needn't necessarily ever have been said at all. I'll be coming back to that in a minute. Uh longage, in other words, is empirical, as Nap and Michaels would say. It is something that had we enough information we could actually codify into a vast database. It would be the sum of all speech acts and that actually what Sosur calls longage would be not unlike what Nap and Michaels mean by language. You see, so so so is aware that you can think of the sum of speech acts in the way that nap and michaels do. But he still holds out for this other category. This this this notion of long uh uh uh as uh the code from which speech acts are derived uh as a thing apart. Now I think as I say um this is a persuasive position because after all as long as we suppose that language exists for communication that it is interactive as long as we accept as we have accepted from Bakin and others during the course of the course. As long as we accept accept the idea that language is social, that all of its deployments um are interactive uh derived from the speech acts of others uh appropriated for oneself as one's own set of speech acts influential on yet other people as a speech act. As long as we accept this, we say to ourselves, yeah, it makes a lot of sense to think of language as inseparable from speech. uh to think of language simply as the sum of all agencies. Uh so that no meaningful distinction between that sum of agencies and that in the individual agency of a speech act uh needs to be made. Notice though and and here by the way is where I'm going to make my turn and save theory. So okay, sharpen your pencils. Um, notice that I began that last riff by saying as long as we suppose language exists for communication. Now, we do suppose language exists for communication. I mean, what else could it exist for? I mean, what do we do with language except to communicate? Uh, you know, you could say, well, we write doodles. We we make meaningless marks in the sand. And there are all kinds of things that maybe we do with language, but let's face it, we don't. Right? If I if if I do in fact make marks in the sand amounting to a slumber did by spirit seal, it it's because I I love Wdsworth as by the way I do. Um and I wish to communicate that love to the rest of the world, you know. I mean, it's a speech act. Come on. I'm not just making marks. If I wanted to make marks, I'd do, you know, I'd do something, you know, rather more markike. Well, so so so in any case I in any case um we certainly inhabit a life world in which it is almost inconceivable for anyone to come along and tell us language is not for the purpose of communication. In other words, Nap and Michael seem to be completely right. What else is it for? I mean you know I mean that's what we use it for. But we have refined it uh to a fairly well as an efficient uh flexible sometimes even eloquent med medium of communication. That's what language is for. That's what it exists for. And as I'm saying, if we accept this idea, which seems simply to carry the day because who could think anything else? If we accept this idea, then there's a very strong case for Nap and Michaels being right. really there's no significant or important difference between language and speech. But now suppose we approached the question from AI don't say from an empirical you know because from a speculative anthropological point of view in other but but suppose we approached it but with some with some rather common sense remarks. Now we say language is for communication. The purpose of language is for communication. We say that. Now does that mean especially if we think of the whole history of mankind does that mean that the purpose of fire is for cooking? In other words, or to bring it a little bit closer to home, does it mean that the purpose of the prehensel thumb is for grasping? Does it mean that the purpose of a cave, a hole in the rock is for dwelling? No. In those cases, adaptation is what makes fire a good thing to cook with, the prehensel thumb a good thing to grasp with, and a cave a good thing to take shelter in. But they all in their various ways are just there. Plainly all of them have other well not purposes because a purpose is is when you think about it only something that we can impose on something but they certainly are not there in any sense for us to do the thing that it turns out we we've decided it's a good idea to do with it. You know great you know fire burns us but but we can cook with it. you know and and and and so on. Now in the case of language in the case of language we have to suppose as a matter of fact that language as it were appears among us in the same way that the prehensel thumb did. Of course we discovered its use but that's a funny way to put it. might be more circumspect to say that we discovered it had a use for us which was to communicate. And so once we were able to put this whatever it was this this this weird capacity to make differential sounds uh once we put this weird capacity to make differential sounds to work henceforth for us and for our purposes language was to communicate and of course we made an enormous success of it or a tower of babel of it which whichever you prefer to think but in any case we have it uh and it has developed among us as a means or medium of communication but you know I mean if uh in whatever by whatever mutancy uh language arose supposing this to be the case and and you know I'm I'm I'm not I'm not making an argument that has anything to do with intelligent design one way or another supposing supposing that by whatever mutancy um language appeared and then of course the next day there were an avalanche, right? It might well be the case that the species uh consisting of all of us sitting in this room and I guess a few other people uh that that that this species uh might be mute. It might be communicating perhaps with incredible eloquence, perhaps even with literary genius by means of signs or who knows or for that matter it might have taken a detour in its development such that communication was not anything one could identify as specifically human. Uh all all sensient beings communicate. uh but it's possible that this particular species could have taken a turn in its development uh after which communication was much as it is among mice or ants or or or or whatever. Uh all of this is possible you see when we think about language a property that we have and manipulate and communicate with uh anthropologically. It comes into being in such a way that it is I would think scarcely relevant to say that its purpose is for communication. It comes into being simply as an attribute, a property, something we happen to have, something someone happens to have for which a use is then discovered. as for fire, for the prehensel thumb, and for the cave. I mean, the relationship between the cave and the house, it seems to me, is a particularly interesting way of thinking about the relationship between language as a set of differential sign. And notice something about the signs of language. And here, of course, we we also invoke Sosur. Surir lays every stress on the idea that language is made up of differential and arbitrary signs. In other words, SSUR denies that there's such a thing in language as a natural sign. In other words, the and the Russian formalists do this as well. Both Sosur and the Russian formalists warn us against believing that anamatada poetic devices peep peep devices like that are actually natural signs that they are derived in other words from the thing in the world that they seem through their sound to represent. So sir reminds us that these are accidents of etmological history which can also be understood in adaptive terms. Automatopia exists in language because it's good for communication and it's fun to communicate with but it doesn't enter language as a natural sign. It only passes through moments in the de in the evolution of a given word. It only passes through moments in which the relationship between the sound and the thing represented seems to be natural. This is a matter upon which great stress is laid both for soosur and for the Russian formalists. You may you may have thought when you read these these passages in which such stress is laid on it. You may have thought well that's overkill. Who cares about anam up? What does that have to do with it? It it anchors the entire idea about language which is precisely that it is something other than speech. When we speak, we not only endeavor to communicate, we endeavor to refer. In other words, we take language and we try to make it, as the philosophers say, hook on to the natural world. We take a set of signs, a code which is not in itself natural, which is arbitrary and through the sheer force of will, we make those signs as best we can hook on to the natural, to the actual world. And in doing so, we reinforce the idea that language is from communication. Whereas my argument is language isn't for communication. Speech is. When we speak, that is entirely and exclusively and without any other motive for communication. Except for one thing that the Russian formalists in particular took note of. There are funny things going on going on in our speech. alliteration, unnecessary or uneconomical forms of repetition, weird things going on in our in our speech which don't seem to have the purpose of communication. As a matter of fact, they actually seem to impede communication. You know, if I you know, when I when when I really start messing language up, you know, it was brillig and the sly toes did guy and gimble in the way. When I really start messing up language up, I'm really I'm impeding communication because I'm laying stress on elements of rhythm, pattern, sound recurrence, uh, which cannot be said to have any direct bearing on communication. And this of course is what we've studied recurrently and I have to say empirically because these are all empirical facts about language as as the Russian formalists insisted. You know what we have studied recurrently is the way in which language rears its ugly head in speech. The way in which in other words language won't be repressed as mere communication. the way in which speech entails elements that keep bubbling up to the surface and asserting themselves which oddly enough really can't be said to conduce to communication. And those things, those elements that bubble up to the surface are nothing other than the than evidence of the presence of language precisely in the way that in Freud the Freudian slip the fact that I can't get through a sentence without making some kind of blunder some and very often an embarrassing blunder in Freud. The Freudian slip is understood as the bubbling up into conscious the conscious effort to speak of that which speech can't control of that which Freud calls the unconscious and which by the way we would have no idea of the existence of if it weren't for the Freudian slip. In other words, we inf as Freud said in in in in the first handout that I gave you at the beginning of the semester, we infer the unconscious from the behavior of consciousness because given the erratic nature of the behavior of consciousness, it seems necessary to do so. By precisely the same token, we can and I think should say we infer language as something else from the composite or sum total as spe of speech acts. We infer language from the erratic behavior of speech because it seems there is no other way to account for the erratic behavior of speech. that sense of language which I'm going to be talking a lot more about on Thursday. that sense of language sort of bubbling up and be from below in speech and proving its existence as something other than a composite record of all speeches is what suggests to us that nap and Michaels uh are not quite right in saying there's really no difference between language and speech and if there's really and if there is a difference between language and speech as I'm claiming and if the difference between language and speech As much as we have taught to think of it by Sour and his su successors down through deconstruction, if there is such a difference, then guess what? We have literary theory back in the fold, alive and well, and we no longer have to say that it should be jettisoned from our thinking about literature. We have a real use for literary theory. But that's exactly where Nap and Michael, supposing supposing they were here and I'd convince them. And by the way, I know them both. You can't convince them of anything, but that's not unusual. You probably can't convince me of anything either. Um uh suppose we had them here and I had succeeded in convincing them. They would say, "Well, okay, but isn't it a pity because you have proved better than I could that literary theory has no purpose?" You know, why on earth should we worry about all this bubbling up of of stuff that has nothing to do with communication? After all, we're here to communicate, aren't we? We've begun by saying that our life world consists precisely in the deployment of language for communication. And here's this person saying this is stuff bubbling up. You know, I mean, which which makes communication difficult. You know, what use is that? Nap and Michaels might say, you see, they are pragmatists, aren't they? Right? They are they are pragmatist or they are concerned with practicality. Their interest their their reason for being interested in meaning and interpretation is a practical reading reason entirely entailed in the understanding of communication and the furtherance of communication. Whereas theory, which I have saved, I nevertheless seem to have saved at a pretty considerable cost because I have suggested that theory itself is completely impractical. You know, I've suggested it. We're going to get back to that next time. That's what the Thursday lecture is going to be going to be about. Um but in the meantime, you say to yourself, okay, fine. We've got theory, but we've also been shown that you can't really do anything with it. Um, and so, uh, it might just as well, um, suit us to suppose that Knap and Michaels are right, uh, and to proceed as though theory, uh, could be jettisoned. Um, one last quick point going back to the distinction between meaning and intention, notice the two-pronged argument. On the one hand, people like Ed Hirsch who believe that you can invoke an author's intention in order to pin down a meaning. On the one hand, you have people like that and on the other hand, you have people doing deconstruction who say that because there is no inferable intention, texts themselves have no meaning. That's not quite right because that's not what really what deconstruction says. Deconstruction doesn't say texts have no meaning. Deconstruction doesn't even say that you can't know what the meaning of a text is exactly. What deconstruction says is that you can't rope off meaning in a text. Texts have too much meaning. Texts explode with meaning. You can't corral the way in which texts uh produce meaning. You can't corral it by inferring an intention. You can't corral it by taking a particular interpretive path. Meaning just explodes in text. That's not at all the same thing as to as as to say uh according to the claim of Nap and Michaels that in deconstructive thinking texts have no meaning. A very very different proposition altogether. And I think it might suggest to you that the relationship between intention and meaning isn't really what's at stake in deconstruction. A text is intended or you can say well it may be intended. uh no doubt it's intended all sorts of ways of putting but is that really the point the text is the text on this view and the text just as I say fairly bristles with meaning that being precisely the point you can't rein it in that's not really the flip side as Nap and Michaels would would would want to make you think it's not really the flip side of the idea uh of the followers of Hirsch uh that in order to know a meaning you have to be able to infer an authoral intention. There's no symmetry there. Uh and as I say, I'm not sure that deconstruction, whatever its claims, whatever its perfections and imperfections, I'm not sure that really deconstruction has the question of intention in relation to meaning very much at heart one way or another. Sorry to have kept you. We'll see you Thursday.