Welcome to module three. This module helps you answer the question, "So, I have a patient with a substance use disorder, but how do I recommend treatment options?" As you recall, in module two, you learned how to screen, identify, and talk with patients about risk and how to make a diagnosis of a substance use disorder. You should in a patient- centered way be able to explain, for example, I'm concerned about your opiate use. It seems that it's causing some problems at home and you're worried about your health. The good news is that we have effective treatments I'd like to tell you about. Would you be open to hearing about them? Or you might be saying to a patient, "You're drinking more than you'd like and you're worried that it's getting away from you, that you're losing control. I'm also worried that it's making it harder to treat your diabetes. The good news is that there's treatment that we can talk about to help you determine your drinking goals and to stay on track with them. Would it be okay if we discuss these treatment options? But now, what are the treatment options? What do you know about the patient that might make one treatment option more viable than the other? The key takeaway from this module is that treatment is not one-sizefits-all. The best treatment plans are catered to an individual's needs. I think most of us can connect to managing our weight. So, let's kick off the module by talking about WW International, previously known as Weight Watchers. I mentioned WW International because it excels at many key tactics to help people change behaviors. In particular, they start with individualizing and personalizing the plan. WW International doesn't have super rigid or prescriptive goals that are imposed on members. They never say, for example, if you're going to work with us, you have to do it this way. Instead, each member is encouraged to identify their unique goals and reasons for coming in. One member might want to work on having a better relationship with food. Another member might want to lower cholesterol. or someone could come in looking to drop two sizes before a college reunion. And then the plan to reach the chosen goal has lots of built-in flexibility. When it comes to weight loss or any type of behavior change, there are countless reasons for changes, readiness levels for change, and goals for change. But this type of thinking has not translated into addiction treatment. No single treatment will work for everyone. In this module, you will learn how to take a thorough substance use assessment, how to adjust to your patients readiness for change and personal goals, and how to advise your patient on treatment options and settings that are aligned to those goals. You will also learn about the interprofessional nature of addiction treatment and how various professions work together. We hope to see you in the next lesson.