In this segment, this is the first of two segments, we're going to talk about clinical information technology, the supporting technological infrastructure you'll meet in most hospitals and healthcare settings. Our focus today on this segment will be electronic health records. In the next segment, we'll talk about medical imaging in more detail. So, clinical information technology approved as clinical IT. This is a core computing and network infrastructure you'll find in a hospital or a medical care facility. There are two major systems. The electronic health record, EHR, you'll also hear them referred to as electronic medical records, EMRs. And those two terms are interchangeable. And what's known as the picture archive and communication system, the PAX, and this is the imaging database. This is what radiologists use to review images and to issue their reports. So, we'll focus on the electronic health records first. And these are longitudinal electronic records of patient health information. These cover your information of a patient over time. These are a replacement for the old folders that had all the pieces of paper that you would see in doctor's offices if you're old enough. This include things like patient demographics, notes from visit, medications, past medical history, immunizations, laboratory data, radiology reports. And this are supposed to automate and streamline the clinician's workflow and have the ability to generate a complete record of a clinical patient encounter. So this is what the electronic health record is. This is the theory of it is the introduction of this and this happened in the last 5 to 10 years in the United States beginning about 2011 2012 was controversial. The doctors at least initially hated it. They spent a lot of time facing a computer instead of a patient. Paper forms which is what preceded this sometimes have advantages. For example, I can draw a circle around an item to highlight it. So one can say hated it and then connect it to facing a computer and you immediately know that those two terms are connected in a way that's hard to do on a computer screen. The upside of the system is that it provides a huge benefit for outcomes research for evidence-based decision support. It allows us to ask questions what were the outcomes for patients in a certain age range that were given a particular medication of particular condition because now we have the everything electronic. We can do queries now that helps medicine as a whole but the individual doctor of course doesn't really benefit from it. So a particularly interesting article this came two three years ago from Dr. Atul Kawande and you know you can see it from the title why doctors hate their computers. This was came out in the New Yorker in November 2018. I have a couple of quotes from this just to illustrate the difficulty of the transition. So but three years later this is three years after experiencing this digital health system here. I have come to feel that the system that promised to increase my mastery over my work has instead increased my work's mastery over me. And I'm not the only one. A 2016 study found that physicians spend about two hours doing computer work for every hour spent face to face with a patient. Whatever the brand of medical software in the examination room, patients devoted half of their patient time facing the screen to do electronic tasks. And if you've had the experience of going to a doctor, they're looking at the computer half the time. They're looking instead of looking at you. And these tasks were spilling over after hours. The University of Wisconsin found that the average workers for his family physicians had grown to 11 and a half hours a day. The result has been epidemic level of burnout among clinicians. 47% screen positive for depression and 7% report suicidal thinking almost double the rate of the general working population. So as you can see the introduction of these things had its downsides and cause huge problems. Now as a user as a patient as opposed to a doctor I have also seen the upside. All your information is in one place. You can use as an app to check your test results and find out when your next appointments are. And as a personal level to me, I I was allergic to a certain part kind of antibiotic for many years. And it was on a piece of paper that nobody knew. One particularly helpful nurse at the eye clinic at Yale dug through the paper identified what that is and now it's in my electronic health record because anytime they ask me are you allergic to anything they can find it right there. So the system has its advantages and when you hear from Dr. Raboan who's a radiologist, a doctor who's used to work on a computer. She will say lots of positive things as well about the system. So any change has its ups and its downs and its costs and its benefits. How does one interface with the HR at the software level? The most common network protocol is what's called AEL 7. It's a protocol designed for signaling a change to a patient's records using short messages. That's a formal definition. For example, Epic, one of the major health systems that we use here and many other high-end hospitals in United States has many network-based interfaces. For example, something called incoming clinical observations and you use it to add observations to the database. So, if your software is updating needs to access health information with patient, you'll be integrating with interface on EHR. You learn to learn to talk age 7. And there's a good book about the topic called hiking healthcare by Tman and Nman. And there's a cover in the top right hand corner. If you go on the developer side for epic, this is one of the major providers of electronic health records. You'll see all these different interface and this list goes on from multiple pages. So for example, incoming patient referral prefer notification and you will use this interface. It's a network set of messages that in a particular format that you send to add a notification to the database. So this kind of concludes our discussion of electronic health records at this very common level crude level. Perhaps in the next segment we'll take a look at the other major piece of the clinical IT infrastructure and that's the medical imaging database and imaging in general.