In this segment, we'll talk about the second major component of the clinical IT infrastructure and this is a medical imaging setup and this is my own personal area of research. So you may get a little bit more of a detail set of details here just to reflect that. So this is a history of major medical imaging modalities. Medical imaging starts in 1895 with the discovering of X-rays by William Ranken. And you can see a picture of how radiologist used to look at X-rays. They would be printed out on film or developed on film originally and they would put on these things called light boxes. This is what a light boxes is a lighted box that you put the extra on top and radiologist would just stare at it and see if they could identify things. In about the 1950s we have the the development of nuclear medicine technology as spect and pad. Here we inject trace radiation into the body and we see it distribution and that can be diagnostic for diseases. For example, we use radioactive glucose to measure metabolic activity in cancer. High activity areas which tumors often are will have high radiation accumulate there and you can see them as hot spots in the image. You I'm sure you're all familiar with ultrasound. This comes around the 70s and this uses low energy sound waves. This is cheap, portable. It can be used at the bedside. In the 70s also we have the development of X-ray computer tomography. X-ray CT. These are the first true 3D images in X-ray CT. What happens that if this is a patient, we acquire multiple X-rays all the way around the patient and we you combine those electronically to create a full three-dimensional image. And this is where computers meet imaging for the first time. And then in the 1980s we have the development of magnetic resonance imaging with the huge advances in able to measure soft tissue contrast metabolic imaging and all the things that MRI can do in the clinical space. The big words you'll hear these words ps and diccom and the databases ps the picture archiving communication system is the main imaging database of a hospital and in large hospital this is pabytes of data. This is easily the biggest database a hospital has. The pax has revolutionized clinical radiology and it permits remote viewing and doing sort of staring at the light box. Now people do it on their computers. We'll see a picture in a minute and we'll have a demo from Dr. Rabon in the next segment. DICOM now is the communication protocol used to interface with PAX. DICOM stands for digital imaging communications in medicine and it's a network standard that you need to use to access a pox. So this is a radiology snapshot from a later view. So this is a digital image. Now you see on the computer you can zoom in you can change contrast and for those of you interested to know more about DICOM it's excellent book by pianic by the same name digital imaging communication imaging called diccom and you can learn about all this about this protocol and how it works. Now in a hospital when you come to be imaged these are the components of an imaging study. First is the patient you as a patient and you're identified by patient ID. This is your ID. This is the number that tax the study for a database. And then the next thing at level down is a study. So it's an imaging session consisting of potentially many scans. We'll call them series. And this is tagged by study unique ID or UID here. So each time you lay down on a scanner, it's a new study. So if you come in in one day and you get a CT and an MRI, that's two studies potentially. Each study consists of a number of series. So this is what a series of images are images of the head starting here which is sort of the mouth and working all the way to the top of the head here. So this is a series of images and each series is made up of and we'll put the series at the bottom of instances. An instance is a single slice. So this is one instance. This is another instance is another instance. The instances make up series. The series make up studies and of course all the studies are ted to a patient. So the reason we have multiple series is that often in imaging session we want to measure different things. We want to measure for example in MRI we may have pre-contrast images and we inject contrast and we have a different set of images acquired after contrast. Those are two different series in a single study. And so a complex medical imaging exam may consist of a number of series either we're in different parts or in different rotations or with different levels of contrast because we're interested in extracting different information. So for example people who go in for prostate cancer cancer evaluation will typically get three images. One anatomical image, one is a diffusion set of images and another is a postcontrast image. And all those three together can be used to evaluate a patient's likelihood of having prostate cancer. Now image data when we think about images at least in the crudest form images are just collection numbers. They're called pixels if they're in 2D or voxels if they're 3D. So each of these little squares you see on the right is a pixel. It's a picture element. And the intensity data, these colors that we see are representations of numbers in fact. And so if we zoom in on a piece of the image, this dark patch could be the number zero. Typically images are shown dark to light. Small numbers are dark. Bright large numbers are bright. That could be another zero. This could be 100. This could be 200. So as far as a computer is concerned, these images are just simply a collection of numbers. in if if they are in 3D we have matrices of the form I jk where i jk are the axis in the image so i goes zero one two three along one direction j in the other and k in the third dimension although often they are stored in one arrays one slice and then one row at a time this was called raster scan this comes from the old television so we store the im we store them in this order effectively and this is how old television sets used to scan through to show you images on the screen and so there's this mapping function The threedimensional matrix II JK is mapped into data array using this type of equation. So this is the typical raster scan. So up to this point these images are no different than images you get from a camera or any other kind of images. But medical images are not just arrays of intensities. So they present extra complications. There's significant metadata that defines things like the resolution and orientation. There may be intensity mapping functions implied in that and I'll explain that in a second. And it's important to understand before blindly trying for example to apply computer vision derived machine learning techniques. And this is a significant point. There's a lot of interest in taking techniques derived for computer vision particularly object recognition to apply them to the medical world. Now there's a number of problems in that. One is that those techniques typically involve 2D images. Medical images are often in 3D. The other is that the numbers in the images may mean different things in different times. So the number 100 may need to be shifted and multiplied by some constants to give you a true number. For example, in nuclear imaging of radiation counts and that number may be different from image to image. So if you just look at the intensity table, this this is not the whole information you have to look into the header. The orientation and the resolution are also important because some images may be 1 millm resolution, some may be 2 millimeter. You can't mix and match them blindly as well. So the metadata in medical imaging is critical unlike for example camera images which for the most part are straightforward there. So how do we specify the orientation of the image? Typically we have three axis. We have an axis goes bottom to top. One goes front to back. One goes left to right. And this is a formal terminology. You'll hear you hear words like superior that means top and inferior this means the bottom. Posterior that's the back and anterior that's the front. And of course left and right as before. And so if we see how we specify the orientation of the image, we use I, J, and K to indicate voxal index. So this is I, I1, I2, I3, I4. We just count the squares. We use XYZ to indicate position in millimeters. So for example, the if the pixels are 2 millimeter apart, this may be 00 because it's 2 millimeters in XY Z where it's 1 Z 0 in JK. And to map I j kxyz we need the position of the first voxil the circle that I just appeared and then the distance the spacing between voxes along each of the axis of the image. The spacing is usually equal to the image resolution although there's some special cases where it's not. And the way we specify image orientation is often with these three letters for example LPS. LPS means that the I axis goes from right to left. The letters is the two part in the inplane. J axis goes from anterior to posterior and the slice axis goes from inferior to superior. LPS is a typical orientation require CT images in the clinic. If you're in research and you do fMRI, you'll see a lot of images that an RA the image go to the right to anterior to the superior and this 180 degrees rotated from the clinical standard. So understanding this orientation and this metadata and what all this means is important if you're going to analyze images. So in the next segment we're going to take a break from the technical aspects of this work and Dr. Aban will come in and she will give us a presentation of both electronic health records database and the parks and show us how they analyze images and what they do in clinical radiology practice. Thank you.