Thank you for joining. My name is Miriam Maboan. I'm an assistant professor at the department of radiology and biomedical imaging at the Yale School of Medicine. I will be presenting a demo of PAX and electronic medical record. A lot of times uh when we think of medical record um particularly those of of us who started medical school a long time ago, we think of a chart of uh medical records in a stack. And um this chart was um being delivered to the office where the patient is being seen or to the hospital floor. And we would open the chart, write notes in it, look at the different values, and we constantly would be uh leafing through the chart or taking you to different places and then people would be trying to find us to get the chart or sometimes we would be waiting a while to get the chart from the medical library. In addition, we also had an imaging uh folder where a lot of the imaging um scans were located and we would have to find a view box, a light box where we would uh hang up the image and look at the image. This was very slow and very uh cumbersome. So when electronic medical record and PAX came, it was a major it was very widely um accepted and wellreceived because it allowed us to put all of this information in a easily accessible uh location and and have it be very organized. Um this is an example of electronic medical record that is at Yale. It's an Epic software and you can see that we have an ability to search but um by patient name or their medical record number or date of birth. And here I pulled up a specific case of a patient infoser ZZ test. And you can have um if you pull this patient up, you can see that there's uh their demographics are displayed on the side bar and you can actually get a little bit of their information. You can even get the preferred language the patient wants to be speaking. Um when you go to um their information detailed information there's a couple of different tabs such as snapshot tab which provides you basic very quick information. So in the snapshot you can see if they had the COVID vaccination uh what their problem list is, what their significant history and details are. You can also find uh what their um team is like and what uh who's taking care of this patient. if you have an emerent finding, who do you need to reach? Um, you can also get information on allergies, medications, immunizations, pretty much a lot of the basic information that you want to know when you're evaluating a patient. Now, if you need more detailed information, you can go to another tab, which is the chart review. And the chart review has a couple different uh tabs that we can go to. One of them is the notes tab where doctors and nurses put in their information in a standard medical record format. So, here's an example of a progress note or a telephone encounter that will provide me information about the patient, why they're being imaged, uh who um who is ordering the study. Um you can also search this record, which is much more difficult to do if you have a paper chart. And in the search feature, you can identify um information based on encounter date or based on status of the order or uh the service that ordered the exam. So, so if somebody has a headache and you're trying to image their MRI brain for the headache, you want to know did the patient come in with facial drip? Did the patient come in was this headache instant or was this h headache happening for a couple months? You can get all of this information from the electronic medical record through doing these um search analysis. Um in addition, there's other tabs such as um labs where you could have laboratory values displayed or pathology for this patient there was no path report or imaging. So here for this particular patient he had uh multiple imaging studies performed and we're going to look at a specific imaging study which is a PET CT uh with a tracer amid and you can see um there's going to be a report there but there's also a link to where we're going to look at the images and if you click on that link it will pull up an additional set of software uh which is our pack software um our company is vis Imaging and um it will allow you to view the images. Now, you can't just view these images on any computer. You actually need to have very specialized hardware to view these images. And this is uh PAX workstation where we view these images. This is actually my personal workstation. And you can see that I have two medical grade monitors in the middle. And here is where I make the diagnosis. Here is where all the images on my patient are displayed and I scrutinize the images. I um reorient them. I analyze them. And um these monitors have very specific um uh regulations for what they can be. I can't just buy any monitor off of Amazon. Um here's another um uh two monitors on the sides. These um can be any monitor uh that you can uh purchase. And um it this is where my electronic medical record is displayed and my dictation software is displayed. Here's a dictaphone that I use for dictating the reports. And we have the keyboard and the mouse to get around. So how does PAX looks when we pull it up? Here's an example of what uh comes up when you open research packs uh or clinical packs. um you see a study browser and you can search for the patient or directly pull up your patient from Epic. You can also look at for studies um from based on the date of the study or modality of the study. Um you can also look based on the accession number of the study because um each patient's study has an unique individual accession number and each patient may have multiple imaging studies. So the for the each medical record number you can have multiple accession numbers. Um you can also search different databases. So here's an example of me looking at recent studies or um being able to reach out and pull up another database from archive um or if a database of images is being stored at another server. So now let's go back to the original visage uh research uh database and here's an example of a patient. Um this is a patient with a very large brain tumor and they presented with a headache to the hospital and um I can view the information on how they presented and how long it took them to present and what their symptoms are from electronical medical record and I can analyze their images on um the vis packs uh platform. So as you can see we have a display of different sequences of this MRI in the top row and the the protocol that I'm using here actually reconstructs these sequences into a coronal plane in the bottom view. So I'm actually able to look at this tumor in three dimensions and I can look at it with many different protocols of image acquisition which you can see all the protocols and um in the ribbon here on the bottom as we scroll through. Now most of the radiology uh image analysis is done qualitatively and that has been historically since introduction of pax and since use of film because um we we're um focused on the expertise of the human eye. um we are starting to um enter a new era in radiology where we more and more starting to use quantitative image or semi-quantitative image analysis for our diagnosis. So here's an example of how what we're doing in my laboratory. Um we have uh developed um couple different um algorithms that are plugged in into the pack software. This is actually a published algorithm um pyromix and this is um our own developed u auto segmentation tool for brain tumors. When you press this button the auto segmentation tool you see these different contours that are drawn around the tumor that are able to contour the tumor edema, the tumor core and the necrotic portion of the tumor. So it's able to tell you very different portions of the tumor. So why do we do this um this integrated approach to patient care? Well, it turns out in medicine we don't just see a patient and form a diagnosis. We actually involved are in the circle of service. Um when we take care of patients, we don't just sit in our little rooms. Um and if you think about it, we provide service to our patient by providing these personalized medicine reports to them with detailed reports that have meaning to our patients with um language that is understandable by patient. In addition, we're providing service to our referring providers where we generate detailed reports that actually help with care that don't just form a simple diagnosis. They can actually track how a tumor can grow over time and that will provide the uh the oncologist or neuroncologist or endocrinologist how they should be treating the patient and when they should initiate new therapy. We also serve our our students um advanced students such as neuroraiology fellows with tools that save time and provide image interpretation assistance. As you can imagine, radiologists have uh are are specialized in multiple different areas and we have to cover diseases through the entire body. it is not possible for a single person to know detailed information about many many different um diseases in the body at the same time. So for we are able to generate image uh interpretation assistance tools. So if somebody is an expert in pancreas imaging, they may not be an expert in brain tumor imaging, but they may have an image assistance interpretation tool that will help them um diagnose complicated brain tumors even though they're not an expert in that. And in the end, we also provide service to our students with teaching of medicine, teaching of research methods, uh promoting careers and opening of doors. And a lot of this these approaches are geared toward making understanding of medicine easier through multimodal approach of understanding patients. I'm very excited about this field as we're incorporating novel AI tools and uh image image quantitative image analysis into clinical practice and it's really going to change the way we practice neuroraiology. Thank you.