So in this last segment of this week's lectures, we're going to talk about cyber security, which is one of the most critical topics that a medical software developer faces in this era of internet connected devices. Everything is connected. So everything can be accessed remotely. So as we look at cyber security, let's just look at a couple of very recent examples. So here's an example from close to home. This is Yale New Haven health system poses radi ret therapy treatment for 6 days after software bridge. This from the Yale telling news a local university newspaper. This is May 14 of 2021. And the SIS system is a vendor that uses cloud-based software to perform some analysis for this process and they were hacked and this meant that we had to stop radiation treatment for 200 patients for six days until they figured out what was going on. Radiation therapy has a way of finding its way into software problems. Here's another example, a non-medical example, even more recent. June 8, 2021. It's about a month ago. And this is from the disruption of the operation of the Colonial Pipeline. It's a major oil pipeline on the east coast of the United States. And a bad password was allowed hackers to disrupt the pipeline. This what the CEO of the company told Senators. This is a story from Reuters. So what is cyber security? The IMDRF has a guidance document on medical device cyber security. And here's their definition. is a state where information and systems are protected from unauthorized activities such as access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification or destruction to a degree that the related risk to confidentiality, integrity and availability are maintained at an acceptable level throughout the life cycle. So this is definition of cyber security. We're operating under control. Everything is fine. And the IMDR refence guidelines and this is all we're going to talk about it from this guidelines gives a number of things that we have to keep in mind as we design software. So we have to secure communications. We have to have data protection which often means encryption at a system level. We have to have device integrity no unauthorized changes for example viruses or malware. We have to have user authentication software maintenance restrict and we have to restrict physical access. So usually when you have access to physical computer you can take the hard disk out. You can do all kinds of things and we have to have reliability and availability. We have to allow devices to resist and survive changes and the gu the guidelines suggest that all of those factors need to be accounted for in the requirements of the device. This is not we design the device and then we worry about cyber security. No, cyber security needs to be factored in as we design a device. We'll have more to say about all of this in the context of the FDA regulation. So the FDA also has it guidance. It's a draft guidance, but don't let the word draft fool you. still represents the thinking of the agency and this is the content of premarket submissions for management of cyber security and medical devices which means in plain English this is what the FDA wants to see when you submit an application to allow your device to go to the market in terms of cyber security. So the FDA divides devices into two tiers. It's another form of risk classification like the ones we've seen before. Tier one is higher cyber security risk. That means that you have a device or piece of software can connect to another medical or non-medical product or to a network or the internet and a cyber security incident affecting the device could directly result in patient harm to multiple patients. So if you fall fall into those two categories together if those two things apply to you your software is tier one. Tier two is sort of standard cyber security risk and the guidance gives an example of tier one devices. So implantable cardio better defibrillators, pacemakers, left ventricular assist devices, brain stimulators and neuros stimulators. You can imagine the neighbor can access to those can cause significant harm to a patient. Now when it comes to cyber security, the other thing to keep in mind of course is that it's not just affects medical devices. If you have an elevator in a hospital that's accessed controlled through the internet and somebody can stop the functioning of that elevator and there's a patient in that elevator on the way to surgery being stuck in the elevator for an hour could cause significant harm to a patient. Now the elevator is not a medical device but the cyber security incident affecting the elevator is a significant problem. So the concept now extends beyond devices that affect diagnosis and treatment of patients and anything any support system that's required in a hospital to maintain that also a hug in the appointment system of a hospital could have a significant impact on how medical care is provided to many many people. So in section five of this guidance they have a section called designing a trustworthy device and we're going to look at some of the guidelines here. Our device must be reasonably secure from cyber security, intrusion and misuse. We'll talk about this in the next slide. It has to give you a reasonable level of availability, reliability and correct operation. It must be suited to performing their intended functions obviously and it has to adhere to accepted security procedures and all of that gets summarized as it has to be consistent with the NIST framework. Den the national institute of standards and technology this institute has a guide set of guidelines for cyber security and we're going to look at the principles in this slide this consists of five components the first is identify you need to understand your environment and what the risks are to systems data and people need to protect we need to implement safeguards to limit the impact of a cyber security event we need to detect pro have to have procedures to identify incidents having continuous monitoring system in place so we need to be able to figure out if we are under attack and if something has happened to be able to respond and to contain the impact as quickly as possible and we have to be able to recover. We have to have plans to restore any services that were affected by an incident. So when you make plans to deal with cyber security you want to address all of those five points. You have to have mechanisms in place to identify it the issues to protect against attacks to detect attacks to respond to attacks and then to recover the whole system as you go through it. So if we look at the guidance now it has two sections that go through these things. So when it comes to identify and protect here are some of the suggestions you want to limit access to trusted users and devices. You want to authenticate for safety critical commands. You want to authenticate all external connections. And then you have to ensure trusted content maintaining code data and execution integrity. So a lot of it is cryptographically variable updates. We verify integrity of incoming data. You want cryptographic protection for all communications and we need to maintain and this links back to what we talked about in the last segment confidentiality of data and this comes down to we encrypt sensor information at rest when it's on the hard disk and in transit when it's going over the network. So if you wanted to summarize this segment if you want to summarize this guidelines I would summarize them in two words authenticate and encrypt. You want to authenticate your users your connections anything that comes from the outside and authenticate isn't on oneizefits-all. You authenticate a user advice to have access to part of your content, all of your content, just the minimum amount of access that is required for that device or person to do what they need to do. And then encrypt obviously system hardware encryption for everything. You don't want somebody be able to come in, take the hard disk out, and then read all the information. You want to have encrypted communications everywhere. So if somebody's snooping in your network, they can't figure out what's going on. So those are the two key principles, authenticate and encrypt. This is the core of this process. The second half of the cycle will take us to detect, respond and recover. But before we do that, we'll have a segment here from interview from Dr. Rajin Khalan from Oregon Health Services. He'll talk us a little bit about their experience with cyber security. >> So one of the big pushes from the FDA and even every regulatory body since the different incidents that have happened recently and especially since co time has been cyber security. There's a big section in the FDA that asks about have you considered different cyber security features. Does your risk analysis which is the crux of any regulatory body document uh does it talk about what are the different cyber security risks that your software goes through. If there is patient data if somebody comes and steals your device or steals the hard drive or steals the place where it stores the data can they have access at it? So that's one of the questions they ask. So in terms of hardware you need to have basic stuff like encryption. You need to let them know that hey not everybody can access the system. You need to provide them with a username and password. And the funny thing is username and password even though we have the security system they are only as strong as your weakest password. >> And that is in fact the biggest problem of cyber security. It depends on people as opposed to just software. And we'll talk about this next. So we also have to design our software to allow detection response and recovery. That's the second part. We need to be able to detect cyber security events in a timely fashion. We have to have forensic evidence capture, logging. We need to be able to respond and contain the impact quickly. We need to be able to notify users that we have a breach. We have to facilitate the Abby deployment of patches. And we have to have recover capabilities or services that were for services that were impacted due to cyber security incident. Have to protect critical data. We have to have network attack resilience. So please realize that what this means is that you as a medical device manufacturer are responsible for monitoring your software after they go to market and we'll talk about that at the end. We'll talk about deployment and the deployment of patches means that the medical device manufacturer is going to provide those patches which means that you have to have procedures in place to be notified for breaches what the problem is and to rapidly deploy patches to address issues like that. So you don't just sell a product and you forget about it. We have to stand behind it throughout its life cycle. The final comment here is going to come from the Singapore Health Administration, Health Service Administration. And this is just common on cyber security. Cyber security cannot be achieved by single stakeholder. It requires a concerted effort of diverse stakeholders, government agencies, manufacturers, healthcare institutions, users of devices. We need continuous monitoring, assessing, mitigating, communicating cyber security risk and attacks and all that requires active participation by the all stakeholders in the system. You can think of cyber security as a chain. You can see this chain below. And a chain always breaks at the weakest link. Whether it's somebody who has their password called password or a computer that's not been patched or a network firewall that's open. All of those things, it's the weakest point that's going to give you entry into the system. So a friend talks about this as we have to think like a thief here not as an engineer. How can I get access to the system and how do I prevent somebody else from getting access to the system. Complicating things and this is the final slide of the segment is we have to talk about data security in the cloud. So historically data was stored in secure data centers protected by physical logs and firewalls in hospitals. Now cloud storage is disrupting the system. have things like Amazon Web Services, Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud and all kinds of other providers and the server may be located away from the hospital. In fact, often is and even in another country though regulations are beginning to stop that now. In some cases, the solution is to upload anonymized data. Remember a previous discussion about safe hardware to the server, have this analyzed and reidentify this once the result comes back. Now, on the upside, cloud services can sometimes have higher security, especially when compared to homegrown systems. So now you're using a professional setup with professional grade cyber security and they may do better in providing security than what you could do on your own. So this concludes our discussion of cyber security. One could go on for an entire course and this in many ways cyber security in medical devices is not that different from cyber security in all kinds of other context. So you can look up information for other systems be the finance sector or others and you can learn useful lessons as well. But there are some things that are specific to the medical sector that we discuss and introduced here. In the next week's segments, we'll take a look at some of the management standards that underly the creation of a medical software product, namely quality management systems and risk management. Thank you.