So, we left off in the last module picking a topic and gathering all information available on that topic. Now, it's time to get out there and start talking to people. In this module, we'll learn about what it means to work in community to support lived experience leaders. And we'll practice some tools that can help you identify and map out key stakeholders and assets. This is a continuation of your research process to better understand the challenge you're tackling, how people are experiencing it, and what you might be able to contribute to new or existing solutions. Let's start with some definitions. I used a lot of words right there, and I want to make sure you feel comfortable with them. First of all, what do we even mean when we use the word community? Community is basically a social group where people have one or more things in common. They could be living in the same place and facing challenges and opportunities associated with that place. Or they could be a subgroup with a shared culture and way of living. A while back, some of minority public health colleagues went out and asked people, "What does community mean to you?" Here's what they got. They defined a community as a group of people with diverse characteristics who share social ties and common perspectives and who engage in joint action. It's really that joint action that's relevant for us in learning from social entrepreneurship and creating social change. So whatever challenge you're focusing on, there is a community associated with that challenge, one or more communities. and you may already be participating in those communities whether on the local or global levels or anything in between. So if you aren't then the first step is to learn more about the different communities engaging with this challenge and how you can support and amplify the solutions they're already coming up with before you start thinking of your own ideas. Let's talk about what that community might look like and where you might go about finding the people you need to be talking to. So a commu there could be various communities that could be a community of people directly impacted by the challenge, people providing direct support, a community of activists advocating and lobbying for changes, policy makers, lawmakers, and people funding solutions and research on that challenge. You may also want to identify people resisting change. So, that's what we're going to start doing in this module, finding these people and talking to them. In the next few videos, we're going to talk about things to keep in mind and tools that can help you organize and sort through your insights.