Welcome to module four. This module helps you answer the question, what medications are proven to help patients manage their substance use disorders? Before we get started, let's clarify some misconceptions. Many people, including physicians and other health care professionals, think that prescribing medications is trading one addiction for another. Medications are not a substitute for a drug. And when used properly, medications do not create a new addiction. I like to use this analogy with my students. Imagine that a person needs long-term corticosteroids from a medical condition, let's say vasculitis. If you stop the cortosteroids abruptly, the person may experience severe adrenal insufficiency, requiring you to restart and then taper that medication. or perhaps their vasculitis gets significantly worse after stopping the steroid. Do either of these events mean that they are addicted to steroids? Of course not. It simply means that the body got used to seeing exogenous steroids and stopped producing its own steroids and that the underlying illness is still requiring systemic corticosteroids for treatment. The same is true for medications to treat substance use disorders. The consensus among experts is that the potential benefits far outweigh potential harms. For some medications, the effect is quite large and definitively saves lives. For other medications, the effect size can be relatively small, but even small effect sizes may be quite clinically meaningful. Consider the metaphor of a sailboat. The sailboat is headed on one course, but you no longer want to stay on that path and want to change destinations. Turning the boat around, or even turning it 90° is impossible. But imagine that you make just a very small change of course, only 5°. At the beginning, this change is barely noticeable. But over the course of hundreds of miles, the sailboat will end up in a very different place. Even a small change may be the difference between making it to port or missing the entire continent. Another way to make the case for medications is to think about the number needed to treat to produce a desired effect. For alcohol use, we need to treat approximately 12 people with medications in order to prevent one patient from returning to heavy drinking. Compare this with other medications we use all the time. For common medications used for depression, the number needed to treat is nine. For medications to lower cholesterol to prevent heart attack, the number needed to treat is 104. Yet, statins are one of the most prescribed medications in primary care. In short, we hope you consider medications as a viable option to treat substance use disorders. In this module, you will learn the basic neurobiology of addiction and familiarize yourself with the medications that are available for alcohol, nicotine, and opiate use disorders. We hope you'll join us for the next lesson.