In these next two segments, we'll work through the IMDF QMS guidance. We'll do the first three quarters of it in this segment and then we'll conclude in the segment after this. So the as usual we look at the table of contents here. The document sections one to four are just a preamble and this figure here on the right shows the organization of the document. Section five talks about quality management principles. a couple of pages just a highle picture. Section six is this outer circle and talks about the leadership and organizational support. We'll come back to it in more detail later. Section seven talks about life cycle support processes. And now this is a longer section and talks about all the things that a company does things like planning, documentation, configuration, the gen all the things that are common to many projects. Section 8 is the process that are used for the specific project. Things like design, development, verification, validation, deployment, maintenance, etc. In this week, we're going to talk about in this segment, we're going to talk all the way to the end of section seven. And in the next segment, we'll take on section 8. Throughout this document, you'll hear examples from two fictional companies. A company called Magna, which is a Latin word for large, and a company called Parva, which is a Latin word for small. And the document uses these two companies to show you how you would implement the guidelines in a large company, and in a small company, just to generalize the guidelines here. So, let's get started. We're going to start with section six and we'll talk about the responsibilities of the management and the leadership and organizational support. So this divides into two sections leadership and accountability and resource and infrastructure management. And the leadership of the organization is responsible for establishing and implementing the quality management system. The management must ensure the activities are performed to verify the QM effective and this means internal audits and sometimes external audits. And unless the management takes the rule seriously, nobody else will. And then we'll have a QM in theory but not in practice. And to discuss these issues, we have a another short clip from an interview with Mr. Rishwin from Vision 28 to talk about the importance of the leadership in the companies that he has advice as a quality management consultant. >> If um there there's a couple of types of clients that you can have, a couple couple cultures in in in companies. For instance, a culture may be I'm going to just hire uh the most inexpensive folks I can to take care of this quality business over here because that's not my business. And then there's the type of folks who say we make medical devices, they help people and it's very important that we do it correctly and within the law and they have very large quality system. The first folks really aren't going to be successful in the medical device field and it's all driven by top management because that's what top management expects in the company where they're very committed to quality that comes from top management. the company is top management and that's why um um and the FDA regulations have very um important sections on management responsibility, management review and management accountability. >> And unless the management is committed to this work, it won't actually happen. So let's talk about assigning responsibility. We're now moving to section six of the document and here are some quotes. Both magnet parva management have responsibilities to ensure that the QM has been established and that the necessary patient safety considerations have been built into the QM and managed when entering the market. So part of your quality management system is to have procedures for ensuring patient safety. In Magna they have a chief medical officer who's been identified as being responsible for these aspects. And in Parva the software development management is responsible for patient safety aspects. Now the exact person is not particularly important here. What I want you to know is the specificity. The person who's responsible for patient safety is explicitly named. It is somebody's job. So if something comes up, it is their responsibility to ensure that this had happened to report up if there are problems. And this is the person. This is where the bug stops for this particular task. Let's look at some other comments from the section six. The leadership of the organization is also responsible for the project resource and infrastructure management and they must ensure that people assigned to each task are properly trained. You cannot be assigned a task for which you don't have training and this is part of the responsibility of the management and the environment in which the work is performed is also important. You have to have the right computers, the right services, the air conditioning potentially desk space. All of that makes for the environment that's necessary to create quality products. Moving on to section seven. Now section seven is the second section and this is the processes that support the creation of products as opposed to the process for running a company. And here's one example. I talk about product planning. Both companies carry out product planning to decide which operating systems best suit their application. Magnite is a large company. It builds this application. They work of the top five mobile phone operating systems. Parva develops of the platform that is a market leader because it can only do so much for both MA Parva and Machna. This planning phase can allow each company to take deliberate approaches to the assignment of a resource. Now, one of the things that's funny here of course is that this document is only five years old and talks about top five mobile phone operating systems and there are only really two right now. So, this guidance in their details go out of date but the principle applies right depending on the size of your company. You take stock of your resources and you figure out what you can do appropriately so you don't bite off more than you can chew effectively. Risk management comes up and this is in section 7.2 again the favorite icon at the top left corner there. Software risk management requires a balanced evaluation of both safety and security. Magna being a large company has a dedicated department to ensure that the risk of the products within acceptable limits including consideration of patient harm. Parva is more hands- on deck. They have chosen to train their some developers in risk management activities. They collectively ensure the risk of the product to seen acceptable limits. Again, it has to be somebody's responsibility and those people must have the appropriate training. And this is what this section talks. It is interesting also this comment at the top. This balance of both safety and security. Remember safety is harm that comes from the regular use of the software. Security is when the system is used, abused, hacked. And the standard has a common also that you should prioritize safety over security. Although both are important. Moving down the list here on the left hand side, you'll see the red box going down the list here. Document and record control. That's another critical aspect of software development. It's important to manage and control documentation throughout the life cycles. Documentation does not mean bureaucracy. Rather, it's the foundation. Drive traceability, repeatability, scalability, ability, all the things that you want in a piece of software. Magna uses an established documentation process and techniques that include the use of a commercially available requirements management tool. So again big company they buy specialized software. Parva essentially uses a source code management system perhaps GitHub to enable the company to manage documentation in a controlled way. Again the exact details are not important but you have to do it. You have to have a process for doing it. And there's an adage in the software medical device industry software industry that says if it was not documented it did not happen. If you don't have a piece of paper that says we did something and describes how we did it might as well never have done it. And so keep that in mind. If it was not documented, it did not happen. The last couple of parts of section seven, the first one is measurement and improvement. Customer feedback is an important part of monitoring the performance to improve the product. Makna again large company. They have a dedicated department that works with sales, marketing and product development to formally service large customer base to get insights. Parva doesn't have that luxury but they invite some of his early adopters and customers into an office to contact a roundt discussion to get to the same kind of feedback. And it is important to appreciate that this feedback and self-improvement is a critical component of all quality management systems. You have to talk to your customers, ask how the software is working for them, find out what's wrong, take that information and use it to improve your software. In a related aspect, we teach students sometimes when they write papers and they get reviewer comments that the reviewer is always right. Now, that doesn't mean that what the reviewer says is exactly what you should do. But the fact that somebody complains about something reveals that there's a problem somewhere. Now, their proposed solution to the problem may not be what you should be doing, but the fact where there is smoke there's fire. The where they complain about something that means there's something wrong. Should take it seriously and that's an important part of the self-improvement of a company to create better and better products. The final section is 7.6. In section 7, this is the discussion of outsourcing. Both magnet and pava use open source or other commercial of the shelf code. This called CS in this document. It's critical to both to probably verify and validate the integration of open source code or other external code. Both companies are responsible for monitoring and managing the potential for defects in these codes as this defects can contribute to the overall risk of some. So it's the actual manufacturer responsible for these defects, not the people who wrote potentially the open source code. Magna and Palva and this is a conclusion are ultimately responsible for the safety and performance of the S. They are the manufacturer of records. They're the people who stand behind it. They're the ones who are liable should something go wrong and they end up in court. They have to defend their software. So with that we conclude this discussion of the first half of the quality management guidance from the IMDRF. In the next segment, we'll take up the second part of this beginning with section 8 and the actual processes for the product realization itself.