In this segment, we're going to conclude our review of this guidance from the MDRF and our discussion of quality management systems as a whole. So, we are in the last section and this is sum realization use processes at the process for creating a specific piece of software as opposed to the generic infrastructure of a company for creating products of this type. So this follows what is called the standard waterfall cycle. We'll come back to this more in next week. But this is a sequential process of going through the steps and these alludes strongly to IC620 304 which again we'll discuss next week which is the international standard for medical software life cycles. QM and life cycles are closely related. They're both ways to organize how we do things. And in fact the IC6234 assumes that you have a QM in place otherwise none of the restrictions make sense. Each section in this section 8 is divided into two halves. Patient safety and clinical environment considerations and technology and systems considerations. So we are dealing with medical software and so we're both medical this is this part and software which is this part and this is kind of the unique world that medical software lives in. You have to worry about the patient aspects and the technology aspects at the same time. So if we look at the MDRF and life cycles, this is the steps in the creating of a software package. Requirements management, design, development, verification, validation, deployment, maintenance, and decommissioning. So this starts from figuring out what your user needs all the way to the time when the software comes to the end of life. And the sec document has comments about all of these things. We're only going to talk about the first part here. We'll pick up the thread with the other components as we discuss them in weeks five through 10 of this class. So requirements management the definition and maintenance of requirements are important ensuring that the product meets its intended use. Magna has a big company again cross functional product team leverage existing document templates. There are many of those you can find them online and from consulting companies to capture requirements and existing document review process. Parva and this is an important point. They use screenshot sketches and rapid prototypes to refine and capture the product requirements for the sum features. In both cases, the requirements are captured in a way that ensures that user, patient and regulatory requirements are satisfied and met. Now, this is an important point here. A successful piece of software when validate meets the needs of the user. So, unless you know what the needs of your users are, you cannot have a successful piece of software. To conclude this discussion about quality management systems, we have a couple of more comments type slides. These are beyond now the guidance. The first that a QM should be a help and not a hindrance. You should provide structure to what you do and there's enough flexibility within this to do things in different ways as we've seen from Mike N parva. You just have to do things but you don't have to do them in a specific way so long as you satisfy these requirements. So we have a clip here from Dr. Fanlu from the brain ectophysiology laboratory who's going to talk about what a QM is and has some advice for students getting in this area. You know, sometimes um the the the the reaction to a quality uh system is that it can be ownorous. It could be too much. It's a distraction uh um from um your work. Um it it shouldn't be um it you it should help you work. It should help you organize. It should help make things visible and if um there is a failure it's more in the management of the system uh rather than the system itself. Again because the system is flexible enough to be uh u uh adapted for the way that the company works, the culture of the company while still meeting um the intention of the quality system. And so, you know, it's a it's a tool um that that should be used to help you uh and not be too worried about or or it shouldn't be seen in a negative light. And I would say this as well to the extent that you can pick it up and make it part of your skill set, you're going to be very very valuable in the job market for any position you um uh uh you apply for. >> So one of the problems with quality management systems that of course the people who implement them and apply them can sometimes be a little bit too rigid and try to follow it too detail and this can snuff out some of the issues. So one of the problems we have to deal with often is that we don't know what we should be doing, right? We need to experiment and experimentation and the quality management system can be in conflict. So we know for example that for soft to be of high quality must be created within a quality culture, a quality system and experimentation and are often incompatible. Some just need to figure out what might work. So we need to try things and when you're just playing around and fooling around, you don't want to be just documenting everything to the end level of detail until you know what might be. So the correct implementation correct process is not obvious. We need to experiment and we have to have the ability and the flexibility in a company to be able to do experimentation outside of the development of a product outside of a QM perhaps and then we take that knowledge and we may have to repeat the process within this situation to create specifications. So to give you an example, we talked about the requirements phase and the rules for how you do it. Well, one tool that people use to create requirements is to create prototypes. So those are quick and dirty things, you know, software that doesn't really work, is not meant for production use, and that gets created quickly by somebody often at a very interesting situations late at night. And there we don't have formal procedures. We just do a quick thing to show a customer so that we can use it to understand what they need. That happens outside a quality management system. Once that tool is used to understand what the customer needs, now we take that knowledge, we move back in the caller system and now we design the product formally and we will not use that prototype directly as part of the finished product. Now we may take the code from it, reanalyze it, clean it up and bring it in PCM into the new software, but the idea is that you can you go outside the system occasionally when you need to do some experimentation to figure out what one should be doing. And to conclude this whole discussion about quality management systems, this is what the best practices is what the common knowledge of the field is that unless a product is designed producing a proper organization, it's unlikely to be of high quality and safe and all of the other good things. The best practices are captured in industry standards and regular addresses look explicitly for quality management. We have rules about that both in the US, in Europe, in China and all other regulatory zones. And a good QMS is a help. It's not a burden. is just the right way to do things. So to conclude the segment, we have a short video clip from Mr. Tom Runner, who's a regulatory consultant, vision 28, and he'll just summarize the whole topic for us here >> because quality systems aren't just for meeting regulatory requirements. Um, you would be prudent as as we said earlier to embrace the quality system at at all levels. uh it will make your company more efficient, more streamlined, uh reduce your exposure to customer dissatisfaction, to adverse events. Uh even if you didn't have to for regulatory purposes, you should do things in a repeatable, efficient, documented way. And a quality system is our best way of doing that that we know of to date. So yes, it's expensive, but it will pay for itself. uh if you embrace it, if you don't think of the quality system and the documentation and the extra rigor as necessary evils, but if you think of them as tools that will help you be efficient, moving at the speed of business will then not be a a pjorative. It won't be an insult. You'll be moving at the speed of an efficient business and that's much better. >> So, this concludes our discussion of quality management systems. In the next set of segments, we'll take out the other major piece of supporting technology infrastructure and that is risk management. And we'll continue with that in the next segment.