For your patients that you've screened and diagnosed with alcohol use disorder, you can manage symptoms with medications just like you would for many other chronic illnesses. We hope by this point you don't believe the perpetuated myth that prescribing medications is trading one addiction for another. The medications you will learn about in this lesson help people manage intense cravings, help them reduce the amount people drink, or promote periods of no drinking or abstinence. Let's pause for a quick question. Which of the following medications have you heard about before? Nrexone, a camperate, dulfurum, topamate, or gabapentin? If you've heard of all of them, great. you probably have experience working with this patient population, but if you haven't, that's totally fine, too. And we're going to go over them right now. The four FDA approved medications for alcohol use disorder include oral nrexone, injectable nrexone, a camperate, and dulfum. There are two additional medications, topyramate and gabapentin that are worth mentioning as well. Please note that all of these medications can be prescribed in a general medical office. There no DEA restrictions as there are with medications to treat opiate use disorder. To date, nrexone and ampersate have the best available evidence and are considered firstline treatments. So let's start with nrexone. Nrexone has been associated with a reduced likelihood of return to drinking and with fewer drinking days overall. It's also thought to decrease that subjective experience of craving, which are those strong, often intrusive urges to drink. Oral Nalrexone was actually initially FDA approved to treat opiate use disorder, but has also been discovered in clinical trials to decrease alcohol consumption through its action at the opiate receptors. Now, Trexone is an opioid antagonist or a blocker, meaning it binds to and then blocks the activation of opioid receptors, effectively turning them off. It's important to tell patients about the opioid blocking effect. If a patient is currently taking opioids, nrexone may send them into precipitated opioid withdrawal, which is very uncomfortable. If opioids become necessary in the future for surgery or an unexpected trauma, then Nalrexone may affect the patients pain relief. Nalrexone is available in both a daily oral and monthly intramuscular injection. The recommended dose of oral Nalrexone is 50 milligrams daily. However, some people may require up to 100 milligrams a day. For the long acting nrexone, the dose is 380 mg every four weeks. Now, trexone is generally well tolerated with some potential side effects that we're going to discuss here. The most common being nausea, dizziness, vomiting, diarrhea, and abdominal pain. Additionally, though, the risk is very low. Now, trexone may affect liver function and this will more commonly occur in patients with other liver problems such as hepatitis C, cerosis due to alcohol or other co causes. Ongoing alcohol use is typically far more damaging to the liver than is nrexone though and this becomes part of the discussion that you should have with your patients. When starting nrexone, it's important to check liver function tests prior to treatment and to monitor clinically throughout. For patients with significant liver problems, there's another evidence-based medication for alcohol use disorder called a campers. A campercade is largely excreted by the kidneys and it's not metabolized through the liver. The exact mechanism of action isn't clear, but it may act through its effect at the glutamate receptors. The main treatment effect found in clinical trials was that it helped maintain abstinence in people who had achieved no drinking status. So, they'd achieved abstinence. A campers is effective in the treatment of alcohol use disorder at total doses around 2,000 mg or 2 grams which is usually divided into 666 milligram tablets taken three times a day. So that's something to talk to patients about. Taking medications three times a day sometimes can be very helpful um and reinforce motivation for patients, but other times three times a day might be a burden. It's recommended to start as soon as abstinence is obtained and to continue it regardless of drinking status. So even if a person returns to drinking, just continue prescribing. The most common side effect for a campers is diarrhea. And since this medication is largely excreted by kidneys, you would want to check serum creatinine at baseline and then the dosing may need to be reduced in patients with kidney dysfunction. Another medication option is Dulfrum and it should be considered for patients who have a goal of abstinence, who've not responded to campers or Nrexone or for those who prefer it. Dulfrum is the oldest medication for treating alcohol use disorder and it's also known as antibuse. It's been around for decades and it works by making people feel sick when they drink. Dulfrum inhibits the enzyme aldahhide dehydroxilase which breaks down the ethanol byproduct acetalahhide. So when ethanol is consumed by somebody who's on dulfurum acetalahhide builds up or accumulates and it produces unpleasant sensations a rapid heartbeat flushing headache nausea lowered blood pressure and vomiting. Patients on Dulfrum develop anticipatory fear of using alcohol and therefore it can help reinforce motivation toward abstinence. Before starting, you must make sure your patient understands the physiologic consequences of drinking alcohol while taking Dulfrum. They should not drink anything at least 12 hours before starting the medication. And then reactions to alcohol can occur up to 14 days after stopping Dulfrum. Patients need to be warned that ethanol may be found in lots of things such as some cold and flu treatments, mouthwashes, hand sanitizers, food, and even other medications. Additionally, dulfrum has been associated with mild increases in liver enzymes in up to one quarter of patients. Although extremely rare, acute hepattoxicity can occur, sometimes with life-threatening consequences. The rate is roughly one per 10 to 30,000 cases. Like Nal Trexone, it's important to check liver function tests throughout treatment. So, I've just told you the major risks of Dulfrum, but I really want one of the take-home messages of this lesson to be that Dulfurum is an underutilized medication. Research has shown that Dulfuram is very effective on par or even outperforming other medications to treat alcohol use disorder, particularly when medication adherence is supervised by either a treatment team or by a significant other. Finally, we're going to discuss two medications that have some strength of evidence but that are not FDA approved. If your patient has given Nalrexone a try with little success, then consider Topyramate. Just because one medication isn't a good fit, it doesn't mean to give up. Topyramate has been shown to reduce cravings and it may help reduce post-wdal anxiety and low mood. Studies have shown that the effect size for abstinence is moderate and it also appears to reduce the number of heavy drinking days and cravings. The suggested schedule for top pyramid is 25 milligrams a day for a week and then increasing by 25 milligrams each week with a target dose of 200 mg. So it might take four to six weeks to reach an optimal dose. One important thing to note needs to be titrated slowly given its risk of cognitive problems such as word finding difficulty and other issues with memory or concentration. Other side effects may include weight loss, so potentially consider this in patients with obesity. It also causes sedation and gastrointestinal side effects. And despite occurrences being rare, you will want to keep an eye out for metabolic acidosis, kidney stones, and glaucoma. Assess baseline cognitive status and kidney function in these patients. And last but not least, let's review gabapentin. Gabapentin is a medication often used for neuropathic pain, but it's also been found useful for patients with alcohol use disorder to increase rates of abstinence and to reduce heavy drinking and help with cravings, mood, and insomnia. Gabapentin can also be used adjunctively for alcohol withdrawal syndrome. So, you could initiate a patient when they're experiencing withdrawal and then titrate up for higher doses for craving. Effective doses range between 900 and 1,800 milligrams daily. In studies, reported side effects were minimal with the most common side effect being fatigue, insomnia, and headache, but the rates didn't differ from placebo. Gabapentin is excreted unchanged in the kidneys, and dosing should be adjusted in patients with significant kidney disease. Be mindful also of patients who have other substance use disorders as there's increasing evidence that gabapentin may be misused. All right, so we've discussed all of these medications, but how might we decide on one medication versus the other? In general, it's recommended to start with one of the firstline FDA approved medications for alcohol use disorder. So that's either nalrexone or a camperate. But turning to dulfram, topyramate or gabapentin should not be delayed if there is a good rationale such as a trial of nrexone or campers simply wasn't effective or a patient prefers one over the other. How you might decide on one medication versus another really does depend on the patients treatment goals and other health related factors. If a patient for example has a goal of complete abstinence then we'll typically talk about a camperate or dulfram. On the other hand if a patient doesn't have a goal of abstinence but wishes to take a medication only on days when heavy drinking are anticipated then oral nrexone would be a good choice. Aside from the patients treatment goals sometimes we consider comorbid illnesses when choosing a medication. So, for example, if a patient is currently prescribed long-term opioids for chronic pain, then now trexone is absolutely contraindicated and you're going to have to start with another medication. If someone has significant liver dysfunction, you may first trial a campercade which is not metabolized by the liver but excreted by the kidneys. Alternatively, if a patient has chronic neuropathic pain, then consider the gabapentin because it can have a dual action. or in someone with migraine headaches or obesity, you might think of topyramate. Let's pause for some questions. In summary, there are four FDA approved medications and two promising alternatives. Each work slightly differently and can be recommended to patients depending on their medical history and their treatment goals. Try not to get discouraged if a medication does not appear to be working, as there likely will be some trial and error to this. There's a chart you can download in the resource section containing each medication we covered and its corresponding mechanism of actions, dose, side effects, and contraindications. These are just the basics to get you started and we recommend consulting the prescriber medication guide for complete details before prescribing these medications.