In this lesson, you will learn about the pharmicotherapy for smoking sessation. Many people know that smoking is bad for them. Yet, smoking remains the leading cause of preventable death worldwide. It's also interesting to note that less than onethird of smokers who try to quit use proven smoking sessation treatments. So, why aren't people utilizing treatment? One reason could be that health care providers are not engaging in smoking sessation efforts. Let's take a vote. The most common reason for lack of engagement is lack of time, lack of expertise, or belief that efforts won't help. Sadly, time, knowledge, and belief are all barriers. The good news is by the end of this lesson you will see that it does not take that much time or knowhow to recommend medications. Remember that rates of successfully quitting nearly double with the use of medications. So let's get started. We have seven FDA approved medications for smoking sessation including nicotine replacement therapies or NRTs, bupropion and verenocline. Let us first look at the nicotine replacement therapies. There are multiple NRTs including the patch, gum, lozenes, inhalers, and nasal spray. These all offer full agonist activity at the nicotinic receptors and are started on the quit date and continued for up to 6 months. The patch comes in 21, 14, and 7 mg doses. If the person smokes more than 10 cigarettes a day, we would recommend starting with a 21 mgram patch. We would continue this for 4 weeks, then decrease to 14 mg for 2 weeks, and then 7 mg for an additional 2 weeks. If the person smokes less than 10 cigarettes, we start with the 14 mgram patch for 6 weeks and then the 7 mgram patch for two weeks. These are guidelines and it's important to use your own judgment in tapering. For instance, it wouldn't make sense to switch to a lower dose if the person has not reduced or stopped their cigarette use. In this instance, we'd continue the higher do higher dose and work on behavioral strategies to assist the person in their quit efforts. The patch is placed on the upper body above the waist and below the neck in a new location daily. Lozenes and gum come in two and four milligrams. The recommendation is the 2 mgram gum if the person smokes less than 24 cigarettes a day and 4 mg gum if more. The gum and lozenes can be taken every 1 to two hours and are particularly effective when used in combination with the patch. The patient should be instructed not to eat or drink for 15 minutes prior to or during use. The gum requires specific instructions of chew and park. As the nicotine is absorbed through the oral mucosa, the patient needs to chew the gum until the flavors released and then park it along the gum line for the active ingredient to be absorbed. If the person chews the gum like regular chewing gum, then the nicotine will go to the gut, not be absorbed and likely cause some GI distress. Similarly, the lozen should be placed in the mouth allowing it to slowly dissolve with an effort to minimize swallowing so that again the active ingredient can be absorbed through the oral mucosa. The lozen should not be chewed or swallowed. The inhaler involves a 4 mgram cartridge to be used every 1 to 2 hours and the nasal spray is a dose of 0.5 mg. The patient should use one to two doses every 1 to two hours. So with all of these nicotine replacement options available, how do we decide? Given that the recommendation is a combination of NRT, if we're using NRT alone, the most common recommendation would be to use a patch for a long acting treatment along with one of the other shorter acting forms for breakthrough craving. In patients with severe eczema or psoriasis, a patch may be contraindicated, in which case we're then limited to the only the short acting agents. Among the short acting agents, the inhaler should be avoided in those with bronospastic disease and the nasal spray should be avoided in those with underlying chronic nasal disorders or with severe reactive airway disease. If there are no contraindications to any of the available forms, then it's often about patient preference and availability of medication. Many patients do seem to prefer the gum and lozenge as it may address the behavioral and oral components associated with smoking. Beyond nicotine replacement therapies, we have two other medications to consider. Bupropriion and verenocin. Buproprion decreases craving and withdrawal symptoms. The mechanism of action is not entirely clear, but it works at the norepinephrine and dopamine receptors to inhibit re-uptake as well as it is an antagonist at the nicotinic acetyloline receptors. Bupropriion is started 1 to two weeks before the quit date at 150 mg daily for 3 days and then increased to 150 mg twice a day. Buproprion works best if used in combination with nicotine replacement therapy which would be started on the quit date. We continue this for 2 to 6 months. Although if added for managing depressive symptoms as well, the medication may be continued even after the individual has stopped smoking. As with any medication, you will want to discuss potential side effects with patients and monitor closely. Buproprion had a blackbox warning issued for neurossychiatric symptoms including suicidal thoughts. This medication also lowers the seizure threshold so it's contraindicated in a person who has a seizure disorder or who may be at higher risk of having a seizure. Verenocline is the most effective single agent although combination patch and gum is equally effective. It is a partial agonist at the nicotenic receptors and competitively inhibits the binding of nicotine. This partial activity allows for moderate dopamine release, minimal withdrawal from nicotine and blocks nicotine so that smoking is less rewarding. Verenocin is started one week before the quit date and is titrated from 0.5 mg every morning for days 1 through 3, 0.5 mg twice a day for days 4 through 7, and then 1 millig twice a day from day 8 onward. Of course, we can't forget side effects and monitoring. The most common side effect is nausea in up to onethird of patients along with headache, insomnia, and vivid dreams. If the target dose of 1 milligram twice a day is not tolerated, the dose can be lowered to 0.5 milligrams twice a day with still a very positive effect. Of note, verenoc had a blackbox warning issued in 2010 for neuroscsychiatric effects, but that has since been removed. In summary, we have nicotine replacement therapies which are agonist, verenocline which is a partial agonist, mbuproprion which is an antagonist. NRTs and bbuprion are most effective when used in combination and verenocline is the most effective single agent. There will likely be some trial and error involved. Remember too that while we are discussing pharmarmacotherapy here that techniques including behavioral counseling, telephone support, and self-help interventions are important adjunctive treatments that will improve outcomes. It is important to stay optimistic and instill confidence in your patient. After all, successful quitters have on average seven unsuccessful attempts. You do not need to memorize all this material. There's a chart you can download in the resource section containing each medication we covered and its corresponding mechanism of actions, dose, side effects, and contraindications.