All right. So, in this video, I'm going to suggest a process for you to try to generate to start generating ideas. But I am going to go back and repeat what I said before, which is that the design process is a continuation of the research you've already started and it takes place over a long period of time. So, you're going to continue engaging with the community you're going to be working with. But in order to make the idea generation process more tangible, I'm going to suggest this sevenstep workshop that you can do. And I want you to set aside anywhere from two to four hours to do this workshop. And you're probably going to do it multiple times. It's not like the first time you try, you're going to generate the perfect idea. It's best done in a team. So hopefully you can assemble a team from the people you've been talking to already and working within your community. If not, you can always just ask friends or colleagues or family members to help you out. You could try it alone, but you'll really be surprised about how the ideas you generate are going to differ when others are there to bounce ideas off of and build each other's build on each other's ideas. So try it out in a team setting. So the first step in the design workshop is to assemble a team. You want to try to assemble a team of people who have different ways of looking at things, right? In the last module, we talked about lived experience versus learned experience versus professional experience. So, you can have a team of people who have experience the problem in different ways from different perspectives, who have different training backgrounds, so social or cultural backgrounds. You could even have someone who is not familiar with the problem at all because sometimes it's like the outsider who looks at things differently. So try to assemble people who are different than you with different skill sets and perspectives to work together. And it can be two people, four people, six people. You don't want it to be too huge. So that's the first step. Assemble a team. The second step is formulate your problem statement. Right? What is the problem you're trying to solve? Just write it down and then turn it into a question. How might we? What would it look like to what if? So you turn the problem statement into a design question or a design challenge. And that's the question you're going to brainstorm about. The third step is to specify parameters. Um, and that means that you're going to frame the problem within the facts that you already know, right? the research you've done like who are the people that you're working with, what is the place, what are some of the constraints or some of the assets that you've discovered along the way. So, usually when you place these constraints around your brainstorming, they help unleash creativity, right? They frame the problem. So once you've assembled the team, specified your problem statement, what it is you're trying to tackle, turned it into a design question, and specified some parameters for yourself, then you're ready to brainstorm. And brainstorm is just, you know, it's like a storm in your brain, right? Like things are just coming out, lightning strikes, you're generating ideas. Some of them might be totally lame, others might be totally out there. The brains, the main thing about brainstorming is that you don't stop to discuss or assess ideas. You just throw them out there. There are going to be bad ideas. There are going to be good ideas. There's going to be big ideas. There's going to be little ideas. No idea is right or wrong or too big or too small. You write them all down. You could start by each. Some of my students, they take like post-it notes and they quietly write their ideas and then they put them together and they build on each other's ideas. Or you could just sit around and throw things out there and write them on a flip chart or, you know, take notes in whatever way you want. But you want to give yourself time to just keep extracting ideas from yourselves and from each other until it kind of fizzles. So that's the brainstorm. Okay? You just put everything out there and then we'll go into selecting the top ideas. So there's you try not to stop each other from coming up with ideas during the brainstorm. There's no like saying no but or yes but or you know just let it all come out and then you'll screen for them. So when it finally comes time to do the fifth step of selecting the top ideas that you might proceed with, that's when you think about okay, what might actually work? And in innovation, people usually use this ven diagram of desiraability, feasibility, and viability to select top ideas, right? Like what do people actually want? What's desirable? What might actually work? What's feasible? And what could be sustained over time? What's viable, you know, financially speaking? I like to add two other circles to this ven diagram which are impact. What's going to make a difference? What's going to actually make a dent in this problem? And how you feel, what are you excited about? What are you passionate about? What do you actually want to work on? So these are the five things that I recommend you use to select the top ideas. Desiraability, feasibility, viability, impact, and you how you feel about it. Then the sixth step which you might have done already in the third step when you specified your parameters is to pinpoint your end user. Now some people like to pinpoint the end user at the beginning like who's my customer? Who am I brainstorming around? But the thing is we're starting with the problem statement and there could be a lot of different customers to brainstorm around. There could be the end user who the problem is affecting. There could be someone who's serving the end user who's trying to solve this problem. That might be your customer in the end. So that's why I like to keep it open at the beginning. And then you might have multiple customers depending on what your ideas are. So at this stage, you're going to look at the idea and say, okay, who's the customer for who's the end user for this idea? Who's going to engage with it and decide whether or not to use it? And whose life is it going to make better? It might be if you have one more than one idea, you might have more than one potential end users. And then you think about okay, how am I going to go test it with those end users? So in order to do that, the seventh step is to create a prototype. And you might think when you hear the word prototype that you're going to actually like make a physical mockup of an object, which could be the case if your idea is an object. In many cases, it's not an object. it's more like a service or a product or a process. And so there's many ways to create prototypes out of this. You can even just draw it out. Um you can you can if it's like a website or an app or something, you can sketch out what it would look like. If it's a process, you can make a diagram or a flowchart that you can then kind of like ask people to try out. So the idea of creating a prototype is to just be able to show people what your idea is. It's just a way to sample or simulate the idea and make it tangible. And that's where the idea generating process ends is that you come up with ideas. You screen through them for top ideas and think about who's the end user you're going to need to test this idea with. And then you create a prototype so that you can go out and test your idea with the end user. And then the next video I'm going to talk about what does that mean? What what am I talking about when I say test your idea with the end user?