In the context of the design process at this early stage, all I mean by testing your ideas is really talking to people. I want you to get out there and talk to as many people as possible and share your idea and get feedback. So, it's kind of like that informational interview process we talked about in the last module, but it's about sharing your idea and getting feedback. First and foremost, you want to talk to the end users that you identified at the end of the design workshop, but you also want to talk with people who have already tried something like this, right? You want to now do research about like who who already came up with this idea or something similar or is attempting in a different place. Those people are going to have a lot of insight for you about what might work and what might not, right? And then you want to talk to people funding solutions for this problem and get their feedback. You even want to talk to people who have been part of the reason that the problem is propagating. So all the same stakeholders you are already in conversation with you about the problem, you now come back to them to discuss potential solutions. And the more people you can talk to, the more you can figure out what might work, what might not work, and how you need to tweak and adapt your idea. So in the context of this module, that's all I mean by testing your idea is just talking to people. And then in the next module, you can kind of try to create like mockups or landing pages or putting people through experiments, right? But for now, we're just sharing the idea. You do have a prototype, so you can a ask people to interact with the idea, right? Like if you have drawn out uh what an app might look like or even coded a preliminary app, you can ask people to run through it and give you feedback and be like beta testers. Or you can create um maybe you can start create like a fake landing page and being like, "Okay, this is how the website would look like and here's what it would do." And and the questions people ask you about how it works might start preparing you for the next steps. Or if it's a process like you're creating a clinic where people go through certain steps, you can kind of do a skit, right? Like when you're practicing a play and ask people to go through these certain steps. So at this stage, you're kind of doing things manually. Whatever your idea is about how something might work, you're just starting in a rudimentary way to share it with people. Ask them to engage with it in whatever way is possible, easy, fast, and cheap. And that's how you continue iterating the design process. Iterating means doing it again. You know, rapid iteration. Like people in the design community use the word fail fast. Like find out quickly what does it mean for this idea not to work, right? What would it take for it to work? What questions are people asking? So that's the testing process is that once you've generated ideas, you get them out there, you share them with people in whatever way you can, and then it allows you to continue iterating them, refining them, and evolving over time until you feel like you've generated evidence from people that this could actually work. In the next video, I'm going to share with you some tests that I like to use when evaluating whether an idea could actually work.