So in the last video we talked about testing your ideas with potential end users and other stakeholders. And the idea is to gather feedback and continue strengthening your ideas. Now when I'm trying to evaluate potential ideas or even existing programs, there are two tools that I really like to use. And so I want to share them with you because I think that sometimes just getting out there and sharing ideas and getting lots of feedback from people can be like you can feel like you're drowning, right? And this helps bring structure. It's something concrete that you can test your ideas off of and try to think about what are the criteria against which you are evaluating if an idea might make a difference or not. So these tools are the triple AQ checklist and the theory of change and I'm going to walk you through them um one by one and then I would like to challenge you when this module is over. All right, so let's get nerdy. The AAQ checklist is something that comes from the field of health and human rights and I studied it in my public health training and I think it really belongs in social entrepreneurship. It's it talks about it's from having a rightsbased approach to solving social problems. And so in the field of health and human rights, we say that every program, intervention or offering should meet these criteria. So first the goal is to make it available right availability means that you're providing a product or service. But avail making something available is not enough. The second thing is accessibility. Can your end user actually access this new product or service that you're now trying to make available? So accessibility can have a lot of different dimensions. It can mean affordability. Can someone pay for it? It could mean physically accessible. How can different people with different characteristics actually access your solution? It can mean durability, right? And so the third one is acceptability. This refers to the social and cultural environment that might accept or potentially resist your solution. You might think it's an awesome idea, but then the community you're working with might just not welcome it. And so that's the difference between availability, accessibility, and acceptability. And then the Q in AAQ is quality. Because to create the change you desire, you can't sacrifice quality. And sometimes there's trade-offs, right? It can be tricky. like to make something more affordable, it might become less uh strong quality. And so the idea is finding ways to make something available, accessible, and acceptable while keeping that really high quality. And that's why it's so challenging to practice social entrepreneurship because of these tradeoffs. The idea is that not any one of these attributes is enough alone, right? That's why we put them together. So when you're evaluating your ideas and testing them out and having these conversations, just ask yourself, how can I optimize not only for availability, but also for accessibility, acceptability, and quality? And although I got this from my training in health and human rights, I also learned later on through my readings and explorations that it really resonates with economic research, too. So this graph is an illustration that was published by two leading economists from MIT who wrote a book many years ago about the economics of poverty. It's called poor economics if you want to check it out. And they use this S-shaped curve to illustrate what they call the poverty trap. And a poverty trap takes place when someone makes decisions because they're already living in poverty and those decisions end up contributing to them remaining in poverty. And I'm showing you this to illustrate why triple AQ matters and how it goes beyond the field of public health. For example, if if you are living in poverty, you might end up buying the cheapest product rather than the most effective or durable product. And then you have to keep paying for it over and over again because you couldn't afford to pay for another alternative that might have worked better and lasted longer but was more expensive. So it keeps you in this poverty track. So, circling back to the triple AQ checklist, balancing availability with accessibility, acceptability, and quality is one way to avoid creating or perpetuating a poverty trap. That's why these kinds of checklists and frameworks really matter, and it's important to bring them to social entrepreneurship. Okay, so that was a triple AQ checklist. It's just a set of screening criteria that can help strengthen your ideas and avoid unintended consequences. Now, let's talk about the theory of change. So, I mentioned there are two frameworks I use as tools to test ideas. And the second one is theory of change. And full disclosure, I love the theory of change tool. It's just one of those things that really resonates with me. I've used it a lot in my work with Alfanage, in my work with other organizations around the world and with my students here at Yale. And I discovered that it really works to evaluate both new ideas and existing programs or organizations. Like I literally remember using it with A-50-year-old social enterprise in Lebanon and helped them figure out what they want to keep about their work, what part of their work is actually creating the change that their mission sets out to create and refine their ideas and innovate to continue growing their impact. So, this template that you see here is from the DIY toolkit, and that stands for development, impact, and you, although it's also do-it-yourself. And this toolkit was created by an awesome organization called NESTA that provides online tools and resources for social entrepreneurship. And we're going to keep using tools from the DIY toolkit in future modules as well. Now, this is just one template to help you articulate your theory of change. Okay? So um in this template you start on the very left hand side where with the problem right like what does the current situation look like and then what I like to do is jump straight to the end and talk about what does the counterfactual look like and counterfactual means like what would the world look like if we were able to get rid of this problem then you come back to the left hand column and you think about what is the entry point like who is my end user what is the place where I'm introducing my idea and then you specify the steps needed to create change and what are going to be the direct effect of those steps and what might be some of the long-term benefits that would lead to that counterfactual. And under each column, this is the important part. You specify the assumptions, right? Like you're assuming people will want to use this. You're assuming they have time and money to engage with your solution. You're you know each different ideas has different sol assumptions and the theory of change basically helps you link the idea that you're coming up with to the problem that you're solving trying to solve. And it's a it's a pressure test about like what are the assumptions that need to be true that I need to test and find out if they're true in order for this idea to actually create this change. And then you know this is just one template to help you articulate your theory of change but there are many other ways you once you you know I like to use this template because it forces me to write the assumptions but then I also like to go back and summarize my theory of change into an if then sentence like if I do this then that change will occur. So you know a theory of change can also be a paragraph like everything we do in this class. It's not a format. The format I share is just one way to help you go through an exercise to come up with the end product uh which is you being able to articulate your theory of change. And you know it's not a one-time thing either. You will revisit the theory of change at multiple points along your journey like the 50-year-old social enterprise I worked with. And this template might help like in the initial design stage. It can help you test your assumptions and your hypothesis. And then later in your journey, it can help you revisit whether those assumptions still hold and how you want your offering to evolve over time. And I'm going to include in your readings for this week a video from the DIY toolkit that walks you through an example of this template. And it's a public health example, but that wasn't me. That was them. They just decided to make the video about HIV AIDS. So that will give you a concrete idea about what it looks like for someone to walk through this with an idea. Okay. So I hope that the triple AQ checklist and the theory of change exercise will be helpful for you in testing and refining your ideas. And remember, take your time with this process. It's not going to clarify itself overnight. You are going to start feeling like I at least usually when I start out with a new idea, I kind of feel like I'm drowning, right? Like there's no clarity. you don't know if it'll work. And these tools are are there to help it feel more tangible. But also, you should know that part of social entrepreneurship is getting out of your comfort zone and getting comfortable with uncertainty and with not having the answers right away. And on that note, in the next video, we're going to review some of the dos and don'ts of the design process and of generating ideas about the solution that you'll implement.