Okay, let's start with the dos. A lot of them are going to be similar to the general approaches we've been following already. And the dos and don'ts of design. You do want to think like a child, right? You want to ask what if the sky is the limit. You want to think big and experiment with different ideas. And most importantly, you want to design with and around your end user. immerse yourself and go to where the problem is. So it's really similar to the process you've already been doing and you want to test your ideas with the end user. So all of these are important things you do want to do. And I'd also like to share some tips to help if you get stuck with the design process. So something that might help is reframe the problem. Are you asking the right question? Right? Like everyone, many people know that that famous anecdote that people say that if someone had asked, you know, no one would have invented the car if they just asked, "How can we make a horse go faster?" They would have tried to design a faster horse, but the problem statement they asked is like, "How can we get from place A to B faster?" And then also reposition yourself. Can you take a different perspective? You know it part of that is immersing yourself, part of that is um shadowing different people, experiencing the problem in different ways. Um looking at it from different points of views, right? Like it could be an actually physical different point of view or a diff mental point of view. So reframe, reposition. The third thing is conduct a premortem. Like ask yourself what would it take for this not to work? what what could I design for something to not work or to make the problem worse, right? And then that might help stimulate your brain in a different way. Another thing that's really helpful is to break down the problem into many challenges, right? Like you might have this huge societal challenge, but there's so many different aspects. So maybe you just make different problem statements and you brainstorm around different aspects. So these are some tips to help if you get stuck with the design process. Now let's talk about the don'ts. Again, some might look familiar to you because they are part of the principles of social entrepreneurship. So don't do this alone. I mean, okay, you can brainstorm alone, you can think alone. We've talked about the importance of reflective practice, but in general, you're not going to solve the world's problems alone. You need to work with others. Don't rush this step. Again, we've already said this. Sometimes we're so eager and we think we have an awesome idea and we want to get to it. But just take your time and give yourself the opportunity to let your idea evolve and iterate over time and with in collaboration with others. And I think I said at the beginning the very beginning of the course like to try to let to to not control the process. Sometimes if you try to control something and make it perfect, you defeat the purpose. Like with Madiam, you know, when I was working with her, the woman I mentioned in the refugee camp in Lebanon, I really had to let go of all control and let the work take different shapes and forms that I didn't think it would take because others need to have ownership o over it. It can't just be me, right? And so that brings me to the next don't like don't think you have the perfect idea. You don't. Let me tell you right now. You don't have the perfect idea. Others need to validate it. Others need to own it. And this is really tied to the idea of not rushing the process. Sometimes when you think you have the perfect idea, you think like whatever, I'm just going to implement this and it's going to be perfect and after the fact everyone's going to thank me. Yeah, that never happens. So even if you have the perfect outcome, but people don't have ownership over the idea and they haven't been part of the process, they're not going to be satisfied. So it's better to have people be part of the process, to have ownership over it, and let it be less than perfect. They're going to be happier with it and it's going to make more of a difference. And on the flip side, that's tied to the next don't. Don't be afraid to fail. You will fail multiple times before you succeed. In tech entrepreneurship, the statistic is like from from tech entrepreneurs that get venture funding, nine out of 10 fail. And social entrepreneurship, we don't have the same data and statistics, but it's kind of the same. I think Echoing Green, one of the organizations that support social entrepreneurs, did a study and said that 87% of the entrepreneurs they work with fail in their initial idea. So failure is part of the process. Every time you fail, you should be like, "Yes, I've got one more failure in my belt." And that means one step closer to success. You have to fail many times before you succeed. And at the same time, don't disregard innovations that are too small. So that brings me to my closing thoughts. People always think innovation has to be disruptive, right? We're going to disrupt this problem. We're going to change the face of the earth. I mean, yeah, that's great. I hope you will. But also even small innovations can really make a difference. Even if you can improve one small aspect of this problem, you're still creating social change. And incremental innovation is also important. So build on what others have done before you. Stand on the shoulders of giants. If each of us can create even a small change, then together we can actually have a chance at tackling these social challenges. So keep that in mind. Keep in mind all these dos and don'ts and tips for when you get stuck. And in the next video, I'm going to share a case study of a social entrepreneur who innovated on multiple levels to design for scale.