In this video, I'm going to share a case study about Hippo Campus Learning Centers, which is a social enterprise in India that I got to visit many years ago, and that's why I chose it at this as this example. And over the years, Hippo Campus has evolved a lot. It looks really different today from when I visited it. But I I want to share with you the early design phase because that's what I think is a great illustration of the lessons that we've had in this module. So Umsh Malhotra was the founder of hippocampus learning centers and he lived in Bango Bangalore um a city in the state of carnataka in India and the problem that he wanted to work on was education in Karnataka and the learning outcomes that people were achieving. he felt there was a deficit in the learning outcomes. So he did a lot of research and he talked to a lot of people and you know in some settings it could have been that not enough children were going to school for example but in that setting actually a lot of children were going to school. there were public schools, you know, they started at the age of six at the time. And so he broke it down into one aspect that he wanted to focus on, which is that people were that children were not having the access to early learning like what we call preschool in the US before the age of six. And there's a lot of evidence that shows that early learning helps students then achieve stronger learning outcomes when they do go to primary school. And so his theory of change was when he designed his solution, his offering was that if he can provide highquality lowcost early learning centers in rural Karnataka, then children in rural Karnataka would achieve higher learning outcomes after they got into public schools. that he really used the triple AQ checklist to make early learning available, accessible, acceptable, and of high quality. And he built on community assets in designing his solution. So two key factors that emerged in his design was the profile of the teachers he employed and the nature and content of the curriculum. So the the curriculum wasn't too different from what other NOS's used in the area, but they simplified it and they designed it in a way that could be standardized and scaled while also giving the teacher freedom to contextualize and adapt it in each different village. So, the early learning centers were called hippo campus, which is kind of cute because I think the hippo campus is a part of your brain, but then the the logo was a hippo and it's also a campus. Get it? Anyway, so hippo campus learning centers were located in the villages and this helped with on the distribution level, right? like you're going to where the people are. You're reaching the last mile. You're removing the transportation costs. Children can walk to the centers. So that's also part of the revenue model that allowed them to charge a very low price which was $3 per month which was affordable for the parents in that community. And they had to keep their costs low to make it financially sustainable. And so that's how they innovated at the distribution and revenue or financial level. On the product or service level, um I already mentioned they simplified the curriculum. They recruited women from the village as teachers. And that was really important because they felt it was easier to train new people in their methodology rather than untrained people that were already used to the traditional way of teaching in the public schools. So these women didn't need formal training and they didn't need English proficiency and that they were made the boss of each center. So the teacher was the boss of each center in each village and she was in charge of recruiting the students. She could tailor and adapt the core content and even the language to some degree and so each center was a financially sustainable unit. So in addition to innovating on the product and service itself, they innovated on the revenue model. So I mentioned that the parents paid $3 a month. Over time they were able to find the optimal number of children in class for the learning outcomes and the financial sustainability and each center they kept their costs low so that each center covered its costs. Also the centers doubled as an after-school remedial program so that they could use the space for two different things and have double revenue. So there was a headquarters where Umesh and his team were centered in Bangalore in the city. The headquarters was a cost center. It was not a revenue center. So their job was to develop the curriculum and update it and do the branding and also monitor the different centers. And because they didn't recover their costs, the only way that hippo campus learning centers could be financially viable is if there were hundreds of centers that could incrementally with small revenue with small like surplus and profit margins cover the headquarters cost. So this venture was designed for scale. It was designed to have 700 centers at the very start. They had to keep the costs low and the operations efficient. And so this is how they innovated at multiple levels. the product or service, the operations, the revenue model and the distribution in terms of making them in the village walking distance at the last mile. And that was the design. But then they had to test it, right? So once you finish generating ideas and testing them, you can pilot them. What a pilot means is that you roll it out on a small scale. So yeah, this was designed for 700 centers, but you're not going to roll it out with 700 centers. Now, usually people roll it out with one center. What Ush did was he rolled it out with 17. It had to work at scale from the start. Even if he piloted at a relatively smaller scale, he wanted to test it till it broke. He grew it to 78 the second year. He wanted to find out like what could go wrong and fix it right away so that he could scale fast. He kept iterating his business model, responding to external cues and over time it actually changed a lot. So he found out that due to policy changes he wouldn't be able to reach 700 centers. So he had to stop at 200 for now. He had to find ways for each center to be more sustainable, lower cost, higher margin. And now he's testing a new model where that's called micro entrepreneurship for the last mile distribution where instead of recruiting women and employing them as teachers and running the centers himself, these women could actually own and operate the centers. So that's called micro entrepreneurship and they're op they're testing that as a subbrand of Hippo campus. They're also testing online teacher training to reach more people and keep costs low. So the reason I like hippocampus learning centers is that it illustrates not only how you can keep innovating at multiple levels, how you can specify your theory of change and stick to the triple AQ checklist, but also how you keep innovating every step of the way. It's not just something that happens to generate ideas from the start. Innovating and design thinking doesn't just mean brainstorming. It means that at each step of the way, you're generating new ideas about how to have the biggest impact at the lowest cost, incorporating feedback and external cues, and innovating not only at the beginning, but also while you implement.