So this week we will actually start working on the design of software. We'll introduce the medical software life cycle, the organizing principle for a software project and over the next five to six weeks we will work through the individual steps of the cycle. So today we'll do the big overall introduction and we'll pick up each piece week six to 10 11 of this class. So our goals for this week is to introduce software life cycles. will discuss the IC62304 standard the international standard that governs medical of social life cycles and we'll introduce our example project of image guard and neurosurgery which we will use to anchor our discussion of the steps in the software life cycle at least the first part of the cycle the outline will introduce life cycles and the standard in the first couple of segments in the next two segments we'll introduce the example project the image guide neurosy project and we'll give a guided tour of the life cycle process and then the last segment we'll talk about information transmission this whole very important topic so how information gets conveyed from the user to the business analyst to the software developer engineer to the coder etc we are still following the textbook and this week's material comes from chapter 10 of this book so we'll get started this is our introduction segment to life cycles and the IC62304 standard the reason we care about life cycles is that it's explicitly mandated in the guidance here so from the FDA's general principle of software validation We have the statement that this guidance recommends an integration of software life cycle management and risk management activities while this guidance does not recommend any specific life cycle model. It does recommend the software validation verification activities be conducted throughout the entire software life cycle. So the conclusion of this of course is that we must use a life cycle model. Now note that the guidance does not recommend any specific one neither you're not they don't force you to use any one but you have to have one and while the documents speak as if they're using a waterfall that's just for illustration only so here is the standard itself this is IC62304 this is the original edition this comes from 2006 and then this is the amendment that came out in 2016 and this is a fundamental document that governs medical software now unfort Unfortunately, 2016 is before the machine learning age, so it's a little bit out of date. So hopefully there'll be a revised version of this soon, but it's still a fundamental document for us to follow. So let's look at this document. So the introduction is actually very interesting. It has a statement that says that this standard provides a framework for life cycle processes with activities and tasks necessary for the safe design and maintenance of medical device software. So the goal is safe design and maintenance. Of course, as a basic foundation, it is assumed that the medical device software is developed and maintained within a quality management system and a risk management system. And this is exactly what we talked about last week. 4.1 4.2 here refer to sections in the document there. This is the material we covered in the previous week and it's worth keeping in mind that everything that the standard talks about assumes that you have a quality management system and the risk management system in place. This is the outline of the document. You can kind of see the heart of the document is section five which is the software development process. But a very important section is also section six which talk about the software maintenance process. And for the most part this is a duplicate. So it tells you what's different about maintenance on the initial development. But those are very important sections. And then there are four annexes of which annex B is is very readable and very educational if you ever get your hands on this document as well to where 3D as by now you should be expecting any medical regulatory document any standard at some point you'll hear the word risk classification the standard define software into three classes class A low or acceptable risk class B unacceptable risk but the injury is not serious potential is not serious class C it's an acceptable risk that can lead to a serious injury or death. This is similar to the class one, class 2, class 3 that the FDA recommends. It's simply a matter for the software component of a project. And remember, a lot of these documents came from an era of medical devices where the software was part of a larger device. Just to explain this, there's a very interesting blog post I came across from Sir Mishot from MD11 Consulting. You can see the link at the bottom. And he explains class A, class B, class C in terms of a nurse using a thermometer which gives a wrong value. Now what would we classify this system? And we're talking about a system here. The nurse plus the thermometer. The system is class A low risk. If the document gives if the thermometer gives the wrong value, then the nurse is going to touch the forehead of the patient or redo the measurement with another thermometer or check the blood pressure of the patient to confirm the fever. No damage is possible. So this is class A. Even if the software gives the wrong answer, the humanin the loop can make sure that this does not result to any any harm. Class B, the thermometer gives the wrong value. and then the nurse may give a wrong treatment to the patient. So there's no checking by human here. However, there is no chance that this may endanger the patient. So now with class B, something could actually cause harm to the patient, but it's not particularly serious harm. And then class C is as you'd expect. Then the nurse is going to give the medicine to treat the fever. The wrong medicine may endanger the patient and eventually cause death. Now we're into class C. And now our requirements are significantly higher for what's expected. So that's class A, class B, and class C. And we'll return to this over the next few weeks. So what is the impact of this classification? There are more requirements as you would expect from class B and class C software. So section 5 states the manufacturer shall subdivide the software until it's represented by software units for unit classes blast and cruise. So this statement is can be found throughout the standard and the process must is most rigorous is require it must be most rigorous for software that can cause more serious harm. And this is the essence of all risk classification both at the FDA level and in the standard. So higher risk software requires more work. You need to do a more detailed design. You need to do more detailed testing. You have to have smaller pieces which is the subdivision that the statement that we quoted from before. And as you go from A to B to C or class one to class two to class three in the FDA sense, you have to do more. Higher software requires more detailed design, requires more care, it requires more evidence to ensure that we know what we're doing. We're not exposing patients to risk that's unnecessary and potentially dangerous for them. So what is a life cycle? A life cycle is a collection of steps. So you can see this waterfall model. We'll come back to this in a couple of slides. We have system requirements, software design, software implementation, verification, validation, release and maintenance. So the standard defines this as a conceptual structure spanning the life of the software from the definition of its requirements to its release. So this is IC62304. There are different life cycles and what these life cycles essentially are are different arrangements of these blocks. Do we do them only once? Do we do them in a cycle? Do we go back and forth? But the fundamentals are just these blocks. So we will talk about them in a little bit more. So the most basic life cycle and the one that everybody uses when they first start doing any kind of software work is what one could define as the code and fix life cycle. You write something, you hand it to your user, they find something wrong, you fix it and you keep going around and around. This is not what you want to be using, right? This is not appropriate for a medical device, a medical product, anything that entails risk to the patient. But this is how a lot of software actually gets developed when people do it at an amateur level at least. The standard classifies life cycles using these three characteristics here. So first we have the waterfall and the waterfall is an oneshot process from customer needs to delivery. We have incremental life cycles where the customer needs and the requirements are done once and then we do multiple cycles each adding capabilities and then finally we have evolutionary life cycles where the user needs cannot be fully understood at the beginning. So the requirements cannot be fully defined in front. So in each iteration we revisit the whole process. So let's just look at this in a little more detail in the next table. So development strategy is the first column. Do we define all the requirements first? Do we have multiple cycles and do we distribute interim software? So for the waterfall yes we define all the requirements first and no we do not have multiple cycles and we do not distribute interim software. For an incremental process, we define all the requirements first, but then we use multiple cycles and in each cycle we implement, we test, maybe we release the software and then we go back and we implement a little bit more and we go through it. So it's a sort of a slower more gradual process and then the full evolutionary cycle where we cannot define all the requirements first. So by definition we have multiple cycles and multiple releases and as we go through each cycle we use the knowledge gain to improve the requirements to understand a little bit of the user and this is fundamental. If you know exactly what you're doing you could theoretically go for a waterfall. We're going to design the software implement it test it release it all in one go. The incremental process basically says yes we can define it but what we're going to do just to make sure is we're going to release a first release. We're going to create a first version of the software that doesn't have all the features, use that to then develop a second release, a third release. So, we're doing a little bit of testing as you go through it. Reduces the risk potentially as well. The evolutionary cycle says we can't we we do not understand completely what our users need. So, we'll make a version, we'll send it out to them, we'll get feedback. Based on that, we may have to update our designs, change the requirements, go back, create a second version or third version until we converge to something. So this is the waterfall. This is this incremental process one step at a time and we just it it's called a waterfall because it follows the flow of water down a waterfall. There's no going up here. It's on one pass throughout all the steps. It's an all or nothing life cycle. So we do not have incomplete prototypes at any point. And these are very useful testing sometimes and they also allow identification of issues. So the waterfall assumes that you know exactly what you're doing. The FDA does not prescribe this though many documents use it for illustration. Both the FDA, the IMDRF, the standard are all written as if you're using a waterfall. But that's just because it's the easiest one to explain. Let's go to the other end of the process. Let's look at the evolutionary life cycle. Here you do an initial requirement analysis and design. You create a version of the software. You release this inter version to your customers. You get feedback. Based on the feedback, you obtain the design. you create another version and you go around this loop as many times as you need. Maybe a few times, maybe every few months you create another version. You may release four, five, six versions until the thing is complete and then you release your final version to your customers. Now again I just what I would like you to remember as we move to the next segment here is that the different life cycles are govern how the pieces are connected individual pieces. How does one require do requirements? How does one design software how implement test are the same regardless of the life cycle? It's just the arrangement that changes between the different life cycles. So what we will talk about from here on out in this class in this week and the rest of this class is that we're going to pretend that we're talking about the idealized waterfall model and just describe the steps. But remember that in practice the steps could be done in different orders depending on the life cycle model you choose to follow. So with that we'll end this segment and in the next segment we'll continue our discussion of the standard and the life cycle model. Thank you.