So in this final segment, we'll talk about ensuring information transmission. How does important information travel down the steps of this process? The users tell something to the business analyst, the business analyst tells something to software designers, the software designers tell something to people who code. How to make sure we don't lose information along the way and we don't get into trouble because of that. So the example I always like to use to illustrate this and we've seen this before in week one is this game of telephone that just you may have played as your childhood. Here's a series of four children and the first one whispers something in the ear of the second. The second whispers what they think they heard in the ears of the third etc. And so something that started as computer back may end up as as a river mug and children have a lot of fun time with the confusion that goes through. However, in addition to the funding side, if this is a serious side of this problem, if this is the user and this is your business analyst and this is your senior software engineer and this is your programmer, you want this to go through. You want what your programmer does to be what your user needs. And unless you do this, then you create the wrong piece of software. Just to illustrate this point, we'll have a short video clip from NC Lin Fin. She directs a lab called Play to Prevent. They create serious games to help adolescents with addiction such as treasure addiction, smoking and other related issues. And she's going to talk about the what they discovered as they were trying to figure out how to maintain this information. They use an external company to the software. They were doing the design. They were talking with his students, high school kids where they use this effectively. And this is a very enlightening clip that tells you a little bit about what they discovered as part of the process. something is just not getting through. Like something we are not communicating well, it is not getting through. And so we we took a major pause and what we ended up doing was then and we've done this with each game project since is we created what we call our gameplay manual or our game playbook is what we call them. And these are documents, you know, for each game that are upwards of 20, 30 pages that specifically around each of our mini games outline all the components of that miniame. The theoretical constructs, the player, what we call the player transformation goals, what we want to see, you know, changed in our player, um the science behind it. And the goal of the game playbook is to really they're intervention manuals. So it's like what we do with you know science when you go into the lab and you run an experiment you have a manual that you can document exactly what you're looking to do and exactly what happens with you know with that experiment. And so it really struck me that we needed that type of a document which became a living document between the two teams to be able to communicate and be make sure we were literally all on the same page that what we were trying to accomplish was to change the way kids think. >> And so this is the interesting part here. This is a nonregulated process and yet again they came to more or less the same understanding. You need detailed documents that specify everything as well even here. So how do we ensure that critical information makes it? So let's look at the steps on this process. The user they perhap communicate their needs to a member of the team. Perhaps a business analyst. This is how user needs come in. The business analyst then has to communicate to the senior design team to get the systems requirements. The senior design team has to communicate with the senior software engineers. This is perhaps a software design. The senior software engineers need to talk to the junior developers and this will do the actual coding and you know the people who do the testing and all kinds of other people involved and the challenge is does the result match what the users need and we have to ensure that critical information makes it all the way through as Dr. Philim mentioned before that we're literally on the same page and the key to the process is to check and to review to have written documents that everybody reviews and we go back and we have regular meetings to check and verify that we're doing okay. So a key question here if you get involved in this process is how much to transmit. Obviously not everything that happens at each stage gets communicated to the next stage right we have to figure out what's important here. So the needs finding will not be fully communicated to the system developers. Not every detail of the discussion needs to make it to the next step. But we have to figure out what's important. The relevant portions must be communicated. And it puts a premium on the ability of people in the chain to summarize the important parts. And it's important not only tell them what you must do, but to provide enough background material to explain the why in addition to the what. And this is important. If you say, you know, I need the phone on the user interface to be 18 points and you leave it at that, you may confuse the programmers to implement it. Why do they need 18 point? If you say this software in addition to saying that say remember this software is meant to be used by visually impaired people and help people to see the screen from two feet away and though we need this kind of phone it may lead them not only to think about the phone size but we also get them to think a little bit about color contrast and the type of phone they pick and this may help them as they design their software. So explaining the why is very important. It's good to maintain that information flow down the chain. An analysis an analogy I like to use is this thing called a sufficient statistics from statistics. So a sufficient statistic is that summary of a data set. This is my informal definition that gives you all the information about the data set that you need for a specific task. So the data set is perhaps a discussion that went on in the previous step and the sufficient statistic is that summary of this that the users in the next phase need to do their job. So if you think about to give a simple example, the data set is your friends and how much pizza would they like to eat. So you have to order the pizza. Now the data set is how much slices of pizza. Assume it's only one kind of pizza to simplify the example. Each person needs the sufficient statistic. What you need to do the job is just the total because this will help you figure out how much pizza to order. So you don't need to convey forward to the person who's going to pick up the phone and order the pizza. Well, so and so needs two slices. so needs three slices and so and so gave me a hard time but decided he needed two slices. Just tell them the total, they can do their job. They can move on. On the other hand, if you give less than the sufficient statistics, for example, if you have vegetarians in the room and you don't convey that information, you'll end up in trouble pretty quickly once the food arrives. So there are tools to manage this process. So far everything I've spoken about appears that we're talking about a lot of, you know, documents. There are actual tools. The process involves several documents. There are tools for example the one that companies that I've consulted for use called Helix to manage and to simplify this task where the requirements are entered as records in a databases and these documents live now in electronic format and you can generate appropriate reports to get the equivalent of maybe what used to be documents in the beginning. The last part of this segment we're going to talk about traceability. So traceability is the degree to which a relationship can be established between two or more products of the development process. So this is how connected things are. A traceability analysis creates traces a map of relationships from the user needs all the way to risk verification, validation and risk analysis. So you know from here on all the way through and it ensures that all the work done for example the code the testing links back to a user need and forward to verification and validation procedure and this is important. So if you have code in your software that you cannot trace back to user need you have written extra code and in addition to it being a waste of time and effort extra code means extra bugs extra risk. If you have a piece of code in your software that you have already linked to a user le so that part of the puzzle is solved that does not link forward to a verification or validation procedure that means you have code that's untested and untested code is going to be a source of trouble it will fail at the worst possible time this is Murphy's law for medical software if you wish and so traceability is this process that ensures that everything is connected all the way back to the us of the user and all the way forward to the verification validation of the software. So it's there for a reason and it has been tested. That's the goal of traceability. Now the general principle of software validations from the FDA has a list of traceability connections that you may find useful. For example, we link the systems requirement to risk analysis. So this is what the system must be able to do. And then we perform a risk analysis. We demonstrate that we've evaluated each requirement for risk. The system requirements to software design. Each requirement must map to some aspect of our software. The source code has implemented back to the design. We don't have code that didn't come from the design. The source code is implemented forward to the appropriate testing procedures. And then testing itself. Unit test. These are the lower level test trace back to the detail software design. Now you can only do this if you have a detailed software design probably classes P and C. Integration test trace back to the high level software design. And then system level test trace back to system requirements. And that just ensures that everything is interconnected. With this we come to the end of this week, this high level introduction to the software life cycle. In the next week, we'll pick up the story and we'll first talk about user needs and then we'll talk about the development of the system requirement specification document. Thank you.