This module instead of our usual dos and don'ts video, we're going to talk about the SWAT and pastel. It's basically kind of a dos and don'ts of developing your idea further in a way. SWAT stands for strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats. So, it's a ways of summarizing the strengths and weaknesses of your idea. These are going to be something internal or inherent to your idea and the external opportunities and threats uh surrounding you in the landscape or the market where you'll be implementing the idea. And these are things that are going to emerge as you have these conversations to develop your idea further. And this is just something you do again on your own or with your team like you brainstorm, you fill it out, you write the different pro, you know, pluses and minuses. Um, and it's also a way it's going to be informed by the feedback people give you when you're having these conversations. So that's SWAT. You know, it's a great way to let people know that you're selling the strengths of your idea, but you're also aware of the limitations and it lets people know how they can help you. The pastel is it's just a framework that I really like. It's a way for you to break down those external opportunities and threats. And it refers to political, economic, social, technological, environmental, and legal aspects. So it's kind I don't want to say it's a checklist but it it basically poses the questions like what political factors what is it in the today's current policy landscape that might help your idea succeed or might work against you or that is an opportunity that you're responding to or potentially a threat. You know this is really relevant whether you're working in the US or any other country. The economic aspects refer to the trends, you know, are we in a recession? Are things booming? What are the different groups of people and the way they're responding to the larger economic trends? Those are some simplification, but of course, economic factors are part of what the external opportunities and threats are going to be. And then there's the social aspects, right? Like what are the societal opportunities and threats? How will people respond to things differently uh as they relate to your idea? The technology it's it could be part of the inherent strengths and weaknesses and it could be part of the external opportunities and threats like how does your idea employ technology? How does it request or rely on technology? For example, if it needs internet and you're working in a country where not everyone has access to internet. So this is always going to be part of what makes your solution succeed or not. Whether it's a strength or a limitation, you need to be able to think about that. And then the environmental aspects could be um related to the environment you're working in. It could be related to larger environmental forces like climate change. but just how does your solution fit in to what's going on in the larger environment and how does what's going on in the larger environment fit into whether and how your solution will work and then legal aspects. What are the legal considerations? Are there things you need to be thinking about in terms of implementing your solution? Um are you potentially helping people um respond to the legal environment or could it could there be legal barriers that you need to get over? There will be many examples of that in the next module's case study that will be fun to talk about. So when you're thinking about your internal strengths and weaknesses and your external threats and opportunities, the pastel framework is a way for you to break those down and and ask yourself, okay, how can I think about political aspects, economic, social, technological, environmental, and legal. That's it. It's just things that you need to be thinking about, things that you need to be aware of, how you're going to manage risks and uncertainty. It's really a really important part of developing your idea further, figuring out whether and how different aspects of it will work and starting to develop your business model. So it's important SWAT and pastel are important for two reasons. First, they help you understand and assess your idea so you can decide how to proceed. And second, it helps you communicate it to others who will support you in making your idea into a reality. And I know from my days in venture philanthropy, if I meet a social entrepreneur who's claiming their idea is awesome and perfect and amazing, that's a red flag for me because no idea is perfect. I want to know, have you thought through your weaknesses and threats? How can I help you with those? How can you mitigate risks? How are you going to respond to those? And what are your strengths? What is the evidence that indicates that these are strengths and that this is going to work? And let's build on your strengths. So you just need to be honest about this with yourself and with others because the reason you're talking to people and getting feedback and sharing your idea and iterating it is that you want people to help you implement it. So if you're transparent about why you think it will work and what you need other people's help with, you'll have a higher chance of getting people on board to help you. In the next video, I'm going to share a case study that illustrates a lot of the things we talked about in this module. And as I go through the case study, I'll kind of try to talk you through how I might go about assessing that idea through the SWAT and pastel lens.