I'm going to talk about the French Revolution. It's hard to do and I'll leave myself about 45 minutes after I screw on at the beginning. Um and so um um I want to to do two things. I want to see the revolution through the eyes of Maxim Robus Pierre member of the committee of public safety arguably with Sanjus its most important uh member uh Jacob in in a way he incarnated uh Jacoben Jacob he incarnated the French Revolution and in doing so I want to talk about the terror and above all what it was that why it was that people supported or opposed the revolution and it comes down a great deal to religion as we'll see. But first, because I promised that we had um uh you know, the only live bootleg only bootleg uh album of the trial of the king uh and of his execution, I thought I'd play those and also the death of citizen Maha in his bathtub. Uh and to do that, I I I decided to bring a prop uh because this is uh we're going to talk about and I don't mean I'm not uh making light of uh of of of uh instant death. I just finished a book about a guy who ends up with his putting his head in the little window. You knew people were smaller back in those days, but you really didn't imagine that they were this small. Do you know what this is? What this comes from? This guillotine mass. Do you know what this is for? So, you know, I mean, what? No. No. I mean, I This is a real That hurt actually when I did that. Uh yeah, don't write your parents, especially freshman. Say, "God, he was running around waving a guillotine running running running running around the the place." There he goes again. No. Uh this is for cigars. This is for cigars. Yeah. My idea. Was that your idea? You That's awesome. Ah, no. I don't Don't smoke. Don't smoke. Don't smoke. Anyway, can you put on the on the first one? This is the trial of the king, Simon. Yeah. Thanks. The CD. This is the This is the king. I'll just translate part. I'm not going to translate the whole thing. It doesn't matter if you don't know French. This is just for ambiance. This is ambiance. They're putting him on trial. He did bad things. Just I I'll translate part in a minute. This takes probably too much time, but it's cool. This is from a rock opera. Keith Richards live here. Keith Richards. Ah, this is too long to get to it. Apologize. But it Louis the 16th. This was his finest moment. This is not Louis the 16th. Yep. They're going to ask him to respond to the charges and the old boy will. Yeah. Answer the act of uh of accusation, the indictment. what you've done against the nation. But it's nice. Listen. Yeah. Yeah. I should have started with the next one actually. No, this is it. among you. I'm looking for judges and all I see is accusers. I won't do the whole thing. I never did this horrible thing, igninous thing. I never betrayed my country, which is patently false. Oh, life has given me some misfortunes since death doesn't frighten me at all. Maybe you can do France better than me. They're saying, "Take care of France better than I could. Keep it from its own excesses. Take care of my family. They didn't come out very well either. Take care of my children. It's the only favors that I really ask you to carry out. I have nothing more to say to you. They're going to vote now. Got live. Got dead. Lamar, he'll get his in a few minutes. He would get his too. Okay, now they execute the old guy. Next, please. This This is the death of citizen Maha. He meets Charlotte Cal who is from Normandy and a royalist. He's in his bathtub. I won't translate everything. Citizen, you're coming without knocking. Now you're seeing citizen all nude in his bath. What's your name? Charlotte. Ah, which you have very nice eyes. Come here a little closer. What can I do for you? I won't translate that. Do you like them, citizen? Why you looking so mean all of a sudden? To make you afraid. You bastard. You What's the knife for? You heard it live. That's it. Okay. Can Can we uh get the lights, please? Simon, leave me a little Wh Maxm Robespierre was born on May 6th, 1758 in Aras, beautiful town destroyed in World War I in the north of France. His father was a lawyer who was a son in and grandson of lawyers. His father uh married the wealth the wife of or the daughter of a welldue brewer and they were married a few months before the birth of Maxmillian. Two daughters, one who died. This was fairly normal. Uh and Agusta his brother followed. His his mother died giving birth to a fifth child who barely survived her. The father was unstable always leaving home at the time of the birth of all of his children. He finally died in Germany. So Robespier never had a family. Psycho historians have done a lot with this. The family of four was left to care in the care of a maternal grandmother and by aunts. So essentially he was an orphan at the age of eight. He felt his father's guilt about causing the death of his wife. After his sister remembered after his father left disappeared, a total change came about in him. Formerly like all other children of his age, he was thoughtless and turbulent and flighty. But since he became the family head, so to speak, by virtue of being the eldest, he's become settled and responsible and laborious. He spoke to us with the kind of gravity um which impressed us. If it was to take part in our games, it was in order to direct them. He loved us tenderly and there were no attentions and caresses that he did not lavish upon us. Henceforth, if you buy the psychoistorians's uh interpretation by he could only be a man of order. He desperately tried to assimilate himself to the social order. He both loved and hated his father as he adored his uh uh dead mother. His whole life was marked by feeling of his father's guilt. which also represented the death in a real way of his own childhood. And in his last hours, his death wish, his inability to uh to act when he might have saved himself uh can be seen uh if you will in that um in that context. He was forced into a seriousness and responsibility. He always had a passion for for solitude, isolation. Um he knew what it was to be poor. He was an example sort of of downward mobility if you will. He went to school and he was really smart. Um supported by charitable foundations first in AAS and then in Paris uh at age 11 to the kles or middle school of Louison where he became a star classic scholar. He was selected among all the other uh pupils to read a poem that he had composed to none less than the king and the queen as they passed by France uh also in the north of France. in Champagne country. But what it but as it was raining, the king and the queen ordered the driver to go on, not stopping to listen to Rose Pierre's little speech, little poem, and indeed splashing his only good suit of clothes with mud as they drone drove off. He became a lawyer, getting his degree in 1780 in Paris, a lawyer at the Parl uh of Paris. His scholarship passed as things did in the old regime to his younger brother. He entered prizes for literary cont literary contests that were run by the academy. Um, it once it said uh that he even caught sight of the great Huso, but that seems a little unlikely. But in me, uh, the academy awarded him 400 pounds, which was a lot of a lot of money, and he was elected to the academy of a ras. In law cases, he he championed the poor, the humble. He took the the side of a of a man in an abbey who had been accused by the monks of a theft when, in fact, one of the monks had done uh the ripping off. Um he was uh he once said uh when somebody was condemned to death I know very well that he uh is guilty uh but I can't imagine to send someone to his own death at the beginning but only in the beginning he did not believe in capital punishment although arguably those who who agree with him would say that he support he saved the revolution by metting out uh capital punishment because of his his reputation. I mean, this was sort of a classic case of a of a of a young, you know, lawyer on the make. He's elected to um to uh the the estates general uh from Artois. He's unknown. When he goes to Paris, he's called in the in the in the minutes sometimes Robes hyphen Pierre, sometimes Robes of Pierre, uh sometimes Robert, like the name Roberts, P or sometimes simply Rober if that was his first name, and Pierre, uh his second name. But he began to make a mark speaking always very uh uh softly. Um 68 times he spoke in 1789 and he gradually gets his reputation there. He opposes all restrictions on the freedom of the press and of course that would change later as well. Uh he invokes Rouso's concept of the general will uh to support the view that the king should have no right to oppose or delay legislative measures proposed by the assembly. You know this uh uh from your reading. Uh he sided on the left of the assembly with those who went to uh Ven to bring back uh Louis V 16th when he and Mantonet tried to h high hightail it to the southern Netherlands or that is to uh to Belgium. Uh that was the king by the way. He should have been there first. Uh oh, what am I doing here? Okay, that's the king. Um, there's Maha fully clothed and there is Maxmillian Pierre. Although he spoke often, he lacked presence and and and color. And this would be the case until the very end. Uh the English uh writer Carile saw him as anxious, slight, and ineffectual-looking man in spectacles. His eyes troubled, careful with an upturned face, dimly trying to understand the uncertain future times. But he spoke with an intense passion and conviction, uh belief in all that he said. Miraabo who died of syphilis. One of the king's uh um main advisors said of him uh that man will go far because he believes every single thing that he says. He seemed rigid in his principles, plain unaffected in his manners. Nothing said an Englishman of the volatility of a Frenchman in his character. uh he supported the idea that all citizens, all male citizens should have the right to vote and thus he opposed the idea of having active citizens who paid taxes and passive citizens who did not have enough money to pay taxes and thus um could not vote. Um he calls for the among others with the deposition of the kings being deposed um both in the legal sense and being deposed from the monarchy. Um, he was already known as the incorruptible and he received letters of admiration. Once leaving the assembly, a crowd uh uh put put oak leaves around him and carried him the city around the city in triumph. He always wore impeccably white clothes and he wore a powdered wig which is very much of an old regime thing and not a revolutionary thing. He was not somebody who was going to go out and tutwa uh easily and and the revolutionaries tutwad as a form of of of that is in the familiar form like do in in German as opposed to Z that familiar form all were equal therefore he didn't say vu to people who were above you in the social ladder he didn't like people touching him and indeed probably uh he was chased uh he had only a few uh flimsy and only by male flirtations uh uh uh with women and when they picked him up, you have to imagine, you know, sort of crassly American analogy, but a football coach who's sort of swept off his feet after a big upset or something and and he doesn't like people touching him. He doesn't like being carried away uh by them. Uh he he uh one of the letters and he was aesthetic. Always preferred being alone. Uh ate very modestly. One letter to him said as cor as corrupt incorruptible as you are courageous and he was that uh you have always o openly displayed your feelings. It has never been self-interest that has made you act or speak only the general interest. He identified with ordinary people um and uh he ends up living um in western Paris a more prosperous part of Paris but in the home of a of a carpenter on a on a street called a fob sant. And those were really his happiest moments because it it it provided him with the family uh uh they had young children in it uh that he really hadn't had a very normal circumstance and people who came to see him saw him sort of stretched out on the couch uh with his family trying to guess from the way he looked uh what he might want. Would he want more grapes? Would he want more milk? Uh etc., etc. Um he he read a lot. He wrote his speeches which were written out by hand. um always clo well combed and powdered in the cleanest of dressing gowns uh um etc etc. Now he began to be a frequenter of the Jacob club. Now these clubs like the Fuyon and the the Cordelier and the Jacob were not were called that not because they had anything to do with the religious orders like the Jacoba were a religious order because the building the biggest place that you could meet were churches and abbies. Those were always the biggest buildings. And so the Jacob who were on the left of these clubs this begin meeting right even before 17 before the basti falls on the 14th of July 1789. Uh uh he begins to go to the Jacob club and the Jacob become the great left-wing centralizers of the revolution. They trumpet uh the authority of the Parisian sanulot. That's a term another French term so important it worked its way into English encyclopedia or dictionaries. The soulot were those who supported the revolution. Technically if you said a son kulot was somebody who's not wearing pants but that's not what it meant. What it meant was not wearing fancy kind of aristocratic breaches uh and it became uh identified with a form of political behavior. You could be an aristocrat, and there were liberal aristocrats uh in a meeting in a club called the Club of the 30 uh who helped push the revolution uh uh really toward constitutional monarchy, at least in in the beginning. If you were against the revolution, you're an aristo, you're an aristocrat. If you were for the revolution, you were part of lup the people. Um and and and you you chose the color red because red becomes the color uh of of the left-wing interpretation of the re revolution. and you gave people kisses on both sides of the cheeks or three times depending on where you are uh uh were in France as a as rec recognizing the solidarity you had as being a Sitoa that is a male citizen or a STO a female citizen as well. The whole idea of kissing, by the way, is terribly important in France, but that's mostly a late 19th and really 20th century thing. Uh, you know, because people really kept their distance. Uh, whereas now, you know, if you live in Paris, you kiss twice or in the 16th or onismo, not at all. You merely shake hands. If you live in the Parisian suburbs, often you kiss four times. If you live, we live in the live in the south of France, you kiss three times. In the department of the which is Balongul. If you live in Bezier, you kiss three times. If you live in Mopilier, which is a more aristocratic city, traditionally a more formal city, though it's a big university town, it really rocks. Uh you kiss only twice. But this idea of kissing people on the cheeks was a sign of revolutionary solidarity and symbols were very very important. If you carried pikes around, pikes at the battle of Almi, which you can read about, it's the pikes of the sulotut that stopped the highly professional armies of the ev the enemies of uh uh of the revolution. Um so um he he believes in the necessity of a single will again this comes out of of Rouso's idea of the general will to save the revolution against its enemies and he is one of the people that helped push uh the French Revolution to uh uh to the left. now um and his principles were were were were totally unshakable. He he uh he doesn't budge on them uh at all. Uh and of course, you know, it it's it's it's just insane to look back and see in Robes Pierre, you know, the origins of totalitarianism despite the committee of public safety. Uh Robes Pierre uh also, you know, was a man of his times. He was not against all property. He was against leg people having too much unearned property. uh he thought everybody should have enough uh uh to to get along uh but that even people who didn't have any property and couldn't and thus didn't pay any taxes as I said before ought to have uh the right uh to vote. Um he also like the Jacob believed that they ought to have enough uh to eat. uh and one of the tensions that one found in French revolutionary political clubs and political uh societies and in the sections neighborhood sections uh uh that began planning how you would defend your neighborhood against foreign invaders or insurgents from within the price of bread of course counted enormously and in a couple weeks I'm going to talk about what difference bread made in terms of popular protest because people who believed in the kind of free trade that tug had in the in the you the in the uh 1870s believed that the market ought to determine the price of bread. Uh but there was always a tradition that that that the price of bread ought to be kept at a reasonable amount. So everybody ought to have a have a enough to eat. And so the Jacob most of them believed in in in the maximum the maximum which was a maximum on the price of bread. Now their uh their enemies uh on the the le revolutionary left or sort of left central were called the jirona which I whom I wrote on the board and a name I sent around on the class server. The Gironda G I R O N D I Ns which is also the name of the Bald soccer team were from Baldo and and the department of the Girund. Many of them were they are merchants. Uh they are free trade people and they also were extremely interested in launching foreign wars uh to uh to um carry liberty, fraternity and uh uh uh equality uh abroad. Now, um, scrambling for this great quote, uh, the the Jean were in love, uh, with with war. And there was this great kind of rhetoric about conquest and, um, and carrying freedom, uh, uh, in quotes, uh, uh, to, uh, to other countries, though one one had to be, and and many people were cynical about this. when the when the French troops poured into the r into the rhinland, the prostitutes of of uh of of the Rhineland cities uh dressed up in red, white and blue flags uh to welcome uh their new uh uh new clients. Um Robespier made a series of speeches against this this Bris who was the former uh Grub Street writer that I mentioned before arguing that France should not go to war. He said that that and more about this in a minute that the danger to the revolution did not come from a handful of immigres uh in Germany but from within France from the counterrevolution and that's important and that's worth underlining. And secondly he argued that launching wars all over the place will merely play into the hands of the king who at this point was still the king and the counterrevolutionaries perhaps paving the way for some sort of military dictatorship. How uh forward-looking was that? Because that's exactly what they ended up with, of course, with Napoleon. Moreover, he argued that war would separate soldiers from the rest of the people. And and indeed, although the Levas, my guillotine almost fell down, uh um uh would would would sort of compromise that because all citizens become soldiers, uh etc., etc. But he said something just uh this is an amazing little speech that he gave and I'm going to read just a few lines of it because if you think about current politics in this country in the last say uh five years uh it may also uh ring true. He said the most this is Robuspierre the most extravagant idea that can arise in a politician's head is to believe that it is enough for a people to invade a foreign country to make it adopt their laws and their constitution. No one loves armed missionaries. The Declaration of the Rights of Man is not a beam of sunlight that shines on all men and it is not a lightning bolt which strikes every throne at the same time. I am far from claiming that our revolution will not eventually influence the fate of the world. But I say that it will not be today. Amazing. He lost this debate uh in 1792. Um and in fact his denunciation of plots uh against the revolution may have contribute uh contributed to revolutionary paranoia uh which would be acting out uh in the terror. But on the 20th of April 1792 the Jea and the king got their wish a war and war was declared on Austria and French troops crossed into Belgium that is the Austria Netherlands and the wars uh went uh went on and on. Now, um, I want to make a couple points that are that are pretty important. I'm not going to use these these papers to do this. Um, that the threat to the revolution did not come just from Austria, from Great Britain, from Prussia, from Russia, from the big allies. And Robuspierre got this right. There are two and the timing of this you can read about it in in the in the chapter and please do. Um uh there were two main counterrevolutionary um threats to to the revolution. The first which was was not the most important but still is worth mentioning was what has been called the federalist revolt. The federalist revolt and this was based in cities in which merchants free traders played a big role in that. Here is a map of label France. Um now Baldo we've already talked about you've got all these wine merchants that own all all this fancy land and who merchant other things as well. Uh you've got Marseilles big Tun is not yet a huge port to become in the 19th century. You've got Marseilles. You've got Leon then France's uh second city first in gastronomy. One could still argue uh today. Uh Ven was merely where the king is is is caught. That's up there. Uh by the way in 1790 they they in order to undercut local elites that is clergy and nobles and also to impart a more rational organization of the country comes right out of the enlightenment out of the philosoph they create deaton departments they name most of them after rivers though some are named after mountains and they they create a capital in each of them for example this it doesn't none of this matters but it's just to tell you what's going on that's the odien the capital that's the coz has capitalist tul up there is the k capital is g uh this is the the lawn m this is the the pyrenees the Atlantic Pyrenees the capital is pull etc etc etc um so these the federalist revolt also in K that's where where the aforementioned Charlotte cord came from uh from that part of that's the department of the calvados which is also the name of a wonderful apple brandy uh so so so The Federalist revolt comes in cities like like it comes in above all in Leon K Marulon and Leon. And of course uh the revolutionary armies uh the armies of ordinary citizens in the republic uh what is becoming what had become the republic uh uh crush crushed them. They crushed them like grapes. uh in Leon uh one of the members of the committee of public safety uh who was confined to a wheelchair a man named Couton that you can read about couno n uh says he's going to plow uh Leon under uh like Carthage uh and they do execute people on the plus belur um and so this federalist revolt is against the jacoban it's against the sort of pisian centered uh far-left interpretation of of the French Revolution. Uh by the way, there groups on even further to the left and the Jacob really weren't that far to the left, but but there groups like the enraged Leon Raj. Uh there's even a guy called Graas Babof uh who believe that uh you know that that uh property should be abolished. But these are these are just very small uh groups. Babuf is uh guillotined in in Vondome uh which is south of Paris uh near the Lu and his trial is a wonderful source actually the trial of of Graas Babou an original source. So anyway so though that's the federalist revolt but the most important threat to the revolution comes from peasants. It comes from uh peasants in the west of France also down where we live uh in this part of France too. uh that comes later. But basically what I'm going to talk about for a few minutes is the revolt uh in the west. Um now it was often said that peasants would never march more than a day away for their from their fields. But certainly you know as Mao and lots of other people have shown uh or Ho Chi Min uh that's not uh the case uh at all. Um uh and um the the war was fought with a savagery with a brutality that was simply you know staggering. Uh there were massacres on both sides. Uh that uh the Vande which is is in dark there uh is a became a department uh number 80 good old number 85. Um uh and but it became such a a major bloodbath that uh that the entire uh uh counterrevolution in the west is often simply called the vand. I am in history literally because I read a long time ago uh uh a book written by my late and much much missed friend uh Charles Tilly uh called the Vande which sought to explain and did explain uh and really hasn't been nuanced very much over the decades why some people opposed the revolution uh taking big-time chances uh and other people uh who didn't live that far away supported the revolution. Um and so what he found he studied an area that it doesn't matter where but but sort of the north of that of of that dark area uh actually in the menir a different department uh but um in here's another French word that's also English called in the bokeage country B a ge it's the hedro country and he found that the the people who rose up against the revolution and took m big time chances I mean the republicans didn't screw around and there was a lot of just horrible brutality they drowned thousands of clergy in the swirling waters of the of the no of the of the Lo River which is a really dangerous river by putting them out into the river with holes drilled in the bottom of the boat which didn't give them a big hope. They killed lots of people on the il de which is up here off la rochelle. Uh and of course uh the the the forces representing the monarchy representing the nobles uh were if anything even more brutal. They crucified people literally. they they you know they made them uh you know kiss the cross before they they beat them to death. Uh I mean it was really uh uh it was really a a nasty time. Um and so but but looking at people who who rebelled and and ones who didn't that the areas one of the things we can say at least by that particular area but it really rings true is that areas in which that traditional elite noble and priest had not been broken down by the economic and social changes of the 18th century. They were physically isolated. These hedges, you see them up in in the upper part of Normandy, too. Uh I mean lower Normandy, but but but high up there on the near uh Sher Shu um in the Mosh. You these are huge hedge that you literally I mean can't fight your way through and you can't really climb over and people tended to marry within uh their village or within a nearby village. They still uh the priest still walked tall. Uh the noble was somebody who uh who they still respected even though the noble had nobles had left. Many of them are left even though many of they still had to pay pay dues to the nobles. And their only contact with this kind of bourgeoa world of economic change was with people were farming taxes for example whom they hated. People that were putting out work in the countryside who cheated them and said, "Well, I told you I'd give you five sue last time, but there are a lot of women doing that same work. I'm going to give you three and if you don't like that, too bad. I'll walk away and I won't take the cloth work that you've done for me." Too bad for you. uh or people that collected the taxes for the nobles. And so if you look up further along the Lir River where you had this sort of economic change in the 18th century, people accepted this new lead and they they were ease they were willing to ditch the idea of the monarch. It wasn't to say that they all went readous instead of the Bible before they went to bed. Uh but these these were big- time changes that reflected uh uh they reflected the way things uh had evolved. Now let me give you some more uh some more examples. Um now one of the most important moments of the French Revolution and this is also worth remembering and you can read about it. The civil constitution of the French clergy because the revolutionaries get the very good idea that you're broke. We already know that the monarchy is just flat broke. So where are you going to get the money? Who has who has money? Well, nobles who leave France have money because they have a lot of property particularly in areas like Britany and in uh in Burgundy uh you know and in the e the France that is the you know the island of France around Paris. Um but the church has enormous amounts of money enormous amounts of land. So what they do is they essentially nationalize the church. The details you can get and they force people to take an oath to the French Revolution to the nation to the nation. Now in certain parts of France particularly those that rose up against the revolution the priests don't take the oath they refuse to. And they are called nonjuring that is nonswearing priests. J U R I N G. In other parts of France, uh the priests were more willing to take the oath and they were called juring clergy. So this is important. If you just look at this map, you see uh this is by this is by uh canton captains uh within departments. But you see all that white up in Britany in those revolutionary areas. that corresponds exactly to the area of people who fought against the French Revolution because the clergy still has enormous influence and so do the nobles even if they're you know living in England at the moment or living in Britain or living living in Austria Netherlands or in uh in the Rhineland or somewhere else in Germany. Um so but th this isn't enough. I mean that that's not enough because we have to see really what here we go. This is by district. This is an even better map of it. uh and you see that in the central part of France here uh that people priests refused to swear allegiance as in our village to the French Revolution but in Britain and in Normandy they did massively and in Alsace and Lauren they did massively and in the north of France they did massively so okay but I mean that's fine that's interesting but so what's going on here what's going on why did it does it go like that it's not just that people also get together and say you know let's let's not swear to the revolution let's, you know, go have a drink of calvados instead. Uh, uh, more important changes are going on. Now, the word dchristianization, which I also sent around, has two meanings. One is the campaign against the church by the revolution revolutionaries to melt down church bells, etc., etc. Uh, um, dchristianization to change the calendar. So it's it's no longer January, February, March, but it's a German now, Thermodor, Vontos, names that have to do with winds and plants and and the agricultural calendar. Uh that's part of decianization. But that's not the big issue. The issue is that in these areas that old that in which the revolution was accepted that oldtime religion was on the rope. A friend of mine was a great historian called Michelle Vll did a book on decianization. and he looked at part of provenance and he looked at how people what they did with their money in in wills. Uh they looked at the number of people who became priests or nuns. Uh he looked at uh rel you know at you know all sorts of things whe how many people baptized their children within the three days you were supposed to in the Catholic church. And what he found is that the church it wasn't the revolution that destroyed uh the role of the church or that reduced the role in ordinary people's lives that that had already happened and it began after the counterre reformation that is the Catholic reformation. Uh it was already well underway by the 1730s and the 1740s. So you can see political behavior here reflecting these big time important trends. You know it's another way you could look at bishop's sermons. You look at how people name their children. Uh you know in the 19th century when they start na stop naming their children after after saints local saints for example that's another good indication or you know you don't have many people named Mari Magdalene anymore in France or that kind of thing or in the limuzan named Marial or Leonar these names of local local saints. So these and and here again the areas that were counterrevolutionary uh you know particularly up in Britany and and and and you know Pu and those regions there uh there some the big story was these major kinds of of change. Ultimately, what I'm saying then is religion was very likely to be uh uh arguably the most important cause for um for uh people uh supporting or opposing uh uh the revolution uh particularly the radical revolution as the committee of public safety sat around this big uh table uh and made uh big decisions. Now, what about the terror itself? That there the interpretations of the terror basically have gone like this. One, it was sort of a bloodletting by the very poor of their social betterers. Well, that's, you know, pretty much nonsense. Uh secondly, that it's a reflex action uh to save the republic. Well, that makes more sense. Uh basically, and somebody in the 1930s, you know, before there was really quantitative history, went to look, a guy called Donald Greer said, "Let's look at the victims of the terror." And what he he finds fits into where we started which is Maxmillian Robes Pierre and his attempt to save the revolution. Um that the most people in the terror uh there was a higher percentage of clergy and nobles executed because they're small percentages of clergy uh and particularly nobles in the French population. But the vast majority of people that either were given prison sentences or put their heads through the little window uh or were shot down, executed like as as in executed as in Leon uh were uh were peasants and were artisans. Why? I mean because there were more peasants than artisans above all peasants in France and any other social group. Now that's that's good. I mean that's good to know that. But even more important that the incidents of the terror in the French Revolution come in areas that are battle zones that they reflect you know the war the professional soldiers of other of monarchies fighting in the north of France or fighting in the east of France and they reflect uh uh they reflect the civil war is that people a lot of people were were put to death or were executed uh because they were fighting or participating in in in supplying troops in battle zones. It's possible, as my friend David Bell has argued, to say that parts of this represent the first total war. I'll talk more about that when we get to Napoleon because it's it's um it's an interesting subject. But anyway, uh uh the the terror was no was no sort of bloodletting organized bloodletting uh uh or spontaneous. was that too. Despite the horrible incidents, despite Na and despite the massacres and the prisons in in uh uh September massacres in uh in in Paris, uh you know, there was a logic to this and it had to do with uh trying to uh uh save uh save uh uh the revolution. Now, um, back to back to Maximleian Hobbes, uh, uh, Pierre. Um, fumbling through his papers here to get to the appropriate point. Um they tried to kill Robes Pierre of course as the as the terror gets uh gets more organized and and he had a tendency as is Sanjus and the other ones to say if we just have one more terror one more round of terror we'll finally save the revolution and all will be well. But lots of people uh in you know in the assembly uh looked around reasonably enough uh and said we might be uh the next uh uh the next victims. uh he became increasingly tired uh fatigued. He was never, you know, you know, a dramatic speaker, but he, it was if he no longer wanted to be heard. Um, two attempts on his life, it finally got him to come to the Jacoban club and to go the convention. It's possible to argue that death and revolutionary immortality was u was something that he chose because of his own uh childhood guilt uh a primal guilt uh about uh his own father and uh the death of his uh mother. uh for somebody who was aesthetic and and withdrawn and preferred to be alone uh he became increasingly that way unable to uh to act. Um in uh 17 in 1794 in Thermodor the month of Thermodor um he became increasingly obsessed with his own end his own demise. He says, "If providence has seen fit to snatch me from the hands of the assassins, it was to ensure uh that I would profitably employ the moments that still remain to me." Uh yet he could only uh you know, as people howled at him from every conceivable angle uh in the convention uh uh murmur uh u almost in articulately. Uh when he he mounts the rostrm on the eighth of Thermodor, he gives an incredibly clumsy speech for Robespierre. I I need to unburden my heart. Everyone is in a league against me and against those who hold the same principles that I hold. What friend of the nation would wish to serve the m the the nation when he no longer is allowed to serve it? Why remain in an order of things in which intrigue eternally triumphs over truth? How may one bear the torture of seeing this horrible succession of of traitors? Perhaps he thought that his own death would rouse the patriots that is the the soulot uh in in the sections in the neighborhoods uh of of of particularly central uh in um in eastern Paris. Um 11 times uh he is shouted down and people shouting down with the tyrant and he says only I ask for death. He leaves uh with his brother and with couton and they go to the town hall the same building. It's not there but it's in the same plot the same spot and they wait upstairs and occasionally somebody would say to him well why don't we go out and rouse up the sections? Why don't we, you know, we are at great risk here and they just sit there. They sit in this in this room. They sit there all night and finally inevitably uh the troops of the conspiracy run up the stairs. Couton tries to escape in his wheelchair and the wheelchair bounces along with him down the stairs. Robes Pierre either takes a pistol and shoots himself in the jaw or is shot in the in the jaw and he spends time trying to rub the blood because of he had this thing about clean clean white clothes and and and for until they know what to do with him at one point he's lying on a table and he points with sanjus they point to the declaration of the man of the rights of man and of citizen and they said we did that uh and indeed they did and they find themselves taken to the concerie That is the prison of the concerie which is still there. It's no longer a prison. It's one of the great Gothic halls, one of the three great Gothic halls in France along with Avenue and and Mosam Michelle. Uh and of course the trial is is as he would have had it and had it for the enemies of the revolution is quick with no defense really permitted. Uh uh the next morning they clip his hair back uh as one did uh so that the long hair uh would not in any way slow the blade of the guillotine and they take him put him in a wagon and it takes because there wasn't very good way there not major through affairs to Paris they take him to the plasta revol which is now called the plasta concord and they pass him by his house uh the house of the carpenters which he which he stayed where he had had his happiest moments. And as he gets closer to the plus uh de la revol where he's going to meet sans, the executioners are are all it's a blood trade after all. And rather like butchers, they all intermarried and they lived outside the walls of cities. He's going to meet Sans. And as he gets there, he surely noticed that the women were more and more well-dressed and so were the men. And as he gets there, they're they're shrieking at him. a obscene term to go with down with the maximum, the maximum on the price of bread. It's a different crowd. It's a very different crowd. Thousands of people came to hear the lean forward to catch the last words to see the head held above as they did with uh Louis V 16th and with Maranuette. Uh hold my head up. It's a good one, said Danton. Uh or something like that when they'd executed him on Sanjus and Robes Pierre's orders before. And he meets Sasson with his with blood pouring out of his the bandage holding his jaw on having come loose. And even at the end, even if they shove his head into the little window, uh blood is pouring from him. And one one doesn't know, we can't imagine as he looked up, as his head is down, as he looks up, he sees the throngs who have paid a fine price to sit on the roofs. It's a like living being across from Wrigley Field or something like that to see the death of the tyrant. tyrant or the person who saved the revolution or one of them. It's very hard to say. Uh it it depends on your view. But certainly one can imagine that Robes Pierre uh breathed uh breathed a breath of of of relaxation of of of leaving uh an existence that had tortured him uh and of gaining for the revolution. He hoped revolutionary revolutionary immortality but also perhaps one can argue paying a debt a debt to his family that stemmed from the death of his own mother long before in a see you on Wednesday.