So in this segment we'll take a more concrete look at our example project and the process of identifying user needs and you can see the project on the top right the image guided neurosurgery project. So our project here is is this image guard neurosurgery solution. Of course we're designing a solution for something for which a solution already exists. So we're going to pretend that it doesn't. We're going to move back in time about 20 years maybe 1999 and we're going to ask ourselves what is the situation that we're facing here and so it's a little bit of a makebelieve project but it will illustrate the points we want to illustrate. So what is the disease here? Well in our case we're dealing with epilepsy it's a particularly nasty disease and surgery for epilepsy. The second question you want to ask is how do patients get to the point where they need surgery? Well other treatments have failed. drug treatments have failed to cure a patient from their repeated seizures and so we come to the point where we need surgical intervention. What happens prior to the surgery? Well, our patients have a set of images done where we try to identify abnormal regions. They may well have had intraranial electrodes placed in their brain with a from a different surgery to identify the onset of seizure and all kinds of other neurohysiological testing again with forecast attempt to identify where the seizures are coming from. What part of the brain is causing the seizures what happens after the surgery? We need to know that. And what are the pains process in this points in this process? And we're going to return to pain points multiple times this class. But what is it making the life of our surgeon difficult? How can we make it easier for them? How can we make this procedure flow a little bit better? So if you visit the operating room in the year 1999, so this is a drawing from an that shows you a surgeon and a patient. This is me coming up at the back of the room trying to see what you would have seen when I started working with the epilepsy folks. Here is that you see drawings attached to the wall with sketches of say the brain and this is what we're trying to do and this is where the electrodes were placed in the previous surgery. you may see images attached to the wall. And so what our surgeon is doing is they're going to go back, he's going to go back and forth and look at the wall to look at the images and come back and look at the patient. They're going to try to integrate all this information on their head. So there are printers of medical images attached to the wall with tape. You think this is the highest tech of high-tech. Get the piece of paper attached to the wall with tape. They're drawings on the wall showing how the procedure be performed. And the surgeon, as I mentioned, goes back and forth between working on the patient and looking at the images of the wall. And all of this and this is part of the pain points requires both significant experience in these procedures as well as mapping all these images to the patient mentally and this requires somebody who's on top of their game has a lot of experience to do this and so the surgeons who were able to these procedures without image guide neuros surgery were very very good at what they did because they had to there was no other way to do it. What is a neurosurgeon trying to do? That's the icon meant to represent a neurosurgeon there. The surgeon is trying to remove as much of the epileptogenic tissue as possible. So epileptogenic tissue is a tissue that's causing the seizure while avoiding functionally important zones and perhaps completing the procedure in the minimum amount of time possible. So let me show you an example of a functionally important zone. This is a 3D rendering of a brain MRI from a particular person. And if we cut through the top of the head here, there's a region in this area called the motor cortex. It's the central sulcus. And this is the part of your brain that controls motor function. This is the one that sends signals to our hands and to your feet to cause movement of the hands and the feet. So if this part of the brain is removed, there's a high chance that the patient is paralyzed. So we need to avoid places like this. Now, easy to say when I draw it on the screen, but if you have a patient that has had other procedures, other diseases, the motor area may have shifted a little bit and we have to identify it. And we do this by functional imaging and sometimes direct stimulation. But this is an example of something that needs to be avoided. What would she like to be able to do in addition? Sometimes you'd like to would like to be able to see the location of the surgical tool on the images of the patient. This will eliminate the need to keep going back to the wall to look at the images and it will reduce the mental stress required to remember the information at all times. Maybe our surgeon may like to use function limiters to define the zones to avoid. So if we use function limiters to define the motor area, then we can draw a circle and say stay out of here. And maybe our surgeon would like to create surgical plans ahead of time to guide the procedure and embed them into the software. So say okay well this is the line you're cutting. You're getting close to the edge. So this is the type of situation we would have encountered had we gone into the operating room 20 plus years ago and tried to identify what a user's needs. In fact this is what the systems they currently have in the operating room do to a large extent. Obviously they are still open problems but I would say that the basics are now well addressed and these systems are installed both in major academic centers and also in even community hospitals as well. So with that we conclude our discussion of user needs. In the next few segments, we'll continue the story with the next step in the software life cycle and we'll talk about the system requirement specification. Thank you.