Since the course launched, we've wanted to address the topic of health provider wellness and explicitly discuss the known fact that we health providers get sick, too. While exact rates of substance use disorders among health providers is difficult to capture, there's no good evidence that our risk differs from the general public. Unfortunately, while we providers generally understand the need to show compassion and develop empathy with our patients, it does get trickier when the patient is our colleague. For example, if we're having to correct things at work or cover for colleagues who aren't performing in the manner we wish, our thoughts might turn to judgment. Why don't they care about their work the way that I do? Or it might even turn to fear. We're part of the same practice. if they make medical mistakes, how will this affect me? So, because of this and other complexities, we actually can be less compassionate and understanding when our colleagues or maybe ourselves get sick. And that makes it even harder to access treatment when we need it. We often are very afraid of what seeking help will mean for our career. If we also experience stigma and judgment from colleagues, it can be an additional barrier to accessing the care we need. So today, the addiction treatment course team is thrilled to have the opportunity to talk with Dr. Scott Titlebomb, who has spent the better part of his career providing addiction treatment to healthcare professionals. Dr. Titlebomb works at the University of Florida College of Medicine, where he is professor and vice chair of the department of psychiatry and professor in the department of pediatrics. Clinically, he is chief of the division of addiction medicine and medical director of the Florida Recovery Center, which specializes in treating health professionals who have developed substance use disorders. Welcome, Dr. Titlebomb. We're very honored to have you with us. >> A pleasure to be here. Thank you. >> So, to get started, we really want to talk about the fact that we providers do get sick, too. We know that we're not immune um and we get conditions too that might impact our clinical practice. Please tell us about the range of substance use, mental and physical problems that you have identified among other healthcare providers that might interfere with someone's ability to practice in healthcare. >> Well, there's nothing that I haven't seen and there's no presentation that I haven't seen. I don't believe I think over the over over the course of the years as every week goes by maybe you get a new presentation and perhaps maybe with COVID if I had a new story to tell it would be drunk on a zoom call uh but over the years with regard to uh issues related to mental health and addiction um you know the illness doesn't discriminate nor just like cancer or any other illnesses don't discriminate so I think that for a long time there's been this concept and stigma of people with drug and alcohol use disorders and uh mental health issues as something that people that are very successful and smart uh are less likely to have and that's just not the case. So the illness knows no barriers and often I think one of the most difficult things especially with health care providers is they're so used to being providers and not used to being patients and allow themselves to being helped that there there's that idea and thinking that if I'm good at what I do and I'm competent at what I do then uh I I can't be all that bad. So I have seen from uh methamphetamine and cocaine addiction in physicians, alcohol, marijuana, there's not a substance I haven't seen. And most recently, I can tell you in the treatment center from having a a VP of health affairs at a very well-known institution nationally to having one of the medical having medical students. Uh there's that range. So there are no barriers. uh I have a smart gender uh race uh level of achievements. Uh there are no barriers to problems related to drug, alcohol and mental health conditions. And let me say that often accompanying uh the drug and alcohol-related problems, addiction, substance use disorders, call it what you wish. The language seems to change over the years. uh there are often uh there are often co- occurring other mental health conditions that uh sometimes are clearer than others but um you know we all have a narrative and a story in our lives. So there's always more than just the the person uh having a problem related to what substance they're using. There's always more and sometimes that more is the presence of other co-occurring medical or mental health conditions. But everybody everybody has their own narrative and story of how they got there. >> The summary is that addiction does not discriminate. >> No. No. And it's not you know one of the things here it's a mandatory rotation for our medical students and one of the eyeopening things is that it just doesn't so often when people come in because a lot of times there it is an illness of stigma and and it's an ugly illness. I mean the behavior uh that people in active use is not pretty and uh and and and one of the things we know in the chronic illness model um and it's been equated to other illnesses like hypertension, asthma, diabetes and that is very true uh in that there's a behavioral component. All people with those other problems how they behave and how they live is going to impact their illness but there's not the quote ugliness of behavior. So, I'm an asis asmatic and if I'm wheezing or coughing, I'm probably not going to empty our family bank account or go in and throw things at people and act in a way that is going to offend people. So I think one of the things that that in our messaging that's important for messaging in the world is that yes it's this illness and there are plenty of of genetics and neurobiology and neuroscience to show that but uh there's also the other aspect that it's not a very pretty illness and the behaviors are often immoral legal and that I think we have to embrace that because the people that are affected sometimes despite having an intellectual knowledge that there's a a neural biological basis that's in the illness or hurt so bad you know wives husbands children parents anybody can increase that list and so I think that's important to always remember especially in our message >> well I think you've led um you've led me exactly into the next question which is can you summarize some common signs and symptoms that you've seen that have led to providers putting patients at risk >> yes and Well, I mean, people always think of workplace impairment, but they forget that it's the presence of an impairing condition. So, let's think of a pilot for example. Um, we can take away the movie Denzel Washington in flight where he flies the plane upside down and stuff, but as a rule, as the fellow that's one of that started the the human interventional motivational study, which is the pilots program, uh, said, "Scott, we're not going to wait for the plane to crash." So there's the things at work we can see in health care professionals bad charting irritability tardiness a change in behavior a disheveled looked uh and the list goes on missing in action not responding appropriately missing shifts all those kind of things but that is not the most common way that I see people it happens you know there's respiratory arrest just this is my world as recently as yesterday there was a nurse found in the bathroom with a needle in her arm. That that's dramatic. That's not usually the case. More commonly is perhaps somebody gets a DUI. Um and the that particular state flags that person says, "Well, we want you to work with your physician's health program." And then they go and somebody does some labs and recognizes, "Hey, the person is still drinking." And then you look and then you further investigate and there's a a ton of problems at home in their personal life, perhaps some other issues. uh mental health conditions. And then when you look hard and you do this long enough, you'll find that most people will end up saying that they were less than their best self performing their job. But it's not always that behavior that brings them to attention. So impairment at work is is I'd have to look at the numbers, but it's probably somewhere between 25 and 30% of of what I see. Sometimes it's diversion. somebody gets caught with uh you know they look in uh at the pixus and they see diversion and there's no workplace impairment but they see there's evidence of diversion. Uh so sometimes it's workplace behavior but sometimes it's not. And one of the uh things that people do forget in the treatment of health care professionals it's not we don't want to everybody talks about the impaired physician or the impaired health care professional. Impairment is what you're trying to prevent. That's what you don't want. So you don't want to wait until you know there's a patient related injury before you do something. So I do see all those things. Poor charting, sloppy charting, tardiness, change in attitude, irritability, missing shifts, a higher amount of call-ins, and and then depending on the substance. For example, if somebody with an alcohol use disorder is much more likely to be missing, you know, Mondays or the day after a long holiday weekend, where somebody with an opiate use disorder that's diverting opiates, oh, they're there a lot because if they're diverting, they kind of want to be there in the beginning, at the end of their shift. So, you have to when you do this long enough, you know, what is the substance? What is that? What does that look like? But it's not always um workplace impairment. And one of the great messages which uh I really want to have people take home and we always do when we educate our uh faculty at the University of Florida and the incoming residents or nurses is that um the idea of intervening on a colleague for doing something. Um, and the idea is always, oh, we don't want to do that because we're going to ruin their career and we're a little bit worried and we don't want them to to to be impacting their career. Nobody ever thinks of maybe we'll save their life. And there are no other problems where people would act that way. If you thought somebody had COVID or you thought somebody had cancer or look really sick, you'd say, "Hey, you you really don't look good." Not so with this illness. So there seems to be this what we call a conspiracy of silence and that people are almost afraid to intervene uh because of a fear that the person's life and career is going to be ruined as opposed that it might be saved. >> What I hear you saying is if you know there's a problem, don't wait until there's they have impairment at work. um >> ask them if they need help or or >> sometimes you know I think now that's also tricky because um the afflicted individual is the last person to recognize it >> and often denial and dishonesty and mostly because of shame and fear people don't want to say I need help oh you know they'll have especially health care professionals have the most you know clever excuses you know clever clever ever thought well I excuse excuses. So I think expressing concerns but sometimes um sometimes intervention and uh saves lives and gratitude may come later. I I can I will I can tell you stories of uh two dear friends of my own at the University of Florida. Of course I wouldn't give away confidentiality where I had to intervene um and they were angry with with me for a period of time and not so today. And uh I I think uh so often early on there needs to be um kind of this this sense that you're doing the right thing with good good motives. Um but I want to repeat that we wouldn't look at any other illness. We we wouldn't hesitate to say you don't look good, you look pale, you look tired. But I would always try initially unequivocally to sit down with the individual and express concern in a loving, kind, but honest way of what you see. Sometimes you need more. >> So, Dr. Titlebomb, you've talked a couple of times about um health care, health provider assistance programs. Can you tell our learners what those what that means? >> Yes. Uh well, every state, you know, the joke is if you've seen one professional healthcare program, you've seen one professional healthcare program. Every state has different programs. In Florida, for example, there's the the what they call the professional resource network, which is all healthcare licences except for nurses, which is the intervention project for nurses. So, every state, some states have a pharmacy, a veterinarian, dentist program. Some states like in South Carolina, they have all of them together. So, there's no, every state is different. So, that's one thing to know. But there in in general um and then then also different states they're funded by different people. Is it the board of medicine? Is it the medical society? Those are some differences but at the end of the day what they share in common there are safe harbor. That's the goal of safe harbor. So the number one goal is that the protection of public health. So the person's not, you know, they're involved and so you're protecting the public, but at the same time, you're providing a safe haven for the practitioner that they're not, you don't have a public record. Everybody doesn't know and and that they have advocate, you know, they they're monitored and and so they those programs act as kind of a safe haven and a place that both makes available evaluations andor treatment and then monitors the individual. Most, not all of the professional health programs do not do their own evaluations, nor do they do their own treatment. They get the referrals. They set them out to a list of approved evaluators and or treaters. And that's critical and that people you need a choice. So there's not the conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest. So a choice of evaluators that are approved by that professional health program that PHP and that a different choice that maybe the person that evaluates treats them and maybe not another choice so that there's not that conflict of interest but most of these programs do not do their own evaluations andor own treatment. They they facilitate uh involvement of other uh people that do this for a living and it is different than the treatment of evaluation of a health care professional is is not the same as treating any other person with a substance use disorder. For example, it's very different for me giving just a simple example. I was talking with my neurossychologist today about a cognitive testing on a radiologist who had some visual spatial difficulties. That's important. Reading an X-ray, at least if you're reading my X-ray, I'd like for you to be able to have intact visual spatial. Might not be as important perhaps for a psychiatrist. Okay. Uh uh and we could I could make fun of maybe what I do and other people, but there's certain levels of of of deficits and stuff and certain things and certain things to think about with regard to what somebody does for a living. What are going to be the uh uh the parameters of returning to work? Do they work alone? Do they not return to work alone? Can they be on opiate agonist? Do they need OP? There's a lot of different things and unique set of uh things to consider in the evaluation and treatment of the health care professional that that uh doesn't exist in other people. >> Dr. Titlebomb, I know you to be open about your own personal journey. What was your experience seeking help? So my experience personally was not very different from what I see sometimes professionally and I always remind myself this is what I do. So I separate what I do for a living versus my own story. I think that's always important for me because everybody has their own story and narrative. But I was a practicing uh pediatrician uh in your state Connecticut had a very successful practice. And so in my world and my own denial, if I was good at what I did, I couldn't be very bad in my own, you know, drinking. And my primarily, you know, primarily was marijuana, alcohol, and cocaine. And interestingly, just when you look at substances, the cocaine, the slope down was much greater. So that's what kind of got me in trouble. Uh when I look back, I probably had a long-standing marijuana problem. But my family, my my uh when I look back as a f as a husband, as a father uh and as a son, I was not what I could have been. But it wasn't until um uh that actually was my my wife that said I needed help at the time. And it took me um a couple of treatments. And I would be a good example. Uh uh I went to treatment and I came back and I underestimated what it was going to take to get and stay well. And I finally did get well. I went to treatment twice. I like to tell people they liked me so much they invited me back the second time uh to visit again. And um you know August 22nd of 1996. And then I I was a primary care pediatrician and uh some people that knew me thought that perhaps I I could have some um ability to do this for a living. I retrained in child psychiatry and addiction and been at the University of Florida now 24 years. >> I'm particularly curious about how you ultimately found help. Um >> well as I said the first go around uh you know when my wife lovingly pointed out to me that my behavior might have been a bit ar aberant. She thought I needed help. I was a little bit you know indignant like you what are you talking about? And I first uh did get some treatment and uh uh and volunteered for the you know with the physician's health program, but I was an example of minimizing how bad I didn't think I was as bad. I looked at I was good at what I did. So I wasn't really couldn't be that bad. So I I did get some help and really was it was my family wasn't a work-related thing. My uh um my wife was worried about you know my smoking marijuana whenever I did cooking. is concerned about about me. >> Gotcha. So, your wife talked to you about how she was concerned, but it also sounds like at the time you did have a professional um health program as well. >> Yes. Yeah. I would and I would be for me and and for a lot looking back if if it wasn't that it was it was great motivation early on. Drug testing was good. It was a good deterrent and it was a good way early on to to maybe if I had an insidious thought. Um uh and I was involved in the professional health program and and I was for a significant amount of years. You know, I'm not today. Um I'm not worried if somebody asked me for a blood, hair, or urine. That's one of the beauties of being recovery. I'm not really worried about what would be in it. As long as my chocolate chip cookies don't show up, I'm okay. Once people go through these programs, I know many people do and can recover. Can you talk about your own recovery and the impacts on you personally and professionally? >> Yeah. Um I can I'll try to do it without uh getting too tearary. Um you know, it'll be 25 years on August 22nd. And if my kids were on the call, my older children, they would tell you that the really the only thing that really matters that I gave them was my my recovery. I was very blessed that when my mother and father died, uh, which is about 17 years ago, um, you know, I was able to, you know, help and be a a source of help in their own medical illnesses. I was the only physician in the family. And then I will never forget sitting at a diner in Elizabeth, New Jersey on the way to Florida. And my father, who is a simple man and owned a furniture store, looked at me and said, "It was nice to have my son back." So he so my own personal life is respected with respect to my relationship with my own children. Um um and maybe someday they'll watch this. my three older kids and my little you know my little kids are 10 and seven and I'm preparing you know because they haven't taught they haven't known that aspect of my life and they will so my personal life you know it hasn't been perfect um and my kids have given me permission to share I had one of my you know all three of my older kids had struggles bone marrow transplant you know diabetes some mental health issues and uh and they've all been very resilient and I'd like to think I've been a good example of resiliency So, personally, I've been very blessed. Uh, and professionally, I've been fortunate. I I did I did lose a license. It took me some time to get back. Uh, I did and then I retrained and um I um >> What I hear you say though is that you see a lot of recovery and that your own personal journey has been one of recovery. And I imagine that when somebody is sick and just entering treatment, they can feel like, where am I going to go from here? But you have a drawer full of notes and letters of people who have been restored and entered into recovery. There are a lot more of us in recovery than we might think when when we're kind of at our at our worst. Um, but that there is hope. Thank you very much. >> Thank you. And it's a privilege and honor to be asked. So, thank you.