In this section, we're going to give you a template for the systems required specification. This is a template that I designed for a needs of an undergraduate class. It derives from the book by Vogel and other sources that I used. If you look into the industry world and how they do this, every company have a slightly different template, a slightly different process. Our goal isn't to create the perfect template here, but to illustrate the key components that need to go into this type of document. So, here is the outline. We have a cover page and the revision control page. And we're going to talk about each of the sections in some detail. We have an introduction, the goals and objectives all the way to significance. We have the overall description, the users, the users, the use environment. We'll have the list of the functional requirements and the list of the nonfunctional requirements. And so as we walk through this outline in the next few slides, you'll see this outline move to the bottom left of the slides with highlights of the section we're dealing with right at that point. So let's start at probably the most mundane part, and this is the cover page and the revision control page. So remember that all approved and signed versions of these documents end up in something called the design history file. This tracks the history of the project's requirements and this may involve literally scanning the signed documents for archival. So let me explain what I mean by that. So this is your cover page, the name of the organization, the title of the authors, the latest version and date and at the bottom of this you may see something like you know July 27 July 25th 2021 and a signature here. This is the signature of the person who approved this. On the second page, you see this was version one, the initial release version 1.01. We did a slight tweak. When all this is approved, it is signed and literally sometimes it will be printed out and then scanned to create an immutable copy for archival. This forms part of the design history is part of demonstrating that you're under design controls. And this document may change multiple times as we go through the process, especially if you're using some kind of agile process in which case we keep revising this documentation. So let's with that out of the way, let's talk about the introduction, the goals and objectives. What is the problems that we're trying to solve and how we're going to go about solving it? The statement of the scope at a high level. What are the inputs? What are the inputs? What is the major functionality our system will provide? We may have a section of definitions. We may want to define some key terms, especially if there's a lot of vocabulary that our software designers are not familiar with. We may also need to provide some references here, key documents, key regulatory documents, information about the disease, anything that would help somebody who joins this project acquire the background necessary to understand what's going on here. The next section, and we move down to the bottom of the introduction, is significance. And this answers the question why should I care if so think about it this way. If this project is successful what is the potential impact to both the society at large and from a commercial perspective. Will this make a difference? If the answer is no maybe this project is a waste of time and I should acknowledge here at once that this segment is not necessarily standard in industry. I added it to the class descriptions I have my students write because I always like the students to be able to state concisely why they're doing what they're doing. And I think it's important for everybody involved in a project to be able to answer the question why are we doing what we're doing because that way they feel they have a stake in the project. They understand what the difference this thing is going to make in the real world. And so I think this is an important section to include. So what does a significant section look like? We're going to just have one more slide in it. It starts with an a review of the underlying disease. The goal is to educate your readers for example the software engineers as to the medical background to the problem. You review the specific clinical problem, the causes of the problem, the current clinical practice and we review the current tools critically and then we answer the question how proposed solution will help the patient impact and the commercial impact. So for example, if we're designing software, again going back to the mamography example to better identify tumors in mamograms of women who are being screened for breast cancer, we tell our readers something about breast cancer. That's the review of the disease. Then we get to the specific clinical problem which is the detection of breast cancer. What technologies are used? What are the problems that the current tools have? What is the current clinical practice? What are the issues that we see? Why is there a need for a new tool? and how our solution will help. If we can get the ICU to the level we think maybe will mean fewer patients being sent for biopsy which is a serious issue. What is the commercial impact? How big of a market are we addressing here? All of these things are important to understand the importance of the problem, the significance of the problem. With that out of the way, we get into the overall description. This is the big picture description and this is the intender users the uses the user environments and then the environment breaks down into the physical the standards the legacy and the platform environment. This is from the definition from vulga. And again keep the game clue in mind who, what, where and with what. That is this business of the user. So let's take them one at a time. The users colonel mustard shown there. The intended user is a trained neurologist in a large academic hospital. This could be a user. We want to be as specific as we can here because this will have 10 downstream effects. For example, if a user is a real expert, they may need less handh holding. This affects how the documentation is written, how the user training is done. The intended uses. The second part, what is the highlevel task that the software will perform? An example of a use case is the software will be used to measure the volume of gray matter from high resolution brain T1 weighted MRI images. This is the use. We'll measure the gray matter volume. Please note that this answers the what and not the how. This is what the software must do. the use from the perspective of a user. And again, as we go through the game of clue, this is implicit, right? Include the use is always m. But of course, hopefully we have better uses here. And then finally, the intended user environment, where and with what, the location, are we talking about an operating room, an office, an ambulance, a platform, is it a PC, a phone, or a tablet? the IT environment, things we need to be able to interface with and the implicit constraints, the task specific regulatory standards and how things are currently done. For example, if you're viewing radiology images, we've used this example before the images are shown left right flip. So if you want to think about this legacy and environment standards maybe think about it as on planet radiology images are shown left right flip. So it's part of your environment in addition to the physical environment. All the other things become part of the environment. This affect where the software is going to operate and all the constraints that it is under. And again from the game clue the environment here is the ballroom and the rope of our solution from before. As an aside here, let's talk a little bit at intended use. The intended use defines the application and marketability of a product. It defines the functionality of the device and any change to the intended use would require a submission to a regular body for clearance. So when your device is cleared for use for market you approval and for use in a hospital, what you're cleared for is for a list of intended uses. This software is cleared for use by radiologist to screen for breast cancer in mimography. If you want to change our intended use to do something more perhaps predict outcome if no treatment is given that means now that you need to resubmit the software for clearness because this intended use has changed. You're not just doing a small change in the intended use is a major change in the software. So think about this carefully as you define your intended uses. Also your intended uses define the risk level of a device often. So it's keep it in mind it's the claims that you make for what the device is supposed to do. So with that we get to functional requirements. Function requirements are those things that device must do to meet the needs of the user and to satisfy the overall goals of the project which will ultimately satisfy the needs of the user within the constraints of the regulatory environment. So these are the functional requirements and if you go back to the FDA's mission statements, our function requirements at least in my short hand this is not absolute are meant to satisfy the efficacy component of the mission statement. So our software must be able to identify tumors with an accuracy of 95% that is a functional requirement was the user needs and this is where the efficacy comes from. And then we have the nonfunctional requirements. These are implicit in the user's minds and assumed to be there and these are items that are needed for regulatory approval whether user is aware of it or not. So here we have safety requirements, safety and cyber security requirements, data privacy requirements and any other domain specific requirements, things that are obvious and necessary but your user will never tell you and we may have risk management driven requirements here. So as we evaluate what the system does, we may add requirements from a risk management process. And the final one is that we may have how well requirements, ease of use, speed, all of those things become part of the process. And I like to think of them as satisfying the safety and security aspects although of course speed comes more under efficacy. So requirements are important and the reason we add additional non-functional requirements is that when you say that the software is verified and validated ultimately we're checking against the requirements. So if the system must do something the way you ensure it must do it is by adding a requirement that it must do it and once you have the list of requirements then you can as part of your verification process go through all the requirements and verify the system does each one of them and you have a procedure for assessing them. So that's why the risk management process results in requirements because once you have it there as a requirement then you have a checklist process going that you're going to verify that this thing has been done. That's how it enters into the design as a requirement. That's the way in and non-functional requirements are critical. The name is a little bit of a misnomer. When you hear the word non-function say okay well these things are secondary but that's far from the truth. Function requirements are necessary. Non-functional requirements are often what sells your software. Users know that they need them, but they assume that they will be there at all times. And we have a short clip here from Dr. Sarka to talk about non-functional requirements in medical software. >> Uh suppose you're building a car. Uh you go to your user to find out, hey, what does this car need to have? What would really make you buy it? The user might tell you, "Oh, you know, it needs to accelerate really quickly and you know, it needs to do this, do that." Uh, they're probably not going to tell you the car needs to go in reverse, right? Nobody's going to tell you that. It's obvious. It's very important to talk to your customers, but also to understand the limitations of what the talking to customers and users is going to get you. uh talking to customers is very good to figure out what their current uh sort of pain points are in their in their system of what they're using or what would really excite them. Uh what are features that they would love to have but they don't have those are the kind of things that it's very good to talk to customers about. Then there are other things like which is the basic and the given things in the system like for example the car going in reverse for for a non-medical example. Uh you know the car needs to go in reverse and that's something that you have to find out on your own. uh you need to um study perhaps competitor systems uh you need to study you know focus groups or do interviews or something and just basically figure figure out from there what are the basic functionalities that need to be within your software um I think Zenos when we were talking you gave an example of you know left is right and right is left in in in radiology or something right so so that's again basic I mean no nobody's going to tell you that that you need to be able to uh know that um so those are the basics of the system And those are all important needs without any of which you you're either not going to be able to sell your software because it's too similar to somebody else or is it just is not going to meet basic requirements. So we've talked about requirements. So let's talk about how one writes a requirement and this is a checklist from Vogel again the book on software validation. Requirement needs to be complete, accurate and ambiguous, traceable. It needs to come from specific use cases and it needs to be testable and it needs to be written in a way that engineers can both understand them and act on them. So if you requirements are not written with an engineers can understand them and act on them they're a waste of time. Now most of these things are obvious of complete and accurate I think straightforward and ambiguous it should be obvious to understand traceable we just explain what that is. Let's focus on this word testable for a minute and we'll have a couple of slides on that. So testable the requirement as written can be used to generate a test that can objectively demonstrate that the system meets its requirement. So let me give you a bad example first. The system should be able to perform the task quickly. This is not testable. We don't know what the word quickly means. Quickly could mean anything. Let's go for a better example. The system should be able to perform the task in less than 30 seconds. Now that's a good requirement because we can now measure how long it takes a user to do a task and we can declare success if it takes them less than 30 seconds and if it takes more than 30 seconds we declare failure. So the criterion is obvious. So somebody can take this requirement and design a test whereas the bad requirement now we're into what does the word quickly mean? It shouldn't be left to a tester to define what the word quickly means. This is a higher level task and we should figure it out. The other thing I would like you to think about when you write requirements is this notion of abstraction. You want to focus on the what and not on the how. You do not want to micromanage the people that come after you. You want to reframe from overly constraining the design of the actual software. So for example, you would not specify the phone size for a user interface in a system requirement specification unless this is deemed absolutely necessary. The phones for this type of software are always 12 point. You must use 12. But you should specify and this is where we transition into the word world as opposed to the how world that your user is visually impaired and they need to be able to read the screen from 2 feet away and the screen is going to be at least 27 in large. Those are what specifying the phone size is micromanagement unless it has to be done that way because it's a rule or a regulation or some other legacy situation where it's always done this way. The requirements are often written in the style of the ten commandments. Thou shalt shall is often a magic word. It means that this is not optional. The software shall compute the volume of gray matter in the brain from high resolution generated MRI images with an accuracy of greater than 95% and in less than 25 seconds. So shall that is the magic word that tells you this absolutely has to happen. You can see bolted at the bottom the criteria for success. One could quibble and say this should have been two requirements. The system software shall compute the volume with an accur of greater than 95% and the second requirement is the software shall compute the volume in less than 25 seconds. So an expert user may actually go further along this process and break up my requirement into two. But here's an example at least for you. How does one write a requirement? This concludes our discussion of requirements. I like to think of them as having three components. The first is the actual requirement. The system shall and you say what the system is going to do. The second step is the traceability component. You tell the person reading it why we have this requirement. This is in response to user number one, users number two and three in environment number five. This is the traceability component. And then the third component I think this is important again you want to explain to people why we're doing what we're doing is a short narrative description. The reason we need this requirement to be in place is because it enables this particular functionality and it's really important because without this the system can't operate appropriately. We'll give examples of this in the next segment as we take on the story of writing a system requirement specification document for our image guided neuros navigation example project. Thank you.