So we're in this segment we're going to give it the highlights of what the system requirement specification for our example project would look like. We'll go through each of the steps and just discuss them one at a time. So remember this is the image guide neurosurgery example. This is what the actual solution looks like. The surgeon is operating on a patient. They have a surgical tool and when they touch on the patient they can see the position of that pointer in the images that are required before. This is sort of a GPS system for surgery. It lets them navigate through the process. So we're going to flash back to a user needs discussion and ask ourselves what are what is our neurosession trying to do? The surgeon is trying to remove as much of the epileptogenic tissue as possible while avoiding functionally important zones and completing this procedure in the minimum amount of time possible. So this we've seen this slide before and as just like the second slide, this is what a user needs are. What would she'd like to be able to do in addition like to be able to see the location of her surgical tool on the images of the patient. This will eliminate the need to keep going back and forth to the wall to look at the images and would reduce the mental stress required to keep all the information in her head at all times. And maybe we'd like to be able to use functional images to define the zones to avoid. Remember my picture of the motor cortex that we showed about three segments ago. And finally, we like to create surgical plans ahead of time to guide the procedure so that we have plans drawn so that we can just go in the operating room and just follow the plans. So this first step in this process is to identify the user the usage scenarios who what where and with what. Okay. So let's give examples of a couple of scenario here. Now these are in in the text we give the full description all the scenario here. We're just going to give some examples in this presentation format. So scenario one the intended user is a neurosurgeon. The intended use to navigate during an epilepsy neurosurgery procedure. This means being able to see the position of the surgical pointer on the anatomical MRI images of the patient. So this is the crosshairs that we show before. the intended user environment in the operating room using a touchscreen computer mounted at eye level. This is a scenario who, what, where, and with what. Okay, so that is a scenario. Let's look at another scenario. This is scenario four. In this design, the intended user is a neurologist. It's another kind of doctor that studies brain diseases. The intended use is to import surgical plans created in external systems that define the surgical resection area for removing the target region. So for example, if this is the brain, we may have decided as part of our discovery that this is a part of the brain that needs to be removed and in epilepsy large chunks of brain get removed. They'll be able to create this drawing and import it into the navigation system. So the search can follow this plant during the procedure. the intended user environment. This is done in their office using a desktop PC. Again, who, what, where and with what? These are the questions we have to answer when we have this initial usage scenario. And remember risk analysis are constant companion of this process. Now we ask questions what could go wrong here. Now this is what they would like to be able to do. This is what our users need. But what risk do these needs entail? What do they create? So we perform an initial risk analysis here. So for user scenario four, the risk might be that the images and surgical plans for the wrong patients are imported accidentally or that they are imported incorrectly. And so what are risk control measurements? We could add a requirement that the patients name is explicitly checked at each step in the process and that the patient's names appears in the screen on the screen at all times. And in fact, if you see a piece of software like this, the patient's name is always on the screen. we may be able to have to create screenshots of critical parts of the plan as checks so we can look them one next to each other. So the way this enter into the process is as additional non-functional requirements. That's the only way in. So the next step now is to identify the actual requirements. So when we design here it's a solution not a single piece of software. This is really a collection of tools and not just a collection of tools but a collection of tools plus user training plus documentation. The solution is the user plus the software and so all of those things together come to form our solution. So here what we'll end up designing is actually three pieces of software that communicate to achieve the tasks that we need them to achieve. So the nonfunctional requirements address safety, security and regulatory issues. for example radiology convention for images the left right business and again as Dr. Saka was mentioning no user will specify this to a software engineer. It would be assumed and this is a legacy standard that one needs to become aware of. And there are other legacy standards. If you're replacing an existing system and the user interface looked in a certain way, red meant something and blue meant something, you want to as much as possible follow those conventions. Otherwise you create hazards because the users are used to doing things in one certain way and you don't want to change them even though you may think it looks better because that's part of the issue here. We want to reduce the risk. We want to ensure that the users are not confused. So the next step in requirements we may have to have performance and issue of use requirements for the software and then we design our system in such a way for example this is a privacy issue that all the patient data is removed from it once the surgical process completed and stored only on centralized hospital infrastructure. That is a requirement to ensure data privacy and reduce risk. And we have to worry about cyber security. Our system should always require authentication and encryption to reduce the risk of unauthorized access to the data. Those are all things that come into the requirements. When we're done with our requirements, we go back to what we always go back to risk management. So we do a risk analysis. Can the functionalities lead to harm? So let's take scenario one mapping the position of the patient to the actual images because this is involves this is part of the neural navigation. If we have a bad mapping, we can have errors in the navigation and so the user may specify the accuracy level as part of the niche finding process. We need to be less than 2 millimeters. So the risk management process here is that we have to add step after the mapping and ask the user to confirm that the pointer location of the image corresponding accurate to physical location corresponds accurate to physical location of the pointer. And this is important as you will see when we discuss software workflows in the next section. You'll see a process that consists of five steps and the first two are the actual functional steps. They do the actual thing we need to do and the last three steps are risk management. Ensure that it's accurate. Ensure that the process was done correctly. Check, confirm, verify. All of those things are important and the risk management process is a critical component in avoiding issues. So we have functionalities and then those functionalities we evaluate them for risk and that risk analysis leads to more requirements as part of our risk management process. So from here we can go through and create our intended user uses environment table. So this could be our intended users the neurosurgeon a neurologist a technologist and the intended users. We're doing neuron navigation with anatomical data neuron navigation with functional data image data and transfer and surgical planning for those may be all the users. And then the user environments physical environment location we would have a touchscreen PC in the operating room and a desktop PC. The platform may always be Windows 10 or 11 by the time you finish listening to this class. The IT environment, you know, we need to communicate with the PAX database to import images and annotations and legacy again the radiology convention. There may be other conventions that we have to follow. Once we have that then we're now ready to take this scenario and to write the actual requirements, the things that the software must do. So let me give you an example of a functional requirement and an example of a non-functional requirement. So requirement 100 is always good to number the requirements because then you can trace back and forth. The system shall be able to successfully import images from a PAX server. Pax is the imaging database of a hospital. B. What's the traceability? Who needs this? It's driven by user blast and cruise for intended UC which in turn is needed for intended UCA. Okay, you'll figure that out. Comments. The ability to obtain images from the pack server is a critical component as these images are needed for neuron navigation in the clinical workflow. So what we must do why are we doing this in terms of traceability what drives this and what is the rationale sort of more English more vocabulary oriented sense and less technical sense why are we doing as a big picture where does this fit in the big picture so this is my example of a functional requirement and then we have a non-functional requirement example this could be 500 the system shall be able to notify the user if the correct position of the surgical tool is out of date and we define out of date as more on one second. O this is a safety concern. It came from our risk analysis. So this this is not tracing now to the needs of our user. It's traced to the risk analysis comments. We must ensure that the neuros is not given false information at any point of surgery as to the position of a tools because this lead to serious errors in the surgical procedure and harm to the patient. So you can imagine if that they feel that the pointer is at the wrong point in the image and they start cutting because they think they're far away and all of a sudden they're in a critical zone. This could lead to serious harm to the patient. So this concludes our discussion of the systems requirement specification both in general and for this specific project the image guided surgery project. In the next week we'll pick up the story and we'll take this as inputs now these requirements as input and use them to create a software design which is the next step of the process. We will need to design our software so we can then go ahead and implement and test and get it all the way into the hands of our users. Thank you.