Today we will be talking with Professor Katherine Kaminsky, PhD, researcher and lecturer of 20 years and author of over hundred peer-reviewed publications. Katherine is not only the former dean of Trinity Colleg's School of Nursing in Dublin, Ireland, but the government's appointed academic expert for Ireland's National Drug Strategy Implementation Group. with degrees in math and philosophy and biommathematics with statistics and epidemiology applied to health care. She was selected after a European Union's wide competition to serve as the EU expert on the scientific committee of the European Monitoring Center for Drugs and Drug Addiction and currently serves as its vice president. Her personal research interests are substance use along with child's well-being. Katherine, welcome and congratulations on your new book. Uh it's called Addictions Debate: Hot Topics from Policy to Practice, published by Sage in the UK. >> Oh, thank you very much to have it here. asking you to desri describe Ireland's drug strategy is a pretty broad um question but I would like to move into sort of the policy and um maybe education and um >> yeah we have quite a a comprehensive um national drug strategy it's a new strategy um it was developed in a partnership approach so we do have a history of partnership and when I say partnership I mean around the table I have a beautiful table here but um it is challenging partnership But we did have um the community sector, the voluntary sector. We would have had um an organization called the family support network. So family members were um at the table. We do also have a service user organization called Ishka. They were at the table. They kept us in line in terms of our language and and non-stigmatizing language. Department of Health, Department of Education, Justice, Customs, Police, um academic expert myself, uh we have a we had a very comprehensive partnership that uh developed the National Drug Strategy with our um overseen by the Department of Health and uh an independent chair. So I've just published a paper an open access paper on that in the international harm reduction journal and where I talk about that process and how challenging it was. Uh you know people coming from different philosophies and different approaches. Uh but I think we ended up with a good uh national drug strategy but our problem now is in the implementation and making sure that those actions that were agreed uh get implemented. >> Is prevention much of a part of that? And I guess I think about evening and prevention with say our middle school students. Um >> yes. So um I'm not sure if I heard your question correctly, but in terms of um education, is that what you asked? >> Um well, I out of your response, I was wondering about prevention being much of a high certain debate sometimes about the issue of prevention um and strategies to deal with it. I just didn't know if you could speak to um the philosophy or >> well prevention is one of the sort of the pillars we would have sort of um you know pillars so prevention would be a pillar within the strategy uh it's um the department of education would have been very u crucial uh very important in that because how are we going to bring prevention into say schools if we don't have the buyin as we call it from the department of education so I'll give you an example of um one action in the strategy that had to be negotiated. Um the school buildings are a great resource for say urban disadvantaged communities but school buildings close you know when school ends. So in terms of the school building being a community asset. So we were looking to have school buildings open in the evenings where we could have information we could run um you know sports more sports facilities. We could use the facilities of the school in order to um provide not necessarily um direct prevention but more sort of additional services for urban disadvantaged youth. So just getting agreement from the department of education to uh keep the schools open because that's a change in practice and it's going to be there's going to be a cost you know they have to have the caretaker and the security and so forth but that's an action uh that was agreed in the national drug strategy was to actually use the resources that we already have to better value and that I thought was a really clever action because it's not all about more investment it's about using the investments you have in a better Um we also across Europe u just when you mentioned prevention again at the EMCGA we do have a prevention um sort of best practice site whereas there's a group across in the European monitoring center and we actually look at prevention programs and we evaluate them uh we evaluate the evidence and we provide sort of um you know signposting to what works say in family environment school environment so there is the prevention sort of database uh of what works uh available open and online at the EMCDA the European Monitoring Center for Drugs and Drugs Addiction. So that might interest some of your your participants. So one of the questions that posed by one of our uh team here was was speaking to that I mean how you viewed the various institutions not only across Ireland but across perhaps a larger area of the of Europe um how well you coordinated shared data analyze data um and to the extent that you could actually put that into practice. I don't know if you um have anything further you'd like to add relative to that. >> Yes. Uh there's two aspects to that. So at a European level, we have five indicators so that each country is um pays into the European Union monitoring center to and we monitor these five indicators. So they are general prevalence. uh there is uh uh treatment demand indicator, there's the deaths uh indicator, the infectious disease indicator and then problem drug use prevalence. So those are five key indicators and they're a great resource for policy development and for the EU action plan on drugs. So we can see across those five main key indicators of how Europe is doing and how you know if one country needs help. For example, say we had for instance, we had a brief spike in our Irish number of HIV cases and partly due to um homelessness, believe it or not, and um the rise in chemex. So, we were able to bring that to Europe and look at what other countries were doing in terms of that. So, on a Europeanwide, we do have those five indicators within Ireland. We do have a challenge with sharing data. So you know so in terms of the treatment systems they don't all speak together. We do not have a unique identifier that um we can link a person across systems. So if somebody is um there is a central mechadone treatment list. Yes. Uh they have an identifier for that. But if I'm um in uh treatment now in north Dublin and six months later I go into treatment in South Dublin, they don't necessarily know. So we we we are failing there. Um so how that's impacting is the challenges for our care pathways and our processes. So we're relying very much on um we do have protocols for care pathways but sometimes the ball can be dropped and that is a challenge. Yes. >> If you had to pick one aspect of the care uh there in Ireland that you would like to promote, what might it be? >> Oh, I would have to say probably our harm reduction philosophy. Um I'm quite proud of it because we weren't always a harm reduction philosophy country and we've evolved and as we've evolved as a nation so we started off really with an abstinence-based philosophy but over the time when we saw that that was actually harming our people our own people we we moved towards and we had the courage to move towards a harm reduction philosophy and I think you can really see that now in terms of you know safe injecting needle exchange and we're moving even forward now again and we're talking about in sense harm reduction plus rehabilitation and recovery but recovery in the wider sense not recovery as abstinence perhaps it may be for some but recovery in terms of getting your life back. So we're talking now about harm reduction plus recovery. So you may be stable on opiate substitution treatment or your methadone. You're getting your life back but maybe you still have mental health challenges. So that's our challenge is to deal with those wider issues. But I would say that's what I'm most proud of is the fact that we have been open to change and we've responded to need. Um in terms of something I'm not so proud of probably is the fact that we're still struggling with our sort of care pathways. Uh that you know people can be left out in the cold. Um um you know if you're in prison and you're coming out of prison, we can maybe you know ensure that you're going to get your your your opiate substitution treatment when you leave prison, but you might have nowhere to live or nowhere to stay uh you know nowhere to go. Uh so that is a challenge is you know really looking after the individual and ensuring that people are not getting lost that we do all of this good work and then you know this particularly in Ireland at the moment is is a homeless challenge that people then are getting lost along the care pathway so that would be our current challenge big challenge. Do you see much of a difference between the sort of rural sections and the urban sections in terms of um that I know here in the US um West Virginia who's um had quite a bit of unemployment and in some of the states and areas not only West Virginia um where unemployment is high you often see the higher levels of opioid use and unfortunately um overdoses. I was just wondering if you saw a similar pattern. >> Absolutely. Yes. I mean, we started off with this as an urban problem, but as time has progressed, it has moved out. Um, you know, housing in Ireland is very in Dublin city, our capital city is very expensive. So, people moved to rural areas and you can actually see I had a PhD student look at this. You can see when you map it, the spread of substance use along the major highways, right? Um definitely we are seeing a rural problem now without a doubt every corner of rural Ireland that you know there is problem with drugs. Um and the problem is also even though services may be available uh you can't access them because maybe you don't have the transport or you don't have the money to get the bus into the nearest town. So if you're living in a very rural area there may be somewhere in the bigger town nearby. it could be 20 miles away but you have to get a bus if you don't have a car how do you get to the service so there are you know real practical challenges uh for people who are rural and who are using drugs and that's something that sometimes people services and maybe policy makers don't fully appreciate the actual practicalities if you're a mother with a child or a father and you're not working you know you don't have the bus fair to go 20 miles to the treatment center so there may a treatment center, but how do you access it? You know, you don't maybe So, those sort of things are real challenges. >> Well, you do seem ahead of us in many respects or at least in some respects relative to uh for instance, there is not the prevalence of the safe injecting centers here in the US. But I guess I am struck by how similar we are much more so than difference in some of these sort of trends. >> Certainly in Ireland, um you know, because you're our neighbors, you know, we're strong strong links. We're always looking to the states and seeing what's happening there because generally what's happening there happens here maybe 10 sometimes even 20 years later but certainly you know I remember oh a long time ago reading one of the sort of seminal texts hunting chambers in the 1970s talking about waves of heroin use leaving urban areas and moving across rural areas of America and you know we only had an urban heroin problem at the time and of course Now it's all across rural Ireland as well. So generally what happens there happens here. Another example would be the HIV and AIDS. Uh so we saw what happened there amongst people who use drugs. But in that case we were able to react quicker and we brought in needle exchange. So we developed our harm reduction philosophy in response really to um the challenge of HIV and AIDS amongst people who use drugs. So we although it happened in the states, we were actually forearmmed. So it didn't happen to the same extent here. We were forearmmed. So we're always looking to you to see what's happening there. >> Great. Um one sort of along these lines of problem. Um obviously very often part and parcel with addiction is just the the stigma of addiction. I was wondering if you could speak to what you see there. um and not only the the the amount of stigma um which I'm assuming but efforts that you have perhaps made to sort of help with that problem. >> Yes, stigma is a huge problem and I was actually thinking about this because we actually have stigma in different ways. So one would be maybe sort of um systemic stigma within services. So services perhaps uh you know say emergency room emergency department services uh you know if you're going in as person who uses drugs you know do you get access to your methadone there would be still a lot of lot of stigma within the services and people experiencing services another big area of stigma really is actually selfstigmatization um a lot of my own personal research that I'm doing I'm I'm finding this amongst people who use drugs so they're being stigmatized by the services, but also they're taking that on board and self-stigmatizing. I remember interviewing a a young mother uh once who's um had, you know, had huge challenges. And she was talking about not contacting her children's school. And I said, "Of course, you can ring your children's school and find out, you know, how your children are getting on." And she had such self-loathing. And I knew when I was interviewing her that there was something she was sort of um holding back, you know, she just I could just see it. And uh when the tape we turned off the tape, she was saying to me that she'd actually been raped while she had been on alcohol and drugs. And this added to her own self-stigmatization. Yes. >> Um you know, and addressing that stigma, not just within the services. We do also have um there's a organization called Citywide and they actually have a an anti-stigma campaign at the moment uh and we're actually developing with people who use drugs a training module for services so that we're hoping it'll actually be delivered to government services, health services, justice services. So we're actually developing and it's it's led by the people who use drugs and we've done work with them and we're developing a training module on stigma. So there are things happening but it certainly is a big problem. Yes. But I should tell you that the community clinics can be very innovative. Um one of our sort of um community voluntary clinics was it's known as Merchants Key Ireland and it was originally uh Merchants Key is it was originally run by the Franciscans and but they were actually the most progressive. So they would have one of the largest um needle exchange services. Uh they feed hundreds of people every day. A they have homeless services because that comes from their philosophy of you know looking after the poor. So they were actually very progressive and they are have won the tender for our first safe injecting medically supervised safe injecting center. Uh it's actually not a government clinic but a government funded uh community clinic. So that they've been very progressive >> and this is in Ireland you're >> Yes. Yes. So, we've just had it's it's uh gone through law and everything and we've had a tender and it's just been through did have challenges with planning permission. Actually, the Merchants Key Ireland is situated beside a primary school, but it's all the people who live in that region. It's right in the city center here. And we are now we're going to have our first safe injecting medically supervised safe injecting center where people will be a we have a problem with street injecting and people will be able to go in and inject and uh safely and under supervision. >> Now would you say that that's the norm across um Europe um in terms of having these safe injecting centers? I know >> it's becoming the norm. Um it has been challenging but we actually have I would say between 80 and 90 um safe injecting centers across Europe and they have been evaluated. The European monitoring center has evaluated them and um they have been found to be effective. They've been found to be cost effective in terms of uh reducing overdose and reducing uh bloodborne viruses. So they are not the answer to everything. Right. >> One part of a whole nest treatment system that is necessary. >> I feel like I could talk with you for hours more and I know we're limited for time, but um I thought I'd wrap up with whether there was any sort of hot topics from your book that um you would like to sort of mention that maybe we haven't gotten to. Um >> Oh, you're very good. Well, I suppose I mean the reason I wrote the book is because there is so much evidence out there and I'm exposed to it through my work with Europe. I'm visiting yourself in Yale recently and so I was aiming to bring that evidence together um because as I say the debate say for example on safe injecting you know there's a lot of bad evidence and you know you know anecdotal evidence so the good evidence is that say it it does work but it's not you know it doesn't cure everything. Um there's a big debate on the decriminalization. Uh and there's a lot of confusion over what's decriminalization versus legalization. What are the differences? >> Uh we're sort of working more towards the decriminalization model across Europe rather than what we seeing in the states more legalization and regulation. So there are some of the very hot topics. >> Yes. Certainly a very >> certain timely topic here we didn't even get to. >> Yes. Yes. So we I debate those and hopefully it will be a resource for students uh you know professionals who are doing continuing professional development and for the services and uh we're actually launching it uh tomorrow so we're looking forward to that. >> Oh well congratulations and I look forward to seeing you again. >> Yes, you'll have to come visit us. >> Yeah. Thank you so much for taking this time to join us and give us a giving us a bit of perspective >> um on your not only your country but the European Union as well. Thank you. You're very welcome. It's my pleasure. Always pleasure.