This, in my opinion, is the most important module. Or maybe I'm biased. I'll just say it's my favorite module because measuring outcomes is or social change is really what we're in this for. And so now I invite you to ask yourself, what does success look like? I want you to define this early on and figure out how you're going to measure it. We measure success for two reasons. Firstly, for internal reasons so that you'll know if things are working and if you need to try and modify any of your plans and secondly for external reasons so that you can communicate with your stakeholders and hold yourself accountable and ask for help. It's not about proving that your idea is awesome and is working perfectly. It's about figuring out what's working and what's not and making sure that you continue to communicate constantly with community, with funders, and with other stakeholders. And before we start, I want to make sure we're clear that measuring should be an inherent part of your venture. It's not an add-on or an afterthought. As part of implementing your idea, the data needs to be captured along the way. So that's why we talk about success metrics at this point in your endeavor. As soon as you've solidified your idea and before we start to think about implementing it and financial viability and things like that, we need to figure out how we're going to measure outcomes. We're going to measure both long-term outcomes, the long-term social change you're trying to create, and also some intermediary indicators so that you can know along the way if the processes are working. And we'll talk more about that later. But before we start, I want to share a technical note because, you know, I can't help but get nerdy. You may have noticed that in the field of social change, people talk about impact a lot. They use the word impact, right? Like measuring impact, investing in impact. You may know that the word impact actually means something really specific. Development e economists use the word impact to refer to something that you can prove you've created. Um, so I prefer to use the word outcomes. Technically speaking, outcomes equal the impact plus the counterfactual. So it means the part that you definitely have contributed that wouldn't have happened without you plus the part that would have happened anyway h regardless of your venture. And that's what we call the counterfactual. And most people in social entrepreneurship aren't able to measure And so that's why I prefer to just talk about the outcomes because it's hard to tease apart what would have happened anyway and what your impact was. The outcomes is what anyone can see and what anyone can measure. And so in the context of this course, we're measuring outcomes. We're measuring what we see after you implement your idea. And I just want you to know that when most people talk about impact in social entrepreneurship, they're actually talking about outcomes. They're just not being very technical about the word that they're using. So you might go to impact conferences and you might talk to people about social impact or you might talk to funders about impact investing. It's actually outcomes investing. It's actually social outcomes. Social outcomes are just the changes that we observe. So, you don't have to worry too much about this distinction. I just want you to be aware about why I insist on using the word outcomes and what it means and how it's a little bit different from impact. And that most people are talking about outcomes, too, whether they know it or not when they use the word impact, unless it's like a really nerdy development economist. So, just be aware. Now that we've gotten that part over with, we're going to proceed to think about how you're going to measure outcomes. And I'm going to talk to you about ways to go about finding the success metrics for your endeavor.