I'd like to take a few minutes to talk about the field of outcome metrics in general and what I've observed about how other people are doing it before you start thinking about how you're going to do it. And the reason I'm doing that is because I feel that we in the field of social change have not been doing it so great up till now and I invite you to do it better. So what I noticed about the way many people measure outcomes is that they try to make it about demonstrating large numbers. And this doesn't necessarily indicate social change, right? Like you could say, I reached a thousand people. Okay, what did you do? Did you distribute a thousand t-shirts? Like how are you changing the world? Sometimes social change means reaching the hardest to reach populations. So you're not going to reach a large number. Sometimes it means changing who participates in the market or changing mindsets and patterns and trends. So don't get too hung up on numbers. And it's great if you can reach millions of people, but it's important to know that that's not always the case. One reason people try to demonstrate large numbers is because that's what funders are looking for. I mean, there are literally funders that will say, "We won't invest in anyone unless they're reaching a million people, or let's compare these two social entrepreneurs and pick the one that's reaching the most people." And so, funders need to be educated, too, that reaching the most people doesn't necessarily mean creating the most social change. What I really like is the way Ashoka does it, and they talk about the four levels of change. So they start with direct service which means the number of people you're directly reaching and then it expands to scaled direct service and so scaling me means reaching more and more people as much as you can but then they also talk about systems change which is a higher level of change and it's about much more than reaching people. It's about changing the way the system works. transforming the system, transforming the way existing stakeholders work together, kind of like with health leads and other case studies that we've seen in this course. And then they talk about framework change, which means just changing the whole way that we think about a social problem. I'll give you an example from Ashoka. Um, Bill Drayton talks about education a lot, right? like a teacher does direct service or if you start a new school you'll be doing direct service right you can reach x students and then if you start like hippo campus if you start hundreds of those schools then you'll reach you'll scale the number of people you reach but how about changing the school system how about changing the way the existing ministry of education works for example and then changing framework Bill Drayton gives the example of education in Brazil, a project that Ashoka has been working on where he says 100 years ago the framework we used for education was literacy. Let's make sure each child knows how to read and write and numeracy do math and things like that. But now he wants to change the framework into saying what each child needs to learn is how to be a change maker. Because they won't survive in this world. They won't be able to create and produce unless they give themselves permission and have the skills to identify problems, question assumptions, and work together in teams to create change, which is pretty much what we're learning in this course. They call it collaborative jiujitsu where they're working with many partners in a dance that's back and forth to really change the way the whole point of education. They worked with publishers, schools, parents, government, etc. So that's an example of framework change. And when Ashoka issues reports about their social entrepreneurs, they don't just report the number of people reached. They report indicators related to systems change and framework change. For example, how many other people or other organizations are copying our social entrepreneurs? That's really different from commercial entrepreneurship where you try to create barriers to entry. You actually want people to copy you like Doug Growl and the Daily Table. He doesn't want to reach every city in America. He wants others to do innovative things to solve the the food deserts. He talks about how many um Ashoka fellows have contributed to changing policy like Albina Ruiz whom we met in module 3 who helped write the law that incentivizes municipalities in Peru to work with waste pickers as service providers. Um so these are the kinds of higher level systems change and framework change indicators that aren't about just numbers reached. And this isn't mutually exclusive. You can start with direct service and scale that direct service and also think about systems change and framework change. So, I want to invite you to think beyond numbers reached and think about how you're going to use your idea as a platform to contribute to something that's much larger than your endeavor and your idea. To work with others, to contribute to policy change, to shift the way existing stakeholders work together, to ch to apply that systems thinking we've been talking about, and to contribute to framework change.