All right, it's that time again. The dos and don'ts of measuring outcomes. Let's start with the dos. We just finished talking about several of them when we walked to this log frame, right? You do want to refer to baseline data. know what the situation is and what you're trying to change before you set your targets. And that's something that at this stage you might already be equipped with because we have spent a lot of time researching your challenge and talking to people about it. Now, if you don't have baseline data, I recommend investing in collecting it. If you're trying to change the number of women that go to prenatal care, for example, in a certain community, find out how many what percentage it is now before you set your target to what percentage you're trying to get it to be. For example, do consider other factors that are affecting your outcomes. Are there other initiatives happening in the community or nationally that may be helping produce these results so that you don't mistake the outcomes you see as being directly tied to your work when other things may be causing them? And also conversely things that might be getting in your way. Going back to the clinic visit, the prenatal care is transportation a factor for example. This is just all part of your planning. You want to consider other factors affecting the outcome. You're not going to be surprised with the next one. Do communicate with all stakeholders before you set as part of setting your outcome metrics. And also while you're gathering data and afterwards, you want to assess your progress with other stakeholders. And you do want to have someone whose job this is. This is a specialized role and someone needs to be dedicated to it. There's something there's a whole field called monitoring and evaluation or me and you need an ME and person eventually in your endeavor. As we already mentioned, you want to measure both outcome indicators and process indicators. And here's something I may not have explicitly said. You want to link it to the evidence base. For example, if your goal is to improve cardiovascular health by reducing indoor air pollution, you don't have to prove that reducing indoor air pollution improves cardiovascular health. You know that from your research. A lot of researchers have already proved that. So if you can just show that you've reduced indoor air pollution, then you have shown that you're likely improving cardiovascular health. So rely turn to the evidence base and don't feel that you have to reinvent the wheel and measure everything. Another one is I recommend measuring both direct and indirect benefits. So for example with SURFRA the upcoming case study we worked with a number of women and helped create jobs for them. But I wouldn't report just that we're impacting these women because I like to say for example if an average family in the refugee camp has five or six people we're impacting the whole household. So I would say okay here are the number of women working with us here's the the larger change we're creating and also here are the number of people that benefit indirectly like there are going to be more kids in school more healthy meals on the table etc. So do measure both direct and indirect benefits. Now some of the don'ts we've also covered a little bit before and may not surprise you. Don't do this as an afterthought. You want to decide early on what success looks like and how you'll measure it. And you want to integrate it into your work. It needs to happen inherently. You don't want it to be an extra step of your work, but rather as part and parcel of implementing your work, the data is collected and that will look different for each venture. So don't forget to budget time and money for this part. Like if you need someone to create a monitoring and evaluation system, and by the way, that can be as simple as an Excel sheet. I don't want you to think it has to be something fancy, but like you need someone to manage that, to input the data, to develop the system about what data is being collected and where and when and by whom and how we're going to analyze it and share it. So remember to budget time and money for all this. And don't confuse inputs with outputs. In public health, there have been all too many organizations that have said, "We're eradicating malaria by distributing bed nets, and here's the number of bed nets we've distributed." Number of bed nets distributed is an input. It is not an output. It is not social change. Some people have literally used those bed nuts as wedding dresses and wedding veils or have just thrown them aside and not used them or have used them incorrectly so that they're not being protected from mosquitoes that might bite them at night while they're sleeping and give them malaria. So, you know, a correct output would be number of people successfully using bed nets, for example. That's just an example I came up with, but just don't confuse inputs with outputs. And lastly, don't measure too much. If you can have one large social change that's your bottom line, like here's what I'm hoping to do, that's great. If you need to have a couple, that's fine. But don't have too many really complicated indicators. It's going to make your life complicated. It's going to be harder to communicate with others. Keep it simple. What is the change you're trying to create? What are some indicators that might let you know if it's working? So, I hope these do and don'ts were helpful, will be helpful to you in specifying what success looks like for you and how you're going to measure it. And next, I'm going to talk to you about a case study that I experienced firsthand. And we'll it will illustrate the different kinds of ways that you can measure success.