It's truly my honor and privilege to share with you this case study about Sufra, which is one of the social enterprises I had the opportunity to support through my work in Lebanon, my home country, with Alanar, the venture philanthropy organization that I helped to start many years ago. And when I was scouting out social enterprises to support as I launched Alfanadar in Lebanon, I was referred to Mariam by colleagues in the development community who knew of the background and the work of the women's program association. And up till then the association or WPA for short was conducting awareness and skilluing activities. So women would come, learn about things, learn new skills and go home and nothing would change. And Marian felt frustrated with that. She wanted to do more. And she also wanted to be less donor dependent because she had been largely funded by the UN and other aid agencies and funding was decreasing. She wanted to become more independent to set her own agenda and serve the community in a way that she felt would make a bigger difference. So she surveyed the women to find out what they would like to work on with the idea in her mind that it would be helpful to produce a production unit which is the words that she used. She wanted to create a production unit or as she said in Arabic where the women could actually create something that had economic value and social value. And by surveying the women, they ended up agreeing that they'd like to do something with food. And so they had the idea to start a catering company because it's something that women already worked with every day. it was socially and culturally accepted in their society and in the context of the larger geopolitical situation, it had more of a chance to succeed, right? Like regardless of what's happening, people need to eat. So, we did the whole startup thing. We thought about what we're going to call it, what the logo will be. We tr they found ways to get trained in safety and hygiene, to develop the menu, to think about branding and marketing and all those things we talked about in the last couple of modules. And then we launched the catering company and um it went fine, you know, for the for the pilot year. And um we realized that if we wanted to achieve the goal of both creating income for the women participants and bringing in revenue for the WPA to fuel its activities, we needed to double or triple the revenue in the next couple of years after launching. So we floated some ideas and someone came up with the idea of a food truck. Instead of waiting for people to place catering orders, why not get out there so that they can see and smell the food and the women cooking it. We had really reported very traditional success metrics for Safra and the women's program association like visiting the log frame with you as I promised. Their goal had been to create a community where everyone can live in dignity. Their goal was for the women and the people and the families of Beril Baraj refugee camp where they live to have a life of dignity and hope. That was their underlying goal, right? There's no why more than that. And then we broke it down into a couple of different objectives. The first one was to increase the household income of a number of women participants over a certain period of time. And the second was to increase the revenue for the women's program association to fuel their activities in the community. And then for each objective, we had certain outputs. For example, for increasing the household income, we said we're going to start a catering company. We're going to create a certain number of jobs. We're going to create all those measurable outputs you have to create to reach those objectives. We have to create a menu. We have to create a website. you know, all those things that we were going to produce. And then in the next column, we would list the activities, find someone to train the women, um raise money to pay the trainer, develop a logo, develop a website, test out the menu, um do some sample tastings, all those activities we need. Find someone to run the kitchen, etc. And then we would say, okay, what's the estimated cost? What's the estimated time to operationalize this? And what are the targets? What's the baseline household income and what are we trying to get it to? So that's an example of an indicator that's related to the objective. But then you could also that's an outcome indicator and then you could also make process indicators, right? Like number of orders, number of money made, etc. But when I thought over time about the change we were actually creating in the community, I felt that it just wasn't captured by those numbers. It didn't matter that we were only reaching a certain number of women or producing a certain amount of money. Miam and the women of Safra were being activated as agents of change. They realized they don't need to be a charity case. They don't need to be donor dependent. They can actually dream and they can actually achieve those dreams. So Mediam had always had a dream to create a daycare. And people around her used to tell her, "What are you talking about? Who are you kidding? You can't do that. Have other dreams." But she actually by working with Alanad realized that if people believe in you and put their money where their mouth is, you can make a difference. And the baseline for that change is that Miam and the women and every single other person in their community for good reason had always felt helpless and hopeless like many people in low-income displaced communities do and many people even in the host community in Lebanon do. It's easy to feel helpless and hopeless. Even you and I myself can often feel helpless and hopeless. I listened to the news this morning. It's easy to get despondent and feel you can't create change. Well, we were helping to create agents of change. And that that change is so hard to measure even though you do observe it. And so I came back to the women of Sufra and to Alan many years later and I said we're not doing this investment justice. When we talk to funders, when we talk to the host community and other stakeholders, when we talk to the women itself and the refugee community, we're talking about jobs created. Come on. These women have become leaders in the community. They they self-report that they now have a reason to get out of bed in the morning and get dressed and leave the house. They have become decision makers in their home in society and they feel that they can create change for themselves and for others. That my friends is what we call agency. And it was only after I came to Yale and was sharing this story with my colleague Lorie Santos who also has an amazing Corsera course and I was venting like we can't measure agency. She was like hold on of course we can. And that's what us cognitive psychologists do for a living. Of course, you can measure agency. So I reconnected with SFRA and we developed a new tool to measure agency. And I would rewrite that first objective as build agency among the women of Sufra or create agents of change. just rewrite it in a higher level thinking going back to that service direct service scaled direct service systems change framework change how can we think about framework change and systems change and how can we think about the way people in that community are thinking about their futures and working together that's way more than x jobs created and my belief is that we can work together to help create success metrics that really indicate the depth of the social change we're creating, not just the breadth, not just the numbers reached, but how are we transforming a community, changing who participates in the market, and really transforming the world. So, I hope this case study has been a helpful ending to this module. I think that measuring outcomes is the most important thing you can do in social entrepreneurship. And I want you to really be ahead of your game in breaking barriers, creating new ways, new knowledge, new skills for yourself and others to define what social change looks like and how you're going to capture and communicate it.