In this segment, we're going to talk about usability engineering and we're going to review some of the guidance from the appropriate international standard in this case IC62366. So usability in medical software is incredibly important. Usability is this idea of how would we design software to make it easy for users to use and fundamentally to make sure they avoid committing errors which could have downstream effects on our patients. So medical software errors cause problems for patients and we'll see some examples. But before I launch in this discussion, we have a short video clip from Dr. Rajes Kataraman from Migen and he'll talk to us about usability. >> It's a really hot topic in today's field, especially with the new regulations that are coming out is that they are all focusing on how are we improving the software's usability. I think in today's world everything is driven by software and I have this really cool thing that when I joined the company we had this expansive software that was developed with the key opinion leaders from the different universities in mind. Now these are all really smart people. So when you train them to say you know what you are doing segmentation we are doing some kind of elastic deformation they can understand the terminology but then when you go on to the second tier and third tier centers you're still doctors but they don't work with engineers day in and day out they struggle to understand what you mean by simple terminologies for an engineer like segmentation like defamation they're like what is it what are you wanting me to do and we found that early on training ing such doctors becomes a challenge when you say you know what click this button out here and then do some process out here then click some other button towards the top they forget it. These are doctors who utilize the device maybe once a week or maybe two times or three times a week and they have so many different devices that they deal with that as engineers we do not think about uh what they go through in their daily lives. So when you start thinking about that you understand why usability become such a big deal and we had a big paradigm shift at icon starting around 2014 2015 where we decided you know what everything is going to be like a wizard you just click one button training becomes easier just do something on the image click on next do something click on next so in that way it simplifies the process for the doctor in one case you can train them all you have to say is do something next do something next. >> And an important part of usability really is to reduce the cognitive load on your user. So they don't have to think too hard because when they have to think too hard, especially when dealing with a patient as well, mistakes can happen and harm to the patient can be the result of that. The FDA guards usability, you can see the guideline on the top left here, applying human factors engineering to medical devices covers a number of topics. We're not going to do this in detail, but I'm going to show you one figure just to orient ourselves. So this is one of the figures in the document and on the left hand side we have the human factor considerations the inputs if you wish use environment user and the user interface. This is what goes in we use the device and out of it comes either correct use or use error and the whole purpose of usability engineering the whole goal here is to divine design a device in such a way so that we end up in the green arrow and not the red arrow. Fundamentally that's what we're trying to do. So the goal is to understand how people interact with technology and study how user interface design affects the interactions people have with technology. That is what usability engineering is. And we use these kinds of techniques to reduce user error to move to the green and not to the red in the figure above. The international standard for usability C62366. It comes in two parts. Part one is the normative standard. Part two are the guidelines. You can see here the outline of the standard. It's a long section on principles and a second long section on usability engineering. Those are the hearts of the start document and then there's a number of annexes actually incredibly useful. Volume two of the standard whose outline I'm not showing here is actually a very nice tutorial introduction to the topic and is well recommended for anybody who's new to this area. So let's take a look a little bit at the standard first. We'll take a couple of slides on that and then we'll discuss the process for how we use this techniques, these principles to design user interface. The first one is let's talk about safety and usability and features that improve safety can also improve the usability. So things that add to the safety device can also make it easier to use. For example, placing limits on parameter settings. For example, the standard gives us example of an infusion pump level both improves the safety. The user is unable to set unsafe values and improves the usability. It reminds the users of what the allowable range is. And if you do that, they're less likely to make a mistake. And it reduces the cognitive load on the user and increases confidence. The user doesn't always have to think what's going on here. They can't remember. So for example, this type of interface where you have to type a number is very hard on a user. They have to remember what that number should be. On the other hand, if there's a slider and it restricts you to a certain range, then makes it easier for somebody to remember, oh, it's between two and five and we usually use three, etc. And sometimes you're even better off limiting your user choices even more. So here's a trivial example of the types of image, but you could also have high, low, medium, fast, slow. These are simplifications of the interface that make life easier, especially for a non-expert user. The second key principle here is to think about task speed and risk. So if you improve the speed of a task, that's actually helpful. Higher speed allows for faster treatment provisions. That helps the medical care aspect of it. But if you go too fast, it introduces new hazard to situation if we make it faster because we're skipping confirmation steps. Sometimes slow speed can lead also to skipping over some steps in the procedure. So making something slower because we add 20 confirmation steps can be bad usability. Our user gets fed up with having to click yes, yes, I approve, I approve, and they stop paying attention. In which case, all of this extra effort towards safety backfires because it's bad usability. And again the most important lesson of this segment is that the system is a software plus the user. And so usability means that we reduce the error component in the interaction between this this user and the software. We're not interested in the software alone. We're interested in the software plus the user. So we perform two types of evaluation and this is from the standard here of user interfaces. User interface is that part of the software which the user touches effectively right that's the interface. We perform formative evaluation and summative evaluation. So formative evaluation is evaluation that is conducted with the intent to explore user interface design strengths, weaknesses and unanticipated user errors. It's a type of evaluation we do as we design the user interface as we format if you wish and that is the process that gets used there to create the best possible interface. Summative evaluation we sum up that's the end of the process is evaluation conducted at the end so as to show that our user interface is safe. If you follow the regulatory language here to obtain objective evidence that the user interface can be used safely. Objective evidence has echos of if something goes wrong you get taken to court you have evidence you can present say we did our job. That's what objective evidence refers to. So let's look at the process of user interface design. And now it's a flowchart. This is the five steps. We prepare a specification. We analyze for safety. We design. We do a formal evaluation. And we do a summary evaluation. Those are the steps and we're going to walk through them over the next few slides. So in the use specification, we identify the user groups, the user environment and the medical conditions. This is much like we could get that information from system requirement specification and it may involve observation, interview surveys, expert reviews, advisory panel reviews and in some usability test perhaps on comparable devices or competitive devices just to see how people interact with the software. Then we analyze for safety. We look at the characteristics of the user test that relate to safety. We identify hazard and hazard situations. Where can things go wrong? What could the problem be? And we identify those use scenarios in which hazards can occur and we select scenarios at this point for the ultimate evaluation at the end. And we pick them based on the severity of the process. So if something goes wrong here, this is the thing that will lead to the maximum level of harm to the patient of the optimal scenarios we have. Those are the ones you want to pick to do your summary evaluation at the end. Then we design and this is a very iterative process. So we start with a user interface specification. We do accompanying documentation and training. And this is a quote from the standard. It's a very important quote because the instructions for use and other accompanying documentation are considered part of the medical device. User interface requirements should develop for instru for instructions for use and other uncommon documentation as part of the user interface specification. Again, it's hard to emphasize this point enough. We're designing a solution. The solution is the user plus the software. So the training, the instructions, the documentation are all part of the device and those have to be developed handinhand with the actual user interface itself. So if you have something that looks really cool but you can't train somebody to use it. If your training isn't good, that means that the usability of your device will suffer. The testing is for the solution, not for the software. Next, we perform this process of formative evaluation. This is a very iterative process. It's part of a flowchart from IC6266-2. Maybe in an iteration one we develop some design concepts. Maybe we create wireframe prototypes like sketches in either Figma or PowerPoint or some piece of software we like. And we do a form initial evaluation. We just walk through. We click a little bit around say okay how does this feel? Maybe in the second iterations we do a little bit more of a detailed design. Now it's a graphic design. Maybe now we create a high fidelity prototype. Something begins to look realistic. And maybe we have experts now look at it and say well these are the sort of things that could go wrong. Maybe in a third iteration we refine the design and now we implement it in a first version of a product and now we do a formal evaluation usability test. We test it with actual users. We get feedback. We measure the error rates and we repeat this process as many times as we need until we get results that look good. And then eventually at the final end we implement the final changes in the product and we do the final usability test. So this is the end of the iteration. So three to however many you have we get to the end of the point. And again as I mentioned before there are prototyping tools. Figma is one of them that you can use to create prototype interfaces. And again the take-home lesson here is that this is an iterative process. You may have to do this many times to figure out how your users interact with your software to learn from experience and to clean out those errors in the process. And if you try to short circuit this process, you end up with a user interface that looks good to an engineer but causes trouble for the user. And that's something to avoid at all costs. Once we're done with our design, we have it finished, we think it works well, then we have to do this final evaluation, the summary evaluation. This is at the end of the project and we demonstrate that the device is not vulnerable to potential use errors. We collect performance data. This could be observational. We look at the correctness. So we observe users and we count how many successes, how many close calls, how many errors and we assess, we ask them questions as to how difficult was it to perform any given task. And we collect additional comments, overall impression, where did they find trouble, instance of confusion, difficulty, and again use errors and close calls. We list them to know what to do further. And the hope of this is that at the end of the story, we have enough data to demonstrate that our software is safe, that users can figure out how to use it, they don't make mistakes, and that is the goal of the process. Finally, sometimes while we can do those previous tests in the lab in a similar environment, sometimes you can only do this process in an actual clinical setting. You cannot do this in simulated conditions. So we have to observe the use of the device in the actual environment where it's used with care and we have and the way we get measurements here is that we observe and then we talk to the clinicians after they're done. Imagine if they're using a poft of to surgery. After they're done, we go talk to them and say, "Okay, how did it feel? What went wrong? What went right here? And so we collect data for errors and that completes our process. And as again there is no substitute for the real world. Our final validation and this is validation effectively we're demonstrating that our software meets the needs of the user here has to be done in the real environment under real conditions. I had an adviser in graduate school who said simulations are doomed to succeed. So we're trying to get as close to a realistic user scenario as possible. But sometimes there are things that happen in the real world that we can't simulate and you have to really test your software in real world conditions. So this concludes our discussion of usability. In some ways this topic is partially part of software testing which we'll talk about next week. But it's a critical component of making sure that a device is safe for use that the interface is such that the user does not make errors which can cause harm to the patient. So we'll stop here. Dr. So Nikolai will come in for the next segment and give you a case study on behavioral health. And so we'll look forward to that in the next segment. Thank you.