This is Greg Lle. In this segment, we're going to change gears a little bit and take a look at a case study focused on the application of digital medicine in mental health. Now, when one thinks about mental health and behavioral health, often we call to mind the classic picture of Sigman Freud as in this wax model of sitting in uh front of a a a couch while while people talk one-on-one in a very intimate setting. That mode has changed tremendously both because of the growth of mental health issues as well as the advance of new technologies. Now indeed many authors are saying that we are experiencing a mental health crisis particularly around young people. Suicide was the second leading cause of death in young people in recent years. uh and uh a large number of young people suffer from things like major depression and have poor access to care. Um and some of these other mental health issues are influenced by things like substance abuse and the abil an inability to find psychiatrists so that they can find actu adequate care. There are many different categories of mental and behavioral issues uh which include everything from anxiety disorders to substance abuse uh uh sleep disorders as well as depression. Digital mental health is on the rise, meaning that the application of digital technologies for healthcare intervention has been steadily growing. And just looking at the number of studies being done in this area, almost half of all digital health clinical studies were on mental health. meaning about half of the applications in health care are focused on mental and behavioral health. And there have been over 300 uh I'm sorry over 500 digital health studies conducted between uh the years uh 2010 and 2019 and these were all there were almost 200 focused specifically on interventional therapeutic areas where mental health was the largest segment. So mental health digital applications is certainly on the rise and there are many companies now that are focused on specific applications for things like depression, substance abuse in a variety of different areas. these digital approaches for mental health. They encompass uh things like smartphone apps where there's over 10,000 that exists for mental health as well as uh remote behavioral therapy modification, uh clinical virtual visits, uh uh synchronous care, consent forms, etc., as well as things like automated chat bots. So, where is this focused? Um the area of cognitive behavioral therapy has been used and now is being applied in these digital applications. Cognitive behavioral therapy is a wellestablished method to change individuals perceptions around their thoughts, behaviors and emotions around negative thoughts leading to negative emotions and causing downward spiral. Putting these CBT techniques on digital platforms has been a very effective way to reach patients and increase access to behavioral medicine improvements. Another related area is DBT or dialectical behavioral therapy. This is where uh the use of things like mindfulness, distress tolerance, emotional regulation as well as interpersonal uh effectiveness are used as techniques to again change people's behavior, thought pattern for benefit in mental health issues. And this uh technique these techniques work quite effectively on digital P platforms uh as well as in tele medicine platforms. In fact, the effectiveness of digital mental health has been wellstied and most published uh studies demonstrate that telephonic and digital applications of health care can be at least as effective as one-on-one in-person therapy uh including depression, anxiety disorder, obsessivecompulsive disease. Additionally, the patient satisfaction rates of digital applications of of mental health uh therapies are also considered quite high and very promising. Finally, some of the benefits of digital mental health are improves improving in scalability and improving access. In other words, allowing more patients to access health care despite the fact that uh uh they might not have a therapist or psychiatrist nearby. Uh and it really levels the playing field for uh bringing care to patients who are who don't have it. Additionally, it intro introduces the ability to use uh artificial intelligence uh and digital interventions that can increase the scale so that uh many more patients can be treated at a lower cost.