All right. So, let's go through some of the different revenue models that we typically see in social entrepreneurship. And I'll give you examples of companies or nonprofits that they may have been used in. And we're going to go through a spectrum from who's who the customer is. Is it a low-income customer or highinccome customer? and who's paying and what are the different ways that they're paying. So the first one we're going to talk about is the high volume lowcost model. You may have heard people refer to this as the bottom of the pyramid business model and that's because it's serving a large volume of people who have low income. I try to avoid using bottom of the pyramid terminology but that's how people have used to refer to this model. So, an example of this, you know, hippocampus, which we talked about a few modules ago, they're trying to kind of be like this where they want to serve thousands, if not potentially millions of people, and they want each person to pay a very low cost. So, each child's family is paying less than $5 a month for their early learning centers. And the idea is that each early learning center will have a very small margin of surplus revenue that can make the center financially viable. So the idea is that the more people you reach you can operate at a small volume at a small cost. So that's the first model is high volume low cost. So everyone's paying the same. They're paying a small amount and then it generates a small surplus revenue. If you have enough people then you have enough financial viability. Now, moving on along the spectrum is differential pricing. This means that you're serving some low-income people and some higher middle or higher income people and you're charging it and they're paying for your services but they're paying different prices. One example is the case study we're going to see at the end of this module which is Aravent iare systems also in India. So um it's the same service for everyone but low-income people can have this service which is the eye cataract surgery at little or no cost and then middle or high income people can pay a higher cost a higher price and this cost subsidizes people who are paying little or no price. Another really important point if you're going to do differential pricing is that you're advertising to people on the quality, not on the differential pricing. So no one's going to choose an eye surgery center because they want to help someone else. They're going to choose it because it's the highest quality eye surgery. So that's differential pricing. I also want to mention that you can have differential pricing across location. So another example in Egypt where I worked is educate me which provides Monttoauri style education um centers where you have the same curriculum and the same highquality education in different neighborhoods and all the children in the low-income neighborhoods pay the same all the children in the highincome neighborhoods pay a little bit more and cross-subsidize the low-income neighborhoods but it's that same highquality education. So you can have customers of different income cross- subsubsidizing each other at the same location like with air eye care systems or you can have customers at different locations cross- subsubsidizing by location like an educate me. So that's the differential pricing model. Third, there are other cross subsidization models um other than differential pricing and I've seen some of these in primary health care in low and middle inome countries. When people come in for a consultation with a healthcare provider, that's not, you know, if they're willing to pay a small fee, that's not going to really cover all the costs. But some services can cover the costs of the consultation. For example, these social entrepreneurs found that um eyeglasses and blood tests, diagnostics and also birthing services may be services that have higher margins and generate more surplus revenue and that these can help cross-subsidize other services which are more time inensive and costly like the consultations with the healthcare providers. So in this case we're cross-s subsidizing across services rather than customers or locations. So an extreme form of um cross subsidization is the buy one give one model. You may be familiar with Tom's shoes for example which was one of the most well-known social enterprises for a while. And this um Tom's shoes was basically where they designed a certain shoe that was sold to highincome customers in high-income countries and then all the profits from those shoe sales went to distribute shoes for free in low-income settings. So that's what we refer to as buy one give one. There are many doubts and controversies about this model because the product is designed around the high-income customer, not the low-income customer. And also because at the end of the day, you're what you're doing is actually charity. You're just giving away shoes in this low-inccome setting. Additionally, there may be some unintended consequences like putting local shoe makers and shoe sellers out of business. So even Tom's which was the most famous example of buy one give one has evolved to another model where rather than giving away free shoes they are now redirecting one-third of their profits to supporting grassroots organizations in those low-income countries who are working on more systemic change and so buy one give one as a concept has evolved Parker is an example of they started out that way with eyeglasses and sunglass classes and they all also are now um redirecting that profit rather than giving away things to support and grassroots organizations working on systems change. But I wanted to mention this model in case you hear about it so that you know that it's an extreme form of cross subsidization and that there may be other ways to create more systemic change rather than buy one give one. And this evolution of the business model of Tomms is quite common. business models. You might start out with something and then evolve into something else. And that's okay. That's a totally normal part of the process. I also want to say that a lot of social entrepreneurs rely on a hybrid or mixed model where they have many different sources of revenue that add up to cover their costs. So, an example of this is vision. Visionspring is a social enterprise that aims to uh support vision around the world through lowcost highquality eyeglasses and they cover about 20% of their costs through direct sale to low-income customers which is that that first high volume lowcost uh revenue model. It doesn't cover all their costs. It covers only a fraction of it. So then they rely on other sources such as grants and fundraising to cover all of their costs. So that's what we call a hybrid or mixed model. And sometimes organiza a social entrepreneur or group of social entrepreneurs might create multiple organizations to achieve their goals using a hybrid mixed model. So they might have a for-profit company and a nonprofit company operating as sister companies. An example of this is the women's program association that we talked about in the last module um that was working in the refugee camps in Lebanon where the women's program association had charitable activities and they started a new company for SUFFRA the catering company and food truck to generate revenue to help fuel these activities. So moving on the next revenue model I want to talk about is grant-based or charity based. An example is Rebecca Hope, my former student who founded YABS, an organization that offers design thinking services with youth around the world. Her customer is the nonprofit organizations, foundations, and aid agencies that and governments that serve youth. And so they provide YABS with grants in order to deliver their services. The key thing here is that YABS views these grant-making organizations as a customer. So it really is a sustainable revenue model because they have a value proposition not only to the youth but to the payer. The nonprofit organization or grant-making organization. So it's not really a charity. It's that the grant-making organization is a customer. and charity and donations might end up factoring in a small part in your revenue model if you have a hybrid or mixed model but I hope you'll find a paying customer whether it's the end user or an intermediate organization like wabs did and then at the end of the spectrum is responsible business which I wanted to include in the social entrepreneurship spectrum because here we're talking about more traditional commercial businesses that are not necessarily serving marginalized populations. They're just participating in the market, but they're trying to do things differently and they're finding a place along their supply chain to create social and environmental outcomes. Examples of these are Patagonia and Seventh Generation, which are global for-profit organizations based in the US that provide consumer goods like clothing, sporting goods, household detergents, etc. um household items, but they try to do so in a sustainable way. And it's really ingrained in their mission and their values and their team and their training and their business model and everything to find ways to reduce their carbon footprint to think about how they're going to create culture and community that's socially responsible among their teams and among the communities they serve. And then lastly, I want to mention the importance of cost reduction models. So, it's not just figuring out where are you going to get revenue from and who's going to pay for your offering, but also how can you lower costs to create financial viability. Cost reduction models may be the primary business model for entrepreneurs that are operating in existing organizations. So, for example, if you're innovating within a public health agency or other public agency, no one's going to your customers aren't going to pay for your offerings. They're already expecting it from you, but you may be operating within an existing budget of that agency and your innovation might find ways to create better outcomes with that for the same costs. So through that cost reduction, you're able to fuel and fund your innovation and roll it out and achieve financial viability because you're saving money for the organization that you already work at. So these are the different forms of revenue models and cost reduction that helps achieve financial viability that are commonly observed in social entrepreneurship. So take a moment to think about them. Look up the different organizations that I've shared as examples for these revenue models. And then in the next video we're going to talk about payment which means like how is this revenue coming to you? And that can vary across revenue models.