So, we don't have an official dos and don'ts video for this module, but this is kind of the dos and don'ts of financial viability. It's about things to keep in mind to achieve operational efficiency no matter what your distribution model, payment model, or revenue model, or cost savings model is. We're going to quickly go through 10 things that I found across enterprises and endeavors have really made a difference both in achieving the outcomes you want to achieve and through achieving financial viability. First define your core package. What are your non-negotiables? So we'll see in the case study of Aravind that the non-negotiables the core package was the eye surgery. This could not change across customer and that's how they were able to scale. They could change the things around it kind of the hotel style aspects of getting eye surgery but not the core package itself the non-negotiables. So figure out what your non-negotiables are and how you're going to define your core package. That's what you're going to scale across end users. Two, standardize. That's really important is that once you define your core package, you want to find ways of standardizing it across settings. Standardization can take place through training, automation, quality control. You can have standardized procedures, checklists, etc. So many of the factors we're going to share here like digitization play a role in standardization. So you want to standardize across different settings, but you also want to be able to tailor to the local population, which is the next thing that I'm going to talk about. So when you define your core package and your non-negotiables so that you can standardize, you want to give the people at the last mile who are offering your solution the freedom to tailor as well as much a little bit to the degree possible. And the example of this is hippocampus. We talked about how they defined their core package which was their curriculum. They standardized it through training protocols, checklist etc. But then they made the teacher the boss of the early learning centers so that the teacher could make could respond to local endusers needs including the students and the parents. So that's really important to keep in mind. So define your core package, standardize, and find that balance between how you're going to standardize your non-negotiables to scale as much as possible and tailor to the local population where you can especially when it comes to customer service. You want to be responsible. You don't want to just be this robot. Okay. So fourth, digitize. I mentioned that digitizing is part of standardizing. Um a lot of things can be digitized like data collection, data analysis. So um in healthcare centers for example if they have electronic medical records rather than papers this will help reduce your costs. It will help you reach more people. Tele medicine is another example. any any place that you can digitize data and digitize your offering, then it makes it more accessible to more people potentially at a lower cost. So, next we're going to talk about shortening the last mile. And by this I mean that when you're trying to think about how you're going to distribute to marginalized populations around the world, you want to find ways to um save costs and reach more people by thinking about that last mile distribution. An example of people who have done that is several social entrepreneurs that are trying to increase access to sanitary napkins or pads for menstruating girls and women. So in many parts of the world, girls miss up to a quarter of their education because for a week out of the month they can't go to school because they don't have any sanitary products and they need to stay at home. and existing sanitary companies and multinationals around the world um don't really bother with these locations because it's so expensive to transport their products there to these remote locations. So, a lot of social entrepreneurs have shortened that last mile by creating um manufacturing um centers and devices at the last mile and hiring local women to create sanitary products using local uh products. For example, banana fiber. Um, in many situations uh and locations in the global south, you have banana fiber which actually goes to waste from banana trees and becomes an environmental waste and it's also an opportunity that can be used to create sanitary napkins. You're using this wasted material. You're providing jobs for local women and you're manufacturing at the last mile instead of manufacturing centrally and transporting. And so you're being able to reach people at more people at the last mile at a lower cost. And this is an example of decentralization. Right? So um the next thing I want to say is thinking about how you can decentralize operations as much as you can. In this example there they've decentralized the manufacturing and distribution um by taking it to the last mile. But in many other cases like Hippo Campus for example, they're decentralizing by having some parts of the management and operations take place on site like through hiring field coordinators to to do the um monitoring and evaluation. Next, I'd like to talk about a a specific way to decentralize operations, which is also to also to foster local leadership. How can you identify people in the different locations you're trying to reach who others already turn to and who are already known and trusted and make that part of shortening the last mile and decentralizing. So like the teachers that Hippo campus hired like um in Sodad Saludab that we met earlier where Adbina Ruiz um identified people who were already uh rolling up their sleeves heading to those uh waste mountains and organizing themselves as waste pickers. And so she identified the local leaders and entrepreneurs and helped support them to become service providers. So that's an example of fostering local leadership. Another way to reach the last mile to decentralize operations is to leverage existing channels. So an example here is Cola Life. They were thinking about how you can get a Coca-Cola in every village in Africa, but you can't get access to oral rehydration supplements and zinc supplements that help with a problem they were trying to tackle, which is childhood diarrhea, a leading cause of illness and death among children under five. So, they came up with this innovative idea where they wanted to put their product in that little concave hole in the Coca-Cola crates and like distribute it that way. So they tried to leverage existing channels that way. That actually didn't work because it turned out only 4% of retailers or something small like that use those crates to transport the cola bottles. But through their experimentation and testing and prototyping and piloting, they realized that they could still use those retailers to sell their product at a low cost or distribute their product if others were paying for it to their end users. And so they realized that they could leverage the existing channels even if if it wasn't the transportation crate, but the retailers, those small mom and pop shops that you have at most villages or most rural areas, they could leverage those existing channels to distribute their products. So leveraging existing channels fits handinhand with a lot of the things we've talked about and they all kind of fit together. So you might be able to do multiple of these. And the last two I'll mention is the role of technology. Any place where you can use technology to reduce costs and reach more people um is great. Whether to digitize your offering like reducing paper and making things already digital like monitoring and evaluation or um through using um virtual meetings potentially um through using apps if you're working in an area where people have access to smartphones. anything you can do to spread your offering and lower costs. Technology has been used a lot in that setting. Uh in these settings, for example, the organizations I mentioned that were providing primary health care created their own software for electronic uh health records. So that helped them not only digitize their own records, but also they were able to sell it to other health care centers to cross-subsidize their costs. and that was a source of revenue for them. So technology can factor in in many ways and they used uh tellaalth as well. And lastly I want to focus on the importance of staying lean. These are all different methods of staying lean and there are other methods as well. So even if you're operating in a highinccome setting, most people don't really rent offices anymore, right? They might enter uh into a co-working space or have their team work virtually. Um they might not have their own warehouses or trucks for transportation. They might leverage existing channels as a way to stay lean. So whether it's through some of these things I've mentioned or whether it's through other things like co-working, being remote, always find ways to stay as lean as possible and have as little overhead as possible. In the next video, we're going to talk about financial forecasting. And this will really drive home the message of why it's important to stay lean. No matter what your revenue model is, your distribution and payment model is all the operational efficiencies we've mentioned in this video and many others can help you keep a lean operations so that you can be financially viable, not at the cost of your customers.