The case study for this module is Aravent Eye Systems, a social enterprise that started in India to provide cataract eye surgery to low-income populations. And the problem they were the social challenge they were trying to solve was blindness. A lot of people were going blind and were not getting the services they needed to be able to see. there was a a simple solution which is cataract eye surgery. So Aravven was founded by a physician who we'll call Dr. V. Dr. V noticed there were a lot of different reasons why people weren't getting this critical care to uh prevent blindness. One reason was that they weren't being screened by anyone to tell them oh you need the surgery otherwise you'll go blind. Another reason was that even if they knew it was happening, they had a lot of fear and misperceptions about the procedure or about their approach to their own health. And they might felt many of them said like, "Oh, this is just how God wanted it. Like there's nothing I can do. I'm going to be blind." And after talking to people, they realized, "Oh, there is something they can do and they'll be able to see." Another reason was cost. A lot of people couldn't afford this. They couldn't access the care. So over many years of working with the government to provide ICE services, Dr. V decided that he was going to get together with a group of trusted stakeholders and create a new solution employing the social entrepreneurship mindset and skill set of finding innovative ways to increase access to cataract surgery. That was how Aravind was born. It has been called by some as the McDonald's of healthcare because they found a way to reach so many people and they were operating in what some call the bottom of the pyramid situation where you have a high volume of people who um have low income and are only able to access lowcost services. So they started in many different ways. First they started reaching people by going out there to um have screening camps. They had like mobile screening camps where they would um target their customers, figure out who needs eye surgery and who doesn't and then ask them to come back to the their hospitals. So a key part of their operations was taking place at the hospitals and that was an important place where they had to achieve operational efficiency and financial viability. So how did the operations tie with financial viability for Arabend? A lot of it had to do with efficiency, many of the factors we talked about and with cost reduction. So, one of the things they realized is that in a hospital setting, the surgeons that are providing the cataract eye surgery really only need to be doing the cataract eye surgery. There are others who are not surgeons who can be doing a lot of the other work that sometimes surgeons do and surgeons are more expensive. So similar to hippo campus, they hired from the local community and trained health workers from the local community who didn't have medical degrees to provide information for patients, provide customer service, answer questions, help with customer flow within the hospital, and help manage the process. and they saved a lot of money by doing that so that the surgeons could just focus on the actual surgery. Another part of their operations was that they found ways to serve a large volume of people. So instead of each patient going through the process and creating this backlog, they found a safe and sterile way to safely deliver eye surgery to multiple patients where this the um surgeon was actually like doing something on one patient and then doing something on another and then like operating on multiple people kind of in an assembly line fashion while adhering to all the medical procedures and protocols that keep people safe. and that keep the cataract surgery at high quality. So, human resources was a huge part to do with operational efficiency and cost reduction. Also, the way they used their materials. They innovated on ways to keep costs low and operate a really lean um operation at the hospital. Um they found ways to safely and cleanly reuse a lot of the equipment that doesn't need to be disposed. And then they're also reducing their environmental footprint. They found ways to manufacture a lot of their own equipment because it was they partnered with others to make it less expensive than what was already out on the market. And so throughout their operations and throughout their process map, they kept a focus on keeping costs down. So these are some of the ways that they achieved operational efficiency. And then the last component of their financial viability was that differential pricing. So, as I mentioned earlier in the module, people who couldn't pay didn't pay or paid very little and people could pay more paid more and they all got the same eye surgery. There was like a menu of prices where depending on your income, you signed up for certain services. I once asked Dr. Tulsi Ravia, the executive director of Aravind, a question that my students always ask me, which is how does Aravven know the income of their patients? Like, do they sit here and interview people and ask for documentation so that you can do get this for free? Um, that must take a lot of time and money. And Tulsi replied, "Your students are asking the wrong question. Think about an airplane. Everyone on that airplane is going to the same place. They're all have equal safety. They're all going to get there in the same amount of time, but different people on the airplane have different experiences. Some pay more than others. Some might sit um on bigger seats or have better foods or board earlier or take more luggage. So people are paying the higher income patients were paying for kind of like the hotel and hospitality services of the experience which helped cross-subsidize people who didn't want to pay who got the same surgery but then other elements of their experience the like hotel and hospitality aspects may not have been as luxurious. So that's how they were able to do it in order to provide that same surgery at different prices to cross-subsidize the cost. And again, this wasn't advertised to customers. What was advertised was their high quality service because PE that's what people are going to choose when someone's operating in their eye. So these are some of the factors that allowed to reach a large number of people including low-income populations to provide highquality care. And Tulsi has a lot of advice that he shares with other executive directors. If you want to use differential pricing, it's important to do so in a setting where the product is consistent. So he helped people in dental care, in heart surgery, in other fields of medicine, in other countries to um implement similar aspects. That's one of the ways that they're scaling their impact beyond their own hospitals. And lastly, in along the lines of decentralizing operations, they realized that what people really need is primary eye care, which means like just going to the eye doctor, having eye checkups, getting glasses, whatever. Not everyone needs eye surgery. And rather than having these camps where they were asking everyone to come to them and spent time and money and transportation and days away from work and all these things that prohibited people from coming to the hospital, they decided that their way of scaling their operations beyond the hospitals of reaching more people in a financially viable way was to operate vision centers. So most recently they started operating vision centers which are primary care eye health centers and using a hub and spoke model where each hospital had a set of vision centers that could reach the entire population that needed eye care and people could go there do their health checkups get eyeglasses or whatever they need and then only a small percent would have to come to the hospitals for operation. And again digitization played a key role here in digitizing health records, monitoring and evaluation. Other uses of technology like teleaalth where people from the hospitals would meet virtually and support with people from the vision centers were also used. They leveraged local leadership and local channels to shorten the last mile. They defined their non-negotiable which was the surgery. So they really utilize a lot of those levers of operational efficiency that we discussed in this module to help both have the biggest impact and the most financial viability. So I hope this case study has been helpful in providing an example of the different aspects of the business model that we talked about in this module. So now we're concluding this module. I think that once you go through your financial template and think about your revenue, payment, and distribution models, you'll be in a good place because you spend a lot of time thinking about the people you're serving, developing your offering in a way that creates the outcomes you want to create, what those outcomes are, and how you're going to measure them, and now how you're going to make this viable. So, in the next module, whenever you're ready, we'll continue on to talk about how you're going to fund all this, what are the different forms of social financing, and then in the module after that, how you'll build an organization around it, and how you'll pitch and communicate and expand your impact. So, let's continue on the journey.