Welcome to week eight of the mial software class. And in this week, we're going to the most concrete components of the medical software life cycle. We talk about coding and testing. And in many ways, this is the part of the life cycle that is most similar to any other kind of software engineering you may have had exposure to. So for those of you who have a lot of expertise in software engineering, this will be a fair amount of revision. although we'll try to highlight some things that are unique to the medical software process. So the goal of this week's lecture is we're going to give you some advice on coding especially in this medical software domain. We'll talk about source code management. We'll introduce software testing and we'll discuss what a testing plant looks like. We have five segments for you. The first two are going to focus on code first the process of construction of programming and then managing code and revision control systems. Then we'll do an introduction to software testing. In the last two segments, first we'll do an example of integration testing within the context of realtime fMRI and then we'll do a final segment on verification and testing and thinking about how one goes about developing a testing plan for software. As before, we're following the textbook and this week's material is based on chapter 14 of the textbook. So segment one, we're going to talk about software construction, which is another word for coding or programming that you may have come across. As a warning, this is not a programming class. We're not going to teach you here how you should write code. There are many classes out there both on Corsera and on other sites and colleges that will teach you how to program. We'll mostly focus on the management of the process here and the same applies to our discussion of testing and we will focus we'll try to zoom in a little bit on issues that are unique to medical software. If we look at the software life cycle and this is the Viv model that we've been following over the past few weeks. We've been through use cases, we've been through system requirements, and last week we finished the software design part. This week, we're getting to the bottom part of the cycle and we're going to talk about implementation and then start working our way up towards low-level testing and verification. This is the goal for this week. Next week, we'll take a detour to talk about probability theory and statistics. And in week 10, we'll complete the discussion of the life cycle, talk about validation, deployment, maintenance, and retirement. So before we jump in, let's look at some of the regulatory background. Some comments from the QMS document from National Medical Device Regulators Forum. And this defines coding. This development activity transforms the requirements architecture design including interface definition recognizing code practices, secure and architecture patterns into software items and the integration of those software items into a sound. So basically this is where we move from designs to an actual piece of software. The result is a software item, system, product that satisfies specified requirements, architecture and design. And this is the goal to create a concrete piece of software that faithful to its design and its requirements. Let's look at a second quote from this document. Good development practice incorporates appropriate review activities and it follows a defined implementation strategy. So we're not just sitting at a computer and hacking here. Okay. design changes resulting from the review activity or development activity should be adequately captured and communicate to ensure that other development and quality management system activities remain current. So if something as we code we find something that needs to be changed we follow a proper process. We have a review we discuss we change the designs so the code and the design remain in sync. And the final piece of advice from the MDRF is that use of automated tools and supporting infrastructure is important for managing configuration and having traceability. So the more the process is scripted the more your build process happens in one go the better off you are. So let's offer a few comments on programming here. You really want to follow the standard best practice to taught in most computer science courses. There's no substitute for that. This is important. The code should be modular, well documented and easy to read. And you want to keep comments in a single language. This may sound in a side comment here. that in a multi-ultural world where we have people from different countries from different backgrounds with different first languages, you almost want to have an agreement that all comments will be in English or in German or in French or whatever the common language of the company. The last thing we need is a programmer writing their own piece of code and putting their comments in the code, their variable names, their function names in their own national language. I heard of one case of a programmer where everything was in Finnish. You can understand that this code was hard to read by others and when they left the code almost died with them. We'd like to use defensive programming techniques. Do not assume that the previous module is behaving correctly. Assume that it was hacked. That's a good model in many ways. So check all your inputs before you proceed to implementing anything. You like to use a shared repository and appropriate branches. And we'll talk a lot more about source code repositors in the next segment. And finally, try to avoid using the latest and greatest feature of any programming language or any unnecessary complexity. Again, our topic is complex enough and our goal is not to show off how complicated our code can be. And to illustrate this point, we have a quick video from Dr. Steve Piper who'll talk a little bit about avoiding unnecessary complexity. this person like totally implemented this crazy level of detail abstraction and didn't write down any even hint about what it was supposed to be or they adopted some you know late latest and greatest craze language that nobody else uses. So those are the kind of mistakes you know you can't you can talk about in retrospect I don't know if you can you know other than kind of anecdotally warn against them but uh you know I guess I guess if I were to pick one that I think it's kind of it's got a clever you know kind of phrase about it but you know one of the things that you see a lot of domain specific languages right and a concrete example of it C++ templates can be can be a kind of domain specific language where people abstract things up and uh the the line is from a thing called the programmer's devil's dictionary which you can find online and I don't know who originally wrote it but they said that a domain specific language is is a language in which code is written in one language and error messages are generated in a different language and and anytime you find yourself in that sort of a situation where you wrote one line of C++ code and got 42 pages of error messages then you know that there's some disconnect between the level of abstraction you're working at and the problem you're really trying to solve. So the take-home lesson from this video is don't code to impress, code to generate functional safe software. A second issue that's somewhat more unique to medical software or it applies to other kinds of software is internal notion analyzation, you have to assume that your software will need to support multiple languages from the start. If you want your software to be used in countries outside your native country, then you may have to support other languages. And the solution to this, the programming techniques involved is that you abstract all string handling, the strings going to separate files. So messages like error, click okay to proceed, all of those things going to separate files. And this applies to both messages and for GUI elements, the names on the buttons and things like that. And you want to have the ability for your software to have some sort of language selection in the preferences, whether that's user accessible or configured by whoever is doing the installation. And we have a second video clip here from Dr. Kataran will talk about internationalization and his experience with it >> and that's when the biggest thing came into us like the first question that any doctors from Europe are going to ask is does it support German does it support French okay you need to have your code structured in certain ways you need to develop your framework in such a way that you can extract all the different strings out of it so and the biggest thing about English and other language is the string which stores the data if you have the ability or If your platform or your development environment has the ability to extract these strings and list them out as a table then it makes it easier for internationalization. So what you would do is you would work with the translator. You would provide them either the GUI mockup or you would provide them the uh list of words that need to be converted to a particular language. They would start working and converting all of those things. Then you would uh just take that file, put it into the software and then basically see how it converts. send. So you then give it to the doctor for feedback to say, hey, do these words make sense? >> Okay. The other part of that happens very often in the medical software world and in any high quality software development is static code reviews. This is where we have experienced programmers review the code statically and look for logical flaws and poor structure. Lag of comments, short variable names, function names that make no difference, all of those good things. And GitHub can be used as a code review tool. So the process would go along the line the following lines you create a branch you make changes you submit a mesh request somebody reviews the code statically including using automated tools so we can run code checkers and then eventually after corrections are done the code is merged back into the main branch and we'll talk a lot more about this process in the next segment when we discuss source code management a unique aspect of medical software that it lives for a long time so many soft medical software packages are maintained for extended periods of time and the code is highly likely to be reviewed and modified by programmers that were not present at the time of the design. So there's an extra burden to write very clear and easy to read code and you may need to learn to optimize for readability over compactness. So perhaps you may even want to allow for some reduction in efficiency if this improves the readability and this is a critical point. If you've ever, those of you who are old enough, tried to read code that you wrote 15 years ago, sometimes it doesn't make sense to you. It's very hard to read old code. Imagine if this code was written by somebody else. And so when you write code, you need to write it in such a way such that it's easy to maintain. And that may mean that you take some simplifications in there. You don't use the most complex technique. You don't write the most compact piece of code. Maybe even use a slightly simpler procedure that's a little slower because deep down that code not only needs to be working now, but it needs to be easy to fix and maintain over the many years that your software would be in use potentially 10, 15, 20 years down the road. The one more comment I should talk about is this concept of soups. These are external libraries. These are the components we depend on. This should be listed in your software design document. And if during the implementation we discover that we need to use another library and this routine should be familiar to you by now we need to stop coding ask that the software design be revised to include this extra library or maybe not we'll see what the whole review processes get the revision approved and then and only then do you continue programming. The developer should not add dependencies on their own. Dependencies have a way of introducing additional constraints. You may think that that library will solve your problem but that may constrain you to only operate on a particular type of hardware. Maybe your software needs to work on something else. So dependency should be handled with care and this should be a high level decision not something that somebody does as they write code and then we return to risk management. We will always return to risk management. Things can go wrong of course at the coding step. We may have a plan but that plan will now encounter the real world. And as the German general Helman Folk said, no plan survives contact with the enemy. When it comes to programming, you could ask you could argue that the real world, the program is almost the enemy, not just the programmer, but the actual process of coding. So we have a great design, everything looks good on paper, but now it has to be implemented. And at that point, we'll see how well our design holds up when it has to be put into operation. So in the same way that military plans and this is what Helman Wal was talking about look good until you start the campaign and then you realize that the other side will do things. Same thing applies to any other kind of plan. We have a great plan we start coding we may discover things that go wrong and we may have to think about how to adapt and you know adjust to make progress in that domain. So the final thing to remember here is that all code written by humans is prone to errors. We identify parts of the code that are highly likely to fail due to human error and we come up with mitigation strategies for controlling for the risk created by such error. So let's talk a little bit more about that. What causes software to fail? We discussed that back in work for week four as part of risk management. But let's revisit it. Large size and large complexity of any particular item. Lag of skill and or experience of the developer. Any external stress in the circumstances in which the code was created. We're close to a deadline. aspects of the code that have a history of failure. This type of thing never succeeds, then you should worry about it. And issues with the testing of this part of the code, maybe this wasn't fully tested or it was tested by somebody less experienced. Those are the type of things that cause software to fail. And how do we mitigate the risk due to implementation problems? So what are the things we can do? First, you assign tasks based on skill and experience. Have the most experienced developers handle the most complex piece of code. That just makes common sense. you need to simplify either the size or the complexity of the items. And the solution here is to create a more detailed design prior to coding for such items. So if you remember from IC6204, they talk about how software falls to classes blast and cruise needs more detailed design. That's a risk medicication strategy. The same applies throughout. If you have a piece of code that looks too complicated, may spend a little bit more time designing it. Break it into pieces. It will make the implementation a little easier. So having identified what can go wrong, let's think about strategies to mitigate the risk that comes from implementation problem. The first strategy and this is a very simple one. You want to assign tasks based on skill and experience of your developers. You want to find your most experienced developers and assign to them the most complicated tasks. You want to simplify the size or the complexity of the items. And perhaps this may involve creating a more items. Again, if you remember in a discussion of IC62304, there was a discussion of the need for a more detailed design for software in classes B or C. That principle can be generalized. If something carries higher risk because it's complicated, then a solution to that is to do a more detailed design job. Think a little bit harder about what this piece of software should look like before you code it. It will save you trouble later. We want to ensure that parts of the parts of the code that carry significant risk are tested thoroughly, ideally by your most experienced testers. And sometimes, and this is risk management 101, we need to acknowledge that while the design may have been a good idea, it cannot be safely implemented. And this is if we remember the three components of risk management. A, change the design to eliminate functionality. B, take measures to simplify and to add safeguards. And three, addformational and warning messages. this thing is likely to fail. Sometimes it's that first one. It's a great idea on paper. We can't implement it safely. So there's nothing we can do. We need to change the design to ensure that we don't get into problems. So this concludes this introduction into coding. In the next segment, we'll pick up the discussion and we'll talk about revision control systems. Thank you.