So in this segment we'll give an example of integration testing in the context of realtime fMRI and primarily the challenges here was how to integrate a piece of software that we wrote in an existing setup that involved an MRI scanner or feedback computer and all the associated challenges that that presented. So first let's just orient ourselves as to what fMRI and real-time fMRI are. Functional MRI or fMRI measures brain activity and it provides real-time measurements of what the brain is actually doing. So real time fMRI allows us to interventions to alter the state for many applications. For example, in the case of pain management, the patients can be taught to reduce their brain function in those parts of the brain that create the sensation of pain. So just to sort of make that more concrete when people feel pain particular part of their brain is activate the signal in fMRI is higher than it would normally be and you can train people to reduce the signal in that part of their brain and if you give them a sense of what their brain is doing they can try different things until the signal goes down and this is a technique for those of you interested in knowing more about the topic there's a new book edited by my colleague Michelle Hamson and you can see the title there the title is fMRI neuro feedback so before we talk about the system. Let's just review the normal fMRI pipeline. You basically acquire lots of 3D images of the brain every one and a half or two seconds. That's typical that are sensitive to what's known as blood oxygenation level or bolt. This is the measure of brain activity that we use. And you can see the set of images there. You can see that they're not particularly lined up because people tend to move around in the scanner a little bit. The next day perhaps you correct for motion in the image as people tend to move their heads. they don't sit still and you end up with a nice straight set of volumes here and then you perform analysis to see if the time varying signal correlates to something we care about. Perhaps some of the time the subjects are asked to perform a particular task, some of the time that has to be addressed and we look for elevated signal in those times of performing a task compared to the time they were addressed. By contrast, the real-time fMRI pipeline is a little different. We have to do all the processing on the fly. We have to do motion correction analysis in sort of real time and we have to present updated results and we can even modify the experiment as it goes on. The total available time is about 3/4 of a second and the key issue the key issue computationally is motion correction figuring out how to do this in this available time. So this is what the result this is what an experiment looks like. This is a time course. This is what the patient is seeing in one of these experiments. Again, Curtis, my colleague Michel Hamson, this is from an experiment of a study that's designed to help people control PTSD symptoms. During the white time course, this is when the patient is at rest and they're shown a neutral picture and they're told to relax. During the red time course, they are made to listen to a recording of a personalized trauma story, what affects them. And what we're seeing here is the time series as recorded from the amydala, part of the brain that's involved in this area. And you can see the activity elevates as they're responding to the trauma. And during the blue component, this is when they are asked to regulate the time because they can try different techniques which they were given ahead of time and see if they can reduce your brain signal. And you can actually see that the brain signal goes down from activity area down to the blue area. And this is an example of teaching people to control their brain to help them as a treatment for many of these intractable diseases. So what does this look like from a soap perspective? So this is our subject. Our subject will go into the scanner and lie down into a bed here. And the system as it stands in a typical MRI setup consists of two computers. The scans console here on the bottom which is where the operator controls the system sets and sets all the parameters for the imaging study and the reconstruction system which takes the raw signals from the MRI scanner and creates the images that will then appear on the scanner console. So if you go for a regular MR study, this is what's involved. I mean with a huge amount of simplification in the real time setup, we have another computer we call the image proing computer. It's a different color here which taps into the reconstruction system, gets the data in real time, performs the analysis and outputs information for the feedback computer which is used now to generate display for our subject just like the plot we show on the top left hand side of the screen. So what you're seeing here this average time course is produced by the image pro computer doing motion correction averaging the signal in particular region sending it to the feedback computer which produces the feedback whether it's a plot or whatever else the experiment we're trying to do so what are the challenges here for integration testing the challenge of course that we don't have an MRI scanner lying around whenever we want. So if you take the system the solution we came up with is to take the image processing computer which is our own software. We isolate that and we create first a simulator to create the MRI acquisition which just feeds the imaging processing computer data as if it were acquired from an MR scanner. This performs it processing and then we have another simulator that captures the output of the image processing computer and ensures that given the same data we get the correct output. And so this type of setup permits testing in the lab without having to use a very expensive piece of equipment to do debugging and allows us to figure out that the software works before we have to take it into practical operation. We have a video clip here from Dr. Rajaraman from Ian Health Services and he'll tell us about a similar strategy they employ for testing their software for image guided prostate biopsy which involves the use of a robotic device to control the ultrasound probe. So let's take a listen. which is going to uh basically we have a hardware device and initially when I was working at IGEN it was really cumbersome to develop onus because you needed to go to the device and then start working on the device and then uh there people sharing it. So if there were two people already using it I had to wait for my turn. So I had to see that okay when I going to finish and then come back and then do that. So what we decided was okay let's develop what we call as a simulator where we're going to modularize it. the interaction with the hardware is going to be a separate module. We pick that to be separate and then we make sure that all the other pieces of the code like we have a segmentation module, registration module, all those things are independent of the hardware. So now we can set up our own desk and develop on the simulator and we are with confident we can be uh with confidence we can know that when the testing happens on the actual device it will work. So now you have simultaneous development >> and this is one of the key things as you mentioned at the end you allow multiple developers to work in parallel because they don't have to have access to the hardware. Often this hardware is expensive there might only be one available at the company or it may be that that hardware only is available at a hospital that you have to go and do testing. So this type of strategy is very helpful to just again put into context when people think about integration testing what we often think about is how the modules of our software fit together. Here's sort of a slightly higher level type of integration testing. How does our software fit with the rest of the universe where a user operates? And we may have to simulate a pack. We may have to have a demo pack setup in our lab to do testing. We have to have a demo electronic health record software and all other kind of hardware simulators. These are extremely useful tools for testing purposes. They permit many people to try things at the same time and to have control conditions. Of course, eventually we have to go back to the real world and make sure that simulators capture enough of that information and we're not discovering new bugs as we enter into the real world. So, this concludes this sort of excursions into integration testing in real time with Mara. In the next segment, we'll pick up the story and we'll talk about how does one create a verification plan and look at some of the regulatory guidance in that area as well. Thank you.