So in this last segment, we'll take a step back and we'll look at some of the regulatory guidance for software verification and testing. We'll think a little bit about the implications of for risk management and how risk management enters the process and we'll give some outline thoughts as to how one would develop a testing plan for a piece of software, a medical software package. So first we'll start where we start. We'll think about the risk classification of software. Remember the standard IC62304 classify software into low risk, class A, let's say medium risk, class B and high risk, class C. We're not going to go through the details again, but the thing to keep in mind is that with increasing risk come increasing requirements both for the design and for the testing of the software and actually here you'll see that the increasing requirements for the design are precisely to permit higher grades of testing directly. So continuing with a regulatory review unlike coding which is very sparsely covered in the regulatory documents the the documents dedicate significant space to testing and this is what in some ways they're designed to do the general description that we can see here there are two main areas in the documents that we find descriptions of testing the concepts of developer testing and this is where the GPSV comes in section 5.2.5 and then testing done at the user side and that's the GPSV section 5.2.6 six. So there these are the two basic kinds of testing. Testing the developer stand in the lab and testing is done at the user side. IC2304 divides the process into three steps. Unit testing, integration testing, system testing. The two are very analogous and you can see the sections in the standard. If you look at the flowchart for the process of the software design and implementation in the standard, you can see the four first four steps have to do with design effectively. But the last four steps, at least three of the last four steps, 5.5, software unit implementation, software integration testing, software system testing. So three out of the eight steps have to do with testing, which gives you a sense of the importance of the topic. So what are the targets for testing? So how do we define what we're going to test against? Who spe where is our testing specified? So unit and module tests are traced to the detailed design. And this is of course for class B, classes blast and cruise where we in fact have a detailed design. So that's where that extra requirement comes from. You need a more detailed design to allow you to do a more detailed testing because that is required for a high risk device. Integration tests are traced to the high level software design where we know what the modules are and what they communicate with. And then system level testing are traced to the software requirements. So for example, if you have a requirement that says that the system needs to do a particular task in under two seconds, let's say it's a computation algorithm, that is where that is found. And so we can do a system level test to ensure that that procedure happens in that amount of time. And obvious as it should be by now is that all this testing cannot be performed in the absence of this design documents. If you don't have a set of requirements, you can't do system test. If you don't have software design, you can't do integration testing. If you don't have a detailed design, you cannot successfully do unit testing. I mean, you can test some units randomly, but you have no way of checking that you have all of them done. There are a few more comments worth looking at and this is from the QMS document from the National Medical device regulators forum. And let's just read a quote here. This VNB verification of validation activity should include clinical user use environment, usability, instructions for use, etc. Interoperability of components and compatibility to other platforms, devices, interface, etc. with which some software as a medical device works should be considered. So you should in addition to testing in the lab, you should test in the real world and make sure that it's all integrated correctly. Many problems only appear in real world situations and that's a well-known scenario in software. And the software will need to interface with other software devices and this interfacing must be testing. And in the real world, unlike the lab, other things appear. We could have network slowdowns. We have network disconnections. We could have updates to other systems that cause all kinds of little issues. So this document reminds us that we need to test in the real world and we need to test for interoperability of our software with everything else that's in there in that environment. And finally just again to sum it up this is a different kind of integration testing here. Our software is in fact a module. We're used to as in the case of fMRI think of modules used to construct our software but in a complicated workflow our software is a module for the real world risk management and testing we are always going to return to this topic testing may fail to reveal errors problems our software and this is a major risk issue we can't if we are relying on testing to find what's wrong with our software the risk involved is that that process may fail to do it software testing is similar to diagnosis while you may be diligent In terms of looking from symptoms, we may miss them. That could be because of human error or because a symptom did not manifest itself during a particular examination. Software is deterministic. So we have bugs when a certain set of inputs gets applied to the software and those may be very particular. So we may test many many times and those exact conditions may never happen and then suddenly those conditions appear. So we may have done all the testing in the world and the symptom the bug may not have appeared but it may still be there. So that's some of the issues we have to worry about. Few more comments here. Unit and integration testing involve the writing of code for test cases. So this is code may have errors in it. And testing code needs to be designed and reviewed with similar rigor to that used for the production code. Okay, that's it's code. You still need to design it. You still have to be careful and then of course you end up in this ended loop of having testing code for testing code for testing code. Obviously you have to maintain some level of sanity here. But testing code should not be an afterthought. should be written clearly and reviewed in the same way. Some final comments. We have to worry that whether a software is exposed to enough external conditions. If we have a complicated piece of software that does, you know, a very complicated nonlinear procedure, having just one set of tests may not be enough. And the software should not always be tested by the same person in the same way. You hear the comment, it always worked for me, and that's always true for me, by the way. My code always works for me. you hand it to another person and it breaks down. Again, the problem is that because software is fundamentally nonlinear and small changes in the input expose different functionality. When you have the same person doing the testing the same way all the time, those conditions are always present and we fix them. We fix those path through the software, but we've been missing something slightly different. So having some element of randomness and changing how we do it slightly may reveal issues as well. What increases the probability of failure in testing? Well, inexperienced testers is one difficult conditions. They don't have enough information. We don't have enough data and illdefined tasks. If the testers don't know what they should be looking for, that means the testing is highly likely to fail with the resulting problems. So, let's talk a little bit about how we create a testing plan for our software. What does this involve? The first is well, for each requirement, you need to design a set of tests to demonstrate that it is met. So, start with your list of requirements. create a set of tests, make sure it's done. You want to create tests for the entire workflow end to end where the user is asked to mimic a real well procedure situation. And this test may involve replicating previous measurements. So here's an image. Follow the 10 steps that the radiologist would follow to create a measurement and do this over and over again to ensure that we get the right answer. You want to add a set of random operations. Have the tester play to see if anything breaks. This is part of trying to find out more about the software by just poking around and a good description of all of this testing setup will involve plenty of pictures, right? So, you need your tester to have pictures. If you click this is what you this is what you should see and if you don't see exactly what's on the screenshot, please flag it. You may be saying something interesting. Let me highlight one more thing about the random operations part. And you see that in a previous problem. We talked about prostate biopsy a couple of segments ago as an example of a procedure. The way prostate biopsy is done in many hospitals right now is that we have MRI images of the patient ahead of time. Those get used to identify lesions which are targeted for biopsy where a needle is placed in the middle of that lesion to extract a small piece of tissue to see if there is cancer there. But in addition to that, the urologist will actually do random sampling of the prostate. They would poke at different areas and extract a few other samples when there is no necessarily visible lesion there. And the reason for that is again this randomness often helps. If there may be cancer there that we can't see, there may be back there that will not be revealed by standard testing. And so some randomness helps the process. Continue to testing plan. It's good to have regression testing for the automated parts of the processing. So test that exercise the code automatically run it against previous inputs and compare the results to previous outputs to make sure that nothing broke due to changes. And ideally ideally one should be able to execute the same executable that the user uses in test mode. So all the inputs provided as part of some command line and we obtain outputs that can be compared to previous silver standard results. And this is important because you know often when we write small tests we link to the library we exercise a function or two and that's useful. exercise a piece of code. But being able to run the full executable, again, we're approaching the real world situation. The software is initialized, the memory is allocated. We may find bugs that only happen when the full executable is loaded because it stresses a system in a different way. And this is the final point. You want to test the actual executable as much as possible. There is no substitute for the real world, the real executable, the real conditions. In addition to what we've talked about and this assumes our focus so far has been more on the computational side and the low-level side, we want to do user interface testing and we talked about this as part of our description usability in week seven and we want to do cyber security testing for example penetration analysis to see if one can hug into the system. We reviewed cyber security briefly in week three. Finally, one wants to test for desiraability. Okay, so do our users like the software and do they enjoy using it? User delight is not really a regulatory requirement. The FDA won't tell you your software, your users must love your software, but it can really be a make or break market requirement. If people don't like your software, they may never buy it. Deserability can be formalized. You can formalize through extra nonfunctional requirements. At the end of the you create a test where you ask people to rate your software at one to five. One, they don't like it, five they love it. You say this software needs to achieve a score of four on this requirement to satisfy the specifications. And we also go about and obtain informal feedback from sort of beta testers and customers and all of those things. And just to summarize this story here, perfectly functional, but clunky software will not necessarily sell. Nobody will actually be excited to show it to their friends. Here's this great tool that I'm using in my clinical workflow. You should be thinking about that, too. And Dr. Khaled will come back and talk to you in week 12 of this class about the management process and how to engage users and how this whole process works from more of a management perspective. So this concludes our discussion of software testing this lower level part of the life cycle process. The next step is to talk about validation where we do testing to see if the software satisfies the needs of our user. But before we do that, we'll go on a detour for the next week's segment to talk about math and probability, statistics, detection theory, because those are required elements as we think about designing a validation plan. Thank you.