So historically there was a huge divide between different ends of the social impact spectrum. The nonprofit and the for-profit worlds were pretty separate. The funding sources and vehicles were just completely different for them. But with the growth of social entrepreneurship and hybrid organizations, this missing middle has started to emerge. So there's new forms of investing like impact investing which we'll talk about and there's also an evolution in the existing forms of investing like philanthropy. So we talked about the sources and vehicles for funding social change, but we didn't talk about the approaches. Let's go ahead and and make some of those definitions. So let's start with philanthropy. What does philanthropy mean? It's a social investing approach where you're looking to create pure social change and you're not looking for a financial return on investment. So a philanthropist can give money to create something new. It could be like a hospital or a museum or it could be to a nonprofit or social entrepreneur. And over time philanthropy has evolved. So strategic philanthropy has emerged where the philanthropist has predetermined goals like I want to eradicate a maternal child mortality. So I'm going to go look for entrepreneurs and organizations that are doing that and I'm only going to invest in them. So the philanthropist is a social change maker that's creating their social change through funding. And then catalytic philanthropy takes it one step further where you're taking responsibility for these goals. like when I find these people, I'm going to use all the available tools to mobilize resources to and knowledge to develop a field. So examples of catalytic philanthropy that you might be familiar with are Gates Foundation and Rockefeller Foundation. And then venture philanthropy is a specific type of philanthropy that invests in an organization. So that's what Alfanar does, the organization I helped start in Lebanon that I told you about. And when I say invest, I mean it includes financial support and non-financial support and it takes place over several years. Now, so venture philanthropy is kind of like venture capital except it's looking for social return on investment, not financial return on investment. So you I so you want to maximize the social impact and you do require financial growth for the organization you're investing in, but you don't take that financial growth for yourself. you reinvested in other organizations. So the people you're getting or in institutions you're getting money from unlike a venture capital firm, they don't see that money again. And venture philanthropy can use all uh three common uh funding vehicles that usually starts with grants. Then as the investy gets stronger, there could be low interest or zerointerest loans. And then for those pro for-profit social entrepreneurs there there could be equity. Um venture philanthropists are usually foundation like Alfanard. There's a one in the US called New Profit. The Draper Richard Kaplan Foundation is another example from the US and they um New Profit invests in the US. DRK invests around the world and there are many others. There's also the European Venture Philanthropy Association. You can look them up to see examples from all across Europe and other networks like the Asian venture philanthropy network and in a similar network in Africa as well. And then beyond these different forms of philanthropy, there are new philanthropic approaches emerging to create systems change rather than funding one organization at a time or one endeavor at a time. So one example is co-impact and it's a global philanthropic collaborative where the smallest grant is $50 million and it's given to multiple organizations who are working together. So it will be like a social entrepreneur working with a government working with another NGO or university for example on systems change. And then there's catalyst 2030 which is a movement that was launched by four of the leading organizations that support social entrepreneurs like the skull foundation, Schwab foundation, Ashoka whom you met in module one and echoing green. And then there's impact investing which is this emerging field that requires both financial and social return on investment. Um, and so venture philanthropist can invest in a for-profit or a nonprofit. And impact investing or impact investors can only invest in for-profit because they need that financial return. And they can use equity or debt. They don't use grants while venture philanthropists use grants. and they're really looking for a double bottom line of social change and financial outcomes. So impact investing is really a growing field that you know by now has reached almost a trillion dollars around the world. It's practiced by a range of investors from foundations to venture capitalists. I had the opportunity to visit one in Brazil called Vox that is basically a venture capital firm, but they only invest in businesses that are serving what they call the bottom of the pyramid. So people in Brazil who live on uh less than $10 a day. Um and they're providing traditional services. is they may not be necessarily focused on social outcomes, but their goal is to extend those services to people who don't have them at affordable prices and to really serve those lower or middle- inome customers. Another example is Acumen, which is based in New York and invests around the world. So, Acumen operates as a nonprofit and they refer to this philanthropic capital as patient capital. So, they're investing in for-profit companies and they're requiring financial returns, but then they don't give those financial returns back to their investors who are philanthropists. They reinvest it in others. So, they call this patient capital because they're willing to wait longer for the financial return and they're willing to take less financial return than a venture capitalist would, for example. And there are so many different kinds of impact investors. Um some of them like acummen practice patient capital. Others have an investment thesis that actually you can find really high growth entrepreneurs that are creating valuable social change that will give you market rates of return or even higher. So there's a debate between the impact investing world in the impact investing world. Can you make as much money as you could in other forms of investing? Or are you actually looking to solve social problems that are based on something wrong with the market? So, you might only be able to make less money. I think honestly that both are true. It really depends on the companies that you invest in and on your investment thesis and where you want to focus. There's something called the Jin. I don't mean genotonic. I mean the global impact investing network. And there you can learn more about impact investing approaches and players and metrics and all sorts of things. And other resources I'd like you to be available to be aware of are um the University of Pennsylvania's social impact initiative out of Wharton. So they produce really cool reports and resources. And then Duke University, they have the center for the advancement of social entrepreneurship or case. And case has this I3 initiative on impact investing that has a lot of resources and their thought leaders and they have podcasts and reports and case studies and all sorts of things. And they also incl created something called the smart impact capital that helps entrepreneurs organize information about their venture to pitch to funders, organize information about funders. They even have like a database of funders you can search. So I definitely recommend looking into that. And then there's also a newsletter called Impact Alpha that talks about impact investing. So these are some resources you might want to check out. Impact investment is really growing. I serve on the committee of a foundation that uses something called mission related investment. That's basically impact investing to manage their endowment. So instead of giving in addition to giving grants for their mission related work while measuring their wealth that they use to give that grant they want to make sure they're investing it in line with their mission. So they're doing impact investing with their endowment and then other foundations in addition to giving grants they give PRI or program related investments which is impact investing as a small part of their portfolio. So it's both coming from the capital markets like venture capitalists have started practicing impact investing and it's coming from the philanthropic world like foundations have started um practicing impact investing and then lastly there's socially responsible investing or SRRI. So while impact investing positively screens for positive people who are creating positive social outcomes, SRRI kind of does the opposite. So they negatively screen out those who are creating negative social outcomes. So it's more like traditional investing that's socially responsible, hence the title socially responsible investing. And that's the world that you may have heard about the term ESG, which means environment, social, and government governance. They look at ESG indicators to see if the companies they're investing in are socially responsible. There's other players that help them produce ESG reports like GRRI, the Global Reporting Initiative, or SASBY, the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board, which recently merged to create like a an internationally uniform standard of reporting for SRRI. But I have to say before we conclude about the evolution of social financing approaches that that missing middle between traditional charity and traditional commerce while it's growing it's still missing. So I went to a panel once uh for example at the skull world forum and um Jacqueline Novagratz the founder of the acumen fund was speaking and Perry Chen one of the founders of Kickstarter the crowdfunding platform was speaking. So these are both social entrepreneurs who practiced their pathway to social change through funding. And they were saying, you know, Kickstarter is for-profit, Acumen is nonprofit, but Kickstarter lets you crowdfund for-profit and nonprofit ventures. And then Acumen, even though it's nonprofit, it only supports for-profit ventures. So their funders, when they go out and raise money, they have a lot of difficulty. For acummen, for example, people hesitate to give them money because they're investing in for-profit companies, but they're asking their investors not to take their money back to just practice philanthropy. And then Kickstarter, it's the opposite. like they're taking money from for-profit investors like VCs, but they want to make sure that they give the people who they're crowdfunding the creativity to create whatever they want and to not have things imposed on them that will create that really heavy fast uh financial growth for Kickstarter that most venture capitalists want. So, there's still a missing middle of patient capital. More patient capital is needed for this hybrid world of social entrepreneurship. And I do believe it's growing over time. So, please check out some of the resources I've mentioned in this module and learn more about the evolution of social financing and the missing middle and think about how you're going to navigate all that or potentially what you could do about it.