Now, as you're navigating this complex and everchanging world of social financing, I want you to think about what non-financial support these funders can give you. And I want you to look for other stakeholders, individuals, groups, companies that specialize in non-financial support. So they might not be giving you funding, but they can be helping you in other ways. So entrepreneurship can be lonely and it can sometimes be stressful and there may be days when you have no idea if this is going to work at all. I think anytime you're creating anything, you're going to have a moment where you're like, "Oh, this is impossible." But then eventually you make it work. So when that happens, it's just really important to find your tribe. Find the people. You've been working on this since the very beginning of this course, right? Like find the people who are working on the same thing as you. Find the people who have been through the same experience as you. And there are places that you can do that either virtual or physical where you can surround yourself by people who are going through the same thing. Kind of like when you were in school and you were stressed out by finals and it helped if you suffered together with your classmates. So, some of the places you can find your tribe and you can get that non-financial support include, for example, co-working spaces. We talked in the last module about bootstrapping and not spending a lot of money on office space and rent. Co-working spaces are a great place to find your tribe, to not feel like you're alone, sitting at home alone all day. There are usually people at co-working spaces, the ma the managers who are responsible for creating community. So they try to do community building events, you know, like breaks, mingling events, etc. And they also help you raise your profile to others who can support you. So they're they kind of they want you to succeed. So co-working spaces is an example. Another example is an incubator, which is a program um that's created to help launch new startups or programs. And an incubator is like cohort-based. So you kind of have a class of people. You all apply to get into this incubator. You start it together. You graduate together. Sometimes it comes with financial support. Sometimes they take equity, but it's mostly about the non-financial support, the mentoring and coaching and camaraderie and technical support and networking. And then there's accelerators, which are similar to incubators, but they're about like after you've launched, how can they help you accelerate? And accelerators us don't always have that cohort-based approach. Sometimes um you know people come in and out at the same time but it's the same goal like accelerators usually provide financial support. They usually take equity not always but it's more about like helping you succeed providing that mentorship networking and non-financial support. And sometimes incubators and accelerators come with co-working spaces. Now, of course, we're living in an increasingly virtual world, but you know, you have to do everything you can to find ways to network and intersect with people either in person or online. Sometimes these incubators and accelerators have training programs that you can do online. Speaking of training programs, there's also boot camps that invite entrepreneurs or potential entrepreneurs to kind of like when you're exercising and you go to a boot camp that kicks your butt. That's what they do. They kick your butt in creating social change. And so it's like a really intensive training program. MIT does one for example at university. Many stakeholders around the world do them where you spend several weeks or maybe even months learning and practicing um skills that can help you succeed in social entrepreneurship and social change. And these are us these may be for earlier stages in your journey. At later stages once you've been able to launch and demonstrate proof of concept you may be eligible for fellowships. So Ashoka for example we've talked about many times before is an organization that supports social entrepreneurs. They have a network of Ashoka fellows. So you apply to be an Ashoka fellow. They do give you a monthly stipend which really helps social entrepreneurs. But most importantly, they give you this global network of other social entrepreneurs who are going through similar things who can help you. They help raise your profile. They write about you. They help you measure and report your impact. They help you strategically think about growing from service direct service to scale direct service to systems change to framework change. And there are so many others like this. Echoing green is another example. We just mentioned them. We have the Schwab fellows, the school fellows. Remember those four organizations that we just talked about in the last video. So fellowships are important. You can get a fellowship at a university, even in the government. So these could be forms of financial and non-financial support. And then there are just lots of events that you can try to attend to meet people whether funders or others. Some events may include conferences related to entrepreneurship or social entrepreneurship. One example is the global entrepreneurship week that takes place every week in different places around the world. There are a lot of university startup conferences or social enterprise conferences that bring successful social entrepreneurs to talk to the audience. Um that's actually how I first got started on my social entrepreneurship journey. And there are other networks around the world of people you can meet up with who are interested in different things or even investors and angels. Now I really want to spend a few minutes talking about mentors and coaches because these are really important. So, a lot of these programs that I just mentioned and opportunities can provide a coach. And a coach is someone who kind of like a physical training coach like they really give you specific instruction and guidance on how to do something and you practice it with them. Um, so you could be coached in public speaking or you could be coached in marketing and advertising or in financial modeling for example. Coaches are really helpful if you can get one through one of these programs or even if your funers might be willing to support you in paying for one or even if you're willing to pay for one yourself. And then there are mentors who are a little bit different from coaches in the sense that it's not something specific that they're there to train you on. They're just there to provide support. I mentor a lot of entrepreneurs and I always tell them that my approach to mentorship is twofold. So, first there's the technical support. You might be stuck on something that you want to talk through that I might be able to help guide you with or point you to resources that can help. Then there's also the moral support. Like I really believe that having someone who believes in you makes a huge difference and just for you to keep going during the tough times. So mentors are really with you in there for the long run. And some of these programs can help appoint mentors for you or they can just provide mentorship for you. Like you can meet people who are there because they believe in you and want to support you. And then lastly, I want to talk about the importance of forming an advisory committee. So, as you network and go to events and talk to potential funders and other supporters and mentors, you want to look for where can you build relationships with certain people that have the knowledge, skills, experience, and networks that you don't and form advisors for your endeavor. Eventually, it's it would be a really good idea if you can form some kind of advisory committee that where you're not asking them for money, but you're asking them to just have some skin in the game like they're committed to being contacted by you a few times a year to share advice. Sometimes they might meet all together to discuss the strategy and the future of the organization. And advisory committees are usually formed at an earlier stage than boards. We're going to talk about boards in the next module. Boards have like legal responsibility and fiduciary responsibility for your venture. Advisory committees don't. They're just there to help you. So, these are some of the non-financial sources of support that you can lean on in growing your impact.