So, we're not going to have an official dos and don'ts um segment in this module, but I do want to share some advice because sometimes the world of funders and accelerators and incubators can feel kind of overwhelming. And one thing I observed is that sometimes people get so sucked into the hype that it becomes more about the glory of being an entrepreneur. Like there are organizations out there and people out there who get paid and who get funding from someone somewhere to support entrepreneurship and they they just want to create a buzz around social entrepreneurship and around startups and like be something, do something, start something new. That's not what this course is about and that's not what your social change journey is about. So be careful not to get too swept away into that hype. Being an entrepreneur is not your goal here, right? Like bringing visibility to yourself is not the goal here. It may be something you need to do in order to bring visibility to your social mission. So of course you need to learn how to do that, but don't forget that it's not about you. It's not about any one person. So that's the first piece of advice I want to give you is to like stay grounded in your why. Why are you doing this work? When you ask yourself that question, you'll remember that it's about other people. And that will help you make wise decisions about where to spend your time in seeking non-financial support in participating in all these events and in finding sources of financial and non-financial support that share your why that are doing this for the same reasons that understand what you're trying to achieve and that are hoping to help you achieve that. So that alignment of values and cause is super important. And then the other piece of advice I wanted to give you is that it's helpful to organize information about all these different resources so that you don't feel overwhelmed. So I mentioned the case um smart impact capital that Duke created. It's a website you can sign up for. It's not free, but you can contact them if and ask them for financial aid if you feel that their price is not comfortable for you. They're really good at helping you navigate the world of financing. And then I created this little tool which is called a resource dashboard that might also help. And this is just conceptual. It's basically like you creating an Excel sheet where one tab is your proof of concept. Like when you're just starting out, just testing an idea. What could be some resources for you? One tab is your launch. Like you might be working on your idea still, but come across resources that you want to note for later. So put that in your launch tab. Like these people might be able to support me when I'm ready to launch. And then the third tab can be growth. So like once I'm ready to scale, I I won't qualify for this unless I've already reached a lot of people, etc. Let me keep track of these resources for later. Okay. And then you want to divide each tab by the different resources you needed. So like what is the expertise that you need at each stage? Who are the people you need to talk to that might have that expertise? Then what is the funding needed at each stage? We talked about financial projections last time. What are your startup costs or or your proof of concept costs or your growth costs? And what are the prospective funders at each stage? And what is your target for each stage? Like what defines the proof of concept stage? What are you hoping to achieve there before you move on to the launch stage? And then what are you hoping to achieve there before you move on to the growth stage? And then what are you hoping to achieve there that might attract the financial and non-financial resources to help you do so? And what does your offering look like after each stage? So, this is one way that I suggest that you track resources that you find out about, keep track of them so that you can apply to them when the time is right. Um, you only get one first impression. So, it's really important to know at what stage in your endeavor it makes sense to introduce yourself to a prospective funer or supporter. I'm not saying that you don't you can't do it early on. I'm just saying like know when the time might be right. you can absolutely do it early and share your vision with them and then they can tell you okay come back when you've reached XYZ. So then you put them in the XYZ tab. So I hope that this simple way of organizing information will be helpful to you. And that's pretty much all I wanted to say about um the everchanging world of social financing. So we're going to end with one more video which is a case study about the DBL fund which stands for double bottom line.