You know why I'm dressed up? Because uh you know when I do this course and when I do the first half of the French course, I do a lecture on the bourgeoisi, the middle classes. And middle class was a form of uh self-identity that was constructed in the way being a worker was constructed or being a noble. And one day I was about to come off and go out, you know, go out among you all and talk about doier and show you some doier slides about the bourgeoisi. And my wife said to me, you can't go talk about the bourgeoisi looking like you usually do. You got to look like you mean it, like you have a vague sense of knowing it. And so as a result, look at this. I I wear this about once a year. You know, unfortunately, you know, I wear it to funerals. And last time I wore it was a uh something Bill Clinton had uh through mutual friends. Uh and I only have one tie that I share with my son. And and uh we had to find him another son, another tie underneath his soccer shoes. And and um then we got into New York and went to this party and we're all dalled up, you know, and all that. And then we went out to a restaurant. I lost my tie, my one tie. And the last time I bought a tie, ties cost $15. And then so in Ann Arbor, I bought a tie for this is $75 tie. So this is my only tie. So that's a long way of answering your question about why I look like this today. But I hope to make some sense of that, you know, in in the lecture. So thank you very much. I didn't set that question up, did I? I didn't ask you. Please, please ask that question. But but but I want you, you know, when you're looking at me dressed, it's not Halloween. That's the first thing I thought. When you look at me dressed like this, please try to think, knowing me a little bit as you do, why it was that it meant a lot to dress like this in the 19th century because the middle classes started dressing like this in the 19th century, dark with a little bit of color. And when you see Domier or you see Deloqua's famous which I forgot to slide, liberty leading the people and you see the b the bourgeoa there with his top hat, he's dressed in a bourgeoa uni like this. And so uh that emerges out of the bourgeoa century. And so while last time we talked about class the construction of class identity for ordinary people for working people uh the bourgeoisi had has had as strong a sense of of self as of selfidentity as any social class you could imagine. And it was as I I'll make the point in a minute. It was it was uh difficult to get into that class if you weren't born into it. But it and and it was uh the the fear of falling out of it was something that that helps uh uh helps motivate lots of political things in the 19th century uh and the 19th century in terms of of being the bourgeoa century. One of the things you see in in um in countries particularly in Western Europe, in Great Britain, in in France uh and in Germany and in Italy is you see the middle classes wanting the political power commensurate with their economic status. Uh and if in the 18th century, I mean this is one of those truisms that happens to be true and can be exaggerated, but if you know the aristocracy, you're born into the aristocracy. If you get if you hit the big time and you get lucky, you can buy your way in thanks to the broke French monarchy. Uh but uh the ideal aristocrat uh and this was what how an aristocrat would have uh talked about about him or herself uh was born into uh uh the aristocracy through blood uh through family. uh it was an achieve I mean ascribed status and in the 19th century one of the things that happens with the French revolution and with Napoleon uh is that the middle class person seem uh and middle class values uh seem to be something to be emulated and once you've got an increase in in the wealth of the middle classes and the diversity and complexity that I'll talk about uh in a minute then you wanted a political power you wanted the right to vote. You wanted access to to information through the press and uh the print culture. All of these things are closely tied to the middle classes. So that's what I'm going to talk about today. Uh most of it is about the about bourgeoa culture. Uh and so that's why I'm I'm dressed dressed like this. And I assure you that the minute this lecture is over, I will go back and like like I could never compare myself to Clark Kent, but I will find my foam booth and change back into normal normal duds. So let's talk a little bit about the about the middle uh class uh in in the bourgeoa uh in the bourgeoa century. Now uh the middle classes or the bourgeoisi uh you know are terms that we conveniently use. Markx you know talked about the bourgeoisi as being this extremely you know homogeneous class. Uh in fact the word bourgeoa has really more cultural connotations maybe than uh than um objectives or social categorization uh living bourge in a bourgeoa manner. And we'll see some aspects of that in terms of p private access to private space uh uh middle class concepts of childhood uh and that sort of thing. So middle classes is probably a better term. Uh bourgeoa is the equivalent of burger. Uh but middle classes is probably for our point of view uh a better uh term. It seems rather odd to be talking about the you know the English uh uh bourgeoisi of leads about about which there's there's an excellent book uh because bourgeoa after all is started out as as a French word but in in in using and indeed insisting on the term middle classes what I what I'm suggesting uh is the enormous complexity of the middle class there wasn't just one middle class yet the middle classes shared some you know cultural uh values uh and symbols uh in common and uh when challenged by ordinary people could snap back uh in an extremely cohes cohesive uh class-based manner and Markx uh had some of that um quite uh uh quite uh correctly. Now, um, in a Parisian newspaper called the Jonal debach in 1847, someone actually did a pretty damn good job of describing the bourgeoisi. The bourgeoisi is not a class. The person argued it is a position. One inquires that position and one loses it. Work, thrift, and ability confer it. He argued, referring to himself, of course. vice dissipation and idleness mean that it can be lost. Um and so that old kind of uh aristocratic uh ethos of not working of being idle uh although it can be exaggerated as we've seen in in the 17th and 18th century. Nonetheless, there was something uh to it. you know, an 18th century noble let his fingernails uh grow long uh sort of just hung out showing uh his uh uh his good taste by living in in an idle aristocratic uh uh manner. The bourgeoisi did anything but that uh work was part of how they believed to get ahead and um getting ahead is what they wanted to do. Now the French Revolution and here's an important point I guess um opened the way by removing legal blocks in very many places to the career open to talents and Napoleon used to say say tediously uh that in each uh soldier's backpack there was a marshall's baton or staff that you could get promoted with with good work, hard work if you didn't get your head blown off uh in one of these battles. Uh but certainly one of the things that comes out of his his insistence on service to the state uh is creating a a whole series of rewards that uh that recompensed virtuous action and hard work. I mean that's what the leon don the legion of honor was uh all about and making money was part of it. And of course it's it's always in the 19th century was was sort of classic to poke fun at at bourgeoa culture in some cases the lack of it uh and and to uh ascribe to the middle classes uh sort of philistine habits in which making money was really the only thing that that counted. Now certainly uh Friedrich Engles uh Marx's partner uh uh obsessed with the as well he should have been with the slums of of uh the satanic mills of Manchester. He once uh wrote the following. He says, "One day I wrote I walked with one of these middle-class gentlemen into Manchester. I spoke to him about the disgraceful, unhealthy slums and drew his attention to the disgusting condition of that part of town in which the factory workers lived. I declared that I'd never seen so badly built a town in my life." He listened patiently uh and at the end of the corner of a street at which we parted, he remarked, "And yet there is a good deal of money to be made here. Good morning, sir." and he walked away. One employer wrote in the 1830s that that relative to work to his workers is that the worker quote unquote I couldn't invent this should be constantly harassed by need. Uh for then he will not set his children a bad example and his poverty will be the guarantee of good behavior. Now, of course, this is, you know, this is a character of of middle class self-absorption of of narcissism of of kind of this inveterate cruelty to uh to the classes below them. On the other hand, I mean, the more we study the middle classes and in the 1960s, people really didn't study the middle classes and because they didn't like them very much. Uh, you know, they studied workers. But, but there's been an awful lot of good work uh done on the middle classes. among my dear friend Peter Gay, his five volumes uh of the bourgeoa century uh take on the idea that the middle class lived without passion uh uh and uh uh were were philistines and that sort of thing. And and the more we look at the middle class now, we we we see certainly that that no matter where you look that there are uh one of the things the middle class people did was form voluntary associations. Voluntary associations. aristocrats didn't form voluntary associations. They didn't need to. The middle class formed voluntary associations and many of these were for extremely charitable purposes. Uh particularly in um in in Britain. Again, this study that I referred to by somebody called Morris uh I think it's Morris on leads uh shows the kind of richness and depth to these voluntary associations in which people try to do uh to do an awful lot for ordinary people. uh and uh you know it has a sense of moralizing. There's always this sort of top-down look about moralizing them, trying to get the the workers to to drink less, trying to get them to go to church, uh trying to get the them to uh when it was possible for their children to to become educated and to stay in school. And there's always this tension between families who needed children's income, however small that was, and across the 19th century uh over a very long period uh uh laws uh finally by the end of the century in in in in most places making uh at least primary education uh obligatory and in most cases uh free. Um you know, I mean, here's a ridiculous example. It's not a ridiculous example if you love animals. I mean I'm a cat person as I already said but the Society for the Protection of Cruelty to Animals I mean these sorts of organizations uh really you know one of the classic examples of bourgeoa voluntary associations I mean doing good things they also get together to hang out with each other and and sort of uh uh try to gauge who has more money than the other and they get together for social reasons and the coffee houses of England and and and uh in the voluntary the clubs the circles you call them in France and and in their equivalents in Germany and Italy. uh and in Spain. But but uh uh one of the more more uh ludicrous uh kind of uh devi we call it devi uh motto of one of the uh society for the protection of of cruelty to animals was in one of the organizations in France that said one must love animals but not fratonize with animals. I don't know what that means. But the main thing is that they wanted to save uh animals from uh from being beaten almost beaten to death in some in many cases of horses and and you can see how in in places in which bull fighting over the long run in the 19th and 20th century such as the south of very south of France and in Spain there were always movements to try to you know protect the bulls which seems like a very reasonable uh thing to do. So, uh, for all of the the bad press that the middle class has had, and you can read some of this bad press in what you're reading, uh, there's also this good side that that that should be, uh, evoked as well. Um, um, that's a period. And then certainly in terms of organized religion, uh, the middle class goes to church more than, uh, ordinary people uh, than than workers uh, for sure. And in the case of of of peasants, it depends on where because as I said before in many parts of France that the example that's so well studied, you still had this derchristianization. But certainly religion was a fundamental part of of the British middle class's view of itself. Uh and this the percentage of people who went to church could of course be exaggerated. There was a a study in in all of England. Uh I don't think it was in Wales and Scotland, but at least it was in England. Maybe in Wales too. Probably in Wales as well. I think it was in 1851 where they decided to look at every single church in in in uh England and Wales let's say and to see how many people went to church and they found to their horror that it was less than than they thought and they also discovered that if uh if everybody had wanted to go to church had gone to church various churches Methodists for more ordinary people Anglican Catholic you know for the Irish and for a certain minority of of of of uh of of British citizens uh or Jews in the east end of going to synagogue in the east end of of of London that there wouldn't have been they couldn't have accommodated all these people. So there's a massive kind of church building campaign that go that has its counterpart in in almost every country as well. Certainly in France after the Paris Commune of 1871 they start building churches in in workingclass districts perched on the edge of uh of cities. More about that in another lecture. But but certainly I mean one could go on and on about this but certainly religion for the middle classes has a has a much a greater role in their life uh than in uh um uh than in workingclass uh workingclass cities and and the case of the peasants where there weren't any peasants left in England and I'll talk about that and that'll be fun to talk about uh one of these lectures uh but uh uh anyway uh there we go now how many people were would have considered themselves middle class and again self-identity how people thought of themselves uh is one of uh those um aspects that we want to uh want to discuss. Um how do we know I mean how would you know uh who is middle class when they first start doing censuses and and censuses are really are 19th century phenomenon. They begin with well in subsequent centuries as I said before there were only the first censuses in Copenhagen I think and and uh uh in the 18th century uh the first real censuses don't do not come until the 19th century uh almost everywhere I mean they didn't ask people are you uh they ask you your name and where you lived uh they in some cases they ask you your profession but they did not say are you middle class are you not middle class uh so there was a whole lot of work done in the 1970s and what they used to call the new urban history which is sort of counting people up and deciding who might well have considered themselves a a middle class. Um there are a lot of dissertations written on that kind of thing. There was one in the case of Paris. Inevitably I have to talk some about Paris because the work is so rich there. A woman called Adelene Dar wrote a dissertation that was subsequently published called the buo or the the bourgeoa of Paris in the first half of the 19th century. And so um what she did is she looked at at wills. The middle class people had enough money to leave wills. uh and and therefore they're inventories after death. That's what what you call them, inventories after death. And that's one of the reasons we know about the explosion of print culture because they inventoried the books that people read. I I I mentioned this in the context of of enlightenment too because you do have that too. But uh taking the kinds of way that she looked ways that she looked at social class um she determined that somewhere between 17 and 19% of the Parisian population in the first half of the 19th century would have been consider considered bourgeoa and would have considered themselves bourgeoa that is in the middle classes. Now certainly in in Britain the percentage is higher uh it probably approaches 25% I can't remember the exact figures um and and that percentage will continue to increase in the 19th century and you can already very well anticipate from you already know where are other parts of Europe that have have large important middle classes the old hansiatic port cities of German in the the German priest cities that would become part of unified German in 1871 on uh and and northern German cities in general like like uh uh Breman and and Breman and and and uh and Lubec and and Hamburg above all they have I mean Hamburg's a huge port city so it's got a very enormous bourgeoisi uh you know you if you went to Madrid you'd find a sizable middle class but it would be nothing that you would have uh if you compared Madrid to u to Barcelona because Barcelona is a really natural economy based upon uh important economic relations between its hinterland and Barcelona and between Barcelona and the world because it's a major port. So you've got this big teeming middle class there as well. Um and uh you know in the case of France I mean obviously places that that have lots of industry have have you know and small businesses have middle class people uh uh in in large numbers so not as in large numbers as workers. I mean Leon would be a good example. I mean Leon has the most tightly closed middle class that you can imagine and still is. I mean Leon is very very Leon. What can one say? Uh and again northern Italy you find a huge vibrant middle class but not in southern Italy. I mean uh Naples is one of the biggest cities uh in in Europe uh right through the early modern period and you've got a large middle class but most of Italy is extremely rural and what you what you had in Rome was was uh you had clergy in Rome and you but you you it's a city so you got important middle class. The further east you get the smallest the middle class smaller the middle class get uh gets. Russia the the estimates are about 2% of the population are uh were middle class 2% which isn't very much at all and of course they are clustered in Moscow and in uh St. Petersburg uh and in Kiev now Ukraine uh always Ukraine but then part of uh uh part of Russia uh in the large cities uh in Poland Warsaw had a large I was just at the history museum and fascinating one of Warsaw Museum um a couple months ago and and Warsaw as Kov had had Krakow had Kov had had a big middle class Gdansk obviously because it was a port city but much of Poland was rural and wouldn't have that kind of uh middle class. Belgrade would have been the only city in the Balkans outside of Istanbul with uh and wasn't in the Balkans, but but with uh with an important middle class. I mean, this is all perfectly obvious. Anyway, who are these folks and what do they want? Um so, I mean, they're not all How am I going to do this? I'm going to Can I need those slides? I'm going to do it like this. You have to imagine the middle class like this. That it's a pyramid. Uh it's a pyramid with a small top and a big bottom. Uh and that and I'll give you some a rather interesting um um show you a lithograph that really represents this two of these in very in very interesting ways. I think uh uh compelling ways at the beginning at the very top and this you know if you think of think of Zurich or think of I mean any city you want. I mean Zurich has a big middle class so does Geneva for obvious reasons. Uh but at the very top there are the the the the the great bourgeoisi the the big bourgeoisi and these are people who have who are big financiers uh in the 19th century bankers will become much more important for perfectly obvious reasons uh these are big wholesale merchants uh who are making bundles shipping things from here to there you won't yet find lawyers and people like that um and what also makes them the high bourgeoisi or big bourgeoisi a small percentage it doesn't really matter uh you know where this line goes is that they have access to political power uh that even if they're even if they're in in Prussia a place that's dominated by the nobles who are called the junkers as most of you know uh they will still have access by virtue of their wealth to political power which is exactly the way they want it uh there's a revolution in France in 1830 yet another one that you can read about and arguably I mean Mark says this and in a way it's sort of true what it does is it brings to Fran uh power in France the big bourgeoisi and they have the ear of the king Louis phipe who calls himself the citizen king he would rule from 1830 to 1848 and in the port the the portraits of him the paintings that he had done to represent who he was very different than those of the Bourban kings the Bourban kings are all looking like you know even the the kind of pathetic successors of Louis the 14th uh they're looking like big people in chataus uh who are kings of all that they see which of course was more or less the case. Louis Phip's view of himself was that he was the citizen citizen king. That's what he calls himself. He's still the king. He was noble. He was not any bourgeoa. But in the official paintings of him, you you see people dressed like me who are coming into the throne room. They're dressed like me in dark suits and and they have power and he he wants them in the painting with him. That's terribly revealing. It's terribly interesting. So these are people. These are big bankers, high financiers at the top. Um, and then you've got, you know, you've got other layers of of of bourgeois and and you could kind of fill in the gap here. We have smaller bankers not in size but you know in money uh industrialists merchants these kinds of people and doier the great characterist least favorite people lawyers because lawyers uh be you know rise up rapidly in in in in popular esteem uh in usefulness and the middle class likes to see themselves as useful uh and so you you find lawyers reaching uh in there and and and slowly doctors because remember doctors had very low social status. They were sort of a cut above a bad pun and making what you read uh you know ordinary um uh field surgeons uh during Napoleonic battles some of whom were butchers or people who knew how to wield a knife. Uh and you know doctors increase a self-identity and become more important in the 19th century. You also find notaries no matter what country you're in notaries. Now notaries hold all have a much bigger role in Europe than they do here. notaries, they know where all the goodies are. When you buy property, by the way, in France, you buy property, you pay, if you have a mortgage, you pay 12% of right off the top goes to the notary just for holding in his office your deed. If you don't have a mortgage, uh you pay 7% right off the top. So, notaries know all of the secrets of people with money. So, notaries are important in in all these countries, um etc., etc. I mean you can kind of fill in the occupation but they share things together. Uh then at the bottom you have the petty bourgeoisi and everybody's poking fun at the petty bourgeoisi but they too had a selfidentity. I found one day in the stacks of the library at the University of Michigan, a pamphlet that was actually uh it was the uh report on the what surely must have been the last but in any case was the first world congress of the petty bourgeoisi and where they met appropriately enough in Brussels. Can you imagine going to a you know professional history conferences they all have their little name tags and all they do they start up your body and look at your name tags to see if it's worth looking at your face. I mean it's really pathetic. Uh and and can you imagine it going to a conference like the world congress of the petty bourgeoisi and you know hi you know world congress of the petty bourgeoisi hi my name my name is albear uh but they had a selfidentity now who were in the petty bourgeoisi well lots of these classically new 19th century professions school teachers school teachers were uh were u a way of social mobility for peasant families whether they were in Italy whether they were in Germany whether they're in Austria whether they were in Hungary whether there in Switzerland, no matter where they were and and out out of the working class or out of the peasantry. Um, female school teachers become increasingly more important. They always were in Catholic schools because they were nuns, you know, with the big hats and all that. Um, and and and very doing very good job, even though often they were undereducated and it was kind of hard for them to do that. But school teachers you'd find here and also uh cafe owners or tavern owners, vinto owners in uh I'm just giving you you know a couple examples but uh these are these are the petty bourgeoisi and also very importantly what do you do with artisans and craftsmen master artisans they own the tools that their journeymen work with they rent or own their shops. When things are doing going pretty well they do pretty well themselves. Uh but when things aren't going well, they don't do well. And that's why they're on the barricades all these times. As you know, in the French Revolution, the French Revolutions and in the revolutions of 1848, as you shall discover in Vienna and Berlin and other places, they're always there. So these folks are here too. Um and uh so this this is your basic, you know, petty bourgeoisi. And people are always uh dumping all over them. But I will give uh uh needlessly, but I will give you, you know, some example. Now, in order to if you ever read the the great French uh uh he's paid by the word as you can see when he has the descriptions of single sofas that go on for about two pages. But Balzac Balzac is really the you know the the novelist of the bourgeoisi when uh he describes Paris and and the 17 to 19% of the population who are increasingly living in the western part of Paris. More about that another time. He describes it as a jungle that you count your money in the morning and then you count your money when you come home. By the way, your wife uh who would in a sense is be listed as not working. If you were a shopkeeper, your wife is the one who kept care of the accounts. Your wife is the one who stood by behind the counter when you were working, when you were an artisan. So, he describes this as a jungle. So, in order to to to really give an image of what was like, he's got to I I got to find this thing someplace. Uh he's got this one magnificent print called the the street of the four winds and that's a street in Paris that's near um near Odon. Doesn't matter. But here's a guy dressed like me. See, there's a theme in this. He's dressed like me and he's wearing his bourgeoa hat. I don't have one of those. My only hat says has an M for Michigan on it. Uh, and the hat, his one suit isn't going to blow off his body, but the wind is taking his hat, which is a symbol of who he is, and the wind is carrying it away from his hand. And in in in several hundred brush strokes strokes, Joe Mier captures the look of panic on his face because he's going to go home without his hat. And his wife's going to say, "Where's your hat?" He says, "Well, the wind blew it away." And he's got to buy one and they've got to put the money together. So he is not going to fall off the ladder in this jungle. So then you have to imagine this is a as a ladder like this. Social mobility is the goal and you want to have enough uh enough money to leave to your 2.2 children. Um so then to really make this goal you'd have to have vines up here like the jungle. And then and then you'd have to grease this pole through bad economic times. Let's say in Europe 18 uh 1816 1817 1820 don't write this down please don't if you do you're compulsive I'm compulsive but 182627 uh 18 4041 really bad one 184647 1855 those are the really bad years and at that point if you don't get credit that's what's going on now here if you can't get credit because people withdraw the credit same thing then here you go look out below you slide down this pole and what happens happens down below here. Holy cow. That's the big sea. There's just a wretched movie called the Poseidon Adventure once. But it had an image where the you know the water is kind of coming up below and it's going to finally get to the top and there's no more room to breathe. And this is how the people on the bottom part of this ladder viewed the demands of the working class because they want to vote too. And what if they vote voted in somebody who wants to raise your taxes or something like that? Boy, oh boy, that's scary. But what's down here? This is ordinary people. This is the other 70, what would it be in the case of Paris? Uh 83% of the population. And you're going to fall into the ranks of the proletariat if you're on those bottom bottom uh uh if you're if if you're on the the bottom kind of uh rungs here. Uh, and so this has got to be this is your jungle and you're trying to make it up there to the big time and uh the chances are that in these bad years uh you're going to uh uh fall down. But yet lots of people get up and the ranks of of of the of the u the middle classes increases everywhere in the 19th century in Russia too. Everywhere uh that's simply the case. Now, if I could just um bring down this. Is that what I'm doing? Yeah, that's what I'm doing. Bring down that and show you how this works and talk about some accutrants of middle class culture that you will recognize many of you. Now, this is the guy at the top. This is Domeier. Domeier is the greatest characterist in the 19th century and arguably ever uh to make an extreme assertion, but it really is uh pretty true. Um, and so this is what he captures uh uh the the prevailing mood in much of Europe uh in that money uh more than blood if you were going to exclude places like Hungary uh Poland uh Spain um and uh Prussia uh money talks more than uh than blood. And so what is this man doing? He's counting his money. Remember I said that you know you counted your money in the morning and then you came home at night and and uh and count your money again and see how you've done. Uh let's do these people. Now this is great because remember I said that the that you know the variations within the bourgeois. You can see the some of these images. I mean this is really not very interesting art but that's not the point. Look what this shows. Now here's here the guy at the left here is a clerk. That's a very 19th century uh profession as it is for every uh every subject. Uh he's by the way, this is before the 1860s because that's when the when real fountain pens are invented. He's got your basic quill pen there. Now look at the coat. They both have coats like mine, but there's huge difference in them. This guy, if you have extraordinary eyes, you'll be able to see and can read upside down that he is reading a newspaper on the price of colonial goods imports. And he is a wholesale merchant. So he's one of these people that's at the very top of my uh triangle there. Um, and look at this guy's got his coat, too. This is early in the century. You can tell. Uh, now this is either the son-in-law or the wouldbe son-in-law. And he's put his, you know, the bourgeois. He didn't kiss and hug a lot. Uh, but he's got his hand draped rather daintily on uh the old guy's arm here. He's not about to brace him and give him a, you know, a kiss, a big kiss on each cheek. Uh, and one day all of this stuff will be his, uh, if he plays his cards right. uh and they still had arranged marriages. I mean, love could count for something, but but marriages were were still essentially less so for the middle classes uh than for ordinary people, but economic relationships. That's what they were. They were economic relationships uh wrangling over the uh the dowy and that kind of thing. Now, what about look at our our guy on the left. He's working very hard there and and this pole that is put up there has a real sense of of dividing these. So, it's like the the barriers on my quite arbitrary and not terribly well-designed triangle there. Uh, do these people have something in common? Yes, they will in 1830 and they will in 1848, but the rest of the time they don't. He's dreaming about being this guy and but he'll work very hard and and he's educated. Uh, he will have had um probably not secondary education. And most people didn't didn't go to uh high school secretary li in France or or or gimnazium in Germany etc etc. Uh but you know it represents this world and this guy by the way we also know that this guy's uh his um this this takes place right in the center of Paris right behind the big department store subsequently uh the hotel de but right the bash the bazard v which is a big department store but right near the town hall. So anyway there we go. Um now this is another uh uh this is got to get my watch so I can keep track of things here. Uh this is another uh very this is very common. You see this in the book you're reading I think. But um the these things have their geographic uh uh or I mean they can be represented uh spatially very easily and one of the themes over the long run is that the emergence of city increased development of of prosperous western Paris prosperous western London prosperous uh center Vienna and other places and increasingly impoverished east east and and the periphery and that's another theme but still through much of the period and indeed to to a lesser extent still today where you lived in a building depended reflected how much money you had. Now the ground floor in French called the kesh you know this is the concierge there and the concierge will be somebody of very modest means uh you know you probably place them in in the in the petty bourgeoisi there and then the big apartment uh on the main on the first floor you know high ceilings big party all lots of people dressed like me there a piano more about pianos in a minute uh so this is my triangle sort of upside down isn't it and the more you go up there the the you're still within the middle class. The guy above, he's got these little Napoleonic beds there. This guy, I hope he's not closing his ears against his own baby there, but no, obviously because that's a uh this is a different house, but he's a musician. This is all rather bananel, but nonetheless telling. You got an artist up here with not much money, but he still has a little bit of furniture, not much. Uh his nosy neighbor looking at his painting, and then on the top, you've got the poorest of them all besides the cat who's on the roof up there, you've got a seamstress. And anyone looking at this very popular lithograph would immediately see that she has some dignity left. Why? Because she has not yet pawned her mattress. In Zulah's great novel, La Samuel Javez dies like a dog on a bed of straw because there was no more mattress and she would be at the very top. And now of course these these rooms which then became in the 20th century student rooms and then were transformed into enormously expensive lofts. uh but this still mean this is a way of visual visualizing the spatial concommatance of what I'm talking about and people were aware of what these symbols meant and I mean this was this is your classic uh Hamburgg financiers apartment uh we don't need to go on and on about the the the uh the kind of material culture of wealth but but there it is so let's go on and on about it in another one that's easier to pick up for your eyes there. Um, this here again, we know we're on one of the lower floors. Why? Because you see the trees outside the window. Uh, you've got a domesticated animal. You know, ordinary people, you know, didn't have as many domesticated dogs had a real purpose. They they bring the sheep down the mountain. My wife just came down the mountain two weeks ago bringing the sheep down uh from friends of ours in the village. And, you know, all these dogs are useful things and keep the sheep in line and all and and all of that. Um, you've got, I mean, this is all obvious stuff, but you've got slippers. Ordinary people did not wear slippers. You've got a domestic servant. Uh, domestic servants cost almost nothing. Uh, it was considered to be a way of moving up the ladder to say that you had four domestic servants instead of instead of three. Uh, you've got uh brass or copper here or the heater. That's a good sign. You've got very fancy chairs. Look, these these are very good chairs. Sort of Louis Phipe chairs. Uh, you've got print culture. A big old porcelain plate on the above there. And you've got that bourgeoa accutrant at the piano. The piano replaces the harps accord. The piano uh you know it it just Leon Planaga who is in J college who's a retired professor of music. He's got great stuff on on this the role of role of the piano and and the emergence of along with Bill Weber who teaches at uh did teach at at uh uh where did he teach at at at Long Beach. um the the emergence of the of of uh of the public concert as opposed to the chateau concert or the church concert, the public concert. And along with that comes the piano. Now, pianos were expensive, but the middle class has pianos. Working people don't have pianos. Middle class people have pianos. So, you also see something else is important here. There's more than one room. And and you'll see in a minute, there's even more than two rooms. There are lots of rooms. And what the middle class wants, all those people in that triangle, they want privacy. They want privacy. They want their own rooms. Uh so she's playing the uh the piano. Well, I mean, it's all obvious stuff. And there's the kitchen. Now, this is not the wife. These are the domest This is the domestic with her children uh who are part of the team who's been hired to help run this uh run this household. There again, you see the trees. We're in the same apartment there. And you have real real copper pots uh back before the Bush dollar, you know, people would buy bring back uh um you know, from from uh Paris and from Europe these enormously heavy copper pots. I've carried so many of them back. It's incredible. Uh and and that was, you know, ordinary people did not cook with things like that. Uh so uh uh there we go. I mean, these are the kinds of of symbols of of all of this. Now um the the middle class wants privacy and they also uh develop something else. And this is almost trit to say because so many people have have said it but but uh and it can be exaggerated but the middle class arguably helps create the notion of childhood. Uh that in many early mo painting early modern paintings children are are are portrayed as sort of little squished up adults and that sort of thing. And children come into their own in in the 19th century. Ordinary people, ordinary peasants, you know, children, everybody uh they slept with the animals often along with the adults. Uh uh most ordinary people in some of the worst tenementss in in Europe were were in in uh Edinburgh uh and in Glasgow um and in Leel uh in France, but also in Berlin and lots of places. There were no secrets. Everybody slept in the same room. Uh there were no secrets at all. And what the the middle class wants besides social mobility uh and access to political uh uh power is they want space. And so the notion of childhood, you know, childhood didn't exist for for ordinary people. You started working helping out. So you know, when you were five or six years old, you started tending the the animals in in the little courtyard as as they would call it, taking care of chickens and and rabbits and things like that. You know, working people uh their children went to work right away as soon as they could make anything. And if they were if they were poor and didn't have jobs then they were sent out to beg. Childhood became uh a middle class phenomenon. Now know to be sure nobles had children but it was a different way of bringing up your children. Uh nobles did not send their children to uh uh to uh uh to to to public schools or even to private schools. They were educated to to some extent at least by uh private tutors. And so um even the notion of of the children's hour uh the children's room I mean the idea of a children's room of having your own room or a room shared with a sibling was something that was just inconceivable uh for the majority of Europeans the vast vast majority of Europeans. the children's hour. I can even remember, you know, the horror show of being summoned for the children's hour when you're supposed to come out when they were guests and run through your extraordinarily modest bag of tricks, you know, for the guests and then you be sort of packing and since I couldn't play a note on the piano had been been expelled from piano after two weeks by by and sent back to the to the playing fields uh by a nun uh uh in Portland, Oregon. I I didn't have many many tricks to show. But the but the children's hour uh all of this stuff uh comes out of the middle class. How about birth control for example? How about birth control? How about not having 10 or 11 children? We had friends one of whom unfortunately just died very older friends you know who were born in the 19 uh uh 30s early 30s in um uh in the south of France and one had 13 brothers and sisters and the other 11. And they grew up in misery, absolute misery, very very Catholic family in the center of France. Now the middle class, particularly the French middle class, they start reducing their children, number of children. In France is a particular case because they they get rid of you could get around it by by primogenature. So the um the plot of land has to be divided up into two or three or four or five or 12 or what if you own no land? Not so good. Uh so they begin having you know 2.2 two children or something like that. Uh so birth control, you know, in some some parts of Europe, people think that birth control really started with peasants and then moves up the moves up to the upper classes, but basically particularly the case of France where it's been like most things studied studied to death. Uh birth control really begins with the middle classes and they are limiting their children so that their children can be uh you know feast son of and inherit you know inherit the business and hopefully be left with enough uh money to make it go a print culture. I mean that was just an example of you know the whole salon salon the salon the idea of going to see art shows it really starts in the 18th century but you know the middle class wants to be seen uh rather like the Dutch uh um Dutch middle class in in that we talked about in the 17th century wants to be seen having paintings and they wait in line to go to theaters. This is all doier uh and this is the uh the the you know the moso the the the piece that you have to uh you're you're obliged to swallow uh after dinner. And here's the uh little girl being trotted out to play a few notes for the uh quite bored uh uh people who are who are sitting there. Um and uh waiting and even the idea of you know this is it's your birthday papa it's it's your birthday. Uh you know you didn't take time out to celebrate a birthday if you were an ordinary person having to get to the fields at 4 in the morning in the summer uh or going to work uh during the day. uh the culture of of childhood uh is uh really all there. A and also uh there's a whole notion of of of and here again this would probably fit rather awkwardly into the birth control uh uh birth control description but there's this whole sense of of of being prepared uh that emerges for the middle class and one of those it's a recruiter I I once when I gave a equivalent of this lecture I had a old battered umbrella and I was trying to explain how people on the top rung were trying to beat down people at the bottom I ended up smashing the you know smashing this umbrella sort of like you know uh imaginary of somebody smashing their guitar on stage. Uh but the point is that umbrellas come with the middle class and they are black umbrellas. They're not these big colored things you have now. The idea of protecting that one suit. I'm from Oregon. We didn't carry umbrellas because it rained all the time anyway and I just lose it. uh you would but the umbrellas are part are middle class accutrant along with the piano and along with the children's room and along with the children's hour and along with the idea of of not having too many children uh and along with the top hat and with the idea of of uh of wanting access to information through the newspapers uh wanting the right to vote not probably not wanting those people down below you below you on the ladder to vote but demanding that you have the right to vote. They all share these things in common. And lastly, gazing at his watch, lastly in the last one minute 35 seconds that that remains uh to me, um the bourgeoisi, the middle classes, and this is particularly true of of Germany and France uh well and of England too and of other places, they want the right to bear arms. They want to be in the National Guard. and the National Guard might hypothetically be there in case there there is an invasion of uh of of France or or or Germany by uh I don't know I mean some some distant place the Fins or something most unlikely but the main reason that you they wanted to join the National Guard and you had to own property to be in the National Guard. You had to be defined as a property owning citizen to have the right to vote. In all of these countries, the right to vote was defined until you have universal male suffrage by how much taxes you paid, how much property you own. So, you can measure where you are on this ladder by how much taxes you paid. They don't want to pay a lot of taxes, but property uh reflects one's belief in one's own social worth. And that's the way they looked at it. No longer was it the worth of of uh of blood. Now, so they form these national guards particularly after revolutions and after 1848 or after 1830 and for a while they go march around. But these are mainly there to protect them against the workers. Should one day all these people try to rise up the come up climb up this ladder, well you'll be down there to stomp on their fingers or to shoot them down. Uh and so it doesn't last very long and then they pretty soon this guy's tired. He's this isn't doiier. I don't know who it is. It doesn't matter. It's not very good. But he's had it. Uh he's freezing. His wife is kind of looking at him like, "I don't know why you doing this stuff." Marching around in the middle of the night. Uh no one's going to rise up anyway. This will last. His old blunder bus there on the left will be put back in the closet or taken out to to slay deer or some damn thing. Uh but that'll be the end of it. And they'll turn it over to more uh professional uh uh uh professional uh uh uh repressive forces such as armies. Domier's light lines and this is the last one disappear in this painting which is called the Ru Transna. Don't write it down in Paris. Uh it's a street that no longer exists. It disappeared when Osman built the boulevards in the 1850s and60s. It was selected to disappear because it recalled an event in the early 1830s when these bourgeoa panicked and start going into a house full of very ordinary people and simply shooting them all. simply shooting them and the light lines disappear with domeier. He did another one of these after a massacre in 1848 in and it's been lost. We don't have it. Rutran nona HD doier in uh at the bottom left and the middle classes for all of their insistence that they have access to information. At least in the case of France, they cheered on a press law in 1835 that kept doier from t touching political scenes such as this which were deemed too sensitive and the rut transuna where this happened in the center of Paris simply disappeared uh didn't quite disappear from the collective memory of people thinking about Parisian things. So in conclusion, the m the middle classes extremely varied. They share much. They have a common uh material culture. Uh they they uh share a belief in achieved status as measured by the amount of property that you had. Uh they want to vote. They want a collective a collective voice in in decisions. And for all the the the variety for uh within the middle classes uh so so beautifully described or depicted by doier and and other people uh they still when push came to shove uh shared an awful lot in the bourgeoa century that of the 19th century. Have a good weekend. See you on Monday.