So in this segment, we'll continue the story of probability theory and we'll talk about the probabilities of multiple events. An event happening now plus an event happening a little bit in the future or an event that has happened and we use that information to estimate the likelihood of something else happening down the road. So the first thing to think about when we talk about multiple events is to ask whether those events are in fact independent. Consider two coins A and B. What is the probability that A lands on heads and B lands AST as also as heads? So mathematically we have the probability of A equals heads and B equals heads. If A and B are independent the probability of A equals H. A heads and B equals H is simply the product of those two things. The probability of A equals heads times of B heads. So A and B are just two separate coins. They don't talk. They don't communicate. So if they are independent the joint probability A equals H comma B equals H is how we write the joint probability is simply the product of those two. This is the definition of independence. So more abstractly we have P of A and B= P of A * P of B. And then let's introduce one more piece of notation here. This is called the conditional notation. What is the probability of A equals heads given that B is already heads. So we flip B first. We observe it. We know it's heads. And now we ask the question, what is the likelihood that A's heads? If these two are independent, the probability of A given H given that B equals H is just equal to the probability of A equals H. The fact that I tell you what happened to B tells you nothing about A. So this is sort of the independence. This is what independent probability independent variables mean. The next piece of knowledge you should see at least once is this called B rule. And this is the formula that relates all of those things. So this is B rule. The probability of A given B is the probability of B given A times the probability of A divided by the probability of B. It's one of the most fundamental relations in all of statistics and probability. So what is the probability of A given B that's known as the posterior probability. The probability of something given that something else has happened and we'll see an example in the next slide. So this functions effectively as belief updating. How likely is A? It's P of A. How likely say after B has happened this is the probability of A given B. So if I tell you that somebody driving down the street and what is the probability of that person getting into an accident you have some notion of what the likelihood of that is maybe it's 0.1 maybe it's 01. Now if I tell you that that person is drunk that is B. Now what is A given B? That's a very different probability. Now know now you think that the likelihood of them getting in an accident is significantly higher and unfortunately of all the other people on the road that are driving at the same time as this person. So let's look at this more concretely and let's give an example. Now we have two dice A and B. Now we know that these dice are independent but we're going to complicate things a little bit here. So if the dice are fair, the probability of A coming out as six is one six. And that's the same for B. What we really want to think about is the sum A plus B. So one of these dice will have been rolled. We'll get a value. And now we want to know what's the probability of the sum after we do the second dice. Now, if we know nothing prior to rolling the dice, the probability of S is one over 36 for two. The only way you get two is both dice come out as one. It's 2 out of 36 for three because we have one or two or two and one. Six out of 36 for a sum of seven. We got one and six, two and five, three and four and the complements. And we end up with a distribution has this triangular shape with a pig at seven. The most likely event if you roll two dice is seven. If you play Bagamon, you know that well. Now let's say we roll the first dice first and we get a value of six. What is now the probability of the sum S. So we are about to roll B. And the probability of S given A equals 6. It's a uniform distribution. It has the same value from 7 to 12. Right? Because B is independent of A. We already have six. So any we're going to get values 1 to six. So we have one six probability of getting a value from seven for the sum to 12. So this is belief updating, right? We if we know nothing, we have a distribution that goes from two to 12 with this shape. Once I tell you that the first dice came out six, now the distribution changes because I gave you some information and now we're doing this conditional. The probability of s given a equals to six. And this is how this updates. So let's look at a more concrete example again from the medical world to illustrate this point in a little bit more detail. And this is what's called the positive predictive value. What is the likelihood that you have a disease if you have a sign? What is the probability that you have a disease if you test positive for it? And let's just examine this in more detail. So what is the probability that you have cancer if you exhibit some sign S? I'm going to leave this abstract for now. So let's put some facts on the table. A 100% of cancer patients have the sign. If you don't have the sign, you do not have cancer. But and all of the cancer patients have the sign S. 5% of non-cancer patients also have the sign. And so what and we know from you know prevalence in the population that cancer prevalence in this population we're studying is 2%. So let me let me ask you what is the likelihood that you have cancer knowing nothing that answer is 2%. What if I what if you have the sign? What is the probability now that you have cancer? What's the probability of C given that S equals true? What is the answer to that question? To address that we're going to give you a sort of tabular solution as opposed to an algebraic solution. Let's start out. We have a thousand people. This is our nominal population. 980 of which do not have cancer and 20% of which have cancer. Remember the probability of cancer in the population is 2%. Five all of the people who have cancer have the sign. So we have 20 people here that both have cancer. Yes. And the sign is yes. And of the people that do not have cancer, 5% of them have the sign. So 49 people do not have cancer. No, but actually have the sign. So 69 people will have the sign and then the rest nobody has cancer and has the sign. So that's zero and does not have the sign excuse me. So it's zero and 931 people do not have cancer and do not have the sign. So all these numbers add up. So now let's think a little bit what the implications of that. What is the probability that cancer is true given that sign is yes. Well 69 people have the sign of which 20 people actually have cancer. So probability of having cancer if you have the sign in fact in this case is 29% which a lot less than 100%. Right? Most of the people have the sign in fact do not have cancer. So this is belief updating in action the probability of cancer equals true is just 2% but once you know that you have the sign you get up to 29%. And this is the type of information the kind of experiment that you can do with knowledge of this type of things. Right now in the pandemic what is the probability you actually have COVID given that you get a positive test? Well, given that the tests are not perfectly accurate, if most of the population where you live is actually free from COVID, the probability that you actually have COVID given a positive test is actually fairly low. Maybe 30 40%. It's certainly not 100%. But of course, that determines that the sensitivity of the test and this is something we'll talk about. We talk about event detection is driven by other factors making sure we don't miss anybody and that's that story. So, this concludes our initial discussion of probability. In the next segment, we'll introduce basic concepts from statistics. Thank you.