So in this segment we'll take a look at a particularly important statistical procedure and that is a process of estimating probability density functions. So what does this involve? We acquire measurements from a large enough sample of representative situation. So let me underline large enough and representative and we use these measurements and potentially other prior knowledge. and an applier about the problem to construct probability function using the parametric or non-parametric methods. So the rest of this short segment will focus on explaining what those words mean. But this is a process we acquire a bunch of measurements from what's hopefully a representative sample and we use some techniques parametric or nonparametric methods together with knowledge from other parts other prior experience to construct a probability density function. So let's just look at what this looks like. So we have first this condition of the sample versus the population. So here's we're interested in what happens in a population. For example, cancer patients over 50 years old. What we end up doing is studying a sample some such patients. We recruit some of them that we can get our hands on. Hopefully representative of the sample and hopefully our results generalize to the population as a as a whole. And again please always remember the goal of all of estimation here is to say something about the population. And so for that to be true, our sample has to be representative of the population. It has to be large enough so we can get conversions. Remember the discussion of the law of large numbers. And it has to be represented. It has to have the right type of people in terms of diversity of sexes, of ages, of conditions, of racial backgrounds, all of those things to sort of allow the results to generalize to the population as a whole. So this is where we talk about large enough and representative. A large sample helps with convergence. So our measurements are less sensitive to any odd pole sample. Our sample needs to look like a general population. And so here's a bad example. Drag studies were used to be and this is used to be true actually were tested on college students and this failed to account for age right young healthy people. So the drug tends to work better. The same considerations apply to other things. Sex, IQ, height, weight and all kinds of variables. So these variables may not be applicable depending on what one is trying to measure. But this is something to be careful about. You don't want to weigh your sample so it does not represent the population appropriately. And the other thing I want you to note and we'll come back to this multiple times. The commonly used hypothesis testing techniques when we do clinical trials and we'll talk about them in a couple of segments here. Effectively estimate the probability density function first. So if your sample in your clinical trial does not look like your population because it's not doesn't represent the population in many of these ways you're going to estimate a bad distribution and what you're going to end up with is a bad exam a bad example your trial would be your own. The next word is this word prior and this is a sort of enormous debate in the world of statistics. If you're a statistician just skip this slide nothing here would be helpful to you. And the big question here is can we use external information as part of the estimation? For example, can we assume that a data is smoothly varying over time? Can you use prior measurements for something similar? Those are fundamental questions in statistics. And this is a hallmark of Beijian estimation. So let me give you an example. Let's go back to our opinion polling and let's say we get a measurement for a particular state of what candidate A is going to do versus candidate B. Are we allowed to use measurements from the previous election to sort of say to smooth that out because we only measure a thousand people and let's say this dates usually tilts towards party A maybe the poll shows party B way too high and we think well you know given historical knowledge we're going to rescale this value because we don't really trust this there may be an outlier. This is a type of thing that we call prior and it's very valuable in statistics and in many cases when we have bad data it can be extremely important to use this type of information but again this is a huge controversy in statistics whether p information can or cannot be used. The next question is this question of parametric. Parametric assumes that the probability density function has a known shape with a known parameter. So let me give you an example. Let's say you have this quadratic function. This is not distribution just a function ax^2 + b px + c. We think the data follows this function. So we assume this form we just estimate a blast and cruise here. So this is a parametric estimation. This is often simpler and one needs only a smaller data set to to get an accurate estimate. The critical question when you're doing parametric estimation is is the model appropriate. So if we have used the wrong parametric function the wrong distribution we get erroneous results. And the classic method here in statistics, the one that everybody learns in their first statistics class is what's called the method of moments. You assume a model distribution, for example, a goian. You compute the mean and the standard deviation from the sample and you plug the things into the model or you use this to compute the parameters of the model and there is your estimation. Okay. Now that is fine, but sometimes it doesn't work. For example, we use we can use nonparametric methods when we do not have a good parametric model. And often this involves the use of histograms and potentially additional smoothing. The advantage of nonparametric methods where we make no assumptions as to the model is that we make very weak assumptions about the form of the distribution. The disadvantage is that all of a sudden we need a ton more data. So let's take this example here. Let's say we have data that's distributed in this double hump way. If we assume the wrong parametric distribution, let's say we had a quotient with this kind of single peak, this would make no sense. It would give us erroneous measurements. The average of this distribution which probably somewhere around here is actually meaningless because we have two peaks and the mean is not particularly presented. On the other hand, to estimate this entire shape, we would need a lot more measurements because instead of just estimating the width of this distribution, we now estimate the value at every one point. And this is a problem now with nonparametric method. So you pick your poison. If you have a good enough model and you have a sense of what the data is likely to be like, you can save a lot of time and get more accurate estimates by having a good parametric model. If you don't know what the distribution in the data is, then you have to resort to nonparametric techniques and there you get into sampling issues and smoothness and all kinds of other problems. But they may still be your best guess as to how to model your data. So this concludes this discussion of parameter of estimation of probability density functions. In the next segment we'll take a look at a very another important problem in statistics and this is a problem of signal detection. Thank you.