So in this segment we'll take a look at the problem of signal detection which a fundamental problem in statistics and a particularly relevant problem to many medical applications especially many medical software applications. So the history of signal detection comes from radar and think here about World War II. You have this screen here. That's your radar screen. And you see this blip here appear on your screen. And so the question you have to ask yourself if you're running the defense of Britain during World War II is, is this a plane or is this noise? And if this is a plane, you have to ask to send a plane up to intercept the enemy plane so you don't get bombed. And if it's not a plane, you sit tight and you say, "Okay, that's just noise. We do nothing." The problem fundamentally here is what happens if you make a mistake. If this in fact a plane and you choose to ignore it, you may get in trouble. you may get bombed. And if this is not a plane and you send something up to intercept it and they find nothing, you've just wasted valuable fuel, you have tired pilots, you add wear and tear to your planes and all kinds of other issues. So the fundamental trade-off is the cost of action when it is not needed versus the cost of inaction when in fact action were needed. So this is a trade-off in all of signal detection. What happens? What kind of mistake can we afford to make? So if you're in a situation here where you have lots of planes and lots of pilots and infinite fuel, then the cost of action is low and the cost of inaction is high. You don't want to be bombed, you have lots of planes, you're always going to send somebody up no matter what. Versus if you're in a situation where you have very limited fuel and you say, "Okay, we'll take the odd heat occasionally because we have to preserve our planes for those times we're absolutely certain there's a plane coming." So that's the fundamental issue in all of detection theory. So let's look at it a little bit more mathematically and the case of event detection asks the question really the question we want to know is did something happen is there a plane there. So let's set this up mathematically in a little bit more of a medical context. Is there evidence of cancer in this mamogram? So mamogram is used commonly to screen women for breast cancer. We see something is this cancer is not cancer. That is the question we want to ask. So here's the mathematical setup. We have a function f of the measurements x. X is the mamogram. M is some algorithm that produces some estimate based of the vamogram. If f of X is small, we say that nothing has happened. There's no cancer. If F of X is large, we have an event. For example, we have cancer, an enemy plane, what have you. And what this boils down to is setting or estimating a threshold t such that if f of x of t, we have the event. Otherwise, we say we do not have an event. So if f ofx is greater than t, we call that event a positive. Our algorithm says we have something. It's not good news necessarily that you have cancer, but that's what a positive cancer test means. It means there's cancer present. And if f of x is less than t, we call that event a negative. We do not have cancer. So let's look at it a little bit more again and let's think about it a little bit more graphically here. So we have four kinds of situations. We have our algorithm says yes or no. And the event the true value which are known of course to us is yes or no. and we end up in this 2x two table. We have true positive, false negative, false positive, and true negative. Those are the four things for you to remember what those things mean. The word positive refers to what the algorithm said. And the word true or false refers to whether the algorithm was correct. So a true positive means we had a cancer and we called it correctly. A true negative, we did not have cancer, we called it correctly. A false positive, we said there's cancer but we were wrong. And the same applies to false negative. So let's dig in a little bit more. If f ofx is greater than t, we have a positive result. Otherwise, we have a negative result. A result can be true, correct or false. And false positive, just to reiterate, means that we said something happened, but in fact, it did not. And the problem ultimately is a trade-off between false positives and false negatives. So these are the bad things, the thing in red here. And our trade-off between those two things. A false positive, we said there's an enemy plane and there's no plane. a false negative. We said there's no plane but in fact there is a plane. Those are the part the things we try to avoid. The other terms you will hear in this discussion are this concepts of sensitivity versus specificity. Sensitivity a high sensitivity algorithm says we do not want to miss any cancers. So we want to minimize false negatives situations where we said there is no cancer when in fact there was cancer. Remember negative means we said there's no cancer and it we were wrong. It was false. So the formula for sensitivities is fraction between true positives and all positives. True positive means we said there was cancer and there was and then false negative there was actually cancer but we failed to detect. So what fraction of cancers do we detect? That is sensitivity. The other parameter the thing we trade off with is specificity which says that when we give a cancer diagnosis in fact we are correct that this is cancer. So this is the goal here is to minimize false positives and the formula again is the sum of is a fraction of true negatives when we said there was no cancer and we're correct over true negatives plus false positives when we were wrong. We said there were there was no cancer but we were in fact wrong. The is trivially easy to maximize each of these things separately. We can call everything cancer and we have high sensitivity no big deal. We can call nothing cancer. We have high specificity. So the game in detection theory is to figure out the optimal trade-off between sensitivity and specificity. So if you hear somebody say our algorithm has 80% sensitivity, you say thank you very much. I can get you 100% sensitivity. The question is what specificity do you have at 80% sensitivity and unless you specify both the answer is meaningless because I can get you 100% sensitivity or 100% specificity provided I'm not constrained by the other parameter. The way we think about that now is we're looking for f ofx greater than t and our goal is to set t to be the that optimal specificity. So the way we think about this is often graphically and this is what's called the receiver operator characteristic curves. This is the sound of radar you're hearing where we plot what's called one minus specificity the false alarm rate versus sensitivity. Where you want to be is here. You want perfect specificity. Remember this one minus specificity. So this is one and perfect sensitivity. We can never have that in the real world. So what happens is that we plot the performance of our detector. Remember a detector is f ofx greater than t as we vary this value t. If we set t very low, we have perfect sensitivity. We don't miss anything, but we'll have lousy specificity. If we set t very high, wind up at the opposite end, we have excellent specificity, but we have lousy sensitivity. And if we vary t we end up with this curve. This is what's called the receiver operating characteristic curve. And this shows us the relative the the pairing of sensitivity and specificity. And the value the way we set t is based on the relative cause of false alarms versus failure to detect. So if we are doing a detector and the goal is of the algorithm is to detect bombs in people boarding a plane because we want we are sort of worried about terrorist attacks. We're going to set us we're going to optimize for sensitivity. We're going to set t very low and we're going to take all the his own specificity. And this is what in fact happens. That's why every single suitcase gets open in a plane some when you're boarding a plane because you you're optimizing for sensitivity. On the other hand, often in the legal system, you know, you've heard the expressions that better a thousand guilty go free that one innocent man goes to jail. we will set our threshold very high because we're really optimizing for specificity there and we'll be on the other end of the spectrum. Another measure that you will see is what's called the area under the curve. This is the area under this curve. Remember the perfect curve would go up vertically here and horizontally across and this will have an area of one. The closer you get to one the better you are and this is a measure of performance of an algorithm and you'll see people specifying areas under the curve. This kind of thing is we pause it here in the context of detection but it's the same as when you're doing binary classification. Okay, it's the same idea to sort of discuss this to give you a second description of this. This is extracted from a segment from an interview from Dr. Nicholas Patrick from the FDA and he'll tell you state these things just to give you another view of the same problem. >> Typically in an artificial intelligence you have an output score that comes out of the algorithm. So for a case you say gives a score on a zero to one scale with say one being higher meaning it's more likely to be cancer at some point the the company or the developer decides you know what I'm going to make a threshold at 0 75. So everything above 0 75 I'm going to call cancer everything below 0 75 I'm going to call non-cancer. So that's would give us this sensitivity specificity operating point of the device. But what we're interested in is that overall performance of the algorithm. So what we can do is plot the sensitivity and false positive rate for all the different um thresholds of that algorithm and we can track that across the whole spectrum. So we can go from 0ero to one and false positive rate which subsequently goes from zero to one. So here's an example of a classifier. Um typically when we have an a distribution we have again this non-desease distribution and the disease distribution and they overlap in some extent. So we're not going to get perfect separation between these two for most classifiers. So we have some overlap. If we separate those two out again, put this threshold on there, we can get a single operating point. If we start and just sweep across the whole um range, we can get the full ROC curve. And so this ROC curves tells us more about the fundamental properties of the algorithm and not for just one individual operating point. and Raz is the right way to characterize a detection algorithm because depending on your application you understand the threshold separately when it comes to comparing algorithms. Now the ROC curve really measures the skill level of the user or technology and gives you a lot more information than just a single point on the curve and can be used to compare detection algorithms and binary classification and all of those things. Sometimes we're only interested in the performance for a specific range. For example, this is an alchemy to detect again explosives in luggage on a plane. We're not really interested in the range below sensitivity of like 99.9%. Right? You could be doing better at sensitivity of 2% but that's of no interest. In other cases, we want to see the whole range and compare over the whole range again. So, we have a second clip from the interview with Dr. Patrick who's going to use talk us a little bit more about this comparison thing. So this is important because sometimes we have trade-offs in device performance where we have say a device A which has a sensitivity specificity operating point of here and a device B with a here. And in this case you can see that this device has higher sensitivity but it also has lower specificity. So the question is is that a good tradeoff of performance? Is this operating point better than that operating point? Now we could do something like utility analysis and try to determine what the value of a true positive false positive and so on. Um but another way of doing this is to actually look at the ROC curve. So are these two RC curves the same or different? So in this case the device B actually falls on a lower ROC curve which gives us an indication that overall this technology probably isn't as good as the technology for device A. Now it's possible it could have fallen on a higher RC curve and uh and it would have been would have shown that that device was better. So again this is a way to look at the technologies more in a fundamental properties and try to determine which of these technologies are providing better information because in general you can control the operating point. We can adjust these thresholds and operate anywhere along this curve um that makes clinical sense. >> So this concludes our discussion of signal detection. This brief introduction of signal detection. In the next three segments, we're going to take a look at math designed to evaluate clinical trials and we'll talk about hypothesis testing and randomization. Thank you.