In these next three segments, we're going to give you a description of some mathematical techniques that are useful for the design of an interpretation of clinical trials. We talk about statistical significance and randomization. So my goal at the end of this is that when you hear an expression along the lines of for this trial to be properly powered, they needed this many subjects and this many positive cases. This you should understand where this vocabulary comes from. What does this properly powered vocabulary mean? What is when you what does it mean when you hear that this result was statistically significant? Those are the kinds of things we'll try to at least give an introduction to in the next two three segments. So the first place to start is real significance versus statistical significance and those are very easily confused terms. So here's the process and this is true for most clinical trials for most experimental studies. This is like the core of the scientific method in many ways. We measure something in two groups. Real or clinical significance is that we see some big difference between the groups. Statistical significance means that the observed difference cannot be attri attributed to chance. So if something has real significance, so let's say we're talking about a drug that's going to improve the life expectancy of people with cancer. Real significance means that it extends your life by an amount that we actually care about. Not 20 minutes, not a week, but months, years. statistical significance. You could have statistical significance even if the improvement is a day. The drug actually works a little bit. It's not it's not by chance. The drug actually helped improve that significance that life expectancy by a day. So that result is statistically significant. It's not a random event, but it's not really real significant. Now the opposite of course is that we could see a measurement of an improvement that's pretty big. But then if we examine the distributions of the population, we say look while we see a measurement, chances are that what we observe is by chance a lot. We got lucky in our choice of subjects who got the drug versus the subjects who did not get the drug. So what we need really is both real and statistical significance. And one without the other is actually pointless in my mind. So let's continue here. So we want to know and this is going to recap here what we just talked about whether a drug reduces the level of hospitalization. We recruit a population and we do a randomized trial. Half the subjects are given the drug, half the subject given placebo. And we really really want to ensure the groups are identical. So the age distribution, the prior health, the sex distribution, the racial distribution of all those groups are identical as much as humanly possible. The only thing different between the groups is whether we're given the drug or not. We compute the mean hospitalization time, for example, or the mean survival time or whatever the appropriate measure is. And we define something called the effect. The effect could be the mean reduction of hospitalization time between the groups. The difference between the things you're measuring and computing. This is the effect. If the effect is small, we're done. There's no real world significance. You know, we can have statistical significance. The result is not by chance, but no real significance. So, the first thing we need to have is a big effect. That's fundamental. Now, there are complications here. The mean may not be the right metric. You know, it could be that the drug would only reduce the hospitalization for only a certain type of patients. Maybe it only works for the sickest patients. So, we have to be careful here as we do this study. But this is fundamentally the process. So, let's walk through this process of significance testing. How do we ensure that the result we observe was not by chance alone provided we actually care about the result because it's big enough to be meaningful and interesting to us. We perform a trial. As explained before, we have two groups treated identically and have identical characteristics where the only difference is say drug versus placebo. Now within reason of what identical means, right? Sometimes we can't be perfect here. We measure this outcome measure the difference in survival time. For example, drug minus control, you get two years extra. And we label this as D. This is the effect, the difference. This is the fundamental value. And then we assume we make this assumption. This is completely counterintuitive that there is no effect that the drug does not work. So this is a proof by contradiction if you're doing formal math. We're going to assume that something does not work and say we're that's unlikely to be true. We compute the probability of getting a data D at least as big as what we have measured if this null hypothesis is correct. The null hypothesis assumption that the drug does not work. And if this probability is small, we reject the null hypothesis. And effectively here what we're measuring probabilistically remember is a probability of D greater than some little D given the hypo the null hypothesis and we check if this is smaller than a threshold. This is a famous 0.05 or 0.01. So let's cast it in words. So hopefully it's easy. So we say this is we're going to make the assumption that some that this drug does not work. Based on that assumption we're going to compute the probability of getting the data we got. The data we got is this difference in life expectancy between the people who had the drug and the people who did not have the drug. And we're going to compute the probability that the we get data as big or higher given our assumption that there is no difference. If this probability is small smaller than small small number 05.01 then we conclude that this is unlikely and that our null hypothesis our assumption that the track does not work is likely to be false. and by extension that that track works. This is the backwards way of thinking that is involved in hypothesis testing. So the first thing and this is sort of a little bit of a historical detour. Where does this p less than05 come from? You're going to see it if you do any scientific reading statistical significant at the p less than 0.05 level. So here's a quote from a book by Fischer. This goes Fischer was one of the fathers of modern statistics back in 1934. You can see the cover of the book on the top left hand side. The value for which P equals 0.05 or 1 in 20. It is convenient to make this point as a limit in judging whether the deviations could be considered significant or not. Deviations exceeding twice the standard deviation are thus formally regarded as significant. So the 05 just comes because Fischer thought that 0.55 is the right value and many journals would reject and still reject papers if your if your p value probability of seeing this data given that the hand hypothesis is true is greater than 0.05 and the implicit assumption here is of course that the data is goian. So if you look at this plot, this is a goian distribution. This here is two sigma away from the mean. And what is colored here in purple is the probability that you're further away than two standard deviations from the mean in either direction. And in a goian distribution, the sum of this, let's call it a and this b a plus b is about 5%. So that's where it comes from. If you're more than two standard deviations away, we'll say that you know the probability is small and that's the intuition behind fisher state. So now let's look at the thing a little bit more mathematically. The simplest form of a hypothesis test is what's called the unpaired t test. We're not going to get into the details of that but let's just look how it gets computed. We have two groups of size n1 and n2. This is how many people in each group. Hopefully the groups are the same size but you can never precise here. And we test the hypothesis that the two groups are different. By that we mean that the means of the two groups are in fact different. We make the assumption that each group on its own is has a value that's distributed using a goshian distribution and that the variances are closed. These are just technical assumptions. We compute the two means mu1 and mu2. And then we use these things to compute what's called the t statistic. Compute the means and the standard deviations of each group. And we use this to compute what's called the t statistic. And the other thing that you'll see when you do t test is this number called the degrees of freedom. And this is just the sum of the numbers n1 plus n2 minus 2. And if you do all these good things, you end up with a formula like this. T the t statistics is the difference between the means is called the difference literally divided by some weighted pulled standard deviation which we're not going to go into how it's computed. I want you just to see these numbers n1 and n2 come here. And so this is the t statistic and if it's big enough you have a low probability that what you're observing is by chance. And this is the underlying function. So let's look at what t is and how it is distributed. And we'll tie this back to a description of probability density functions and survival functions. But before we do, I want you to realize that we have made an assumption that we have a goian distribution. So this is a parametric probability density function estimation and we computed the means and we plug them into a formula. So this is like a standard estimation of probability density function by assuming this form the quotient distribution and sigma p is just the p standard deviation. So how do we test for significance? Let's continue. This is the distribution of t. This thread t this difference value normalized difference is distributed to something called the students t distribution with degrees of freedom equals to v. And we're going to talk about the origin of this in the next segment. And what we want to compute is the survival function. the probability of P is greater than T. So if you remember the survival function is the area under the curve above a certain threshold. So if this is T, the survival function is the area under the curve here. And if this is small, if this area under the curve is four, we reject the null hypothesis. And in this proof by contradiction mode, we demonstrate the two groups have statistically significant differences in their means. That is a fundamental thing. So let's conclude this segment by talking about the effects of the number of subjects. Remember that the degrees of freedom V is simply equal to the sum of the numbers of ciphers minus two. So the greater the number of subjects the greater the V. And what I want you to do is take this distribution. Remember that what we're interested in is this value here the val the area above our T that normalized difference that we compute the t statistic. That is what we get. If we zoom in at the t distribution and take the right tail, this is what the for the same value of t, this is t here, the area under the curve changes dramatically as the number of subjects goes up. So if you have a big number of subjects, that area is very small. So we're more likely to reject the hypothesis. Say we have an effect. And if the number of subjects is small, this area is actually pretty big. and we're less likely to be able to say that that null hypothesis is false. And that is exactly the reason why in many clinical trials we need to have a large number of subjects because a large number of subjects changes the distribution model for this t statistic because the distribution depends on the number of subjects and it squeezes that area to the right of our threshold down closer to zero and it allows us to have more confidence when we say that there is in fact a difference because we are able to reject the hypothesis that there is no difference. We'll continue the story of hypothesis testing and the t distribution in the next segment. Thank you.