So in this segment we'll conclude our discussion of statistical significance and we'll first tell the history of how this math came about. What is this t distribution and we'll discuss some of the terms that you will see when this type of data is presented. So the history of the t distribution comes from the Guinness Brewery in Dublin Ireland back in 1908 and the math at the time what we know here this is the fundamental problem is that when we take samples from population that's distributed under a goian distribution these samples do not have a goian distribution they in fact have what we've already presented to you a t distribution and the key to the distribution has fatter tails it doesn't die off as you go away from the mean. If this is a normal, the t distribution has higher probability of having extreme values. If we have lots of samples, which is that concept of degree of freedom we talked about before, t fact converges to a goian. And the development of the t distribution is the work of a guinus brewer William Soset who published it under the pseudonym of student. So this is the t distribution and again as the number of samples goes large that's effectively this v we end up with this black curve and this looks for purpose like a goshian if the number of samples is small we have this orange curve higher up and here you can see the tails do not die there's a lot of likelihood that we have extreme values and the more of those you have the less likely it is that you can say something definitive and reject some kind of null hypothesis. So here's the history of this and this is an excellent article by Dan Cop on the web page below. You can look for it up to read more about this. Go made his innovations while working as a brewer for Guinness from 1999 to 1937. His primary focus was to develop to maintain the quality of his beer. And that's what Guinness's problem was while increasing quantity and decreasing cost. And it was during this time that the production level just shot through the roof. They were producing a lot more beer than before. and they couldn't just have somebody taste every single batch to make sure that it was of uniform quality. Between 1887 and 1914, the output of the brewery double and they were reaching about a billion pints, which is, you know, a huge amount for the era. And Gosser was assigned as part of a team that would answer that question. How do you make sure that the quality of the beer is uniform? So the question that boiled down for him was what happens in small samples. Okay, at the time methods for extrapolating from a sample relied on having a large sample. So you had more than 30 observations and you could use a standard normal distribution. Remember if we look at the t distribution that we he came up with as that weak becomes larger you look like a normal distribution. So in many industrial settings though it was impossible to get such a large sample like you couldn't take 30 out of every batch. You waste an awful lot of beer. So his goal was to understand just how much representative a sample is when it is small and the result is this autonomously published student distribution. The company wouldn't let him publish in his own name so their competitors wouldn't figure out what was up. So this is fundamentally what where statisticians make their money. Given enough data anybody could probably figure out what to do. But when you have a small amount of data, how do you figure out something interesting to see? How much less representative is a small sample than a large sample? And what are your limitations at that point? And this is what gossip figured out in his pioneering work. So putting aside the history lesson here, we will need to a lot of these techniques get used to evaluate things like clinical trials and other things. And as we plan a clinical trial, we use this math, this t distributions and related concepts to perform what's called as power analysis. How big a sample do we need to become confident that we can reject our null hypothesis? Remember null hypothesis means that we have succeeded and such that our clinical trial is likely to be successful. So given what we know the population perhaps from pylon experiments how big a number of people do we need in our sample such that when we measure something we can find statistical significance such that we're comfortable saying that we found an effect and that effect is not by chance. So that is a procedure known as power analysis and we'll discuss this next. So remember again that the goal is to reject the null hypothesis which means that we have succeeded. We've shown that a drug has some kind of different and we start from some pilot experiments of course to learn something. The first thing in a power analysis is this thing called alpha and this is called the significance level. So we're looking for p less than alpha. This is a 0.05 or 0.01. How much are we willing to say if the probability of seeing this kind of data given the assumption that there is no difference? What's the threshold below which we say that the hypothesis is false and there's in fact a difference. We have two kinds of error in this type of procedure. The first one is called a type one error in statistics and that says we reject the null hypothesis when there's in fact no effect. This is what's called a false positive. Okay, just like the test of detection. We reject the null hypothesis. We say there's a difference between the drug and the placebo when in fact there is no difference. This is a type one error. The second one and this is the goal of power analysis is to minimize a type two error when we do not reject a null hypothesis when there is in fact is an effect. So this is what's called a false negative statistical power now and this is what the root of power analysis is is the is that values is the probability that the test will correctly reject a false null hypothesis. So in the our our data in the real world the drug works and statistical power is a probability that we would be able to say that that the drug worked given the measurements we're able to obtain. So we want our clinical trials to have high statistical power. So if in fact the drug works we're going to be able to say that with some confidence. Low statistical power we have a large risk of committing type two errors or failing to reject the null hypothesis of failing to be able to say with come confidence that drug worked and high statistical power we have a small risk of committing this type two errors. So how does one compute statistical power? How do we do this power analysis? And this is the sort of procedure. It's called a power analysis. And here you can see a curve. This is a typical part of this procedure. On the x-axis we have the difference. This is like the mean minus the mean of the two groups. And on the y- axis we have statistical power. This is power. Remember one is perfect and zero is terrible. And we make some assumptions. What is the alpha? 05 in this case. What is the standard deviation? These are an estimate of the standard deviations of the groups and this comes from pilot data. Before you do a clinical trial, you do a small sample. You compute some parameters and use it to estimate how big a sample you need. And then what you see with these two curves is if you have say 40 people in your sample versus 20 people in your sample. If we make the assumption that the difference between these populations is five, mean minus mean is five. You can see that a test with a sample size of 20 has a statistical power of 70%. Whereas something with n equals 40 has a power of 95%. What does this mean is that if in fact the difference is five and this is our hope based on pilot data and if in fact the standard deviation is seven and again we get this from pilot data and if we use alpha of 0.05 that's our significance level. If we repeat this study with a larger sample of 20 we have a 70% chance of finding a result that we like. But if we took 40 people, we have a 95% chance of finding a result that we like. So this tells you that a large sample is better. And if you're going to engage in a large expensive clinical trial, you want to make sure you recruit enough subjects to have high statistical power. So if in fact there is an effect, you find it and you don't spend all this money and fail to prove that your drug works just because you didn't recruit enough subjects. So that is a challenge. This is where power analysis comes from. Of course, you immediately realize that you have to make a lot of assumptions. You have to assume what the difference is, what the standard deviation is. Those often come from pilot studies. You do a small group first to estimate those things and use them to estimate how many subjects you need for a really large study. And this is what's called to properly power a clinical trial. So there are some problems and caveats when we talk about statistical significance and all these procedures power analysis. The first one is the question that is the null hypothesis justified. Is the probability model correct? So if you say that P is less than 0.05, first we must know P. If P is not really the distribution we assume it is, we're making some erroneous model then obviously this is not going to be helpful. The second component is that there may be other explanations. So we may say that we have two populations that only difference because the one has a drug and that has placebo. But there may be other differences. We may fail to randomize a population. We'll see an example in the next segment. The gender balance may be off. The ethnic balance may be off. Age may be off and all sort of things may be confounds that sort of cause problems for our analysis. And finally we get into this problem of multiple comparison correction. And in many to give a short introduction here and we'll come back to this in week 11. In many scientific studies in research settings primarily what happens is that you perform one analysis you don't find a difference. So you take another measurement from the same people maybe you do some permutation you perform another analysis and if you do enough eventually you get lucky and you find some analysis that gives you a p value less than a certain number. Now the problem is that once you compute 10 analysis, if your original alpha was 0.05, you need to divide that by 10 to be 0.005 if you're going to be honest with yourself because now you've tested 10 models. So you have to be more stringent. The failure to do this is what's called P hacking. Check testing for multiple tests until you find a p value that you like. This is leading to a huge crisis in social science. We'll come back to this in week 11 of this class. So what does this test tell us and what it does it not tell us? What do we learn from a hypothes result of a hypothesis testing and what do we not learn? What we learn is the probability of seeing this type of data if the null hypothesis is true. What we do not learn is the probability that the null hypothesis is false. And really what we want to learn is whether the canal hypothesis is false. How likely is it that our experiment succeeded? The hypothesis testing procedure does not tell us that. All it tells us is the probability of seeing this data if the null hypothesis is true. So that's a common confusion is the field. So this is what a p value is. The p value is the null hypothesis is true. So this concludes our discussion of hypothesis testing. In the next segment we'll talk about randomization, the other key technique in designing scientific studies and clinical trials. Thank you.