In this last segment of this week's lectures, we'll take a look at the concept of randomization and the importance of randomizing participation in a drug trial or in any kind of study. So we assign participants in the control group and the drug group by chance. We don't just allow them to volunteers to who does what. So randomization important component of clinical trials. A clinical trial is a structured experiment where we try to demonstrate a proposed intervention has a significant positive effect in a certain population that's not observed simply by chance. This to paraphrase the definition from the NIH and what you will hear is that the gold standard is a randomized clinical trial. And what that means is that the participants are assigned to the treatment or the control group by chance. We say flip a coin and we put them in group one or group two. And this allow us to eliminate the hidden biases of selection. And if you ask people to volunteer, the sort of people volunteer may also react better to it like one never knows. So to illustrate this, we're going to tell a story here. The failure to randomize and this comes from Simpson, what's known as Simpsons paradox. This is discovery by called Edward Simpson about a particular case. So failure to randomize can have negative and strange effects in many studies. And the story we're going to talk about here is a trial for a drug to prevent heart attack. So this is subjects volunteer as to whether they took the drug or not. They were not randomized and the drug literally appear to be bad for women, bad for men and good for all people regardless of sex. And this is a paradox and this is known as Simpsons paradox. And the story is told well in this very nice book called the book of why by Judia Pearl that's highly recommended for those you want to know more about this and many other topics. So let's look at the numbers behind Simpsons paradox. We have a control group, people who did not take the drug, and a treatment group, people who volunteer to take the drug. Among the people who did not take the drug, we had 20 women, one of whom had a heart attack and 19 did not have a heart attack. And among the men who took the drug, 12 had a heart attack who did not take the drug, I'm sorry, and 28 did not have a heart attack. So all told, we had 60 people, 13 had a heart attack, 47 did not had a heart attack for a rate of 22%. Among the treatment group, the people who took the drug, we have 40 women of whom three had a heart attack, 20 men of whom eight had a heart attack for a total heart attack grade of 18%. So let's look at these numbers a little bit more carefully and this is where the paradox emerges. For women, 5% of women in the control group had a heart attack and 8% of women in the drug group had a heart attack. So the drug is bad for women. The rate of heart attack increased for women. The drug is bad among men. 30% of men in the control group had a heart attack and 40% of men who took the drug had a heart attack. So the drug is bad for men as well. But overall 22% of the people who did did not take the drug have a heart attack and only 18% of people who took the drug had a heart attack. So the drug is good for people. So what gives here? Well, what gives is that men are more likely to have a heart attack and there were a lot more men in one group than the other. So let's just zoom in a little bit more. If you look at the numbers, 40 women took the drug versus 20 men for a total of 60. And overall, women only had a 7% heart attack rate among this population, whereas men had a 33% chance of a heart attack for a population average of 20%. So the paradoxical result is really the lack of group balancing. But yes, we allowed a lot more women to take the drug than men. And since the women in general had fewer heart attacks, we got this paradoxical result where the drug actually improved overall the the health of people whereas whereas it was bad for each of those individual groups separately. And this is Simpsons paradox. The result here is of course lack of group balancing. But here the difference between the groups the sex here is obvious. But there are other characteristics that are hard to observe. We may have a correlation here with both the subjects willingness to take a drug and their response to it and we may create all kinds of hidden biases. So randomization eliminates this hidden bias. If we were randomizing each group to a drug, we'll have equal numbers of men and women and we would have found the obvious result that this is a bad drug regardless. Now you may ask what does this have to do with software and why am I talking about this here? And this is where this comes in. Why is it soft relevant software validation? Let's say that we have a piece of software that our claim is at least leads to 20% improvement in misdiagnosis by radiology. So we reduce the misdiagnosis. We get a 20% improvement. To test with group two groups of radiologist and it's a very simplified study. This a lot more complicated in the real world, but just give it to me for now. Group one uses our new setup. Group one uses the existing setup. Group two uses our new software. If we ask them to volunteer who wants to be in which group, it may be actually highly likely that the better radiologist will be more willing to experiment and this will bias the results. And so the solution is to randomly assign subjects to each group. So randomization eliminates a lot of problems because it will sort out we're going to get some of the top radiologists here and some of the less good radiologist in each group. And so on average we won't have a bias just because the source were willing to experiment are probably the radiologist were more interested and are likely to be better job. So this concludes our discussion of probability and statistics as a whirlwind tour of material that's often present over multiple semesters. My hope is that we've given you enough of a background to use as a basis to think about the validation of the software which will we'll discuss in next week's segments. Thank you.