So in this video we're going to talk about the founding team, about the culture and about roles. Now about the founding team. So far you may have been in dialogue with a lot of people. You talked to stakeholders in the community. You had people on your design team helping you brainstorm and ideulate. And a lot of this has been kind of like research and development. So if and when you reach a stage where you're ready to like roll out and institutionalize what you've been piloting and potentially register a new organization or at least professionalize and institutionalize with an existing organization, it's time to stop and ask who's going to be the founding team. It may be that not all members of your design team or of your co-creation with the community team are actually going to be founders. And the founding team needs to be the people who are in this for the long run and who are going to dedicate themselves to this potentially full-time. So in deciding who to keep as founders and I say this because in my class like sometimes people work on a project in the over the semester and then some of them go move on with their lives and and like one or two may stay on and actually decide to launch it. Right? So I tell my students whatever you work on over the course of the semester that's for learning purposes. If after the semester ends you're going to launch this project, it's only the people who work on it after that actually are going to be founders and are actually going to own the institution. And so in deciding who to keep on your team as an executive team member, you want to think about um the skills. You don't want to keep a bunch of people with the same skills. So you want to think about the different roles that we're going to talk about and who can play these roles. And you're going to think about dedication. Who is in this for the long run and who is a good fit? And these are difficult conversations to have. Now in thinking about fit, let's talk a little bit about culture because the culture is set by the founding team members. So the proper definition of organizational culture is that it's the predominant beliefs, values, attitudes and behaviors and practices that a group of people share and these are formed as a learned response when the group shares common experiences in addressing external and internal problems. So, organizational culture starts with the core values that you defined a few modules ago when you defined your vision, mission, and values. And you want to make sure that the people on your founding team, your executive team, on your board, and in your partner organizations share these values and operate by them. And as you grow, the founders are going to continue to play a critical role in setting the tone for the culture of the organization. So, let's talk about the roles. First, I'm going to walk you through some typical rules of an executive team and then I'm going to tell you why you don't have to use these roles, but it's kind of nice for you to know what's a typical structure. Okay. So the typical rules of an executive team is that you're going to have what you commonly will find is this kind of organizational structure where there's a CEO at the center, a chief executive officer and then this person is like the outward-facing person, the face of the organization who spreads the word, evangelizes, help build support, helps partner, and helps set the critical vision, works closely with the board on strategy. Okay, so that's the CEO who could also be called the executive director, which may be more common lingo in the nonprofit world. Then there's the COO, the chief operating officer, who's focused internally on making sure things work smoothly. Like we talked about some of the operational efficiencies a couple of modules back. that's what the chief operating officer will be in charge of or it could be called the operational director of operations depending on the setting and then um these are the people that are going to work really closely together and then depending on the nature of the offering there's going to be some kind of chief program officer or or program director. So this person if it's a medical startup would be a chief medical officer. If it's a tech startup would be chief tech officer. If it's an educational uh startup it could be you know some kind of education program director. So this is the person who's the expert in the content of what you're providing and is really owning the content. And so these are commonly the three most important people. The executive operations and the program person. And then oftentimes you'll have a chief marketing officer or director of marketing or or this person could also be director of communications who's in charge of all communications material. And we're going to talk a lot about communications in the next module. And most of the time you also want to have a chief financial officer or director of finance. And sometimes this person can start off part-time or you can outsource this and as you get more funding then it will grow to full-time. So these are the main roles um of a typical founding team. Now you don't have to use these roles because like everything else in this course, the world is your oyster and it's up to you to imagine how you want to organize your team. You may choose to have a less hierarchical team. So you can design whatever roles you feel are the best fit for your work. It's just important to think about having someone outward facing, having someone inward-f facing, having someone who's a subject matter expert, and having someone who can help control the finances. So, these are very important roles to have. And they really depend on personalities and what people are good at and what people enjoy doing. So, the next thing I want to say is that you don't have to be the CEO. You may be the founder, but you may be really passionate being at the front lines and working with the end users or designing content or engineering. So, you don't want to be out there talking to funders and being the face of the organization. So, that really needs an outward- facing person. Now, don't get me wrong, sometimes introverts are CEOs. I've talked about Bill Drayton a lot. Um, he's an introvert. He always tells me after a board meeting, he just needs to go into hiding a little bit and recover. So anyone can play any of these roles, but just think about what roles suit you most and who on your team is going to be that inward-f facing person, who's going to be the outward- facing person who's going to focus on the content. Now, another important note is that what funders and other stakeholders are looking for is diversity and experience in playing these roles. So, in the next module when we talk about pitching your ideas and getting funding, it's not really your idea that's going to make people decide if they're going to invest. It's you and it's the team. They're going to ask the question of why would we why are these the people to get these done this done? And you're going to be able to need to answer that. So, this is what I wanted to talk to you about roles. And then the last thing I want to say is that at some point you need to have ownership conversations. And these can be pretty difficult and like if you're if this is a for-profit company, if you're going to get funding, how are you going to split the pie? Is it going to be divided evenly? Are some people going to get more than others? So this is what you should be thinking about in terms of the people in your organization, the founding team and executive team, the culture, and the roles. Now that we've discussed some of these considerations, that brings us to the next segment where we're going to talk about process.