Governance structures protect the people and the processes that we've been talking about. So the official definition of governance is that it refers to the principles, policies and procedures that ensure a fair, transparent, ethical institution. So by clearly describing how decisions are made and by whom people are held accountable for the consequences of their decisions and actions. That's the idea of governance. It's just like how do you govern a country? How do you govern an institution? So there's three main things I want to say in this video. The first is about bylaws. The second is about board. And the third is about shared leadership. So bylaws, what does that mean? So it's like how a country has a constitution. So does an organization. Sometimes this is your articles of association. Sometimes it's just some other form of documentation about how decisions are made. I don't know if any of you were in student government when you were younger. I was. It's like yeah, there are certain processes and procedures about power. It's kind of about having checks and balances about who can make decisions and about making sure that decisions are made in a way that protects all stakeholders. Now, bylaws are made to ensure all that fairness and transparency, but in social entrepreneurship, they can also play a unique role where they can help structure what happens with profits. Right? So, we talked about um a couple of modules ago if you have surplus revenue, all the different things you can do with that and how you can reinvest anywhere between zero and 100% of the surplus revenue in the mission that can sometimes be written into the bylaws so that it's not up to some CEO who comes along in the future or some board member to change it, but you can say this organization always invests 10% of its revenue in the mission or 100% % or whatever. So that's really important especially in situations where your legal registration is just as a regular business. So it's your internal bylaws that are making you officially legally a social enterprise. Okay. So bylaws are the first component of governance. Second really important role is the board. And uh the board of trustees is a group of people who have a legal obligation to oversee an organization. Both for-profit and nonprofit organizations can have a board. In for-profit organizations, boards are usually paid. In nonprofit organizations, they've historically not been paid. that this is changing because if you want to be equitable and diverse in board representation, you can't assume that everyone has the luxury of volunteering their time. And in the olden days when charity was practiced by privileged people that had a lot of time to donate, the that's what the board was composed of. But if you want the board to be composed of members of the community that you're co-creating with, then it might make sense to remunerate people for their time. Now, different states have different laws about paying your board members. So, you just need to be aware of the laws in the state that you register in and how many of the board members you can compensate and how much. And the role of the board is really to help work with the executive team to make decisions to make sure that the bylaws are adhered to um to hold people accountable for the mission of the organization and to help think about long-term strategy. So in thinking about who to recruit for your board, you want to recruit people who know things you don't, who have experiences you don't, and who represent different professions. Like you could have a lawyer and an accountant and a CEO of another organization and someone who's a grassroots community leader, someone who's young, someone who's more experienced. So you want to make sure to have as much diversity as possible. You don't want a bunch of yes people who are just going to be like, "Hey, great job. All right, I vote yes." That's not going to help you. Now, of course, boards can be a headache because they can sometimes stand in your way and board meetings take up a lot of time and board management takes up a lot of time, but it's really time worth investing. Um, a lot of CEOs break into sweats before they meet with their board. Um, boards can actually fire CEOs if they're not doing their job. And so, board management and cultivation is a sensitive thing. So, you want to look for people who are diverse and represent the skills and knowledge you need and who have the networks that you need to strengthen your organization to help bring in funding. But you also want to look for people who play well together because you're going to have a lot of group dynamics and politics. So, definitely keep an eye on that. And if you are the chief executive, make sure to invest time meeting with board members one-on-one before a board meeting so that everyone's up to date, everyone's on board, and you can have more productive board meetings. So most organizations have like quarterly board meetings. Sometimes when it's a volunteer organization and the founders are the board, they might meet monthly. So it really depends on the situation. And the last thing I want to say is that sometimes boards can be really hierarchical where it's like oh the board said this and the board said that and we wanted to do this but the board wouldn't let us. So going back to the idea of shared leadership and about you designing the organ organization that you want. There are a lot of different governance models that you can consider. So, the community engagement model is a specific model that I found out about from a social enterprise right here in New Haven called Havenly. And Havenly is kind of like Sufra. So, it recruits and trains refugee and migrant women in culinary skills and helps them get jobs, but more importantly, it helps them become active members of their new community and learn about resources that are available to them and advocate for issues that affect them. And so, Havenly asks its alumni to stay involved as members. It's a member-based organization. And these members can vote on board members and they can vote on the executive team. So that really distributes the power. They also form committees where a board member or two and a management person or two and a volunteer or two will form each committee. So they have like their finance committee, their program committee, their fundraising committee, etc. Incidentally, Havenly also has a non-traditional executive team structure. Remember how I said you can structure it however you want. So instead of having one executive director, they have three co-executive directors. That way there's a trifecta of leadership and instead of one person having power, the founder was the uh one of the co-directors, I think she was the co-director of mission. One of the alumni, a refugee woman, was the co-director of business operations like she ran the kitchen. And then there was a third person who was co- um co-director of development or fundraising. So these are some of the different considerations you want to keep in mind in thinking about governance. How to have a fair transparent organization where the flow of information takes place in a predetermined way and people are held accountable for their decisions. And you can set up your bylaws, your governance and your team to reflect the values and mission of your organization. and really walk walk the talk as they say or walk the walk to to make sure that you're doing what you represent. Okay. So, now that we've talked about internal structure, let's talk about legal structure, whether and how to form and legally register a new organization.