All right, let's do some dos and don'ts. It's that time of the module. So again, this is a summary of things we've already talked about. Do think about roles. Think about the commitment of the different people that you might want to keep on or recruit as your founding team and executive team, their fit to the mission and the culture and the values. You want to do this for both the team and the board. As you're recruiting board members, you do want to design both the team and the board structures for shared leadership. You have the opportunity to redefine how you're going to govern this organization and try maybe not to make it too hierarchical. And you do want to measure to capture and document institutional knowledge so that not everything lives in your memory alone so that others can join your organization and help it grow. Now in terms of don'ts again don't start a new organization just for the sake of it. there's all this, you know, admin and overhead costs involved. And so you do want to look into other options like entrepreneurship, incubating in an existing organization, and potentially having a fiscal sponsor. You don't want to make you don't want to focus on the organization itself and lose sight of achieving the social outcomes. So when you become more focused on running the organization, growing the organization, protecting the organization, you may lose sight of like the work itself and the end users and that can happen sometimes especially to CEOs and you don't want to make that push to register if you do end up registering a new organization and try to figure out on your own. There are others that can act as adviserss, both paid and unpaid, whether lawyers or social entrepreneurs. And lastly, don't forget that you have the opportunity to reimagine what it can look like to do this work within an institutional structure and that you might be doing this not only for yourself to represent your mission, but potentially for others to follow. And on that note, let's dive into our last video, which is the case study about BEAB and how they're creating a whole new movement and different way of doing business.