So, a couple of videos back I mentioned something called the public benefit corporation, which is a legal registration form that requires companies to consider the triple bottom line of economic, social, and environmental growth. This legal registration form was pioneered by a nonprofit called Beabs. Beabs was founded by three entrepreneurs who had previously started an athletic apparel company and after building their company and building their culture, investing in their people and having this beautiful vision of how they wanted it to grow, they sold it were acquired and saw how within months all of this was let go and was changed by traditional commercial and capitalistic practices. And so they felt really strongly about finding a new way to support others in doing business differently. They basically wanted to reinvent capitalism. They believe that business can and should be a force for good. So the BC corpse is different from the public benefit corporation. It's a certification for companies that can demonstrate social and environmental responsibility and good governance. Um, and so a company applies for BC Corp certification. It doesn't have to be public benefit corporation to do so. It's like a six-month application process where it talks about how it makes decision, what its carbon footprint is, how it invests in people in the community, etc. It's really detailed. And once it gets certified, it it joins the BC Corp network. It's an indicator to customers that you can support this socially and environmentally responsible company. And it also um is like this internal network where businesses support each other. So this certification basically helps existing businesses strengthen their social and environmental outcomes and their governance as a first step. And then in many cases they then switch over to their register as a public benefit corporation status if conditions allow like in their state or depending. So there's many example of these two different things. the public benefit corporation and the BC corps. So for the first a few example of businesses that were registered as public benefit corporations are Patagonia and Kickstarter. I think we've mentioned both before. So Patagonia is an outdoor apparel company and they're super passionate about the environment about doing things in environmentally sustainable way about investing in their people and about their staff embodying their mission and about fighting climate change. So they um support others fighting climate change. And recently this has always been a publicly held company. And recently the the owners like the family that founded and owned this company gave it away to a trust that's going to donate profits to fight climate change. And then Kickstarter is this website that we mentioned that helps entrepreneurs and creatives and artists to fund creative projects. and they registered as a public benefit corporation because they wanted to make decisions that were not about maximizing profit, that were about maximizing their mission of be able to support people. They only wanted funders who were on board with that and they wanted all stakeholders to be on board with that. So that's the purpose of the public benefit corporation is that it makes your mission official and legal. It fights this notion that the purpose of a business is to maximize profit for shareholders. And then for the BCORE certification, it's that black B with a circle around it that you might have seen on many products and businesses. So it could even be a small business. And by being part of the BEAB network, these BC Corp certified businesses are basically creating a critical mass of socially and environmentally conscious companies that support each other. So Beabs is scaling their direct service by reaching more and more companies. And then they also built a toolkit with the UN called the SDG action manager, the sustainable development goals action manager to help companies work towards achieving the sustainable development goals by 2030 and helping businesses to be part of that global agenda for good. There's also a collective of certified BCorp businesses who have joined forces with other missiondriven businesses to work together to take action on the climate emergency and they call themselves the BC core climate collective or BC. So, these businesses recognize the unique and powerful role they must play as purpose-driven businesses to reverse climate change, and they're working to identify concrete steps to accelerate climate mitigation and to work collectively as individual companies and through cross- sectoral collaboration and public advocacy. So there's now almost 2,000 members of the B triple C that have committed to net zero emissions by 2030. And that's 20 years ahead of the Paris agreement targets that governments have agreed to. And all members of the BC are committed to centering justice in their climate work. They've worked together with the skull center for social entrepreneurship at Oxford University and other partners to create the climate justice playbook for business. So the BLC and the BEAB movement as a whole is really a case study in global collective action and corporate innovation. BEAB itself is a social enterprise. It's registered as a nonprofit and it helps other social enterprises who are registered as businesses through its direct service of certification and legal advocacy through its scaled direct service of reaching many different businesses through its systems change work to tackle climate change and other collective efforts and through its framework change of completely transforming the way we think about the meaning of business. So, if you're taking this course on Corsera, you're already a BC Corp customer because Corsera recently qualified for BCorp certification. I hope this case study and this module has been as fun for you as it has been for me. Organizational structure can sometimes be a dry topic, but in social entrepreneurship, everything is about how you can best achieve the social change you're setting out to create. So keep that front and center as you make your de del del del del del del del del del del del del del del del del del del del deliberations keep using the framework of this course and talking to people especially your key stakeholders and together you'll be able to make the right decisions to help institutionalize your impact.