Acoustic separation is a simple and powerful concept developed by Meyer Dan Cohen in a Harvard Law Review article which helps distinguish between two sorts of legal rules. Conduct rules which are addressed to the general public and are designed to guide the public's behavior and decision rules which are directed to officials uh who are then tasked with applying the conduct rules. When these two rules diverge, the law tries to maintain an acoustic separation between what the general public hears and what the public official hears. For example, criminal law says to the public it's a crime to commit murder, but it says to the jury it's a crime to commit murder if there is proof beyond a reasonable doubt. Systems with acoustic separation can help accommodate competing social values, but they raise important problems of implementation and legitimacy. Implementation problems arise when the messages leak. For example, when potential murderers learn that they can avoid punishment if they are denied uh if they deny prosecutors the requisite level of proof. Legitimacy problems can arise if the public realizes that the decision rules diverge substantially from the conduct rules. Acoustic separation occurs in a variety of of contexts. McDonald's, for example, has discounted coffee for customers 55 and over. But I think intentionally they poorly advertise this fact by having the discounted rule, the discount rule for its staff and another rule advertised as the price above the counter. It might hope to have the news leak only to those older customers who really care about getting a slightly cheaper price. The acoustic separation tool is useful because it alerts you to the fact that the law can speak simultaneously uh and manage to say different things to different audiences. Homework, you know, can you think of other circumstances where regulations do or should try to implement acoustic separation? Can you think of a circumstance where the effort to maintain different messages to different audiences has failed?