 subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected toward all of these podcasts. In such fine spirits and humor. And speaking of spirits, a member of our course today, whom I probably shouldn't name, gave us a great bottle of Italian wine, and we are toasting the end of our course. We toast each other. We toast each other. We toast anybody who's watching. We toast everybody. Collaboration with the Yale studio. We'll try to not spill any red wine on anything here while we're conducting today's podcast. Today's podcast is going to, for one thing, cover several parts of Bev Gage's most recent lecture on the 1980s, 90s, and into the 21st century, especially the political history of that period. And we have some other thoughts and questions we're going to throw around at each other before we leave this, all of this fun we've been having. Today was our final lecture, which we did together. Bev, you did a masterful job of flying through the 1980s and 90s of American politics, but my God, what a rich period. And unfortunately, that's all memory for me, which means it's probably not to be trusted. But let's start with Reagan's election, if you don't mind, in 1980. A pivot, like many other electoral pivots. Background there is, of course, the Iran crisis and Jimmy Carter's presidency. But Ronald Reagan comes to the presidency, this at the time anyway, right-wing conservative, former governor of California. And conservatism was having a wave. How do you, first of all, I know you are deeply interested in Reagan, and you're going to do a new biography of Reagan. Start with that, if you don't mind. Why? How do you explain Reagan now, even though you haven't done all your research and you're not ready to write that book yet? But how should we be remembering Ronald Reagan after you explain why you want to write his biography? Well, this is a lot, and I should say I'm starting. So these answers could change over the decade or so that it will probably take me to do the actual research and writing. Ask me in ten years. So these big things go. I guess there are a couple of things that seemed really interesting to me about Reagan. One is that as you're saying, he is a figure who's making this transition from memory to history right now. And so there are obviously lots and lots of people who have living memories of the Reagan years or of Reagan as a figure. But we're also beginning to get enough historical distance that all of these new archives are opening. And a lot of the people who worked closely with him are contributing their stuff to libraries. And so there's just a whole new way in. And I also think a lot of the literature, not all of it on Reagan, but a lot of it has been written by people who either really love him or really hate him. And so that's an opportunity for a scholar to come in. It makes a figure interesting to just to start with. Exactly. Exactly. My own interest, besides all the obvious things, is that I think Reagan is the figure who, to me, best gives me a way into what I think is one of the central features for thinking about the 20th century, which is the way that these battles over communism and anti-communism structured the whole century. And it makes the 20th century different from the 19th century. And it makes the 20th century different from the 21st century. And Reagan is just in that from the moment he's born to the moment that he dies in the early 21st century. And it gives you an interesting way into the 21st century, right? Because now he's being framed and reframed and used and reused in all kinds of creative and distinctive and often interesting kinds of ways. So that's a nice sort of opening for you to look ahead as well as looking past. Right. And he's a figure that even among historians, people are still debating his significance. Right. That's the fun thing. I mean, this is true of all history everywhere, every time. But once you start getting into the 80s and 90s and early 21st century, even the first draft of that history really hasn't been written, at least not in a comprehensive way. And so he's being reinvented all the time in our politics, but also in the way we write history and the first kind of assumptions that historians made was, and my lectures reflected this a little bit, that you had the period of the New Deal and this kind of period in which the Democratic Party was really the dominant organizing party, its ideas, its structures, its people from the 1930s up to the 1970s. Out of the crises of the 1970s, you get something new. And for a long time, historians were talking about this thing called the age of Reagan. From 1980 onward, you had these. You got an ism after his name. Exactly. Exactly. You had these sense of ideas that, again, love him or hate him. You were just trapped in the world that was made in that moment. And now, of course, the question is, oh, wait, have we ended? If you thought that was true, are we now in some different world? Are there continuities? Which piece of that do you want to emphasize and think about? Could I get you to reflect a little on some of those isms? He was going to end big government. He ran against government. He also ran against the 60s. Feminism, civil rights. Other isms. Pretty, yeah, pretty openly. And yet, big government grew bigger. I mean, and even though he got elected twice and the second one, a landslide, much of what he promised he couldn't do. But nevertheless, there he was. This is one of the great puzzles of politics in the 1980s. And particularly of thinking about Reagan is that he has very clear ideological views coming in. He's the product of a movement that says, you know, we're about this set of ideas. This is what we believe. This is what we want to do. But of course, it's actually very different to govern than it is to campaign or to sit around on a podcast or to write books. Those are very different enterprises. And I think that's part of that story. If you look at the politics of the 1980s, you can see that even within his own alliances, his own movement, his own coalition, people were really frustrated by this, right? I mean, the religious right guy very mad at him very quickly because he was, in fact, not delivering on things like abortion. He would say one thing, but actually not produce a whole lot else. Part of what we're looking at here, too, is the fact that he was an actor. So on the one hand, you have someone not delivering. And on the other hand, you have someone in a performative sense who's doing a lot in a successful kind of a way, right? That that component in a different kind of way. It's not to say that presidents generally aren't performing in some way, but he had a particular literally, actorly kind of way. It was the first show business president. Yeah. And that rest of them had all been professional. Paul, yeah, yeah, right. He was a professional. Paul is going to be someone not delivering being an actor who's not delivering as a way to do it, right? Because you you can culturally and performatively and ideologically represent a lot. And he understood himself to be in that role. He was not a micromanager. He was, you know, he was a he was a real delegator. And he understood himself as being in this public role. He actually had this. There's a great scene. I forget who the newscaster was, but they said something like, well, you know, Governor Reagan, you've mostly been an actor your whole life. How can you? How do you know how to be president if you've only been an actor? And he said, I don't know how you could be president if you weren't an actor. And I think that that is true. I'm very good at that sort of thing. But it is also has something to do with the way in which the presidency because of film, because of television really has become more performative over time. And then the changes in the way presidential candidates were selected that came about in the 1970s, which is to say it used to be a very inside process at the conventions in the 1970s. You start getting binding primaries and it actually then allows for people to come in from a little bit outside of the hierarchy. Reagan is one, Obama is another, you know, Trump is one as well. I don't think any of those people would have gotten their parties nominations if it had just been a kind of convention. Like these were products and movements and popular surges. And it's really different and performance in a real sense. Even Jimmy Carter, before Reagan went out and won the primary by door to door, walking around Jimmy Carter is the first candidate who came out of that new primary system, right? And he too was an outsider at the time. Well, before we leave Reagan, you know, I'm fortunately or unfortunately, I'm the 60s generation who was appalled at Reagan at first and well, at first and last, to be honest, because in so many ways he was the politics of reaction when it was reaction to whatever one thinks of the 60s and it had its excesses and its craziness. But there were great changes and they were all still developing their course in history, everything from women's rights to affirmative action to Indian rights, Native American rights on and on. He wanted to reverse all that or so the rhetoric said that the biggest joke going around about Reagan when he was elected was that there was going to be the new three baby law, you know, that all went. You don't remember that. I just every woman was going to have to confirm whether that's true. Okay, I look for it. It was out there. I mean, I'm sure there was no genuine plan for the three baby rule. But anyway, this is I was in Madison, Wisconsin, a radical town and graduate school, which means a total bubble and way out of touch. But Reaganism was reaction politics, reactionary politics in so many ways, which sets up or picks up and then sets up. What you showed in your lecture is yet to come with the Pat Buchanan and with the turn to conservatism. There was still an old fashioned traditional Republican Party. But the turn, the conservative movement was so fueled by Reagan in Reagan's years. And we're still living it. I think and I wonder, Bev, related to what you just said, being that assertively, you know, we're going back, we're taking it all back, we're reacting, reacting against seems to mean that when you're doing that, that aggressively and assertively, and in his case, he's trying to do it like charismaticly, part of the impact of that is then to inspire people to respond against it. Right. If you're going to do that and you're going to make that kind of assertion by definition, it's going to rile up opposition and fundamentally reframe and change politics in ways that, you know, that person probably doesn't intend. Is that part of the sort of unpacking of the ism, Reaganism? Well, I think one of the things to be sorted out about Reagan as a figure and then about the politics of the 1980s is this combination of reactionary politics and forward looking politics. He is the original Let's Make America Great again, which is a backward looking again in America. And then he has morning slogan they used morning in America in 1984 was was his big campaign, which is actually different because morning is the beginning of something. Right. I mean, morning is also 1984. Looking, I will say. Yeah, 1984. Reagan was not about to tell you about George Orwell. No, no, no. But at any case, I think he is an interesting figure because he's a combination of a certain kind of reactionary politics, a certain kind of sunny optimism, which for many people is the outstanding feature of his persona, his self presentation, his narrative about the United States. Right. But this is one of his big claims that it's not a country in decline. It's a country at a moment of rebirth. And even Democrats. Idea, right. Because he comes right after Jimmy Carter, who was Mr. Malaise or. But if you're not included in the we, the sunny morning, we, right? Then all your hackles are going to go up, right? You're going to suddenly, possibly in a way that you didn't feel beforehand, are going to feel outside or that you're being made to feel outside in a different kind of way. I mean, that's partly my experience of, you know, I was starting college when Reagan is coming to power. And that was my experience was, hey, wait a minute. Yeah. Like, wait a minute. You're I'm not. You can't turn around. I know exactly. Like, wait a minute. And I wasn't thinking about politics that way before, but it awakened something in me. Sure. How could it not? In a way, for the record, I was in third grade. But the election. But shut up. You know, Reagan actually swept my third grade class poll with an even greater percentage than he swept the country. Oh, well, I was in graduate school and threw my vote away. But we don't know. The third grade graduate school college. I love our generational sweep. We're going to come back. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, I have to hold up the old folk here. Anyway, but, but yeah, I would say especially when one of your outsider groups, of course, they're African Americans who have just experienced barely a decade after the Civil Rights Movement, these huge epic changes in America, in life, in law. And Reagan was I don't I don't know what the story, I'll be right now must be interesting on this. At the time, to me, there was no doubt he was the the most racially divisive president, modern president ever up until now. But yeah, he stoked racial division very openly, pushed all the buttons. And it works. Southern strategy. This is where that came from. On the other hand, and you got caught up in foreign policy scandals around Contra. But also the Cold War is going to end. Well, not on his watch, but just after his watch. So there's there's that whole side of the anti-communist side of Reagan, which, of course, is now part of the legacy, right? Reagan under the Cold War. Is that true? There's a lot going on there. So I would say one thing that actually these things are not so separate, which is to say that that was all over that decade. Yeah, right. The history of anti-communism writ large is that it became a category through which you explained your opposition to civil rights, through which you explained your opposition to certain kinds of liberationist radicalism. So all of those are tied in together. I certainly think that it's true. You know, Ronald Reagan for a long time opposed the creation of a Martin Luther King holiday. You know, I mean, there are any number of both symbolic and real ways. Now, is that right? I actually didn't know that. OK, all right. The Bush. Interesting. Had some other. You had some other. Well, the Cold War, I mean, it is all over the politics of the 80s. When we had this Brezhnev Reagan brinksmanship, remember the US was putting missiles in Europe and the Russians are building more missiles, it was terrible fear. Well, you see a huge contrast between the early 1980s in which Reagan is a very aggressive Cold War or there's lots of defense buildup and there's an intense fear in the early 80s about a new nuclear war. I played Prince's 1999 song, which came out in 1982. And as I pointed out in class, like, it's a great party song, but it is actually about, you know, oh, no, we are heading toward nuclear war. We better live for the moment. You saw a big, big anti-nuclear organizing wave early in the Reagan years. You saw terrifying films like The Day After. Oh, my gosh, TV special that was traumatized. Right. What happened? A whole entire generation. You know, I was I was an editor and when I was in college was an editor at a newspaper and my job was to do like I was graph editor, like a graph of something. And my graph that week, when the day after about, you know, horrific, you know, what happens if the bomb goes off and what how do Americans adapt or die? I had to make a fabulously popular film. It was it was popular. And that's what my my graph was, like, how did this make you feel? And of course, how did it make you feel? Everyone felt. I felt. It was pretty much my graph. Well, again, I was in my first academic job in a tiny liberal arts college where you had to kind of teach everything. And for three years, I taught a course called Nuclear War. At 1984 to 86. It was interdisciplinary. We had people from political science and people from this and people from but there was such a consciousness then of the possibilities of real use of nuclear weapons. When when was the clock at what was the time period? It goes back early. The doomsday clock. But so when what was the range when the doomsday clock, which would take a little closer to midnight every time we got closer to nuclear. We'd have to look that up. And we if we get in our phones now, we'll be violating. I remember that from being a kid, too. I watched. All right. So I just want to point out one of the difficulties of. This is your. I'm trying to write about this period is happening right here. Everybody has their stories from from all of this. But it is also true that the history just isn't settled. I mean, it's a little more, you know, I think the contours are a little clearer about the 1980s, but particularly as you begin to get into the 1990s. And this is what I was trying to suggest in in my lecture. No, in contrast to something like the New Deal, much less the Civil War or the American Revolution, you have decades, if not centuries of textured debate and scholarship about all of this. You have a certain thing to get settled, we think. Right. But not for this year, but not yet for this era. And it's it's actually great to see that a lot of people who are coming into graduate school now want to write the history of the 70s, 80s and 90s. Because I think it's so long ago. Well, in fact, I have some bad news for you. Most of the people sitting in Patel, Jepyll, we're not alive for any of this. No, they weren't. It's really history. It was a cool move to end with 2007, which is when our freshman would have been born. I thought that was a cool move. There were some kids I saw them. They're not kids. They're fully fledged adults. They're full fledged adults. But I watched a few of them when you said that kind of going. We don't. Anyway. OK, the Cold War does end. It ends actually on George Herbert Walker Bush's watch. But this idea that Reagan somehow told Gorbachev to take that wall down and it came down. It's not that simple. Is it? Right. It's not. It's certainly not an all or nothing proposition in which a great speech was made and an events ensued. And in fact, I think one of the big questions is how much influence the United States, any United States policy really had over that and how much you're talking about structural and cultural forces within the Soviet Union itself, resistance within the Soviet Empire. I mean, there are a whole host of things. So well, and Americans culturally claiming that, of course, it was their influence. Right. So that's happening, too. Won the cold. Yeah, it was us. We won. Yeah, I knew in American history, but that's part of going on. Right. There's there's a there's a phrase called Cold War triumphalism, which became sort of one of the dominant ideas, both for people who were embracing it, but it was also a critical term. That's it's a little bit of a warning about overconfidence and such. I mean, that's the Fukuyama piece kind of comes into the transition. That's segue. Francis Fukuyama's The End of History question mark, at least in the original. I found it again, fascinating to read that. I'd read it way back when it came out. And I remember I was supposed to hate it because it was all wrong and all that. Fine. But it's it's a much more philosophical piece than I thought. It's much it's much more about Hegel, actually, than it is anything else. Why did you explain first why you assigned it? Because it worked. Yeah, it was wonderful. It was great. It was great at the end of the course for what it was. And it was also 19 pages. So at the end of the semester, right, it was a fine, fine thing. That was taken into consideration, although actually when I reread it, I thought, wow, there is more Hegel in here than I had really intended as the as a final essay of the semester. But setting that aside, yeah, to me, it's it's it's a great essay because it does a couple of things, you know, it asks a big question. Right. What do you do with these dramatic hinge points in history? You know, he didn't mean that history like events were going to stop, but he was identifying a kind of hinge point, particularly in the question of the ideological and ideational framework in which politics operates, both within the United States, but he's really talking on some much larger global scale, because a lot of what we've talked about in this course is not only what happened, but what were people able to imagine? Right. What were the ideas and policies and frameworks through which they looked out at the world and made sense of it? And that's what was to come. Exactly. And that is what that essay is about. And he is one of those figures. We've seen many of them who is there in a moment of incredible plasticity and uncertainty, it's clear that one thing is ending and something else is being born and trying to define it and figure it out as it's happening. So historians are kind of always cheating in that way, because we always get to know how things have ended up before we have to go back and make sense of them. So the real challenge is to try to do it in your moment. Well, right, to look forward in time and not look back. It shows the risk of a title, too. I mean, the title is so provocative. Right. Right. But what he's saying, right? I mean, just to sort of lay it out there is that there is that there's sort of a liberal democratic peak moment that will represent sort of not the end of everything and the end of history, but it's sort of where we're headed and it's where the world is headed and that we're sort of reaching that moment. Right. That's that's part of the. And he's not wrong that the whole 20th century had been a struggle against these two huge kinds of authoritarianism, fascism and communism. Russia and China. And yeah. And it had pretty much dominated the whole of the 20th century. And now suddenly Soviet Union collapsed. China was weaker, much weaker than it is now. So he's not wrong altogether about that. In that moment. In that moment. But what I also found interesting, I hope our students caught this in reading it. He's really making the case that maybe just maybe if if you follow Hegel, history has some structures to it. It has some patterns sometimes that you don't have to believe in all the enlightenment. It is all new. You know, we like categories and patterns and cycles. And even if you don't believe in them, there's sometimes when you think, oh, that is a pattern. Well, if you don't believe in them, it's still framing. You're still thinking about the frame. Yeah. Right. So yeah, I think that that's true. Well, I was going to say one of the things that that Reagan did so well as a political figure was to lean into that story, that history has a direction, right, that progress is coming, that we can look ahead and see this. And I think it was one of the reasons it doesn't really make sense in terms of structural causation, etc. To attribute the end of the Cold War to Ronald Reagan. But what he did do, I think, very effectively was pre-establish a narrative that when that moment came, it was the story that people turned to. And that's how a lot of that moment. Well, even not a great speechwriter, Peggy Noonan, who wrote that incredible speech where he said that when you get to heaven, there will be US Marines guarding. Remember after the shuttle? Oh, boy. It was a very moving speech, even though. Come on. But think about, you know, the point of the contrast between that and what the founding folk thought, which was that there were, as you put it, structures, that there are ways in which societies and civilizations develop and that at the end is corruption and, you know, there's a horrible ending in place. And they look towards the old world, these early Americans, because they thought they were going to not end up there. But they were trying desperately to stop the progression, right? They spent a lot of time saying, well, you know what, there's a lot of land here. And if everyone gets land and this becomes agrarian, we can stop the evolution right here and we won't have to have a corruption. Yeah, somehow avoid it all. So they're thinking not that we're moving towards something that will be wonderful, but like, oh, my gosh, can we stop the progression? Can we can we be different in that way? Yeah, that's really interesting. And it is a different narrative. I think many people at various points in our course and in American history have declared that the decline has begun. People were saying, oh, it's the 1790s. The decline has begun, right? It was the 1770s and 1780s were awesome. But now everything is going to. And so every decade. Right. Exactly. You see that when I talked about Barbara Jordan in lecture today. And her identifying 1976 as a moment when many people are saying that's it. The experiment is over. It's done. It's failed. We're a nation in decline. And I think in American history, anyway, that has often been accompanied by a narrative that is about progress. Certainly, if you look at the progressive, right? Particular kinds of progress, particular kinds of American exceptionalism. And those things have just always existed side by side. I would say, you know, if anything, one of the puzzles for me of the 21st century is what's happened to that progress side, right? The fact that vast majorities of people actually in this moment when they're being pulled, think that the future is going to be worse than the present or the past. I want to offer this this quote from Fukuyama. So my curiosity was, you know, OK, given what he said and given that, you know, right, he's he's looking towards this moment where we're reaching this sort of democratic liberal peak. I was curious to see where he goes from there and found a quote of his. This is from 2016. And he said, and much older man by then, much older man. It's 25 years after he wrote this piece. And he says 25 years ago, I didn't have a sense or a theory about how democracies can go backward. And now I think they clearly can. And now we have book after book after book. Right. Again, showing and analyzing the fact that he got there and says, I didn't see that 25 years ago. Now I do. And he saw a kind of corruption and rot at the center that might bring things to a very bad place. Well, I think there were.  a lot of assumptions in the 1990s that became governing assumptions. First of all, that free markets and democratic reform would necessarily go hand in hand. That gets disproven in all sorts of places around the world, right? China being one example of that. And then, yeah, the end of history narrative in and of itself was one of these narratives that both illuminated something in the moment and then obscured a lot of what came after that. Because if you were overconfident, first of all, that there were going to be no further major ideological challenges, then you make one set of decisions. If you think the world is still a very contested place, then you might make another set of decisions. And so, I think one of the narratives that's come out, certainly on the global stage, but maybe domestically as well, about the 1990s, is that it turned out to be an era of overconfidence, of blind spots, and of only being able to see the story that you wanted to tell rather than what was really happening on the ground. But all of this has persisted with great propulsion into the 21st century as well. And part of what never dies in this country is this idea of America's used to term exceptionalism or chosenness. All the way back before we were America. Absolutely. The city on the hill. The city on the hill back to Winthrop. There's a lot of millennial thinking at the time of the American Revolution that America was this special creation. It was a pretty unusual, unusual republic they were creating here. And yet, that never dies. You can't kill it. Reagan was brilliant at appealing to that. America always solves its problems. But we live in a moment when it's so fascinating to face that, right? Because if you're saying to people, this is a different kind of moment that we're in, and that there are distinct things about this moment that we actually need to really focus on and worry about, that maybe haven't happened precisely in this way before. And getting people past the idea that, well, of course, it's all OK. It's always been OK. We're us. It will be OK. And things end up good for us because we are who we are. American exceptionalism. That what I've been fascinated by in the last kind of, you know, two decades, decade has been the degree to which that sticks around with such power that no matter what's going on, it's sort of in front of people's faces. Well, it's us. But it is something also on the other side of that is something Americans broadly speaking don't want to live without. It's terrifying to think, well, maybe this experiment has no particular end place. And then who are we has no direction? Who are we? Except would you make it? Right. This idea that somehow there's a teleological, triumphal course that our history is on never dies. Well, if we're in spite events that are so contrary to that, that we manage to process like 9 11, if we're a nation grounded on ideas and ideals, which are very vulnerable and fragile and amorphous, and it can be easily threatened and, you know, eroded. And I think that's always true. And sometimes it feels more true than other times. Yeah. Well, the 90s, though, before you get away from the 90s entirely. That's not necessarily called the era of Bill Clinton. I mean, it is. The guy was elected twice. He had an enormous impact on changing the Democratic Party. Cultural, political culture, he affected a lot. I mean, a young guy, a southerner, got elected in 1992. Boxers, you know, all that stuff. Yeah, but I mean, two white young southerners get elected in 1992. But the stuff I'm talking about isn't I'm not saying like, oh, it's really important, but I'm saying culturally, it changed how younger people experience politics. That's true. My larger point. It was definitely a generational transition. Exactly. Of great significance. It is, of course, worth remembering that he mostly got elected because of Ross Perot, right? Who was the third party candidate who came in and got an enormous vote count. And Perot is turning out to be a very interesting figure because he so he's the self financed Texas billionaire. I assume he was billionaire. So he's a very rich man who entered the race actually, you're putting opposition to NAFTA, opposition to this 90s neoliberal consensus around open borders, free trade, globalization, right? That was Ross Perot's central feature. And he had quite a lot of support for a third party candidate, mostly from Republicans. Right. And so that's one of the reasons that his presence in the campaign actually is what puts Bill Clinton into office. Ultimately, he splits, he splits that vote. But it's also interesting because, you know, for a while it seemed like, oh, Ross Perot was this sort of quirky figure with his big ears and his like chart presentations on TV. Right. But now actually a lot of the things that he was talking about are having a huge comeback in American politics. And you could say the same thing about a figure like Pat Buchanan in the early 90s. I showed in lecture a little clip of Pat Buchanan's famous culture war speech from the Republican National Convention. You know, and at the time that was seen as a little bit of an outlier, right, that this was a form of extremism. But that too has turned out to have enormous power and an enormous constituency, which is to say that in your moment, you don't always know what happens. Right. That was a moment of total confidence around this kind of neoliberal free markets, free choice individualism. This is going to be the way of the world. But there were people, even then, who were saying, actually, there are still some other ideas and those have had some legs. No kidding. They've had some legs. If people remember watching that clip of Pat Buchanan, I mean, that speech had white supremacy. It had anti immigration. It had about everything the right wing had not quite been as openly saying, but he did. And yeah. So conservatism becomes kind of triumphant in the 80s. By luck and a third party candidate, some people get back in, Democrats get back into power in the 90s. It's a turbulent, turbulent period, the Clinton years, to say the least. You mentioned in your lecture, the Bush v. Gore election of 2000. But that's a hinge too. Today, today, everyone is discussing and polling and complaining about the sheer cynicism about politics. Now, it's not possible to date the exact beginning of this cynicism. But why not the 2000? That was a that was certainly a hinge moment. We've got a lot of hinges in this course. A lot of hinges. But that is a big one, right? Because everyone, I mean, you can't attract more attention than a presidential election that couldn't be decided for 35 days or whatever. Which is really interesting because the election of 1800 was very similar, couldn't be decided. It went for, I think, 36 votes. It actually was weirdly similar. And in both cases, the question was, how now what? Like what happens next? How does it get divided? Where does it, you know, the Supreme Court? At least they didn't let the Supreme Court pick the president. No, but for 35 votes in Congress, they were trying to figure it out. Well, this Congress was doing it, which is representative, right? Which is what the Constitution says, I think. Anyway, sorry. Yeah. Well, I think, so it's obviously an election that had real political consequences. I also think it's an election that set two important things in moment. One is the fact of close elections itself. So I think it's become so normalized in the 21st century that elections are these incredibly tight races. That is actually quite anomalous. I mean, the late 19th century looked like that as well. Well, in the middle of the 20th century, right? In the middle of the 19th century, they were always like, you know, we don't know who won. No, we won. No, they won. There have been other moments, but presidents, right? And if you look at the 20th century, most presidential elections are landslides of varying degrees one way or another. And that has been less and less true in the 21st century. So I think the 2068. There were some close ones. 1960 was raised. So, you know, these are generalizations. Chicago ballot boxes. But I just want to warn some people, we've made some generalizations. One or two. Or 40. But nonetheless, the idea that we lived in a world of close elections and of bitter division around those close elections. And elections couldn't be decided. The thing not only close, but like, oh, how are we going to figure it out? That's a whole new anxiety of the recent past on a presidential level. Well, it's also in 2000 that this map, and I have used these maps a lot, right? The maps of the red and the blue, they're very quick snapshots of what's happening in a moment and of change over time. But those really became popularized in this moment of 2000. And they're convenient. We use them for lots of reasons, but they're also really, I think, quite dangerous in certain ways, because they tend to present most places as being either one or the other, right? Everyone. And when in fact, you know, in most places in the United States, you've got very mixed communities. We live in a verbal world. Right. And the ones who will, sometimes they have 45% of the voting taxes. Yeah. No. Yeah. So, the imagination of the country's politics, both the actuality, but then also the imaginative world that comes out of the year 2000, I think is really, really important. That was even my experience of the most recent election. I was sort of sent out to talk about democracy in lots of different places before the election. And, you know, we all saw and imbibe the partisanship and the division in everything that you talked about, that everyone else has seen. What surprised me being out and about in, you know, I know, Michigan, I spent a lot of time in Michigan, was that people weren't necessarily divided that way. They were curious. They had questions. They were, they took sides, but they weren't the world. There was much more complexity and a willingness, right? It was different from what we would all assume based on everything that we inhale and see from the media. That's really one of the reasons. So I've mentioned my road trip book coming out in April. You can all read it. But one of the reasons that I wanted to call this land is your land, a road trip through US history. But I wanted to kind of get out of my own space, right, and encounter and ask and have some of these more direct conversations. But I also thought that history might be a way for people to be curious about each other and to be curious about the experiences of people who are a little bit different from you. Because one of the things that I find so unappealing about our political culture in this moment is it's scorn for curiosity. And for historians, for anyone who is going to have anything interesting to say about the world, citizens, right? Curiosity is one of my highest values. And so a little bit with the road trip book, I thought, well, if people can't bring themselves to be curious about each other in this moment, maybe they can be curious about the people of the past and about the places that the past happened. You made polarization, one of your three big themes in one of your lectures, which was great. And where does it come from? Well, the 90s, although even before that, but the 90s that brought us almost all of our culture wars. We had huge fights over history standards. We had huge fights over museum exhibitions, abortion, so many other issues in the 90s. Higher education. Higher education. All kinds of ways. Many, many issues. And I actually teach a course here now called the history wars. And it turns out so much, it could be, of course, just on the 90s, because it launched so many battles over the past. But, you know, polarization is our word for this now. It does make you wonder how much of that is kind of grassroots bottom up. How much of it is sort of top down politics because our politics has become so nationalized with the media universe. It's a shorthand in its way. We really are divided. We are divided. But saying it breaks down into polarization, that there are two sides and it's easy that you can see the two sides. That is true to some extent. But I think that simplifies things in a way that makes it feel more us against them in the favor of people who want it to feel like us against them. Well, I tend to think that at least part of what's happened with polarization. Look, we've had a whole 250 years of American history we've been talking about. People have been divided about lots and lots of things. Maybe most divided right after the beginning. But certainly very. I think what is different about our moment is that some of the mediating forces and institutions that were supposed to be there to manage these divisions now are reinforcing them. And so the most obvious or either one or another. The most obvious to me is the fact that we have ideologically divided parties for really the first time in American history in a way that can be mapped on a spectrum, which is to say that all the Democrats are over here and all the Republicans are over here. And that just wasn't the case for a lot of the 20th century. We talked about some of the people who didn't like that, right? And thought that actually having these mediating forces were producing too much consensus around things like civil rights, right? Opposition to civil rights. And so there were lots of problems with that. But I guess I tend to think that we've always had division and polarization is something else because polarization is actually about the way our political institutions and processes work. But if, as you're saying, we have all of one party on one side and all of another on the other, you have to factor into that that on one side there are people who feel differently about democracy than on the other side. Oh, yeah. And that's a big part of it. We have an American who hate democracy and they'll tell you that. Or don't understand what it is or don't want it or think we can get better. Part of this current moment is actually a debate about democracy or non-debate about democracy that's pretty profound. Yeah, I'm not sure it's always such a simple division, but we'll, you know. No, no, no, what I'm saying is, I'm saying concern and debate and emotion and everything else about democracy in this moment is a big part of this. There's a persistence to this question you've raised, though, and it's in the historiographies and what historians do. I mean, one of the big debates about the 1850s, so divisive as it was, obviously it was divisive. We were polarized in the 1850s. It didn't end well. But part of that historiographical debate has always been, was this about real issues or was it, as some said, just unctuous politics? It was dividing parties, preparing election division, you know. And there was a school of historians, sometimes seen as more conservative, but not for all. I know they might have voted liberal. But they said, you know, this was just politics, run amok. And then there are others who said, no, no, no, no, no. No. Slavery was the biggest serious issue the country had ever seen. And so we kind of face that now. Are we arguing about, I think we are arguing about very real things now, but when are we arguing about deeply divisive real issues that have no reconciliation or compromise? And when are we just keeping the sides divided enough to make politics function? You know, a lot of the public thinks it's the latter. That's what they seem to hate Democrats and Republicans equally now. You've seen these recent polls. I know. It's incredible. The low rankings of all both parties, Congress, every institution, because they've all run amok. Now, I don't happen to think that's exactly true, but it doesn't matter what I think. But isn't this kind of what we always end up debating? What are the real issues here? And how much of this is just how political institutions function? Well, and the idea that you can, the idea that you necessarily have to separate those. No, right? We don't as a story. That's what I'm saying is that we don't as historians have to do that. There is the, you know, and we all are interested in politics sitting here, right? We're political historians. So we understand the framing, the political framing of everything and how it works, regardless if it's an economic issue or a social issue or a cultural issue and everything else. So there is that component. And so no matter what we're looking at, we're going to see the degree to which in some way the politics is shaping it. But we're also going to see and acknowledge in different ways at different times. There are these deeper, more profound issues that sometimes people are focused on and are acknowledging. Sometimes maybe in the time and in the moment they are not. It doesn't mean that they're not there, right? And we're, oh, they're there. They're there. And this is a really, we're not going to tell anybody out there that abortion and religion and LGBTQ rights have not been deeply personal to people because they are. Anyway, I love that old question. Is it, is it just politics? Or is it about something? Yeah, I don't think you can have just politics. I don't think you can either. Right. But you're right. It's a real question. But we, we chatted before about the fact before we run out of time. Oh, yeah. That's right. We were going to talk about, we sort of centered on the idea that we're, I don't want to say we're generationally different, but we have some years dividing all of us and we all have different memories of the bicentennial, right? So here we are looking ahead towards 250. I know how am I that old? Looking ahead towards, you know, 2026, 250. And there was that other similar like moment. It was a reckoning moment. It was an anniversary moment. It was our capitalistic commercial moment. It was, oh my gosh, it was everywhere. So we thought one thing that we might talk about towards the close of this conversation was how we experienced that bicentennial moment. You should go first. You should go first though. All right. Well, this is the only context in which I am the youngster in life anymore. But okay. Exactly. So I was four years old at the moment of the bicentennial. Which was 1976 in case you haven't even been out for a while. And I grew up right outside of Philadelphia. And so Philadelphia was into the bicentennial. So I didn't really understand all of that at the age of four, but it is actually my first sort of political historical memory comes from the bicentennial because my parents dressed me up as a peanut and they were Jimmy Carter supporters. So they dressed me up as a peanut with like a cardboard peanut front and back and some red, white, and blue. It made me march in a bicentennial parade. And so my first historical memory is how scratchy this costume was and how much I really enjoyed it. I did not like it one bit. But so that is my first historical memory. It is my bicentennial memory. It's actually the scene that opens my road trip book as you know, that there are lots of four year olds out there now who are going to have something like that in 2026. Although actually I'm a little distressed about how much of the celebration or marking of 2026 seems to be happening online instead of in person. And that will but on a local level, I think that would be different. All right, I think Joanne, you're next chronologically speaking. So I was 14 at the bicentennial and that's an age where if you're going to have a passion about something or you're going to seize an interest in something, 14 is one of those ages where you grab. So it's the bicentennial that essentially made me a historian because it was everywhere. My period, the founding period was everywhere. It was everywhere. It was bicentennial minutes, bicentennial shlok, bicentennial everything. It was everywhere. So you couldn't escape it if you wanted to and I didn't want to. But I experienced the bicentennial in two ways and one of them was sort of superficial I guess, but I wanted to somehow take part. And the other one actually, at the time I didn't understand it, but now I do is a little deeper. So the superficial one was like I wanted to do something for the bicentennial. Like I actually went to see like they had the little bicentennial train you could go and they had documents like I did everything I could do. But those were kind of musical. David, I know the entire soundtrack. I know the entire sound. I know it from an eight track tape player with the eight track clicks built in. I swear. But anyway, apart from that, I wanted to take part personally above and beyond that. And so I don't know if you remember everyone was painting fire hydrants. Oh, yeah. So I went with my brothers. We painted the fire hydrant across the street from our house in the down heights. Red, white, blue, 1776 to 1976 is a really embarrassing picture of me with like two long ponytails behind the fire hydrant. So that was like, okay, now I've done my part. But the part that that affected me then and still does is I knew that on at noon on July 4th, yeah, bells were going to be rung all around the country because supposedly that was the moment when the Declaration of Independence was signed, which it isn't. It wasn't. They made that up. Oh, I started picking it up. So they made it up. But I didn't know that at the time. At the time, what I thought was a good makeup was I thought was that there was going to be this national moment with bells ringing. And I was I went outside to hear the bells. I went outside to hear the bells. And I thought about the fact that this was a big country in a way that I had not before that point. And that so my memory of the bicentennial on a more profound levels, I did hear some bells. I did hear some bells, even if I didn't, I would have made them up. But I did hear some bells. But it was more the idea that there was something national going on that that I just hadn't thought about things nationally before, right? So that bicentennial, in addition to grabbing me by the history collaring and kink me into the profession in some way, it made me think about the United States in a different kind of a way. This is one of the things I'm fascinated. I hope it's not all online. But I want to watch and see how particularly younger people are going to experience whatever the heck is going to be going on next year and how it might be shaping them. Because that kind of thing I can attest can have a really powerful influence on how you understand your place in the nation and maybe even in the world. There may be, as there was in 1976, an alternative bicentennial. Yeah. Was it Concord, remember? It was the sort of radical bicentennial. There should be all kinds of commemorations and non-commemorations. I'll try to make mine quick. I was 26 or 7. I was a high school teacher in Flint, Michigan. I made sure that as many people as possible were wearing their 76 medallions. We did our own bicentennial minutes on the PA system of the high school. I led that, too. I even wrote the damn things. I also took 50 students on a week-long field trip to Boston, Philadelphia, and Washington, and seven days from Flint, Michigan. Most of these kids have never been out of their own state much, maybe their own city. That was extraordinary. We saw many exhibitions that were special and so on. But I'll leave you. It goes back to politics. I'd forgotten this. On the night before the 76 election, literally the night before the election, Jimmy Carter and Walter Mondale ended their campaign in Flint, Michigan. Gerald Ford, they're running his Ford's, his home state. They were going to knock Ford out in his own state, and they did. But they ended it in Flint at what was then known as the IMA Auditorium. It was this big auditorium that 5,000 people downtown. I took a bunch of my students today. You're probably getting in trouble for this. They took a bunch of my students with our green Carter posters to this event, and there they were. Happy Days Are Here Again was playing, as it always does at Democratic events, and then walked Carter and Mondale down the main aisle, and they gave their speeches. Everybody was screaming and hollering the next day. He won the presidency. But for this Georgian to end his campaign in my hometown, man, that was cool. But the last thing I'll say about the bicentennial, and it'll be very interesting to chart this at this moment, and you're out there on the road with this new book, a road trip book. The bicentennial was a very contested thing, and especially in the wake of the 60s, and civil rights, and so many other rights movements. People who wanted their stories to be a part of it, who were being prevented. But it also gave people, who were 60s people, who had been so influenced by all the rights movements and the changes, a chance to be patriotic. I remember feeling that distinctly. Hero has taken all these high school kids to Philly, the Independence Hall, and all these places, and were singing patriotic songs. I mean, five or six years ago, I probably would not have sung patriotic songs. It makes you think about your country. It makes you think about your country, and in a moment where everyone is thinking about the country, you reckon with it in a different kind of a way. There's scholarship on this now that argues that the bicentennial, and the way that it swept popular history across the country, had a lot to do with processing the agony of the Vietnam War. Oh, that makes perfect sense. And the agony of so many other things about the 60s. Not always to the good, perhaps, you know, because it made people do some forgetting as well as remembering. It'll be interesting to chart what 26 does to how we process our recent history. Oh, Lord. Before we close, could you humor me with a brief commercial advertisement? Humor you. Yes. Humor me with every part. Just because it's looking ahead to next year. Oh, okay. Okay. And one of the things that I have been doing and will be doing, and I just want to mention it a lot like in is I am honing and creating a YouTube channel that's going to be just full of pondering history and to have some politics built in. But I encourage  amlodipine, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin,