(light melancholy music) - But imagine it's a sunrise out on the flatness of the Mississippi River. You might be looking west, you might be looking east, you might be looking south. You might be just hearing the lapping of the water on your raft. Sometimes we'd have that whole river all to ourselves. For the longest time, yonder was the banks and the islands crossed the water and maybe a spark, which was a candle in a cabin window. And sometimes on the water, you could see a spark or two on a raft or a scowl, you know, and maybe you could hear a fiddle or a song coming over from one of them crafts. It's lovely to live on a raft. Now students, you are reading "Huckleberry Finn" for this week, and I guess partly into next week. You're probably wondering why. If you read it in high school, you didn't finish it. (students laughs) And you were probably left puzzled by all the apologies your teacher may have made about the many, many, many, many uses of the N word in the book, but still was determined to teach it. And maybe you were lucky enough to be in a school that had a controversy, because it's possibly the most controversial novel ever written. It's also many, many, many critics have said the greatest. However, one wants to rank such things, the greatest American novel. Now you may read a hundred pages into it and still wonder why. It's almost entirely written in dialect. That's part of its majesty. Twain's ability to capture, to both capture and invent on upper south border state, Mississippi River dialect that he knew well, but still had to capture. So many writers have paid their homage to Twain and Huck Finn. I won't go into that except for one. No less than T. S. Eliot, one the snootiest of possible critics of anything said that the character Huckleberry Finn, is, quote, "One of the permanent symbolic figures of fiction, not unworthy to take a place with Ulysses, Faust, Don Quixote, Don Juan, Hamlet and other discoveries which man has made about himself." What does great literature do? It discovers something about us as the author is probably trying to discover something about himself. My colleagues asked me to say something about why in the world you're reading "Huckleberry Finn," because it's a story about the Mississippi River. That's almost enough. It's a story about nostalgia for an older time that is going away. It's all about freedom and integrity, and the long road to get there. It is about the longing to escape, which undergraduates go through how many times a day. It's about the frontier in so many ways. It's partly why we don't like, a lot of people don't like the ending of the book when you lights out for the territory. What does that mean? Everybody knows for sure. It's about resistance to civilizing. Huck don't ever wanna be civilized. It's about moral protest, and Huck's journey to try to learn from Jim how to do it. It's about money and the lust for it. It's got a little of everything here. In that moment of the Gilded Age, 1883-'84, when actually Twain wrote this for seven years and kept putting it down, putting it down. You couldn't capture it. You couldn't... seven years. It's about life on that raft. And about the corruption of real life that they can only marginally avoid, especially after that king and that duke find them. It's about wishing away the civil war. Yes, it's set before the Civil War, but of course he's reading it after the Civil War. And why couldn't that not have happened? It's about old times that are gone and you really realize it when that big, big riverboat smashes into their raft and blows it out of the water. Modernity blasting the past. It's so much about conscience and poor, poor little Hucks long tortured path to learn. Oh yeah, that you can't pray a lie. One of the immortal little lines in this book is, "Hey, I can't pray a lie." It's about Huckleberry Finn's education from Jim and it's all about race and slavery. And I could go on. It's got a fabulous little section in it. But kings, I was gonna use this Saturday out on the green, but I didn't have time. You know, they're always dealing with these fake king, this fake king and this fake duke and they're just scam artist. They're America as scam artists. And at one point, Jim is fed up, "All I say is kings is kings and you got to make allowances." Huck has just said to him, "Take them all around. They're a mighty," says Huck. It's the way they was raised. But this one says Jim, "Do smell so much like the nation," Huck says, "Well, they all do, Jim. We can't help the way a king smells. History don't tell us that." And then they exchange a little bit about, well, the duke's a little bit better of a guy maybe. "Well, anyways, I don't hanker from no more of 'em," says Huck. No, I'm sorry, says Jim. "Jesus is all I can take. I want no more kings." And then Jim replies, "Sometimes I wish we could hear of a country that's done out of kings." If you look for king metaphors in American literature, you can find them all over the place. And the many of you know that Huckleberry Finn has been very, very, very much again back in our literature, the great novel by Percival Everett. How many of you read "James?" Amazing, fantastic. It's won every book award we have. Great novelist, many previous books, but he decided to rewrite Jim's story. He rewrote Huckleberry Finn through Jim's story and I'll leave it there. Go read it if you haven't. "James" is is still a hot bestseller and should be. Once you get into it, you won't really be able- especially if you've read. You gotta read Huff Finn first though, God. And in the new relatively new series we're doing at Yale University Press, I'm one of the three editors called Black Lives. We've actually commissioned two or three books about that are biographies of fictional characters. And that may seem weird, but we have a brilliant new one out now. It's just been out six months I think, by Shelley Fisher Fishkin, one of the greatest of Twain and Huck Finn scholars for years and years and years. She brought the idea to us how about a biography of Jim. And she takes the character of Jim through time. All the many uses, the drawings, the paintings, the reimaginings of Jim up until the moment of Percival Everett although his book just came out as she was finishing and she sort of acknowledges at the end and you almost begged for, oh, come on Shelly, hold it back, write another chapter. But you know, she had her book done. "Jim" has been one of the most important, love him or hate him like it or not, Black characters in the history of fiction. So get the book from Yale Press, "Jim: The Life and Afterlives of Huckleberry Finn's Comrade." Oh dear, I could go on about. I should have just an entire lecture on on Huck Finn, but I don't. Now let me move a little bit ahead here. Yeah, he's back. This is Mr. D in 1875, that photo. I love this poster hangs in my apartment. I got it when I was a high school teacher. And the reason I love it, if you can't see it, is the bottom inscription. They gave him a middle initial that he didn't have. As in 1970s, nobody knew anything and they gave him the wrong birthday. They didn't know the right birthday yet. So this is a keepsake. Frederick E. Douglas. He had a lot of names and one of 'em didn't start with an E. But nevertheless, in 1875, and I'll start here and of course move back, Douglas went out to give a 4th in July speech on the 5th of July, which was a tradition in many parts of African American life. He gave in the Hillsdale section of Anacostia in Washington, D.C., which is where he now. Well, actually he didn't live there yet. He still lived down in Capitol Hill. He soon to move up there. And he called and it was an outdoor, it was like a festival, a Black festival. He had a Black audience for this speech. He called the speech the color question. It's 1875, now note the date. And he's anticipating that the following year, a year from then the United States would have its centennial celebration. And oh my God, what would that be? Now you're about to see a whole lot has happened. In the previous six or seven years, that is going to be a process of the defeat of Reconstruction. And that's the subtext from when Douglas gets up in front of this audience and he asserts the birthright of Black Americans. He says, "We have never forsaken the white man in any great emergency." And here he is, you know, appealing to the honor, to the Black soldier, of which there would've been many Black veterans in that audience, probably still wearing their kepis, if not, their jackets. But at this 100th anniversary of the founding of the nation, Douglass said, "I fear that the country would, quote, 'Lift to the skies million voices of one grand centennial Hosanna of peace and goodwill to all the white race.'" Douglas didn't always racialize his rhetoric. He did in this one. As a Black citizen, he dreaded the day he said his words, "When this great white race has renewed its vows of patriotism and flowed back into its accustomed channels." Which is a way of thinking about Reconstruction. And he worried about the hold of white supremacy on Americans consciousness. And you look back upon 15 years at that point, if you just go from 1860 to 1875, unparalleled, unimagined change, revolution, transformation. And then he asked the core question, the core question of Reconstruction in some ways the core question of so much of our racial history. Quote, "If war among the whites brought peace and liberty to Blacks, what will peace among the whites bring?" What if Reconstruction now fades into or is forced into by violence? A kind of peace among white people, an agreement, a reunion, a reconciliation, which he sees all around him and fears. All right, back up with me. We're gonna go fairly fast here today as we always do, and I'll get frustrated, but that's okay. I just have a few images. Let's move back here to this famous Thomas Nast cover of Harper's. You can sort of read Reconstruction through "Thomas Nast Cartoons." Believe me, you can. There are whole books on that. This is one of Black folk voting in the South in 1867. And then again, even in more numbers in 1868. What is this rooted in? It's rooted in what I called in the outline up here, a radical Republican ideology. Those folks, the John Bingham's, the Thaddeus Stevens's, the Charles Sumner, who's unhappy faces I put up here last time, the authors of Radical Reconstruction, such as it won the day for three, four, and five years had basically a three-part outlook. And this is key to remember whether you're learning it for some silly final exam or just for your wisdom. First of all, they were unionist. They were unionist. They were unionists before the Civil War as part of what brought them into the Republican party, but they were unionists now because they had, in their view and not without good reason, preserve the Union. And now they were reinventing it. This thing, this experiment, this United States, they were remaking it. And they were the people who had led the Republican party to that war. They had led that party during the war. They had helped pass all that major legislation that greatly centralized the federal government. They were the party that had emancipated 4 million slave. Now, what are they gonna do about it? The second part of their ideology, their approach, their worldview, was that they actually believed most in one way or another, not completely, but in one way or another, they believed in Black suffrage and they believed in some degree of equal rights. More than just his rhetoric or equality before law as they put it in the great section, one of the 14th. And third, but not last. And in some ways, among other things like the 14th Amendment, it's the greatest legacy of that cohort. And it's gonna come back again and again and again as Beverly Gage will show you in the 20th century and is hanging on today by its fingers. They believed in positive activist, interventionist government. They believed, as John Bingham famously said, that the Bill of Rights had to become federalized. Enforceable by the federal government, not just by states. If you have a right to free speech and a right to petition and a right to assembly and so on, that needs to be protected and enforced by federal power. These radical Republicans said, "That's what the Civil War was about." And in sense they're saying, "You bet it was about state's rights, and federal power is gonna take over states rights." They therefore have lived and therefore believed in some degree of coercion against a defeated south, and they will put a system in place. Now one other element to their worldview, and then we'll get on to how were all these states readmitted to the Union and then to this process of what becomes known as southern redemption or the defeat. In a sense, Reconstruction is a rise and fall story. History is full of those empires usually that take quite a while to fall. Reconstruction rose in basically three to five years, and it's gonna fall in about three to five years, almost as fast as it was created. Why is that? That's a question you need to be able to answer. Why could this be defeated? Not easily, but so quickly. Now these Republicans, I said they believed inequality on a certain level. Think about it this way. There had until this time been perhaps only two ways of thinking about human equality. One was the old, old, old naturalized tradition. You are equal before God or nature as Jefferson said, "God or nature, whichever you want." It's as old as the epistles of Paul. It's as old as some Greek philosophy. It may given a lot of cultural differences be as old as certain parts of Greek drama. Equality before God, equality before nature. It's born with some degree of equality. The second kind of equality that they were now struggling with and the enlightenment that lasted a century and a half and had several revolutions and they had led one of them, or their ancestors had led one of them. was equality under law. Now that's a new thing. That's a modern thing. It does come out of the enlightenment. It does rule of law comes out of that whole cluster of ideas, beginning with human reason in the enlightenment. But it had a hard time getting traction in human societies and it had a horrible time getting traction in the United States because of the power of slavery. What does slavery hold back in America? Many, many, many things. But this idea that humans could be equal at all, much less before law was of course totally denied by the pro-slavery argument. But these guys now, by the 1860s and 1870s, the radical Republicans said, "No, humans can be made equal under law before law." That's a huge turn in modern history. There's a third kind of equality that the 19th century flirts with. It didn't do very well with it. It wasn't ready. You could say it wasn't ready yet, but the 20th century is going to. And even then, it's going to be a long and bloody road, and that is equality of opportunity. How do we establish some degree of equality of opportunity among citizens, among people? How do we create starting lines in a society of great economic inequality? How do you create starting lines in a society of great gender inequality when women can't vote in cold office, et cetera, et cetera? Now take those three kinds of equality and the struggle to create them. And you may get a sense of why Reconstruction was so hard, so difficult, so important, so amazing for a while, and has such long legacies. It's not over. I love the que- I'll come back to this question next time. You know, when did Reconstruction end? How do we define the end of Reconstruction out through the 19th century and beyond? It is never ended. Every time we debate the 14th Amendment, it's not over. Every time we vote the right to vote, it's not over. Every time we really debate federalism. It's not over and it probably can't be. I'm a negative messenger. I'm afraid the legacies of Reconstruction are with you always. Oh, dear. Well, Americans had an election in 1868, which was crucial to whether, let's see, yeah, there he is. Ulysses Grant sitting in his chair with his family around him, his Black servants. Don't know if they had been soldiers. This is in Long Branch, New Jersey where he took up residence had a house during his presidency. Oh, I wish I had more time. Grants two terms as president or fascinating and troubling. If you've read Sharon's biography of Grant or any other of the six, seven, eight, nine, 10 biographies of Grant in the last 10 to 15 years, you know something about Grant. A man from nowhere, a nobody from nowhere who drank himself out of the army in the 1850s, but managed to marry well into a slave holding family in Missouri and they saved his behind, so to speak, until that war came. And nothing animated this man, nothing animated this man like going to war. The word genius is thrown around way too much for military officers as it is for professors, unless they're scientists. If they find something that changes our medical lives, call 'em whatever you want. My heart surgeon was a genius. I mean, he did about eight of nine of these a week and it was so routine he probably had to wake up, but not to me. Dude was a genius. But Grant's genius was for logistics. It was for landscapes. It was for managing men. It was for the brutality it took and what became a highly political war to win it both militarily and politically. He understood that public opinion behind the armies had to be on the side of the armies. A lot of the other generals in this war didn't give a about that. They just wanted their promotions and a little bit of glory. He decides to run for president in 1868 always saying he didn't wanna run. I don't wanna run. I don't want anything to do with it. I don't want anything to do with, okay. We've had a lot of those kinds of presidents. And when he gets the nomination and is elected indeed, he said, quote, "I shall have no policy of my own to interfere against the will of the people." You wanna vote on what the hell that means? to interfere against the will of the people," okay. Grant was not a good politician per se. Very smart man. And by the way, a beautiful writer. He wrote the great two volume memoir, one of the greatest memoirs in American letters. In the style that he wrote, military field dispatches, declarative sentences. He was Hemingway before Hemingway. He really was. Read his memoir, folks. It's mostly about military. Obviously, it's mostly about military affairs. He didn't wanna talk about his presidency and he didn't. But that election of 1868 was crucial. I wanna do it quickly. Grant had committed to congressional control of Reconstruction. He was on board with the radical Republican plan of Reconstruction, putting the south under occupation, creating five districts with the military general, southern states ex-Confederate states forced to ratify the 13th and the 14th amendments. They had to create some degree of Black suffrage. Grant believed in Black suffrage, especially after it got him elected. It did. In some southern states, the man who had won the war and ravaged the south won some southern states. Of course, that's because a lot of ex-Confederates were disfranchised and outta the Union, and that was fine with Grant for a while. He wanted the Republican Party though to become as quickly as possible, the Party of Order instability. He wanted 'em to become this protector of the new status quo rather than innovators of a new future, innovators of the Second American Republic. And he's got radical Republican types in his own party saying, "Wait a minute, general. We're not just stabilizing anything here. We're creating something new." And Grant would say, "Eh, not really." Black suffrage, he considered necessary in the South for the purpose. As he said, quote, "Public safety of gratitude and justice." Again, wonderfully vague terms. The Democrats in 1868 are really reviving. They've had a rough recent history in case you didn't notice. They're gonna run Horatio Seymour. I didn't bring his picture, or did I? No, fear I didn't. Oh, shoot. Well, this is some very, again, Thomas Nast. That's genius. This is Thomas Nast depicting somebody who sort looks like Jefferson Davis in a big old cloak, and he is walking out of the chambers of the United States Senate because there's a Black senator, his name is Hiram Revels. This jumps ahead in 1870, but when Hiram Rebels got elected to the US Senate from Mississippi, a lot of ex-Confederates said, "No, no, no, no, no." This is a revolution that's intolerable. And back to these folks in a second. But in that election, well, oh, Douglas keeps sneaking in there. Governor Horatio Seymour, the former governor of New York, he had openly supported the draft riots of 1863 in New York City against the draft and against the Irish population and the Black population. He chose as a running mate, Frank Blair as his VP, who was about the most openly white supremacist person you could argue who'd ever run for president. It may be not quite as much as James K. Polk. They announced that the Democrats would declare the Reconstruction acts if elected null and void. And that they would return the south to home rule. And if they didn't win, at least Blair as the attack dog threatened a second Civil War. The rhetoric and reality did not always mix in 1868, but it was a bitter, brutal campaign about the results of that war. It's only three years after Appomattox. Bloody shirts were waving everywhere. "You killed my son." "No, no, you killed my son." "You killed two of my sons." "You killed two of my sons and two of my nephews." Had to do normal business in the Congress without going on. It is a memory laden, tenuous piece. The Democrats wanted to take the Constitution backward, just like Andrew Johnson had wanted to. They wanted the Constitution as it is, and the Union as it was. All over the country, the campaign became the most white supremacist racist campaign in American history. I've always said the 1864 was the most racist campaign until the next one. And in '68, less so Seymour himself, but Blair, his running mate, and many, many other Democrats just ran on an openly white supremacist platform. "Elect us so we will bring back white supremacy." If politics is war by other means, the 1868 election was war by other means. Klan violence broke out. Actually as early as 1866, but especially by 1868. It was a reign of terror in at least five to six southern states, deep south states. Hundreds of people killed trying to vote. Now our political culture is in a bit of a mess today, as you may have detected, but we aren't killing each other at voting polls. Should I end that with a yet? I hope we never do. The Klan became a kind of an armed auxiliary of the Democratic party. Make no mistake. There were more than 200 political murders of candidates for office or local political leaders of one kind or another just in the 1868 election. The death toll in Georgia was lower than a couple few other deep south states, but the use of intimidation of Black people to keep them away from the polls or even white Republicans and there are some. Freedmen's Bureau agents and so on, to just keep them away from the polls, threatening their lives. In the entire state of Georgia, Grant tallied 87 votes because Black people were pretty much eliminated from the polls in that state. In Louisiana, more than 1000 people died of political violence of one kind or another. Between April and November 1868, it was a bloody election. It was a racial election. I could go on with lots of numbers. But Grant carried all of the north except three states. New Jersey, New York, Seymour State, and way out in Oregon. Seymour won three border states, Delaware, Maryland, and Kentucky. Grant won in the electoral college, 214 to 80. It was much closer in the popular vote. Without Black men voting in dense areas of the south, and at least eight or nine of the states, Ulysses Grant does not get elected in 1868. The Republicans kept a two thirds majority of the house and a four fifths majority of the Senate. That's called the veto-proof Congress. And they're gonna go about the business now enforcing the Reconstruction acts and passing the 15th Amendment with a veto-proof Congress. What is that 15th Amendment? Oh Lord, it's so important. I don't have a lot of time for it, but that's all right. 13th Amendment abolished slavery. The 14th Amendment did half dozen fantastic things, especially in section one. And even gave a section three, that's supposed to eliminate insurrectionists from running for president. And we tried to use that a year and a half ago, and the Supreme Court said, "Nope, not this time." That law does not mean what it says. That's what John Roberts majority said. But the 15th amendment, the right to vote. Yes, it's a compromise. It's a whole batch of compromises. It consumed the short session of Congress between Grant selection and the inauguration in the next spring in 1869. Very few northern states had adopted Black suffrage. This is gonna become an amendment to enfranchise Black southerners, hopefully they think, forever. There were three versions of it. The 15th Amendment, the first version could have been that the amendment would've forbid states to deny citizens the right to vote on the grounds of race, creed, color, or previous condition of servitude. That's the one that will actually pass because it's the most limited, even if it sounds like a big step forward. A second version that was debated was the version that would've forbid states to impose literacy property or nativity qualifications. They actually debated this. Could we put into the law that you can't do these half dozen or so machinations to stop people from voting? How many jelly beans in a jar can you recite section two of the Constitution? They tried. "No, no, no, no," people said that this isn't gonna play in the South. Well, this isn't gonna play in the South anyway. There was a third version that would've said, "All male citizens, 21 years of age or older, have the right to vote." That third one would've been as complete as possible, especially if it included the second part. But the one that will pass is the first one. It forbade states to deny citizens right to vote on grounds of race, creed, color priest served to. Yes, there was a terrible rub between the women's suffrage movement and the authors of the 15th Amendment and the supporters of the 15th Amendment. None more famous or difficult than the bitter feud between Frederick Douglas and his former close friends, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Susan B. Anthony, Lucy Stone, and a few others. And the women's suffrage movement. When the suffrage movement had put off their movement during the Civil War. And they said, "All right, this is the Black Man's hour." They said that. So a lot of other people, it's a Black man's hour. But now, sorry guys, we went into the 15th Amendment. But to be honest, anyone with one eye open knew that if women were in the 15th amendment, it had no prayer of passing. And the bitter feud between, that's in my book on Douglas, if you care to read about it, the bitter feud between Douglas and his women's suffrage former friends was brutal. They attacked him with racist rhetoric. And he tried to be a gentleman, but he wasn't all the time. That will be there as a backdrop. The rest of the 19th century is the women's suffrage movement does pick up steam on and off, on and off, on and off and into the early 20th century. And finally, in the next generation, in the 19th Amendment the right to vote, women. Now that 15th amendment, last thing I wanna say about it, is extremely important because a whole lot of people in that pass is the right to vote for God's sake. It's the most, you know, important or powerful of our rights. We often say Frederick Douglas himself had called it the ring of fire around all other rights. A lot of people said the editors of major newspapers right after, it wasn't ratified till 1870, but one it was ratified all over the culture. Like the "New-York Tribune," the old anti-slavery paper. It said, quote, "This is Horace Greeley. Let us have done with Reconstruction. The country is tired and sick of it. Let us have peace." We've given the right to vote. What else is there? Now you can think of other times in our history when, okay, something passes in the interest of human rights, Black rights, women's rights, and people say, "All right, what more do you want?" Now, what ensues in the 1870s? And yeah, I got good time. What ensues in the 1870s is what we have so often called southern redemption. First, I wanna just mention here that the proce- you can't probably read all these jottings, but all this does. And if I can move over here with the mic, I think I can, this is a map. You can't read the dark parts very well, but it's a map that shows us when each of the ex-Confederate or southern states, even in Missouri, which did not really secede from the Union. But anyway, when each of the Confederate states were first readmitted to the Union, Tennessee was first and it had to be thrown out and brought back in. That's a long story. Same thing happened in Georgia. But when they were readmitted to the Union, and then when, as in the case of North Carolina, readmitted to the Union June 1868, the date at which they were redeemed by the Southern Democratic Party taken back over by Democrats is only two years later in 1870. Now there were three states, you'll see South Carolina readmitted in '68, not redeemed officially till 1876. Florida is another one, and the other was Louisiana, which took much longer. And they will end up being the three disputed states as we'll see next time in the famous disputed election of 1876-'77, which usher in what we tend to call the Gilded Age. Now this redemption process has many sources, not least- and I'm arguing here as it says in the title of the lecture that- Fred, just move there. I'm arguing here that Reconstruction was as much defeated as it retreated. Now this is sometimes just a- it's not just a part of their game among historians, but it's the kind of argument we love. Did Reconstruction fail? Was it a splendid failure as W. E. B. Du Bois once called? Was it held together only by a, quote, "Rope of sand as Thomas Holt," another great historian once called it. And after a while, the sand just disintegrates. Or was it a kind of a victory in defeat? Because look what it laid down. It laid down the 13th, 14th, 15th amendments, the first two civil rights acts in American history. It completely reenergized and reimagined the federal government for a while. Was it a retreat, a failure, a defeat? And you know what historians do? They say, "Well, a little of all of those." That one has a three handed answer on the one hand, on the secondhand, and on the third hand. It's all of those. In some places it truly was defeated, especially by the Klan, especially by violent groups. As I've just mentioned, that came to the fore during the '68 election. Paramilitary Ku Klux Klan groups by that name between '68 and '70-'71. And a little bit after that. But after the Klan was pretty much run outta business by the Grant administration, there were all kinds of other groups that mimicked the Klan. They always had many imitators. The Knights of the White Camelia, the Red Shirts, et cetera. Direct, brutal, sometimes savage. Torturous violence was used as a means affording Reconstruction and ultimately defeating it in many states. Estimates run as high as about 3000 plus people, mostly Black, but not entirely by any means, who were killed during Reconstruction violence. It's one of the most violent periods of our history. It's gonna be followed by a very violent labor history beginning in the great 1877 Railroad Strike, which I'll begin with next time. And then into the early 20th century, an enormous labor violence, especially in the wake of World War I. But political violence has a long history in America, and we are idiots to ignore it. We are fools to listen to anybody who says, "Don't look at that. It's just not bright enough, not happy enough." Tell that to the people who were tortured by the Klan in upper Georgia. So many stories about Klan violence and sometimes it wasn't Klan violence, it was just mobs. Mobs would gather at a voting poll and dare Black people to vote. And if they tried to, they'd shoot 'em. Congress did respond. During that first Grant administration, they passed what was known as the First Force Act, May 31, 1870. It was just violent chaos in parts of the South. It made it a federal offense. Federalizing this to interfere with any person's right to vote and punishable in federal courts, at least they said it would be. Then they passed a Second Force Act, February 1871. '71, first 1871, which provided a machinery for federal supervision of a registration process and the voting process in the South. And then finally, they passed what was known in April of 1871, the Ku Klux Klan Act, which authorized the president of the United States to use the army. Now we've got a thing now called the Espionage Act that goes back to 1790s. And we have an administration trying to enforce act. This was a law based on a terrible insurrection, a violent situation that authorized the president to use the United States Army to suspend the root of habeas corpus and go after the Klan. That law declared certain southern states in quote, "A state of insurrection." And there were- Thousands were arrested. The United States for the first time ever held huge congressional hearings. Well, they'd held the Reconstruction hearings back in '66, but nothing quite like this. They established tribunals that went into- I'll end here. Went into seven southern states, tribunals of three members of Congress, sometimes a judge or two, almost always two Republicans and one Democrat. It was partisan. Their stated purpose that these hearings become known as the Ku Klux Klan hearings. The testimonies exist in 14 volumes of testimonies. They're now all digitized and online. Back when I used them in the '90s, I had to use the whole volume. They were great. But you know, the hard volumes. About, and there were several thousand people arrested based on these hearings for Klan actions. 3,310 were indicted. Many pled guilty to lesser offenses and got suspended sentences. Some of these people, we've lived through this two avenue. We have 1500 felons in an insurrection have been pardoned. 1,143 people were convicted. 250 were acquitted in trials. Most received only fines or light jail sentences. 65 people from the KKK hearings were imprisoned for up to five years. And a federal prison in Albany, New York dead spend winters in Albany. All of them were out of that prison by 1875 when Douglas gave the peace among the whites speech. Reconstruction was also defeated by scandals occurring, or it's set up political climate. Scandals occurring in the Grant administration. I'll back up to a couple of those next time, 'cause they too usher in that 1876 election. And last but not least and extremely important was the panic of 1873, an economic depression that hit the country in the spring of 1873. It led to massive unemployment, terrible unemployment in American cities. And up and down, up and down. It never really ended until the end of the 19th century. And it becomes the backdrop of this great crisis of industrial capitalism. It becomes the backdrop for terrible conflict by the time of 1876 and '77. And last but not least, southern redemption. The success of the Democratic party in the South is also because northerners got tired of Reconstruction. The editor of the New York Tribune said, "The troubles, the concern for the south, the race question." People wanted to move on, and they were outta work. Always a recipe for big time political change. Now I'll leave you there. All the people convicted for Klan violence that killed thousands of people, maimed many more destroyed all kinds of property were all outta jail by 1875. And that very next year, the US is gonna have its centennial celebration. Don't you love irony? Thank you. (students applauding) (light ethereal music fades)