(gentle music) ♪ Lovely Lady Liberty ♪ ♪ With her book of recipes ♪ ♪ And the finest one she's got ♪ ♪ Is the great American melting pot ♪ ♪ The great American melting pot ♪ - I thought that we would start out with a classic 1970s cartoon reiterating one of the great stories, myths, narratives that the United States has about itself as a land of immigrants. This is not, of course a narrative that has been uncontested in American history, but it is a story that has had real traction. And it's a story that mainly comes out of the period that we're going to be talking about today, which is the late 19th into the early 20th century, the period of mass European immigration into the United States, how it happened, what it meant, and what some of the pushback is. So, it is a great pleasure to be up here at the podium at last, and to be able to see all of you out there. David Blight and Joanne Freeman set a high bar, and so I am grateful to them for the great lead in to this moment, which is the moment at last that we are going to begin to move from the 19th into the 20th century. And over the next eight sessions we're gonna get from the 1890s actually all the way up into the 21st century. So, we have quite a ride ahead in these last four weeks of the class. Before we get started with the full lecture, I just wanted to say a few things about the ways in which 20th century history might be a little bit different from what we've been seeing up to this point. And one of the real pleasures of teaching a class with other people is that you get to learn from them and you get to see some of these broad distinctions that can be made. One distinction is that we're moving into the world of 20th century technologies. So, as you've probably seen from the syllabus, we're not only going to be doing readings over the next four weeks, but we're going to be engaging with other forms of communication that became so important in the 20th century, especially film, radio and television as they started to come in. So, you're gonna have a little bit more of that than before. I should note that in many ways, I also have a slightly harder task by my standards than David and Joanne. You know, Joanne had this nice period from the 1770s to about the 1830s, a good 60-year run. And then David picked up in the 1830s and got us all the way to the 1890s. So, combined they had about 120 years to cover, and now I have about 120 years to cover all on my own. The other distinction that I think is worth keeping in mind is that a lot of the politics, the debates, the institutions that we're gonna be talking about over the next few weeks are very much alive in our own time. I think one of the things that you'll start to see is that American society begins to look more recognizable both in its culture and in its institutions as well as in its politics. And so some of what we're going to be talking about are still very much live political issues. Now, we are still having debates about the American Revolution for sure. We're still having debates about the Civil War and Reconstruction about one of the really fun and exciting things about doing more recent history is that it is still being written and it's still being actively revised all the time. In fact, you know, people often ask, when do historians consider history to start as opposed to what we're living in? People often say, ah, I don't know about 30 years or whenever the archives opened. I think another good rule of thumb is, you know, anything that happened before whoever's asking that question was born. So, we are gonna be moving into material that many people in this room might actually remember as a set of living memories. And I thought a good stopping point for all of this would be to get to about 2007 or so, which is by my calculation when the first year students who were in this class were born. And so I'm saying that mostly to shock the older people in the room. (students laughing) So, in thinking about this big picture of the 20th century, for which we have eight sessions together requires making some choices. And as I thought about it, one of the big themes that we're gonna be emphasizing is the theme of federal power. All right, so we'll get back to that in a minute. But in thinking about how to make choices, what do we wanna talk about in the course of this long sweep of history over the 20th century, one of the major themes we're gonna be visiting is the theme of federal power, how it has changed over time, how Americans have thought about it, and in particular, how it has changed the meaning of American citizenship, American political participation, and American identity. So, some of that is going to entail looking at really landmark moments in federal history, important laws, important turning points over the course of the 20th century. But there's also a larger theme there, which is that in many ways the story certainly of American government in the 20th century is a story about increasing federal power, increasing expectations on the federal government, and particularly as we will see on the American presidency. So, we are going to spend a bunch of time talking about that. How did we get from a situation which as David Blight said in his last lecture, in which the federal government had about 40% of its budget devoted to Civil War pensions. How did we get from that to the world we know today? A few things to say just about my own preoccupations and interests. We can move to the next slide. David has spent most of a lifetime thinking about Frederick Douglass, this towering moral figure. Joanne says that she started thinking about history when she was 14 and she found this amazing character of Alexander Hamilton who really inspired her. Well, for better or worse, a character you might hear come up in a lot of my lectures (chuckles) is this man here, J. Edgar Hoover, who was the Head of the FBI from the 1920s through the 1970s. As you can see, I wrote a book about him. He does not have, I would say, the same moral standing in American politics that Alexander Hamilton and Frederick Douglass do. But he is a preoccupation of mine and he's actually a surprisingly good lens into this big story about federal power in the 20th century. You can go to the next slide. The other thing that you may hear are a few travel previews from a book that I have coming out in April, which is called "This Land is Your Land: A Road Trip Through U.S. History," and it is a book that was very much inspired by the same thing and themes that inspired this class. It is a series of regional road trips that I took over the last several years, starting in 1776 in Philadelphia and getting to California in the 1960s, but moving through various moments in American history by visiting the places where they happened. So, a lot of what we've already talked about in the course is there. I have a chapter on, you know, Virginia and slavery. We have a chapter on Andrew Jackson in Tennessee, I head up to the Erie Canal to look at abolitionism and women's rights and so on and so forth. But it's quite possible that over the next couple of weeks I won't be able to resist sharing a few travel photos and suggestions for travel that you all might do when all of this comes to an end. That is a photo of me standing in front of the Statue of Liberty. Although if you're savvy viewers, you might notice that's not the real Statue of Liberty, that is actually a Statue of Liberty in Birmingham, Alabama (chuckles) and one of the things that I enjoyed doing over the course of writing this book was finding the ways in which the various symbols and statues and monuments and images and themes and words from earlier periods of American history are being repurposed to this day. The book actually starts at Independence Hall in Philadelphia, and it ends at Independence Hall in Orange County, California. I don't know if we have people here from Southern California, but an interesting conservative entrepreneur named Walter Knott in the 1960s decided he wanted to build an Independence Hall for the West Coast. And so there's an entire replica, brick by brick of Independence Hall standing near a theme park called Knott's Berry Farm. All right, so turning to our subject of today, which is the period of the 1890s through the 1920s and the era of mass immigration, mass European immigration into the United States, what its contours and consequences and meanings are, I thought I would start with this next slide, which is the real Statue of Liberty. This is the Statue of Liberty at the moment that it was dedicated in 1886 in New York Harbor. It was supposed to exist a little earlier than that. As you may know, the Statue of Liberty was a gift from France to the United States to mark the centennial of the American Revolution and of the French American Alliance that had brought about American independence. It was, construction sort of started in 1876 for the centennial, but it took a very long time and it was one of those gifts where they said, we'll give it to you, but you have to raise some of the money. And the Americans were like, we have to raise the money for this? So, that took about a decade before it opened in 1886, and the famous poem that is on the Statue of Liberty written by a woman named Emma Lazarus, was part of that fundraising enterprise. And I wanna read a little bit of it just to signal what the politics of immigration looked like, at least from one perspective in the 1880s. She says, "A mighty woman with a torch, whose flame is the imprisoned lightning, and her name Mother of Exiles. From her beacon-hand glows world-wide welcome; her mild eyes command the air-bridged harbor that Twin Cities frame." Those Twin Cities in the 1880s are still New York and Brooklyn, which are separate places, they're about to combine into the great City of New New York. "'Keep, ancient lands, your storied pomp!' Cries she with silent lips," right? A theme that came up so often in Joanne's lectures, and then the famous lines that most people know, "'Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free, the wretched refuse of your teeming shore. Send these, the homeless, tempest-tost to me, I lift my lamp beside the golden door!'" This is a vision of the United States as a place of haven, a place of refuge for people from around the world as a place of liberty. That is actually the name as you see there. Liberty enlightening the world. That is the name formally of the Statue of Liberty itself. And the big question of this lecture today is how did we go from this moment in the 1880s and the Statue of Liberty to what's on the next slide, which is from the 1920s? This is from a publication produced by the Ku Klux Klan, which had a major revival in the 1920s as we'll talk about. Became a huge force in American politics. And as you can see here, this is no more welcoming of the quote, unquote, "Wretched refuse of the world," this is a rejection of immigration, of immigrants themselves as undesirable as un-American. And in fact, in 1924 at the moment this cartoon was coming out, the United States moved from a period of mass and relatively unrestricted immigration to basically slamming the doors shut for a generation and a half. So, that is really the central question of the lecture today. How do we go from one to the other? It's worth saying that at no point in that set of politics experiences change over time, was there only one view in American society around this question? It was always contested, you were seeing throughout these years many battles and questions over the issue of American immigration. But we do see also this broad change over time. So, what did the age of mass immigration look like in practical terms? And we can go to the next slide. So, between the 1860s and the 1920s, roughly 26 to 28 million people entered the United States as immigrants. And that is in a population that is less than 100 million overall, reached its peak of immigration in the years between roughly 1907, 1911, 1912, at which point the percentage of people living in the United States who were foreign born was about 14, almost 15%. Now, it is worth noting that in 2025 we are once again living at a moment where those statistics look quite similar. There are various estimates, but one of the best is that in our own moment, about 15% of people living in the United States right now were born in a different country. So, of course there are lots of differences between that moment and the hours, including the fact that you have different populations coming. But I think it's worth considering our own moment in relation to this one and the fact that there are lots of ways that the world that we are living in right now has started to look a little bit like the Gilded Age. In fact, some people have started to refer to our own world as the second Gilded Age. It's not just, if you look at immigration statistics, it's also if you look at wealth inequality, if you look at the declining number of people who are in labor unions, there are lots of ways in which we look similar to this period. And so in many ways, perhaps it's no surprise that some of the policies and politics of the Gilded Age have made a revival everything from tariffs to other forms of political engagement. So, to get into this, if we can go to the next slide, we wanna think about who is coming to the United States during these years. And the really important story about the late 19th and early 20th century is that two groups of people start to arrive in large numbers. One are Jews from Eastern Europe and from various parts of the Russian Empire, and the second are Italians and other Southern Europeans, most of them Catholic, who are coming to the United States as well. Now, it's worth noting that often they're coming for very different reasons. As you'll see if we can go to the next slide in our reading for this week, Mary Antin's "The Promised Land," she is telling a story about her own migration that is about discrimination, that is about being forced into the pale of settlement in the Russian Empire, that is about violence and pogroms that are being visited upon Jews in Eastern Europe. And so many people who are living Eastern Europe are coming here on a permanent basis seeking to make the United States their permanent homeland. Italians and other Southern Europeans are having a slightly different experience. Often they're coming for much more economic reasons and therefore there's a lot more interchange back and forth. So, to say that this is the period of mass immigration, particularly mass European immigration, is not to say that everyone is having the same set of experiences or to say that they find the same things when we get here. So, I signed the Mary Antin book for this week because I think she's a really interesting character and she's a very interesting way in. So, this is a book she wrote when she was a very young woman. She came to the United States from Russia when she's about 10 or 11 years old, joined her father here and came with her mother and her siblings as you've probably read at this point. And she immediately plunged not only into her own education, but into the world of progressive politics, particularly around immigration that is central to this moment. On Tuesday we're gonna talk more about progressive politics writ large. This is the conversation that she's involved in. But she thinks that she has a special authority, not only by virtue of her writing voice, but by virtue of her personal experience, and so she writes that book in her late 20s. And one of her claims is that while she's had this very particular experience, she is a woman, she is Jewish, she's coming from Russia, but there's something about her experience that is also universal. And I want to just read a little bit about that. She says, "I am not yet 30 counting years and I am writing my life history," so good to be a little self-conscious about that to the people in the room who are thinking about writing memoirs in their 20s, "under which of the above categories do I find my justification?" She says, "My life has been unusual, but by no means unique. And this is the very core of the matter. It is because I understand my history in its larger outlines to be typical of many that I consider it worth recording. Although I've written a genuine personal memoir, I believe that its chief interest lies in the fact that it is illustrative of scores of unwritten lives. I am only one of many whose fate it has been to live a page of modern history." So, as you read the book, I would say read it on two levels. One, it's a compelling and interesting personal story, but really contend with her claim that there's something about this that speaks more widely and that particularly speaks more widely to the conditions of modern America as they're beginning to emerge during these years. Mentioned a few other things about Mary Antin. It was interesting to reread her in the context of Frederick Douglass because of course from this title as well as the broader narrative, she's really telling an Exodus story, a story from slavery to freedom. Might wanna think about some connections there. She's interesting 'cause she's not just trying to claim some sort of generalized American identity, she's actually really into George Washington and the American Revolution. And she says, "These are my people, this is my inspiration." Now, as you'll see, that's partly 'cause she's in Boston. It's partly because she gets assigned to write about George Washington in her first American public school civics experience. And I think the book is also interesting 'cause it tells us a little bit about the infrastructure that's there both to support and in some cases not support new immigrants as they were coming into the United States during these years. She talks a lot about immigrant aid societies that helped her family actually arrive here. She talks especially about public education. This is really the heyday of the American public school in many ways. It is expanding their great hopes for what public education is going to be able to do. One thing that you won't see a lot of, if we can go to the next slide, is the federal government. And that is because the we today tend to think, oh, yeah, of course the federal government takes charge in immigration matters. That really wasn't the case in the 19th century until the 1890s when Congress passed a law saying, we are actually gonna take over immigration matters. And then in 1892 opened the first Ellis Island in New York, about 70% of people coming into the United States during these years came through New York. And that meant that most of them were coming through Ellis Island. Ellis Island is a sign that New York is becoming the great American city during these years. It's gonna consolidate in 1898 into the five boroughs, one city that we know today. But this is also a sign that something interesting is shifting in policies around immigration. Before this moment, it was kind of a free for all, the states were basically in charge, and there was this wild profusion of different laws and policies. Our colleague, Brendan Shanahan here, has just written a great book about the bizarre state policies and the bizarre range of state policies that applied to new immigrants in this moment. So, in some places you could, if you were a man, you could basically step off of the boat and vote in many, many municipalities. And in fact, the immigrant vote becomes one of the great political forces and points of controversy of this period. In other places you couldn't vote at all, heavily restricted. In some states it was fine for people who weren't citizens to take government jobs, right? Patronage, one of the big questions here, in other states, they were like, no, you know, government jobs are really only gonna be for citizens. So, you have this huge pastiche of laws. And in the 1890s as this huge wave of immigration is happening, the federal government steps in and says that it is going to take charge of deciding who deserves to be here, how they can come and what it's all going to mean. So, of course, Ellis Island, like the metaphor of the melting pot looms very large in the American political imagination, lots of people have stories about their families coming in through Ellis Island. I would say, you know, probably 50% of those stories are actually true. Lots of people who came claim that their families came through Ellis Island well before the 1890s, which could not have been possible. Many other people tell stories about, you know, their family being turned back and their relatives, so that is true. Ellis Island was a place of restriction, particularly for disabled people and people with illnesses. But in the 1890s, all the way up to the 1920s, only about 1% of people who came through Ellis Island were turned away. And the vast majority of people did not even spend the night there. They came in, they were processed, and they were sent out into the rest of the country. All right, now I wanna turn to the question of what starts to happen from this moment of relatively unrestricted immigration? How does the net begin to close and close and close till we get to the 1920s? We can go to the next slide. So, there are a couple of important early laws to know. As I said, the Congress, the federal government wasn't particularly interested in immigration for the most part before this moment. There are a couple of exceptions. One is a 1790 law that restricted US citizenship to quote, unquote, "free White persons." That was one of the founding laws of the United States, and it restricted citizenship to White people. During Reconstruction, there is a revision of that in 1870 that then also extends citizenship formally to people of African ancestry, African nativity or persons of African descent. So, what about everyone else? The law of Reconstruction was deliberately designed, in fact, to be vague about that, and by implication to exclude a lot of other groups who were starting to come into the United States in larger numbers, namely Chinese immigrants who begin coming in the years after the Civil War, as David talked about, and become a source of great controversy around jobs, around race, around culture, around a whole host of issues. At there peak, there are about 100,000 Chinese immigrants almost exclusively in the Western states during this period. And for those Reconstruction folks that David has been talking about, Charles Sumner, Frederick Douglass, they make the case quite explicitly that this ought to be part of a broader broadening of American democracy. Charles Sumner says quote, "If the Chinese come here, they will come for citizenship or merely for labor. But if they come for citizenship, then in this desire, do they give a pledge of loyalty to our institutions, and where is the peril in such vows?" And Frederick Douglas, who is usually on the right side of history, wrote back and said, "Absolutely," quote, "In the right place on the Chinese question." That's you Charles Sumner. "As usual, you are in the van," by which he meant the vanguard, "and the country is in the rear." So, that turns out to be the case. As David mentioned in his lecture, the first major Exclusion Act in the United States in 1882 is aimed at the Chinese. This is a cartoon that's satirizing that a little bit, showing an Irish immigrant, a recent Irish immigrant talking to a recent Chinese immigrant and explaining how obviously recent Irish immigrants ought to be US citizens, but Chinese immigrants should not be. And in fact, in 1910, when the equivalent of Ellis Island opens on the West Coast Angel Island, it's a much more restrictive place and it's much more about trying to exclude not only Chinese immigrants, but other categories of Asian immigrants as well. So, during this period of mass immigration, other exclusions are coming along. There're being codified during these years. People with criminal convictions, prostitutes are not supposed to be able to come into the United States. People with certain diseases and disabilities, people who are likely to become public charges. There are other categories of sort of racial or cultural categories that become important. There's a big battle over Japanese immigration, which is legislated and sorted out a little differently from Chinese immigration. And then polygamists are also banned from entry into the United States. And that is an attempt to stop a wave of Mormon immigration that's also happening during these years. You can go to the next slide. (Beverly clears throat) One of the most significant categories of restriction is around ideology. These are the first times that the United States begins to say, wait, there's certain kinds of ideas that we don't want coming in, and we think that those ideas are brought by certain groups of people. Mainly they're talking about revolutionary ideas, socialist ideas, ideas about a working class revolution. They're very powerful in Italy, particularly among anarchists and communists. They're very powerful in Russia and throughout Europe that are really catching on during these years from 1848 onward. So, this is the act that inspired the first ideological and speech restrictions in American immigration law. This is a man named Leon Czolgosz. He is behind bars for having assassinated the president of the United States William McKinley in 1901. When he killed McKinley, he said, "I am doing this in the name of the American working class, right? That I am doing this in the name of class revolution." Now, Czolgosz himself was not actually an immigrant, he was a Native-born US citizen. Nonetheless, in 1903, the United States passed a law saying that anarchists in particular were not allowed into the United States, along with quote, "Persons who believe in or advocate the overthrow by force or violence of the government of the United States, or of all government, or of all forms of law, or the assassination of public officials." If you can go to the next slide. So, those of you who saved your archival project for this final session, one of the collections that you can go to is the collection of the Haymarket Affair that's over there at Beinecke. This is another of these great acts of political violence followed by a political trial that begins to drive a certain kind of anti-radical and anti-immigrant sentiment. This is 1886, the same year that the Statue of Liberty opened. This was a bomb attack that occurred in Chicago. In the midst of a kind of radical working class rally, a bomb was thrown, seven police officers were killed, eight anarchists were put on trial for that, though they were not accused of having thrown the bomb, they were accused of having the wrong ideas about bomb throwing and revolution. The great thing that I wanted to point out is that Yale actually has the Haymarket bomb (chuckles) in the library. So, we have the collection of the state's attorney in that trial. And because, you know, process was not so formal in the late 19th century, he kept a lot of the evidence, including these bomb fragments that were extracted from the body of one of the dead police officers and eventually have now made their way to the Beinecke Library. So, if you wanna go see the Haymarket bomb, you can. Couple of other forms of exclusion that become really important during these years have less to do with immigration than they do with the question of citizenship once you are here. You can go to the next slide. Women who have no voting rights during this period, and on Tuesday we're gonna talk about women's suffrage. There are a couple of states where that's not the case, but for the most part, women cannot vote during this period. And in 1907, the United States passed a law about women's citizenship that said that the citizenship of any woman in the United States would follow that of her husband. So, if you were a woman and you were an American citizen and you married a man who was not an American citizen, you were stripped of your citizenship and vice versa, if you were a non-citizen, but you married a man who was a citizen, you automatically became an American citizen. So, for married women, this is a hugely significant law. And in fact, thousands of Native-born American citizen women were stripped of their citizenship during these years as a result of this law. A second important citizenship question that emerges, if we can go to the next slide, is around the imperial territories that the United States begins to acquire, especially after 1898 and the Spanish-American War. So, we end up with the question of Hawaii, which is separate from that war, but is annexed to the United States in the 1890s, and then the questions of Puerto Rico and the Philippines in particular. And the big question is, okay, if these places are becoming US territory, are those people there becoming US citizens? And the answer is very, very mixed, right? So, in Hawaii it is decided that through that annexation process, yes they actually are becoming American citizens, but Hawaii is not going to become a US state. In other places in Puerto Rico, it's decided, well, you're under the protection of the United States, but for this period at least you are not citizens of the United States. And then the Philippines a different scenario all together. A lot of this is sorted out at the Supreme Court level, and they're very interesting set of cases that you can look into if you wanna think about that. A lot of this is being driven by, yep, next slide. A lot of this is being driven by new ideas about what is known as scientific racism or eugenics, which is a science of first of all, of race distinction that becomes very powerful in American culture during this period, and also of scientific breeding, right? The idea that if you can get the right kinds of people together, whether you're talking about race or people without disabilities of some sort, that you're going to be able to breed some sort of master race of Americans. So, when we talk about eugenics and scientific racism today, we're often talking about race in the terms that we know. A lot of the energy of this period around this kind of intellectual and quote, unquote, "scientific work" is about distinguishing different groups of quote, unquote, "White people from each other." And so there are a lot of sort of strange classifications that become very important and that are gonna shape American law. How are the Teutonics different from the Anglo-Saxons, different from the Semitics, different from the Mediterranean, you know? And on and on and on. This whole new language of distinction is emerging. This produces a whole variety of policies from sterilization policies aimed at people with disabilities to forms of intelligence testing, which miraculously, you know, start to show that oh, yeah, the Anglo-Saxons, they're really, you know, they're really the smartest ones, right? These were pretty culturally-loaded intelligence tests. And a lot of this is actually coming out from places like Yale, like Harvard, these elite institutions that are forwarding, presenting and thinking through these ideas. If you can go to the next slide. So, this is a slide from the 1890s marking the birth of the Immigration Restriction League, which was really born out of Harvard and Boston. The Boston Brahmans saying, we've gotta think about ways to keep ourselves on top to quote, "preserve American culture." You can go to the next one. Yale produced this fine gentleman named Madison Grant, who wrote one of the great bestsellers of the age, "The Passing of the Great Race: Or, The Racial Basis of European History." This is a hugely influential book, not only in the United States, but in Europe. Adolf Hitler read this book in the 1920s and '30s, is reputed to still have had a copy of it with him at the moment of his death. And I don't know how much of this we can deliberately attribute to the kind of education that Madison Grant got at Yale. But Yale and New Haven were very important in the history of eugenics. If you turn to the next slide, the American Eugenics Society was actually founded in Yale and New Haven during these years. I'll mention one last slightly less elite movement that is emerging and is directly related, if we can go to the next slide. That is the rise of a second Ku Klux Klan inspired in part by the film that you saw, this 1915 three-and-a-half-hour silent film, epic, "The Birth of a Nation." After that film was screened in Atlanta, a group of local men went up to the top of a mountain there called Stone Mountain. They lit across on fire and they declared themselves inspired by that movie, the second coming of the Ku Klux Klan. What's interesting about the clan of the '10s and '20s is that it was not only anti-Black, it was not only a southern phenomenon, it was an incredibly large widespread organization with millions of members throughout the United States. Some of its strongholds in places like Indiana, even New York City itself. And it was nativist, it was broadly anti-immigrant, it was anti-Semitic, it was anti-Catholic, and it was really kind of a popular version of some of those elite ideas that were emerging from places like Harvard and Yale, but from many other parts of American society too. So, for the last part of lecture, I wanna turn to the question of how all of this then becomes codified in American law in new ways during and after World War I. But as we do that, it's worth remembering that even as these ideas are emerging, if you can go to the next slide, there is a fierce debate. It is not a fixed question at any moment until we get to that law in 1924 about what's going to happen. Mary Antin herself wrote a new book in 1914, that's a much more political book, really making the case for mass immigration. And I just wanna read a little bit about what she had to say. She says, "It should be easy to pick out the true Americans, the spiritual heirs of the founders of our republic by a simple test of loyalty to the principles of the Declaration of Independence. To such a test are we put both as a nation and as individuals every time we are asked to define our attitude on immigration." So, this is her bid in 1914, right? "That what matters is whether or not you're gonna subscribe to the fundamental ideas that have shaped American history." She says "The fundamental fact of the immigrant's humanity is well established, and we need only rehearse the articles of our political faith to know what to do with the immigrant. It is written in our basic law that he's entitled to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. There is nothing left for us to do, but to open wide our gates and set him on his way to happiness." So, that is the state of the American debate in 1914. And then something really important happens, which is the outbreak of World War I and its consequences. And in these last few minutes, I'm gonna talk about how we go from that fierce debate to something that looks much more restricted, both in terms of federal law and in terms of broader American society itself. So, you can turn to the next slide. World War I I think in American history tends to get a little bit lost in our memory. We spend a lot of time on the Civil War, we spend a lot of time on the heroics of World War II, and then World War I is sort of this strange blip. But if you want any sign of just how much it mattered in its moment, you only need to go to Beinecke Plaza and over to Commons, right? That whole building is a great World War I memorial. Those of you who have not written your memorial paper yet might think about going and actually looking at what's there around Beinecke Plaza, because most of it refers to this moment, not only Commons, you can go, oh Commons and incidentally, the flagpole that's there is a monument to soldiers who fought in the Philippines during the early 20th century, which was a really brutal graphic war and is worth thinking about and maybe investigating as well. One more slide on this, and of course this crypt that sort of stands there in the middle of Beinecke is also about this moment in the war. We're gonna talk a little bit more about the war itself on Tuesday, but suffice it to say that World War I was an imperial war between the great European empires in its broadest outline. On one side you have the German Empire, the Austro-Hungarian Empire, and the Ottoman Empire. On the other side, you have the British Empire, the French Empire, and the Russian Empire. To some degree, Japan and Italy also come in there. But what it means for the question of the United States is two things. One is that there is deep ambivalence in the United States about getting involved in this war. It takes quite a long time for the US to enter the war. And then second, it raises all of these questions in a country full of people who have come from all of these different warring powers. What is that gonna mean for American identity, for the American war? Effort. So, the United States really took two approaches to thinking about this. We can go to the next slide. (Beverly clears throat) One is that World War I becomes the moment of the birth of modern government propaganda in the United States. And when you get to Walter Lippmann's essay next week, which is the central part of our reading, you will see him wrestling with the ways in which these new forms of communication and propaganda are whipping up all sorts of forces that he finds pretty pernicious in American society. But as you can see, a lot of that propaganda is aimed at this idea of 100% Americanism that we are this polyglot, pluralistic country, but now we're a country at war and everyone has to sign on, everyone has to be an American, everyone has to show their loyalty to the United States. And what that tells you is that that was not at all certain, right? Irish immigrants were not very excited to go to war on behalf of the British Empire, which had been oppressing Ireland, right? Jews who had just gotten here from Russia are not thrilled at the idea of going to fight for the Russian czar, although the Russian revolutions of 1917 play a big role in shifting that kind of opinion. And of course there are lots of questions, particularly about German loyalty, if you can go to the next slide. And a lot of this propaganda, in addition to emphasizing these American themes, really deploys some of the scientific racism of varying sorts that have been so much part of the culture before that point. But in addition to propaganda, there are serious crackdowns during World War I on any number of groups and individuals. You can go to the next slide. Here he is, that's J. Edgar Hoover. That's our first J. Edgar Hoover sighting. So, in 1917, though we don't think about it very often, the United States began a program of German internment targeted at particular German nationals who they believed were disloyal or had the potential of being disloyal to the United States. About 10,000 people ended up in internment camps, most of them German nationals, and that was J. Edgar Hoover's first job out of college. Quite a job out of college was to judge who ought to be interned and which Germans were dangerous and which ones weren't. Keep going. We also get a wave of vigilante violence again, aimed largely though not exclusively at Germans, including the lynchings of German nationals, as well as other kind of cultural initiatives to rename German things. So, orchestras weren't supposed to play Beethoven or Wagner. If you were eating sauerkraut, you were supposed to call it liberty cabbage. There's the sort of funny version of all of that. And then there's a period of deep violence as well. Next slide. Political radicals find themselves under great pressure in the United States, particularly people who spoke out against the war effort. Joanne talked about the Espionage and Sedition Acts of the 1790s. They make a huge comeback in 1917 and 1918. 1917, the Espionage Act, 1918, the Sedition Act, which say that you cannot criticize the government in a time of war. Thousands of people are prosecuted in one way or another. Many of them jailed during the war for criticizing the US government calling for revolution saying they won't participate in the draft. These are some of the most famous, that is Eugene Debs, the perennial socialist candidate during these years in federal prison in the early 1920s, down there are Emma Goldman and Alexander Berkman, famous anarchists of the moment who were sent to jail, and up there, members of the Industrial Workers of the World, radical labor union that was rated on mass and its members imprisoned. The final thing that happens during the war is the first big Immigration Restriction Act that's in 1917. It creates literacy tests for immigrants into the United States. Does not have to be English, but there's now a literacy test. It creates what's called an Asiatic Barred Zone, so that includes not just Chinese immigrants, but South Asian immigrants, Southeast Asian immigrants, not Filipinos 'cause they are American during these years, but creates this Asiatic Barred Zone and gives the federal government the ability not only to imprison or to prevent them from coming, but to actively deport political revolutionaries and other radicals with ideas that they don't like. And then suddenly the war came to an end, right? The United States was not in World War I for very long, April of 1917, up to November of 1918. And so after this intensity of experience, the question is, what is the peace time United States gonna look like? And the regime of wartime restriction is really what wins out. 1919 is this incredibly dramatic period of US history. There are strikes, there's a lot of political violence, there's a lot of racial violence, there's a lot of uncertainty about what the post-war order will hold. And out of this comes this new regime of restriction that is going to dominate the 1920s. The Ku Klux Klan really has its heyday in the mid 1920s, has millions of members, but is a particularly powerful force in the Democratic Party, is driving a lot of Democratic Party policy. And the major feature of what ultimately emerges from this is what's known as the Johnson-Reed Act. You can go to the next. Can skip that one, another one. No, keep going (chuckles) okay, this is what we're looking for. In 1924, after a series of smaller-scale Immigration Acts, temporary Immigration Acts, the United States passes its first major comprehensive immigration restriction law, and it declares the America of the melting pot to be done and over for good. So, what did that law do? I'll just mention this quickly and then we'll wrap up. The 1924 immigration law did a couple of different things. First, it's set the quota of immigrants from Europe in particular at 2% of the people who were already in the United States in 1890, right? So, this is looking backwards. You're trying to, you know, recover some past moment. So, what that meant was that Jews and Southern Europeans in particular were largely excluded and restricted by this law. It left open immigration from lots of other places, Northern and Western Europe that had had many more people here before this wave of immigration. But if you hadn't gotten here before that you were out of luck. It makes Asian exclusion permanent. And in fact, Asians are not on mass allowed to become citizens of the United States for these next many decades. It does not set a numerical limitation within the Western Hemisphere, but it does create what has had a rather consequential history, an institution known as the Border Patrol is created in this moment of 1924, in part because once you start restricting, you've gotta enforce your restrictions. And so you get a whole new regime of papers and of policing and of enforcement that comes out of this moment. And that is really the picture of American politics by the 1920s. We can go to the next slide, right? This is Albert Johnson, one of the sponsors of the bill. And you can see him saying triumphantly, "We have saved America. We have saved its ideas. We have saved its principles from racial pollution, from radical ideas." And he says, "The United States is now our land," by which he means Anglo-Saxon Native-born people. "The United States is our land. We intend to maintain it, so the day of indiscriminate acceptance of all races has definitely ended." And this remains largely true from the 1920s through the 1960s. At its peak in 1907, there were more than 1 million immigrants coming into the United States in a single year, restriction limits that total number to 150,000 puts these special restrictions on Jews and on Italians. The Greeks are particularly unfortunate in this equation. There weren't very many Greeks here in 1890, though they had big surges after that. So, get about 50,000 people here at its peak year, and their quota goes back to 100 in a given year. So, we're gonna leave it there, but I wanna say two quick things. One is that even in this moment, the story is not so clear, and it's not over. The very year of this is also the year of the Indian Citizenship Act. So, American Indians finally get citizenship in the United States in 1924, the war years brought Puerto Ricans into the United States as full citizens. That really bad law about married women is overturned in this moment, so women's citizenship no longer follows that of their husbands with one exception. If you marry a quote, "alien ineligible to citizenship," you lose your citizenship, and that was aimed at women who married Asian men. And out of the reaction to all of this, you see new movements starting to emerge and percolate, movements around civil liberties, movements around racial justice, movements around recapturing and rethinking other ways of thinking about the United States. And just to drive that home, I'm gonna leave this here for now, but for those of you who didn't come in and didn't get to see the 1970s "Schoolhouse Rock!" story of "The American Melting Pot," that is my response to Albert Johnson. The melting pot idea did not in fact die in this moment, though it laid dormant for quite a long time. Thank you. (students applauding) (gentle music)