♪ This land is your land. ♪ ♪ And this land is my land ♪ ♪ From California to the New York Island ♪ ♪ From Redwood Forest to Gulf Stream waters ♪ ♪ This land was made for you and me ♪ ♪ When the sun comes shining, then I was strolling ♪ ♪ And the wheat fields waving ♪ ♪ And the dust clouds rolling ♪ ♪ The voice come a chanting, and the fog was lifting ♪ This land was made for you and me. - All right, well we were getting started there with one of the most famous American patriotic anthems of the 20th century. "This Land is Your Land" by Woody Guthrie. And usually when people are introduced to this song, it's in preschool or kindergarten, and everyone sings along, and it's this great heroic anthem. Easy to sing as well. I'm glad some of you were singing along at least. But "This Land is Your Land", like many great American anthems is not only born in a particular moment, but was born in a moment of engagement with protest politics. So while it is a celebratory song, it's also a song that comes out of what we're gonna be talking about today, which is the landscape of the New Deal and The Great Depression, particularly the protest politics that emerged during that era, around the labor movement, around mass mobilization, around the social experience of The Great Depression. Woody Guthrie was himself, someone who moved in those circles as a product of those circles, moved in the orbit of the Communist Party, which became one of the big forces on the American left in the 1930s. And as you can see from his guitar there, was deeply immersed in the anti-fascist politics of the 1930s. And that sticker on his guitar there says, "This Machine Kills Fascists". We're gonna talk more about the rise of fascism and the Second World War next week. For today, I wanna move back a little bit, if the slides will move. We were having a few tech issues. I wanna move back to where we started off last time and then ended up, which is with Walter Lippman. Here he is. You read "Public Opinion" for this week, Lippman's 1922 book, that is looking out from the landscape of the progressive era, trying to look into the future and see what's coming. And he's a pretty good analyst, and so he is got some intuition that something really important is changing in the practice of democracy and in American society more broadly in the 1920s. "The practice of democracy has turned a corner", he wrote. "A revolution is taking place infinitely more significant "than any shifting of economic power." So that's where we left off last time. And what makes public opinion so important is that this turns out to be true, but it turns out to be even more true than even a pretty smart prognosticator, like Walter Lippman could have understood. The 1920s as a decade are a period of incredibly rapid change, particularly in the areas of communications, and in the areas of consumer technology. We often talk about the Roaring Twenties as this boom time, and that is true certainly in many ways, though there were many people who did not benefit from this. But what everyone was experiencing, whether you were rich or poor, was a transformation in technology that was reshaping all sorts of aspects of American politics and society. So a few of them up here, the 1920s is when radio first comes in really as a mass form of communication. Lippman can see a little bit of this in 1922, but he doesn't see the full force of that. Hollywood is being born. For this week, you watched "The Grapes of Wrath", an actually talkie film from this era, but it's in the 1920s that we go from silent films to talking films. And Hollywood is born as this amazingly powerful engine of messaging, of cultural production, and some people would say, of propaganda. You have all sorts of new consumer items coming into being in a mass way for the first time. The automobile is transforming the American landscape, and is transforming where people live, how they relate to each other. You have the first transatlantic flights in the 1920s. We have Charles Lindbergh down there with his airplane in 1927. And in the texture of daily life, there are all sorts of new items coming in, refrigerators, laundry machines, a whole host of consumer items that are changing the texture of daily life very rapidly. Famously, the 1920s is also a boom era for Wall Street, and the stock market takes off in the 1920s, in part because it too is making this transition from being something that was kind of particular to a group of financial and economic elites, to being something that's much more of a mass experience. So very few Americans are invested in the stock market, even in the 1920s, but many, many more than at any previous moment in American history. Some of that is because they had been trained by World War I to take out liberty bonds, and to think of themselves not only as citizens, but as investors. And that helps to fuel the speculative, but also very productive stock market boom of the 1920s. And what this led to was not only a change in the economic experience from the booms and busts of the progressive era, right, the extremes of wealth that people are so worried about. It leads to a set of declarations about the possibility that the United States has actually solved its problems. It's figured out modernity, it's figured out how everyone is going to move forward together in this new economic world. Calvin Coolidge, who becomes President after the death of Warren Harding, he died of natural causes. Our last Ohio Republican gives way to Calvin Coolidge, his Vice President, and he famously declares in the mid 1920s, the Chief Business of the American people is business. They are profoundly concerned with producing, buying, selling, investing, and prospering in the world, right? This is not just a set of claims about the economy of the 1920s. It's a set of claims about what the United States is, and the fact that all of those ferocious economic conflicts of the 1920s, of the progressive era are coming to an end in the 1920s. Now, statistically, this is not actually true. That is not what's happening in the 1920s. The 1920s are a period of rapidly expanding economic inequality, in which concentrations of wealth among the top 1%, or the top 0.1% as well, reach a peak that they had never seen before to that moment in American history. A lot of the story of the rest of this semester is going to be the ways in which that becomes contained and constrained in mid-century. And then at the end of the 20th century, opens back up. So that as you can see as we head into the 21st century, we look a lot more like the 1920s than we do like the 1950s on that front. Nonetheless, there are many declarations that these changes, these new technologies, this economic expansion is in fact the answer to the future. Another claim from a newspaper in Muncie, Indiana, which was one of the most heavily studied communities in the United States in the 1920s, very famous study in which a couple of social scientists go to Muncie. They write a book called "Middletown". And Middletown is their name for Muncie as a typical American city. And they're setting out to find out who are Americans in this moment, and what do they do and what do they believe. And they quote from a newspaper in Muncie that says, look, we can see what's happening. The old political struggles are over, and that the American citizens' first importance to his country is no longer that of a citizen of a political participant, but that of a consumer. So that is the politics of the 1920s. Walter Lippman saw a little bit of it coming, but not all of it. But of course, people in the 1920s at the end of the decade, get their own big surprise, which is that this whole edifice, this whole world, this whole way of thinking about the modern world, modern America, how it's gonna function, who gets what, collapses, all of a sudden in 1929. The most famous moment of collapse is the stock market crash of October, 1929. And you can see here, the real shock in that moment, after almost a decade of this wealth accumulation of this energetic bubbling stock market, suddenly things are coming to an end. Wall Street was a street of vanished hopes. The New York Times wrote the day after the crash, of curiously silent apprehension and a sort of paralyzed hypnosis. Though we tend to think about the stock market crash as the start of The Great Depression, it's really one node of a series of crises that come together in the late 1920s and early 1930s to make up what comes to be known as The Great Depression. So some of those crises are happening on the global stage, and we're gonna talk about that next week. And the ways in which the settlements of World War I, the struggles of Europe, and the wavering European empires shape a lot of what happens in The Great Depression. But there are a series of interlocking crises that emerge within the United States as well. And these photographs give you some sense of the varied experience of The Great Depression, and these interlocking crises that are hitting different groups of people in different ways. Up there, you can see that there's a banking crisis, right? And this becomes one of the most urgent crises at the moment that The Great Depression begins. There is no insurance for people who have put their monies into banks. And so when banks start to fail, ordinary Americans lose their life fortunes almost immediately. This is a cascading crisis that goes on from 1929 to 1932, and into 1933, when you're seeing a cascading series of banking failures. There's an environmental crisis in the years of the late '20s and into the '30s, most famously the Dust Bowl in the central part of the country. That's, of course, what's depicted in the film for this week, "The Grapes of Wrath", the utter devastation of the landscape, partly due to modern farming methods, as well as the social and political forcing out of farm families from that region. There's a housing crisis. As financial institutions fail, mortgages begin to fail. You'd had a big mortgage boom in the 1920s, particularly in places like Florida and others that are starting to open up to a new modern citizen, and a new set of visitors and leisure experiences, that comes crashing to a close as well in the early 1930s. There's a housing crisis, a homelessness crisis, and one that like these other crises continues to get worse. Two others to mention. In the far corner there, we have a sharecropper and his son. In the American South, David mentioned the ways in which the system of sharecropping emerged during and after reconstruction as a sort of uneasy settlement, a way to do agriculture in the South, that was keeping a lot of old power relations in place. Well that collapses too in the 1930s, partly for environmental reasons, partly for political reasons. And you have millions of people being displaced from the land. An accelerant of what was already happening, and agricultural society turning into an urban society. And then finally down on the bottom, you have a crisis of unemployment. As the economy begins to contract, those great industrial factories, the ones that have been pumping out cars, and refrigerators, and radios, and all of these new technologies, they begin to grind to a halt as well, and millions of an industrial workers end up out of work. At its peak, the unemployment rate during The Great Depression in 1932 was about 25%. In some cities, New York, Chicago, among industrial workers, the rate got as high as 60, even 70%. So mass unemployment on a scale, and with potentially, many people thought a permanence that hadn't been seen before. And what all of this yields is not only an economic crisis that has all these variations, but it yields a crisis of legitimacy for the people who had said the problems of modernity had been solved, for these ideas about what's going to happen going forward for the major institutions, big business above all that had championed themselves as the answer. And of course, for the party that we have talked about as being the dominant force in American politics from the Civil War up to this moment, the Republican Party, this is a moment that upends American politics, it upends political coalitions, and it recreates those parties anew. So in lecture today, we are going to focus on what came next after this story of the 1920s, and in particular at the politics of the New Deal, which are really the central political story of the 1930s. I'm gonna start by talking a little bit about one of the essential questions of the 1930s as historians look back on them, which is as this big transformation begins to happen in American government, in the relationship between government and politics, in the relationship between citizens and the federal government in particular, who was responsible for it, who made that happen? And then we're going to look at a few possible answers. We're gonna talk about Franklin Roosevelt and the politics of that moment. We're gonna talk a little bit about Congress, 'cause this is a moment when Congress is actually doing stuff. So it's an interesting case study for that reason. And then we are going to look at some of the social mobilizations of that moment, and in particular, the labor movement, which is the great mobilization of the 1930s that really captures something new and different about the New Deal spirit. So when we talk about the New Deal, I suggested that, as with progressivism, historians like to debate, what was the New Deal? How do we wanna understand it? We could get into many, many different debates on that front. One that relates to what we were talking about on Tuesday, is whether the New Deal, when it begins to emerge in 1933, is an extension of the ideas of the progressive era, about administrative government, about government intervention in the economy. Or whether it is something radically different, a form of politics that actually rejects a lot of the moralizing of the progressive era, right? No more onward Christian soldiers, and no drinking alcohol, right? The New Deal is something quite different altogether. There are many other debates as you can see up here. Was the New Deal a moment of reform that stabilized the existing power relations of American society? Or was it something much bigger, something like a revolution, as many people at the time described it. We are not going to go through all of these questions. We're gonna focus on that question of who made the New Deal? And in particular, what historians often mean when they ask that question, is was the New Deal, when it began to emerge in 1933, you know, a top-down enterprise, the President, all of these kind of young Ivy League trained advisors who rushed down into the new government agencies and start making policy, elected officials, right? Does it come from the center out? Or are the essential visions and policies of the New Deal actually born at the ground, right? Are they actually ideas that were floating around in American society, and more particularly, that ordinary citizens picked up and ran with, and defined and redefined what the New Deal was going to be on the ground? We are gonna look at, as I was saying, various aspects of that, some top down, some bottom up. But as you begin to think about the New Deal yourself, those of you who are going to section later in the week, this might be a question you wanna take up. All right, so thinking about the politics of this moment, we said, all right, the Republicans, they've been doing really well for a really, really long time. That doesn't change in the 1920s. These are the electoral maps at the presidential level of the 1920s. And you can see that the Democratic Party during those years is the party of the solid south, and basically nowhere else. The Republicans are getting elected again and again, and in mass fashion, right? And this is one of the things that people assume about the 1920s. They say, aha, we have reached, you know, the kind of permanent Republican majority. This will never change. We will dominate forever. And I will just give you a little clue that often when people say that in politics, it turns out not to be true because things happen. And one of the things that happened was the election of 1932, in which Franklin Roosevelt is the candidate. And as you can see, it is a dramatic change. Roosevelt himself is a politician from New York, a longtime stalwart of the Democratic Party. He is a fifth cousin of Theodore Roosevelt. So part of this very extended, wealthy, longstanding New York clan. He marries Eleanor Roosevelt, who is Theodore Roosevelt's niece, and therefore, is also kind of his own distant cousin. So she does not have to change her last name. She was already Eleanor Roosevelt at the moment that they got married. And Roosevelt makes his way up through democratic politics in New York, which is powerful in the state, but on the national level, is really a minority party. He serves in the Wilson administration. He is on the vice presidential ticket in 1920. But as we saw, does not enter the White House as Vice President. The 1920s turn out to be a period of crisis for Roosevelt. And that is because he contracts polio, and he spends much of the 1920s quite sick, and he loses the use of his legs. And so as you look at these images of the Roosevelt presidency, it's worth keeping in mind what you can see and what you can't see. So Franklin Roosevelt, for his entire presidency and all four campaigns, was in a wheelchair. And when he was standing, he was standing with assistance, and usually with very large heavy braces that helped him, say, stand at a podium. So as we're getting these new technologies, right, film, radio, there are still certain things that can be seen, and others not. Well, Roosevelt emerges from this personal crisis, determined to reenter politics. He becomes the Governor of New York as a Democrat in 1928, and then in 1932, he becomes the presidential nominee. And it's worth noting that when Franklin Roosevelt became the nominee, people didn't say, oh, he's this guy with a vision for how to reorder the American political economy. He wasn't very specific about what he was running on. He was mostly running on the idea that things weren't going very well and something needed to be done. And as you saw in 1932, just about everyone agrees. And so he entered on this promise of action. And one of the amazing pieces of the story of the New Deal is just how much action there was, and just how quickly it happened. Now, this is a moment when the elections were in November, but the president did not take office until March. We've moved that back to January, in large part because of what happened in 1932 into 1933, which is that the crises of the Depression and the banking crisis in particular kept getting worse, and worse, and worse, and worse. So when Roosevelt and his new team came into office, they were determined to act immediately. Today, we often talk about the first 100 days as kind of the great measure of how successful an early presidency is. That goes back to this moment in Franklin Roosevelt's career in which you just got a blizzard of legislation, unlike anything that we've really certainly seen before, and by most measures, anything we've seen since. When historians talk about the legislative story of the New Deal, they often separate it into two different categories. One is the the first New Deal, 1933 and 1934, the first half of Roosevelt's presidency, which is often described as a time of experimentation. We had all these crises. People want all of them solved at once. And so they are trying all sorts of new things. Joanne and her lectures talked a lot about the founders, and the idea that they are just experimenting, trying to figure it out. This is another moment of high experimentation, in part because many people in American society, in the government and outside of it believe in 1933, that it is possible that the whole system is on the verge of a permanent collapse. That's not only the political system, but the economic system. And so this is partly driven by fear, and then partly driven by a set of ambitions and aspirations, some of which came out of all those big ideas from the progressive era. Couple of important things happen during the first New Deal. The financial and banking system is radically reordered, and we get the invention of many of the institutions that still govern that to some degree in our own moment. The Securities and Exchange Commission, Federal Deposit Insurance, a a whole regulatory framework comes into being, in attempt to stabilize the financial system in particular. There are a number of attempts to reorder the relationship between government and the economy to try to get business people to work together, to stabilize production, stabilize prices. Same thing in the agricultural sector to some degree. Also true in other sectors as well. A lot of those don't work very well, but they are big ideas and they are ambitious, and they are tried for a while in 1933 and 1934. And then perhaps most meaningfully for many people, prohibition comes to an end. This had been a huge campaign pledge of Franklin Roosevelt's, and as you can see, many of those same women who had been marching in the progressive era saying, get rid of beer, are now, you know, we want beer, 1933, American flags. This is a huge issue in ways that we often forget. It's one of the things that propelled Franklin Roosevelt into the presidency. So that's 1933 and 1934, sort of a grab bag of experiments, some of which last and some of which don't. Then we have what's often referred to as the second New Deal, the period of 1935 and 1936, when you get a series of more sustained, more lasting, in many ways, more ambitious visions, not only of what policies are gonna stabilize the economy, but of how citizens are going to relate to their own role in the economy and how they're going to participate in both the economy and the democratic world. You can see here, some of the animating policies that come out of that. First of all, the social security system, which is a system of old age insurance, as well as disability and unemployment insurance, operating on a variety of different models. Second major piece of legislation that comes out of this is the National Labor Relations Act in 1935, which is the first time that the federal government formerly recognizes that labor unions have a right to exist, and sets up a formal process by which people can begin to join unions. Now, this is a grab bag too, in certain ways, but I think there are a couple of key ideas that really become the essential ideas of the New Deal around these sorts of questions of economic citizenship and political participation in the economy. The first of those is there, in the phrase, "social security", a set of claims that say, look, if people are impoverished, if they cannot have the basics of life, then there is no way that they can be true citizens. And that actually it's the obligation of the federal government in particular, but government at other levels, to ensure a basic level of security that is not only gonna be useful for the economy, right, get consumption and production back going, but is going to be essential for full political participation. That you cannot be a fully realized citizen if you are under the tyranny of your boss, or if you are scrambling every day to get the essentials of life. The second big idea that gets talked about during these years is what's known as industrial democracy. And the idea of industrial democracy is that it doesn't make sense to say, okay, in this sphere, the political sphere, we live in a democracy. But the moment someone goes to work, particularly in a factory, they lose all of their rights. They're under the thumb of their boss. They have no ability to speak out, they have no ability to bargain freely around things like wages and working conditions. It's an idea that if people got together, they could in fact have more power, and bargain over those sorts of things, and therefore be much fuller participants in this American democratic experiment. So those are the big ideas floating around, that shape things like the Wagner Act, also known as the National Labor Relations Act, and Social Security. So what did Franklin Roosevelt have to do with any of that? He is not the person who thought of those ideas. He is mostly channeling ideas that are widespread, to the degree that he even buys into those ideas at all. Well, I wanna say a few words about Roosevelt as a President that I think are really essential to the way the New Deal emerges. I tend to be skeptical about the idea, you know, that presidential leadership is the answer to everything. FDR, like any other president, is channeling large institutions, lots of constraints, other people's ideas. But I think there are a few things about Roosevelt that are important. First of all, as Oliver Wendell Holmes said of him when he was being inaugurated in 1933, Holmes said, "Well, Franklin Roosevelt has a second class intellect, "but a first class temperament." And what he meant by that was that this was a person who could, in fact, sustain his way through the incredible crush of crisis that was the United States in that moment, and that he had pretty good judgment about picking advisors. And in fact, a lot of the story of the New Deal is going to be about this world of policy makers who come to Washington, create their own circles, and exchange ideas. A second thing that really matters about Roosevelt's presidency is that he masters the communications technologies of his age, in particular, the radio, which is a lot easier for him to manage than film, for reasons you can imagine. Beginning in 1933, he sets up what are known as the fireside chats, which are essentially his conversations with the American people over the radio. And he takes it as his charge as President, not to just do all of this stuff in Washington, but actually to explain it to people, to let them see and understand their government at work. In his first fireside chat, which was March, 1933, the peak of the banking crisis, he starts his address by saying, "I wanna talk for a few minutes "with the people of the United States about banking, "with the comparatively few who understand "the mechanics of banking, "but more particularly, you know, with everyone else." He says, "I owe this to the American people, "because we are their representatives in government." And he says that it should be, quote, "explained for the benefit of the average citizen", right? A fundamental insight, not only that there's this new technology available, but the government and the work of government is not legible to people unless you explain it to them. And that has the effect of really personalizing the presidency in a new way. Right, up to this point with, you know, some exceptions, Presidents mostly kind of answered their own mail with a group of secretaries, you know, relatively small circle of people helping them out. When Franklin Roosevelt becomes President, citizens start writing in by the thousands, and tens of thousands, and hundreds of thousands. I put one cute example from an eight year old boy up here, you know, writing in and saying, "Hey, Mr. President, I wanna tell you something." That is pretty new in American politics. And then finally, Roosevelt and his New Dealers, if I can get the slide to come. There we go. Understood that you couldn't just do the things in Washington, you couldn't just explain what you were doing. You had to give ordinary people a way to be involved. And so a lot of the story of the early years of the New Deal is about thinking how ordinary people can get involved, partly because Roosevelt thinks the Depression is partly a psychological problem. People are afraid, they don't believe in the future anymore. And partly because this is a political mobilization, a citizen mobilization. So I wanna show you a brief, it's basically a news reel of a parade that was put on in New York in 1933 upon the passage of the National Recovery Act, which is one of those early big pieces of New Deal legislation. And you can see the ways in which you're not just passing the law, but you're getting all these different groups of people involved and performing their support for the government, for the Democratic Party, and for Roosevelt himself. (upbeat music) This is just for a piece of legislation. (upbeat music) (audience applauding and cheering) All right, you get a sense of the mass politics of the New Deal and the Depression era, but also of the mass mobilization that's taking place, in some ways from the top down, and in others from the bottom up. Well, this proves to be a hugely successful political formula. This is the map of the 1936 election. You can see that even Connecticut has now voted for Franklin Roosevelt. It was one of the holdouts in 1932. And I should note that Yale men of the time were quite universally opposed to Franklin Roosevelt and his class politics. The last thing that I will say on this front is that over this period, from 1932 into 1936, one of the most interesting things about Roosevelt as a political figure is the ways in which he changed his mind. He learned from being in office, and a lot of people compare him in that sense to Abraham Lincoln, and to David's depiction of Abraham Lincoln as someone who came in with one set of ideas, was in a high pressure, fast changing, high stake situation, and changed his mind. And I just wanna play one clip. This is Franklin Roosevelt on the eve of the 1936 election. It is one of the most radical speeches ever made by a sitting President of the United States. I'm gonna play a clip of about a minute and a half, then we'll move on to Congress and labor. - For nearly four years now, you have had an administration, which instead of twirling its thumbs, has rolled up its sleeves. (audience applauding and cheering) And I can assure you that we will keep our sleeve rolled up. We had to struggle with the old enemies of peace, business and financial monopoly, speculation, reckless banking, class antagonism, sectionalism, war profiteering. They had begun to consider the government of the United States as a mere appendage to their own affairs. And we know now, that government by organized money is just as dangerous as government by organized mob. - Now we're coming up on the really famous line from this speech. - Never before in all our history have these forces being to united against one candidate as they stand today. They are unanimous in the hate for me, and I welcome their hatred. - So that is Franklin Roosevelt saying, I am the man of the people. You know this, even with his very Patrician accent from his wealthy New York family. I stand here opposed to the wealthy, to the bankers, to the capitalists. And that's who I am. This is not who he was in earlier iterations of his career. All right, so now I wanna turn on to talking about the two other possible answers to this question of who made the New Deal. First talk about Congress a little bit, and then end up with the social mobilizations of the moment. So this is a poster from the 1940 presidential election, and if you look at all of those pieces of legislation that are being claimed and identified as being central to the New Deal, they have one thing in common, which is that they are all pieces of legislation. And that means that the Congress of the United States passed all of those pieces of legislation, and passed them very rapidly. So one of the questions and paradoxes of the New Deal is first of all, how did that happen, right? How did Congress decide to act quite as rapidly as it did, but also why did Congress vote to pass all of this legislation which actually gave lots and lots of power to the executive branch? Well, part of the reason for that, and maybe most of the reason for that is this, that not only did the 1932, 1934, 1936 elections produce a huge landslide for Roosevelt, it produced massive majorities for the Democratic Party in both the House and the Senate. And so when you look at American history, if you see these periods of intense legislative activity, it is almost always when you've got huge majorities for one party in the House, the radical Republicans at an earlier moment, in a later moment, the Great Society. Well, here we are seeing it with the New Deal Democratic Party. And so Congress is engaged in Roosevelt's agenda, but it is also a split Democratic Party during these years, and this becomes quite consequential later on. The Democratic Party, as we saw, is the party of the solid South. And those are some of the major power brokers in Congress during these years. Relatively conservative Southern Democrats who believe in the Democratic Party, who believe in certain parts of the economic agenda of the New Deal, but who are deeply conservative in other ways, and particularly interested in protecting Jim Crow. Now this makes for a very awkward and interesting coalition, right? The Coalition of the Democratic Party by 1936 consists of a bunch of different groups. So you have all of these ambitious liberals, the former progressives who are now flooding into the Democratic Party. You have the solid South, which tends to be quite conservative, and which for the most part does not include Black voters. But for many generations, or at least many decades at this point, you've also had Black voters moving up to the north, beginning to exercise their voting rights. And they too enter the Democratic coalition And then finally, you have industrial workers who are usually concentrated in major cities, but who are also essential parts of that New Deal coalition. Now, that's a big proportion of the American public, but you can see the ways in which that is already creating some tensions, that's ultimately going to split this coalition apart. So when we say that Congress made the New Deal, that means this is happening through legislation, Congress is acting, but it also means that these conservative Southern Congressmen are quite deliberately containing what it is that some of this New Deal legislation will do, by insisting that it be administered locally so that it will conform to local Jim Crow practices, by insisting on certain exclusions from things like social security, agricultural workers, domestic workers, in part places where Black workers are concentrated. So the New Deal builds this new edifice, but it is constrained in a variety of ways as well, a lot of which have to do with Congress. Ultimately, these tensions between the Democratic Coalition and Franklin Roosevelt, tensions within the Democratic Coalition, come to a head in a series of battles between Congress and the presidency, that helped to bring that period of incredible activity to an end. Some of them are battles over the changing power dynamics between Congress, and all of these new administrative agencies that are being created. Others are political challenges over things like the expansion of the Supreme Court. It comes to a head in 1938 when Franklin Roosevelt actually goes on the road. You can see he's traveling the country by train to primary the Southern Democrats in his own party, going around saying, kick these guys out. You're the one party South, and bring in more progressive and liberal legislators. He loses that battle. Those Southerners end up going back to Washington. And in many ways, the New Deal becomes quite constrained over that moment. So when we talk about Congress's role, it is both as an engine of legislation, and as a constraint on some of the ambitions of the executive branch. All right, now I wanna finish up by just saying a few words about the social mobilizations of the New Deal, because in many ways, this is the most interesting and exciting, and really mass piece of the story of the era's politics. There are lots of different mobilizations that happen, and those of you who have not written your archival project again, and want to explore these questions, have a lot of places you can go. This is a photo of Richard Wright, one of the most influential Black writers of the 1930s, who came of age as a writer in the orbit of the Communist Party, the labor movement, the civil rights organizing that's happening on the left during these years. So his papers are here at Yale. Great way to explore that. Up there, we have a New Deal official named Harold Ickes, meeting with some representatives of American Indian tribes. There's a fascinating story about the Indian New Deal that emerges during these years. Yale has some great collections related to that, in particular, the collections of Henry Roe Cloud. And then there are lots of mobilizations among women, among women workers, among some of the old kind of progressive coalitions and movements. And if you're curious about that, there's a collection called The Women and Work Collection, which is mostly interviews with women who worked in the labor movement during this period. But for now, I wanna turn to the labor movement itself, which in many ways was picking up on some of these ideas we talked about during the progressive era, is coming off decades of frustration and violence during the late 19th and early 20th century. And then suddenly sees a new opportunity in the legislation that comes down, the messaging that's coming down from on high. One of the key pieces that creates this new world of the American labor movement is the National Recovery Act, and then the National Industrial Recovery Act, which has a little clause in it that says, you know, we'd like to encourage American workers to join actual unions rather than company unions. And this is intended to be kind of a measure of peace after all of these years of conflict between capital and labor. But many workers in the country take this into their own hands and decide, actually this is a moment to seize that new recognition, and to go out on strike. In 1934, turns out to be one of the great strike waves in American history, akin to 1919. The difference is that in 1919, those labor unions got crushed. They were shot, they were deported, they were rejected institutionally. And you get a very different reaction in 1935, in particular, as we've said, the passage of the National Labor Relations Act, which sets up an infrastructure whereby workers in industries can organize and hold union elections. It's really based around that fundamental idea of industrial democracy, that it's gonna be good for the economy, but it's also gonna be good for the democracy. If you can set up these institutions through which people can express some of their economic interests. And almost immediately, there is a new wave of organizing that emerges to make this law not just something that's on paper, but something that is being realized in the world. In 1935, what starts as the Committee of Industrial Organizations becomes the Congress of Industrial Organizations, is created on this industrial democracy idea. And this period of the late 1930s becomes the most powerful period of labor organizing in the United States, and gives birth to many of the big industrial unions that we know today. The United Auto Workers, the United Steel Workers, the United Electrical Workers. They come out of this moment that is in part, a new legal structure, and in part, a new energy and mobilization. I wanna read quickly from the words of John L. Lewis, one of the creators of the CIO, as he's looking at this incredible wave of action that's happening, says, "The workers of the nation "were tired of waiting for corporate industry "to right their economic wrongs, "to alleviate their social agony, "and to grant them their political rights. "Despairing a fair treatment, "they resolved to do something for themselves." And when we asked that question, who made the New Deal? That's the essence of the bottom up answer, that these would've been pieces of legislation until ordinary citizens, sometimes in unions, sometimes in other movements, took hold of them and made them real. This is a photo of probably the most famous strike of the 1930s, the Sitdown Strike at General Motors in Flint, Michigan, which helped give birth to the UAW. I have it up here, not only because it was an important strike. You could see they've occupied the factories, they're sitting it out, the assembly line is stopped. One of the key imaginative and actual strikes of the period is also David Blight's hometown, and his grandfather claims to have been in the Sitdown Strike, and we think that that is probably, in fact, true. And if you go to Flint, Michigan now, as I did on my road trips, you can see this memorial to the Sitdown Strike that is trying to capture that moment in the factories. So it's not just in industry, it's in other parts of the American economy as well. I said the steel workers, I thought you would appreciate that photo up there, which you might recognize. If you can't see it, those ladies in their nice fur coats are saying, "Strike, Yale University employees "organizing through the CIO", are also somewhat successful and less successful there. So I wanna finish off by saying that all of this is the context for the film that you watched this week, which is "The Grapes of Wrath". "The Grapes of Wrath" is one of these key pieces of New Deal culture. John Steinbeck is someone who comes out of this world of ferment and organizing. It's trying to capture the social experience and the social dislocation of these years. Comes out in 1939, the film comes out, the book comes out in 1939, and the film comes out in 1940, and it really, in some ways, sums up the dynamics of the New Deal and this period of the 1930s. But as with Walter Lippman, John Steinbeck and many other people don't see what's ahead on the horizon, which is that World War II is breaking out in Europe. It's going to come to consume and transform many parts of the world, and to change the United States as well. That's where we're headed next week. Thanks. (audience applauding) (calming music)