Well, here we are, fellow professors for the first episode of our not very creatively titled weekly podcast called America at 250 The Podcast. So I think the first thing we might want to do is make a plea to the crowd to do a little crowdsourcing creativity. We would be happy to have a more creative name if there is one out there. But for the moment, we are truth. In. Advertising. Exactly. To talk about the class and I think do what is the most exciting or one of the most exciting pieces of the course for us, which is to be able to learn from each other, talk to each other, debate history. Those who know us know that this could go on for hours and hours and hours, but we are going to try to keep it, to about 45 minutes and just delve in a little more depth into what we've been doing. By the way, I had suggested three titles for this podcast, but they were all so bad they were rejected. They were actually worse than the current title. They were very - We won't name what they are, but. We're looking for creativity. So we have started out the class, hearing from Joanne Freeman. We've been talking about Common Sense. We've been talking about the Declaration, we've been talking about the Revolution. And David and I have been sitting there having some thoughts of our own. So, David, maybe you want to get us started with, I'd love to. One big question, Joanne, that you addressed. It used to be, quite a controversial issue in scholarship, at least, certainly when I was in graduate school. You portrayed a revolution here that was a pretty popular revolution. These other declarations, which is, I think, a revelation for most people from Pauline Mayer's book and all of these local gatherings in townships and towns where they're debating, do we do this, this radical juncture in time? Do we take this risk? Reflect on that a bit more. It, if it was a popular revolution that tells us this was not just a top down thing, right? By all the, you know, the smart white boys in Philadelphia. -in knee britches- Yeah, wearing knee britches. It was something beyond that. And it was about their own sense of where they were in the world. Absolutely. And, you know, I suppose I hadn't thought, necessarily about the fact that I was doing something that was different or new, but but I will say that it's informed by what I see in the 1790s. So when the government starts. Yeah. What you see are just Americans. General Americans, not the guys - ten guys in a room who have a real sense of entitlement that they fought in the revolution. They took part in the revolution. They took part in independence. So now they're entitled to some things. And so, as we're going to see in the week after next, when we get into the 1790s, there are American citizens who just feel that now it’s their time and they're going to continue to have a voice. Women feel that they're going to have more voice than they did. Average Americans did. And so in a way, my looking back to this period and saying, you know, the people had that sense of involvement and entitlement, I think that's true. And I think it becomes even more important to see when you see Americans voicing that once the government. And even, of course, the former slaves who write those spectacular petitions, all rooted in natural rights tradition, saying, wait a minute, we fought, too. And it's the power of people, right? It's the power of the ideas and the power of the rhetoric and the ways in which they went so far beyond where the framers of these documents thought they would go. Right. Although, one of the things that really struck me about listening to this was the idea that this was a defensive war, right? This is actually a war that's about loss. And we tend to think of the revolution as this very, very forward thinking. Like we're huzzah-ing on toward greatness and equality, or at least nationhood. But the Declaration itself, Common Sense, they are all about betrayal and grievance and a kind of politics of loss. And I thought you talked about that very powerfully in your first lecture, as well as, in today's lecture. And it's something that I think we're going to see throughout the semester is the power not only of these big ideas, but of a sense of betrayal and grievance. We're going to see that in the 19th century with the populist movement. We're going to see all sorts of movements mobilize that over over the course of the 20th century. So how do those things go hand in hand? Do you read it in both ways? Well, I think I mean, I think that's a great idea because I think, you know, we also tend to, in a way, have very clear dividing lines between like radical and conservative and looking forward and looking back. And some of what you're asking about is, you know, the revolution, certainly it's moving towards something. But you're absolutely right. It starts out and remains for a really long time, a defensive thing, so that it's tempting to look at the revolution and say it's radical. It's but it wasn't initially. I mean, that's why part of why I assign Common Sense for this week, right? That is radical. But it's late in the game, right? It's only a couple months before we actually do declare independence. So I think those things go together, because I think things that we might assume in the long view of history, looking back in time, that feel as though they're radical and new and leading to the now, in some ways, you're totally right. There actually were people hanging on to something and trying to figure out what comes next. I talked about that a lot, too. Right? Contingency that we forget, especially when talking about the founding and improvization. I love your use of. Improvization content making. It up as they go. Yeah, they're making it up and they're looking forward in time. And that's so hard to remember in the founding period. My favorite documents that we've looked at, so Common Sense is great, and we will get into Common Sense. But the the two that really captured that sense of contingency and guys who aren't entirely sure what's coming next or what they're doing, were one that draft of the Declaration that you showed today, with all of the crossing out and the rewriting and the painful experience of writing by committee, and then the document that you posted, really as a supplement to Common Sense, which was John Adams to do list. And I was sitting there thinking about my own to do list, which looked like that, except his to do list is declare independence, raise an army. Get some money - deal with France and Spain - make the colonies work together, right? Amazing thing. Do you want to talk about those extra documents before we before we get into Common Sense. And that's precisely one of the reasons why I include those kinds of documents is because, you know, I mean, it's it's the most human of moments, is John Adams like, oh, like, what do we gotta do? Here I'm going to make up a list. And that's just not how we think about anything that's going on in this early part of the course. Right. And the fact that he sits and makes that list of stuff that we have to somehow do, and the fact that some of the things he lists are so ambitious and so huge, he has really no idea sort of what's happening and where it's going and how big it'll be and how important it'll be. So with the draft of the Declaration, which the list that John Adams is making, I just think generally if you're thinking about the, the founding writ large, you have to drum home the, the humanness of it because we put that whole period on a pedestal and, and it makes no sense on a pedestal because everything that they were doing was a struggle. And as you said, David was improvization. And the battles that they were fighting were partly within themselves as to what was going to happen and what they were going to do. So, you can't understand that period at all if you see it as this golden, glorious. Everyone knew what they were doing heading off into the sunset yelling Huzzah That eliminates everything that they thought that they were doing. I had not read Common Sense in years. It is a fantastic - we overuse the word iconic, but it is an iconic document of many kinds. But first of all, tell us a little more on who's Thomas Paine, where's he from? How did he get here? And suddenly, within a year, write this amazing manifesto. Within a year. So, he's a stay makers son is like, had a parent who is a Quaker, but he was not particularly- Do you want to say what a staymaker is? Oh, yeah. Oh, wow. For those of us who don’t live in the 18th century. So stay making.... - I never wear such things anymore- Yeah, I know if you're a woman, you sort of want to have the right sort of shape and figure. So you would wear stays that would sort of keep you toned in and sitting up. the Like a corset. Thank you. That's a much better way of putting it. I was trying to come up with that. I'm going to talk about a female garment. Actually, I don't know how much you could see she was actually demonstrating. And, this is what you write. So, yeah, he and his is a particularly religious. He comes to the United States. He talks about how he gets into at that time, not the United States but the colonies. And he can feel what's happening. He can feel that things. I think he says at one time when things are stirring, he can feel that things are stirring. And he already was beginning to write a variety of different things, some of them political, some not. And what he discovered very early on was that he was when he did write politically, when he was writing about the political situation, then he had an audience. People were listening to what he had to say. He could feel that the people were plugged in to that kind of conversation. So he gets pulled in that way. And then he befriends, among other people, Benjamin Rush, who's a big deal doctor at the time. And he so he comes from England and he's not just sort of instantly poof writing things that are perfect on colonial soil. He has people he knows, like Benjamin Rush, talking to him about what's going on. I think Rush actually says something like, whatever you do, don't talk about republicanism or monarchy. He didn't, he didn't follow that advice. It's almost like a dare. Yeah. But still, he he was talking to people. He was reading what the public was interested in, and he was hearing what others were saying about what had happened before he got there. I love the way he weaves his way into monarchy by reflecting really psychologically on why human beings are drawn to strongmen, to monarchs, to kings. Why do some people need kings? He goes on as a way of setting up, of course, then pages about the his word “absurdity” of monarchy. I mean, I don't know if there is a more brutal takedown of monarchy. No at all age of the enlightenment than Common Sense. And and that's the one of the things that to me, so exciting about it is it's brutal and it's deliberately intended to be plain blunt. Anyone can pick it up and read it or hear about it, and you're going to get the message right in their face. He calls King George a brute. The royal brute. Yeah, I mean, that's - And he plays plays with the ignorance of kings. You know, they're uneducated, they don’t know anything. -That’s so radical- I particularly appreciated, since we're in a, a class of, some 400, 18 to 22 year olds that, the fact that teenagers could become king and could become the monarch was one of the And even younger! Even younger. That was that was the height of absurdity, in in Paine. But it's also because of that particular audience. It's important to remember some of what you're getting at here, David, which is how radical that was, right? Because we- In the 18th century. In the 18th century, I mean, we're so we're so used to so many words in so many places spilling over us that we kind of forget the radical power which which words can have. And in this time period, not only is it is it effective and powerful, but it's kind of shocking. Well, and you made the point that this document, pamphlet, which was in published form with 30 pages maximum, was the way in which so many of these common Americans or British subjects living in America. I'm practicing doing this because of your lectures. Thank you so much. But how how so many of them gained a certain confidence about this whole idea of independence and independence had been around. They've been protesting since the Stamp Act, even before. But suddenly this man puts it into a language, including those soaring passages about how this is an affair of all mankind. It is not the affair of a city. It is not the affair of a town is an affair of mankind. It's like the whole world is watching what you're going to do here. And then you go on, tell them what to do. Right. Well, this is really in some ways, the birth of this thing that we're going to talk about a lot over the course of the semester, which is this idea of American exceptionalism, on the one hand, and then of the United States standing in for something more universal, making some bigger set of claims. And that was controversial. And problematic in this moment. It has been very meaningful and very problematic at many other moments. But would you is it safe to say Tom Paine’s the one who puts it out there? Oh, yeah I mean, and he's not the only one. Right? The idea that there's this great experiment going on in, you know, these these colonies and then in the new nation, under a new government, under the Constitution, that that was their language that, you know, basically in the history of humankind, there are these moments where you have an experiment like this and that we will actually at some point, I probably will read this when I talk about the Constitution and The Federalist essays. The first paragraph of the first Federalist essay by Hamilton says that, you know, if we fail in what we're doing now, it will be a tragedy for all of humankind that you can't come together in a room and talk about what a government should be, and the government should forever be grounded on accident or force, that that this, we’re doing something different. So they very much had this very great confidence that what they were doing was new and different and better. Right. And the new world was better than the old world, and the old world was watching because everything that we were doing here was better. And so on the one hand, there's confidence in that. On the other hand, there's extreme insecurity because fear and also like. What are we doing? You know. Those guys like that's Britain, you know, I mean like they have all the culture. Biggest Navy in the world. The world of books. It's like, what do we have here? So it's both of those things at the same time. And he's not the first to use the term continental, but he employs it over and over. A affair of a continent. It needs a continental charter, a Continental Congress. Well, pretty soon that's exactly what they're calling it. Or they already are. They're already had a first Continental Congress. They already had first Continental Congress... moving on to the Second Continental Right, true. But but that's that's the context in which he pushed this affair of revolution. And I would - to our students and to our vast audience out there, you know, read this as an enlightenment document and make your own list of the principles to which Paine is appealing everything from reason to natural rights to anti-monarchism, to consent to republicanism. They’re all there. To to independence itself. I was wondering if you could reflect on this word independence, because on the one hand, it's a very practical word. Right? We are going to form an independent nation. We're going to break away from the British Empire. But dependance and independence had all sorts of meanings that were much more personal that were going to go on to shape what it meant to be a citizen. So you cautioned the whole class, to think about these words in their 18th century context. So do you want to talk a little bit about dependance and independence and what those terms actually meant in this period? Sure, for sure. And and that's a great question because dependance is very much old world, right. In the old world there are like manufacturing and hierarchy and, you know, not even just monarchy, but royalty and aristocracy. And everyone is dependent on everyone else. And that's, there's a real when you look at the, writings and documents and conversations of this early American time period, they're constantly talking about the corrupt, hierarchical old world that represents dependance. Thomas Jefferson, like, never stops talking about, you know, dependance bad, independence good. So independence, you're right, has a lot of different meanings. It can mean, like yeoman farmer independence, meaning like, I've got my farm and I'm independent and I don't rely on anyone, and I don't need to be in a city-- Except for the massive slave labor force in many cases. But anyway. I that that's like the reality factor is Thomas Jefferson is not always talking about that factor. But yes. So there is that idea of independence. But, you know, a big part of the rhetoric of the colonial folk into revolutionary folk is, you know, we're not subservient to Britain, right? We are. We are equal to them. We're not. And they use the, the, you know, slaves. We're not enslaved. We're not slaves to them. So they also are kind of thinking of themselves in that context that, yes, we're part of the empire. We are British subjects, but we're also independent in the sense that we have our own legislatures. They're modeled after what's over in England, but they're our own. And to a certain degree, you know, there's a we of some kind of colonial British subject, we in the colonies as well. So, yeah, you're right. It has a lot of shadings. It's when it gets wrapped up in no more Parliament, no more king like really independent like like. We're going to have to make it up all over again. Here we are. We’re gonna call it a Republic. Right. And that's, you know, we'll see as we get into more lectures and move into the later 19th, 18th century and early 19th century. They don't know really what they are that this they like to say, well, we know what we're not. So we're not like that. Like we're not a monarchy and we don't call each other, you know, Earl or Duke, and we don't wear too much lace. And, you know, you know, there's a whole dialog about like, we're not that, but that leaves a big hole as to what they are. And that's bound up in this, too. Paine knew his audience, too, didn’t he? I mean, there’s a whole section of this document where he wanders back into the Old Testament, he makes the bold claim that the Jews never had kings, which okay, go ahead, Tom. But, he knows what he's doing there. He's trying to argue that, you know, the people of the Bible, the Israelites, were about fashioning an independence. Well, of course, out of the destruction of their temple and enslavement and all kinds of horrors along the way. But they were about fashioning themselves as a people, an old people and a new people. I mean, I found that section fascinating. He knows what he's doing with the Old Testament, whether he's right or not, of course. No, but he knows who was. Who’s right about the Old Testament? That's, you know, the the people he's writing for in a general sense - They know that story. They know the Bible. They know, you know, this isn't like Latin to them. This is something that they know and it's related. You said a little while ago that if you read it and you think about all the things that are in there, you know, republicanism and, human rights and, and the course of humankind and everything, and you're totally right that all of those things are there. But then the counter side of that, they're all there, but they're tinged with, “how can I put this so that they're going to get it and they're going to get it in the way I want them to get it.” So it's almost like you have to read Common Sense in a sort of double way. On the one hand you know it is very much of its moment. It has like a lot of enlightenment thinking in it, but that's put through a lens of, of popular appeal and which is part of what makes it so powerful. And he calls King George Pharaoh, you know, Egypt and pharaohs at the heart of that story. And, and then when he takes up the question of whether there can still be reconciliation, I love this part. I've done a lot of study of the problem of reconciliation after an event later in this course. But, his argument there is you cannot reconcile with some evils. And monarchy is one of them is so unnatural. It is so against human nature. It is such a violation of natural rights. -It is unnatural- Yes, yes. And there's something deeply biblical about that too. What can you compromise with? Right. Well, Moses goes to the mountain, comes up with ten commandments and all that which were not supposed to compromise with either. So, I mean, Well, I'm. Saying that this is, you know, a work of theology per se, but it's very interesting that he makes this an ancient story. At the same time, this is all about what's new, what's what's possible now, what has to be done. That's an interesting way of thinking about it, because, throughout the early, sort of late 18th century, early 19th century Americans, sort of elite thinker, writer folk, are constantly looking for a past that they can use that isn't necessarily the British, the French. So like Jefferson for example. Classical past. The classical past, Jefferson uses Native Americans handily that way. Like, look at them like they're noble. And that's those are our Greeks. And Romans, which is piled high with problems in that logic. But but they're constantly looking for ways to claim something old and noble and powerful. That's different from what's going on in Europe. And I guess this also kind of plugs into that way of thinking, too. Well, he got the Greeks and the Romans into his architecture. Yes. Well that too. Well, and it is an interesting set of arguments as well. But this is a persuasive document, that there's lots of soaring rhetoric, but it's also trying to be persuasive about a certain set of tactical problems that are, in fact, facing these colonies in this moment. Right. And the one that really stood out to me and is going to be a question that you see movements and politicians in every period of this course arguing about is the question of timing, right? Because what he is saying is not only are these good ideas, they're big ideas. Not only is monarchy bad, but actually this is the moment to act. And it's a strategic document. Exactly. And when you look at the kinds of debates that we're going on, whether it's in the continental Congress or in, some of the town meetings that you were describing. Right. It's “should we do it now?” is one of the big questions. And people have a lot of different opinions about that. “Should we do it now and how big should we go?” So, that really struck me about Paine and as maybe the most important thing here, make the leap of the imagination, but do it now, because now is the moment where there's no going back, already. Urgency and immediacy to it. And I love the idea of the way that you just put it it again, with everything in this period, you know, we sort of put it up here, you know, they're writing about blah, blah, blah. But you're totally right. It's also a very specific political strategic document written by someone who is basically saying, now is the time to really think about and commit to independence. So despite all of the soaring rhetoric, in addition, that has a very specific purpose. He even uses the rather slippery argument that now is the time. Because if you give this any longer of these Americans, oh, they never use the term Americans. If you give these Americans even longer to stay tied to this British system and crown and so on, it'll make it even harder for them to break. Break now, don't live with this another decade or two. You'll like kings even more. Or I guess that. Which like, slippery is a good way of putting that. It's like. This might even seem like not as good an idea, but. Well in propaganda, a lot of arguments are slippery, it's all about how they're made. Yeah, yeah. And boy can he lay on the the rhetoric. I don't know if Benjamin Rush helped him with any. I doubt that. If somehow I want to believe the soaring parts are Paine’s. No, I think they are. And if I remember correctly, Paine had a sentence in there in an early draft. About how it was beyond time when, you know, colonies shouldn't have to run down to the port when the ships come in to see how many rights they have left. And Benjamin Rush was like, no, like cut that out. And I think there's. A lot of wit in this. There is I think that kind of scorching. Lot of rage. Two great writers. It's not a very well controlled document in some sense. Right? It can’t be. You can't have that argument - make that radical argument, traitorous argument in a controlled way. One of my favorite lines in the soaring rhetoric. And I promise I won't read the whole paragraph “oh ye who love mankind, ye that dare oppose not only the tyranny, but the tyrant.” So we can talk about tyranny. We can talk about taxation, we can talk of a stamp tax. We can talk about this act and that act. But now's the time to oppose the tyrant himself, the king, not just the king's advisors. And one specific king. Yeah. So it's about monarchy. Yeah. But in that sort of strategic sense. Right. He's saying, yeah, this is about this tyrannical king. He's giving people a right to hate the king in a world that was - Not even just the right, he’s explaining why it's necessary. Yeah, yeah, yeah, “You must hate the king!” Yeah. One of the things that was quite striking about your lecture today, when you were talking about the declaration, was reminding people that this was an act of treason. And so we have the heroic signing of the declaration. But one of the things that that meant when you put your name down there was that if this didn't succeed and you lost, this was going to come at a rather great cost to yourself, not only to your liberty, but to your life, to your family and so this public act of commitment that was happening in Philadelphia and in other places, that was the line that people were crossing. Which they knew. I mean, that was what I found in talking about, you know, the other declarations and the ways in which, in towns all over, people were getting together in town meetings and they were asked by Massachusetts Assembly, these individual towns to talk about what they thought about independence and the way that they were asked that question was, are you willing to risk, you know, essentially your lives, your fortunes and your sacred honor without using that language? Are you personally willing to risk that for this? Because that's what you're being asked to do. So on the one hand, that's a big, inspiring, collective question. It's also profoundly personal and scary. Right. And I it's kind of wonderful that it captures all of those things that that and I'll mention for those who might not have heard when I mentioned it in the lecture, the book that that comes from the idea that there were all of these other declarations is from Pauline Maier's book American Scripture, about the writing of the Declaration. It's a wonderful book that is written in a way that anyone and everyone can read it, and it captures the writing of the Declaration. But she has a whole chapter titled The Other Declarations that gets at, this phenomenon that I think most people just don't know about and that I find and I mention it in the lecture, I find profoundly moving that people were coming together in groups to to talk about it. And there was that one person I quoted in the lecture who said, this is the most important issue that ever came before us. We're talking about independence. Those town halls used to be boring. They're not on this question. They’re not boring anymore. But just, you know, that kind of gets down into your soul. You know, this idea that, like, this is, like, the most important thing we've ever had to talk about, and we're going to talk about it and we're going to make a decision. It's just not the way we think about this whole period and everything that happens in it. Well, since you brought up a historian, Pauline Maier... in this class we have mostly assigned primary documents. You called them the “You Are There experience of history,” right? You're going to have, an only slightly mediated experience of looking to those documents. And that's most of what we're going to read. But historians write about these things, too, right? There's a lot of literature out there. So, what are the hot issues in, the American Revolution sphere among professional historians? Like, where are they going? What are they writing about these days? Is it the kind of question that David said, you know, a top down versus bottom up revolution? Is it about whether this is a popular revolution? Radical or not? Right, right. So for a while, I think that actually first top down, bottom up, and then radical or not, Gordon Wood wrote his book, The Radicalism of the American Revolution. -Obligatory question in graduate orals. Right. That's right. So what it you know, we might as well have a value add here. Or was it you fellows? I think we have 6 or 7 teaching fellows. Preparing for the exam. That's probably true. Yeah, well, double whammy for them. You know, from that point, a semi recent thing was really more of how what was happening was more of an Atlantic World moment and not just something about, you know, a handful of colonies and, and Britain, there are people now who are looking at the ways in which other colonies, Caribbean colonies, you know, India, Canada. How was this playing out in the Empire as a whole? And why did parts of the Empire respond in the way they did and other parts of the Empire not respond in the same way? So it's getting put, among other things, into a bigger context, and which I think particularly for this time period is really important because, again, I think that the founding, which somehow I always have to say that was the. Founding, you do have a very particular expedition as the founding. But we we just come across, by the way. With my students in my lecture courses, make fun of me for that. The Founding. That’s endearing, I think. I hope, I hope okay. But we tend to think about that in isolation. So, for example, you know, when I talk about the Sedition Act in the 1790s and, you know, the idea that you're not allowed to really insult the government, the public can't insult the government. Well, people don't think about the fact that there are similar things going on in England. People don't think about that. They're like, well, this is in America. And it's bad for all of these reasons. Yeah, but let's think about the fact that it's not just happening in the United States. And what does that mean? So that's an important component of this too. And I do think that's going to be one of the challenges of our class, is that we're moving through lots of chronology and lots of history, but we've sort of put the question of the nation state itself, its coming together, its breaking apart. Its identity. Its rise to power, national identity, political culture that's really at the heart of what we're doing here. And that is going to allow us to see certain things over the course of this semester and not allow us to see others. And this is probably one of those. And all of that has itself been, of course, controversial. We've we've had colleagues and other historians who want to banish the nation state from our concerns, and have. Not have it be the only bucket through which we think about history. You're much more that's much more diplomatic. It should not be the only bucket... That’s very diplomatic. There is kind of a, sometimes a kind of or has been in the past, kind of kneejerk, you know. Well, the elites in the nation state that's had the whole story for so long. The slavery question comes in here, the revolution. We shouldn't be, you know, we got to move on and think about different things. And, you know, people sometimes say along the lines of, was this a popular revolution? Like, why are we always studying the same eight guys in a room like, this is a popular revolution, which is fine, but the fact of the matter is, in one way or another, the revolution is about power and who has it and who doesn't, and the people who are fighting and in one way or another, thinking about and fighting for power are fighting against something. So you need if you're talking about power, you need to talk about who has it and who doesn't and what the fight is. You can't look at one aspect of it and not acknowledge what that those people are fighting against. And I know you will be addressing this, as will we later. But for decades and decades, the question of slavery’s juxtaposition with the revolution for liberty and independence. Yeah, has been at the heart of this scholar. I mean, Ed Morgan, all the way back to the famous essay he wrote on the American Paradox. Still, I think a brilliant essay, and over the years said, oh, you're so right. You know, it's become not only an Atlantic story, but a story of comparative revolutions, the Haitian Revolution, French Revolution, and so forth. And then and then all that scholarship that spawned into studying slave rebellions as part of the age of Revolution. So the American Revolution has has always undergone these, these shifts and changes. But what we're trying to do here, it seems, is take us back to the basic documents here. And what these American revolutions were doing, what they said they were doing. And that's so important. And look, here we have it. Maybe, maybe a central theme of this whole bloody course in America is born in contradiction. It's born in this paradox. It's born in. This. Right? I mean, I talked about that today with the declaration. We. No, like the declaration itself testifies to these broad ideals, human nature, you know, nature's god, you know, equality, all of these things that. Doctrine of consent, right? That that they're huge and they're there and they're thinking about them sincerely in a very limited way so that later people in I think certainly you're both going to be talking about this, who come along and seize on that as a founding document. Especially the abolitionists. That's it. And say- Every day Look it's there, it's in writing and we and they deserve that too. That contradiction is there from the very beginning in which you have people pontificating about what's better about what's happening in the United States, and how much more focused it is on rights and, you know, finer way of sort of proceeding and not Old World corruption. And a whole bunch of people aren't included in that promise. And that's, you know, when you talk about the founding, that's a huge part of what people have to wrestle with is like, you know, there's this, you know, soaring language and like, black Americans or not. Or 20% of the population. Right? It's like this. Percentage. Women or anybody else, you know, that is actually is very focused on a small group of people. It just applies in such a sweeping way that is so powerful that for centuries, people can take that and use that. It’s kind of all in how we ask the questions, it’s also about emphasis, because I'm just remembering here as I look at my notes that just before that incredible soaring passage about “o ye that love mankind” comes this line where he says, “But in America, the law is king”. Well, forever we've debated what is the meaning of rule of law, and we're having a debate now in case anybody didn't didn't notice, there it is in Common Sense. The law is king. We do not have kings. It's very, again- Now that’s a wishful, that's a wishful urge. It's a wishful principle. At the same time, it's. A real principle. It's getting aired finally/ It’s wishful in the sense that that's what he wants. But it's real in the sense that what he's saying is we don't have kings here anymore. It's true. We are not going to have a king in America. The law is king now. Yeah, they have to sort of get to that point. But that statement and the first half of it, we don't have a king here now. Well, law, they got to be writing a constitution. They made sure they didn't. But that's that's down the road here. That's that's next Thursday. Do you want if you want to tell us the the sad story of the fate of Mr. Thomas Paine who was often publishing these things anonymously. Right. And was a little bit cast out from the inner circle. -He’s an agitator. -Well, he’s a radical in ways. He’s a radical. And, that's the role that he plays. And he has a sort of sad early 19th century life. Yeah. He does, that he, it becomes a controversy as to where he will be buried when he, he dies, because some people don't want the controversy of having him there. And he's a radical figure. And what will that mean? Like having Karl Marx buried in your backyard? Didn’t New Rochelle get him in the end? Well, but we don't really fully know where his whole body is. But it's. This is the thing, right? Is that it wasn’t clear where he was going to go. And, you know, he was sort of shipped somewhere and then so he was brought back, but some of his bones ended up being sort a card and put in a carton in someone's storage shed while they were deciding where he would land. And then the person who owned the shed died and he didn't necessarily make clear what was going to happen with Paine and his body. And then it's unclear where the box with the body went after that point. And so it's this long, weird, “Where is Thomas Paine?” And I was saying, I think to you earlier that every year I talk about this in my revolution, there's a whole, lecture about Common Sense. And I always look online to see if, like any other pieces of Thomas Paine have been found, although we know where he is. So it's just, in a way, a different way of getting at the paradox. Right? This person who writes these things that are so central to this moment and that are sort of ultimate American, but are also radical and controversial, and he ends up being twisted in that kind of thing. So many of these great essayist, well, it's, Common Sense is a kind of a long essay. But these, you know, “these are the times that try men's souls” is not from Common Sense. No, that’s from the American Crisis series, which he writes after Common Sense as a way of defending himself. Right, do I have that right? Against all these critics. Now he's and also he's got. a lot of critics. The war effort is going on. Right. Stick with it is what he’s basically arguing. I mean, the war we got to win. All right. We're we're we're getting near our promised time. So, two things. One is that this is a reminder to everyone that you can send in emailed questions. We were not expecting to get a lot, as we're getting started, but, hopefully we will have some of those. We did get one question in, which was about Paine's outsider identity and how much that mattered in any of this. So I wonder, Joanne, if you have reflections about that. And then we might project a little bit ahead as to what's coming up in next week's classes. Next week in America at 250 And I will say, -coming to a big church near you. in a practical sense one of the things students that is going to be coming is a discussion of your first writing assignments that are going to happen, in section next week. But it's worth going to the syllabus looking at them. There's a little bit of a complicated scheme, but every one of them, I think, is going to be pretty fun. And engaging. There's an archives assignment, there's an analysis of a public memorial, and then there is, a letter in historical context. So, you're going to talk about those more in section, but review them, think about them. We'll get into a little more detail with them here in the future as well. But Joanne, what's what else is ahead in American history? America at 250. Coming soon in the next episode. So next week, on Tuesday, we're going to be talking about, the immediate legacy of the revolution, the 1780s. So the colonies and then states come together in that war effort, and then once it's over, they're basically like “see ya” and all of that sort of sense of togetherness. “I've never liked you anyway, New Jersey” Well, you’re perfectly nice but we don't care. But then a lot of the spirit of the revolution plays out states dividing. You know, the state of Franklin, part of North Carolina breaks off and part of New York breaks off. And so we're going to see the how the revolution is sort of playing out in that way and how it's alarming some people. So basically the 1780s represents “uh-oh, we unleashed things. What does that mean?” And then Thursday, the Constitution, and we'll be talking about a little the Articles of Confederation, which they get a bum rap as a form of government because everyone says, what a sad form of government, but they're perfectly logical form of government for a first try. And then we'll talk about the creation of the Constitution and what people were afraid of and not afraid of, and a little bit about The Federalist essays, which, like everything else in this period, are treated as, you know, sort of biblical in their knowledge, and they're a commercial advertisement for the Constitution. And so we need to think of them as a persuasive document, not simply a descriptive document, so that that's. Somebody that publishes their op-eds right? Sort of Kind of, yeah. Well, can I say this to you've raised so many great questions just in the first week. But one of them is this idea of tyranny and, freedom. Simple as that sounds. But the American Revolution always has had this reputation issue. Was it just a bunch of rich people rebelling for their own commercial interest, or was it more popular, was it to defend slavery or against it? And so on and so forth. This relates to the one question we got. Yeah, it does. It does. The question we got kind of felt to me like what they were saying is Will Thomas Paine is trying to get individual colonists involved. And yet the revolution is talked about as a collective effort and had to those two things fit together. And, you know, I would say we tend to think in our times as of rights, as an individual thing, you know, we were about our own rights and, and part of what, probably we'll be discussing next week, maybe when we talk about the Constitution at some point. But rights in this period that we're looking at are collective. Right. So Paine can be trying to get individuals engaged and involved and to break away psychological resistance. But he's doing that in the hope of corralling a group engagement, a collective sense of what's going on so that people will come together in the revolutionary cause. And he’s fundamentally challenging them. “Go to your town halls and make a charter, talk to each other, sit down, elect delegates, because there's not going to be a bigger Continental Congress, and they're going to have to make a change.” Now imagine you're back in one of those towns “I don’t know how to do this. Well, maybe we've done a little local charter here, but my God, how do we do this? ” But I just wanted to make that point that, you know, the world has always dealt with this question of tyranny in many forms and freedom as these opposites. But here's a template, you know. Go. And I think this is going to come up, well, you pointed out that Pauline's book is called American Scripture. That's the same label people are going to give to the Gettysburg Address later, which is even shorter. It’s even shorter scripture. They're going to claim that because it's a rewrite of the Declaration. Well, I will say you were finishing up lecture today, by saying, okay, here's this document and different parts of this document come alive at different times. The declaration of Independence. I just finished writing a book that, takes me back into the 18th and 19th century. And one of the things that struck me- Welcome, welcome Thank you. It's a good place to be. I mean, it's a little unfamiliar, but. The 19th century was just as long as the 20th. But I was stunned by the number of people who set out writing their own declarations. Right. These forms themselves, they write their own constitutions. The Cherokee do this right. The women's rights movement. Women did it at Seneca Falls. The abolitionists do this, the secessionists do this. And so we're not only at the beginning of a historical story, but we're at the beginning of a whole conversation, a tradition that many, many people are going to pick up, interpret, reuse, toss out, claim, disclaim. And, that's where we're going. That's the fun of this. So I have to say, as I was pontificating. Do you have to finish up now? These are the final word, the final word. As I was pontificating today and I was thinking about some of the patterns that I was setting out, what I'm looking forward to because I know as I'm speaking, I'm like, oh, you know, you guys are going to take off on this theme for sure. I can't wait to hear how the things I'm talking about now are going to spread out and play out in your time period. You got to wait six more lectures, I'm afraid. Well, yeah, but still. That's part of the fun of the course. All right. We will be back next week with the tentatively titled. America at 250. The Podcast. And we welcome everybody out there, wherever you are, to the podcast.