(ambient music) - Welcome back to the "America at 250" podcast. I'm Beverly Gage, and I am here today only with David Blight. Joanne Freeman can't join us, but we're gonna be talking about a subject that I know David has a lot to say about, which is reconstruction, how we got from conflict to resolution, if we want to call it that, and what that actually meant for the country. David, I used to run the grand strategy program here at Yale- - Right, right. - For a few years. And in the context of thinking about military strategy and grand strategy, the question of the peace is as important as the question of the war. And in any conflict, you emerge with all sorts of issues that emerge. How are the people who lost going to be treated? How are they going to be reintegrated or not reintegrated back into the political body? Is this going to produce a revolutionary set of social changes or something much more modest? How is political power going to be distributed? How are the ruins of war going to be rebuilt? Who are the actual winners and losers? And of course, that in some sense, is what defines a war as much as the hostilities itself. And for the American Civil War, that story is about this thing we call reconstruction. And reconstruction is a complicated thing that starts when and ends what, 1863 and 1877. But I thought maybe we could just spend some of this podcast walking through reconstruction from beginning to end. - Sure. I think that's important. I like that way of asking the question 'cause it's happened of course in dozens of places throughout world history, what are the spoils of war? Who wins? Who loses? In this case, reconstruction is in part a prolonged referendum on the meaning of the war. It's a profound and long referendum on the verdict of Appomattox, who won and what did they win? And who lost, and what did they lose? So as we saw in at least one of my lectures, plans and schemes of reconstruction begin during the war, there's a lot of wartime reconstruction planning that goes on. There's Lincoln's idea of a lenient fast reconstruction done by the president, his so-called 10% plan, when 10% of the voting population of any given confederate state pledged allegiance agreed to this and to that. They would be readmitted to the union by the president, which is not what the Constitution says. Only Congress can readmit states. But of course, Lincoln took the position that they had never really left the Union. Congress, of course, is ruled by Republicans. What we've come to call radical Republicans. They had a very different view. They wanted to reconstruction longer, harsher, more fundamental in its changes to southern society. Its especially as changes in Black, civil and political rights. They wanted the freed people now to be defined as citizens. So there are great differences even between Lincoln, the members of his own party that set up this crisis. And it's a crisis from day one. How do you readmit 11 states who have committed by any legal definition, a form of treason made all at war upon the United States? How do you decide who to treat with as they would say? who do you talk to? Who represents the southern state? They have to settle that. But I've always said, and I'm hardly alone in this, that reconstruction becomes, especially in its first five years, it's first a question of who's gonna rule in the south? Is it gonna be ex-confederates? Is it gonna be the federal government? And if it's the federal government, is it gonna be Black people participating in those governments? Second question is, who's gonna rule in Washington, the president of the Congress? And it's a true constitutional crisis. And it will end up in the impeachment of Andrew Johnson because he contests in his mere three years, everything the Republicans try to do. He in fact vetoes everything he can. More vetoes than all previous presidents put together. And then the third question is, what are the dimensions of Black freedom? If 4 million people have been freed from slavery, who are they? What are they? Where do they fit in the American constitution? Now, who are they? What are they? And then a way of wrapping all three of those together is a question that, you know, is reconstruction gonna be a kind of restoration of the past or a true reinvention of the United States. A true revolution to something new. - I wonder if I can take you back then to a few early moments. So when I was traveling over the last few years for this road trip book, I spent a bunch of time in South Carolina, and one of the places that I went in South Carolina was Beaufort and down into the Sea Islands to visit what has become this, I think we've mentioned, this new set of national park service sites devoted to reconstruction. - The first ever. - The first ever sites and the first moments of reconstruction. - In some ways, they were. - It was known as a rehearsal for reconstruction. And what is really interesting to me about the Beaufort story and the Sea Island story is that you can see all the different elements that were necessary for reconstruction to happen, sort of coming together there. So it was partly the presence of the union military that makes it possible for many people to be emancipated, self-emancipated, and to take over land that they have been forced to till in slavery. So you see the formerly enslaved people building their own institutions, recreating their own families. Then you have all these abolitionists and reformers coming in, and each one of those was so essential to creating what happened there. But often, we only get one piece of the story, right? We just get the army story, or we just get, in Washington, they debated these grand questions of policy, but there's this intense thing happening on the ground in every community from 1863 onward. So I wonder what your reflections are, maybe on Beaufort, but on the kind of on the ground experience of reconstruction as it started. - Well, Beaufort writ large is the story initially, of course, amphibious landings and invasion by Union Army and Navy into that complex of rivers and marshlands that we call the Sea Islands. Complicated geography. But Beaufort became, and right near Beaufort anyway, what was known as the Port Royal Experiment, which was an attempt by the army and the federal government to put African Americans back on land, and therefore back to work, actually producing cotton, sea island cotton before the war was ever over. On the lands of their former owners and masters. - Who had fled. - They were gone. They had refugee, as they said. And it had successes and it had failures to some degree. There was a bit of coercion involved on part of the government and the army to get Black people back on that land. And it was a problem from the beginning, but it became the tryout well rehearsal, as we often say, for what will happen across the south. Now once the war is over, and actually, even before the war is over, the federal government creates something called the Freedman's Bureau, the Bureau of Freedman Refugees and Abandoned lands. That agency, which only lasted four years and never had much of a budget, has the responsibility to do something Americans has never done. Relocate people on land, negotiate labor contracts between former slaves and former masters. There again, who are they? Who's in control? What property rights does an ex-confederate have? And what we know is that the idea of tenant farming share cropping as we come to call it, took hold very early. It's really taking hold by 1867 and '68, within two or three years of the war. And there are good reasons for that. It's a cash poor economy. You can't just go to the bank and get credit. There's no money in the society at that moment. So even if you were allowed, if a freed person was allowed to own some land, he's not gonna be able to take a crop to a granary or to a market and get cash for it. So this system of share cropping tenant farming, working on shares, sometimes 1/3, 2/3, but eventually, it became a system largely of working on halves. Half your crop goes to the person who owns the land, your landowner. The other half, you get to keep, and you get to take it to a furnishing merchant, which becomes a whole new institution in the south. That system at first, was something most Black people in droves, and huge numbers embraced because it looked like it gave them autonomy. They women could leave the field and take care of home and children and their own gardens and so on. And it looked like they had an element of real economic independence and control. But of course, that didn't last very long because that furnishing merchant becomes a place that's gonna cheat you. And again, there's no credit. You need to buy some machinery. There's only one place to get it and one price. So it's a system that takes hold as early as really the year after the war. And with time it's going to replace slavery, but with a system that is ultimately a kind of dead end for the freed people who want to achieve above all, land ownership and education. - So for people who describe historians who describe reconstruction as a failure in certain ways, right? At least a failure for securing truly full citizenship in the end for formerly enslaved people, land ownership, the rise of sharecropping is one of the really key pieces. And in this, you assigned for class last week when we weren't talking this, collection of documents. - And I were still talking. We just weren't going- - We were still talking. That's right. That's right. Just not sitting here in this very studio. And I was really struck by the document by Thaddeus Stevens. Great radical Republican. His speech on land distribution, which is September of 1865. So very early on in this process. And he's making this case for not making the civil war a war that just has now ended and you're gonna stitch things back together, but making the case for it to be a revolution. And for land redistribution to be really central to that, and it's such a moving document, because he's evoking this idea of the American revolution and needing to realize it once again. And he says, "The whole fabric of southern society must be changed, and never can it be done if this opportunity is lost. Without this, this government can never be as it has never been a true republic here to fore, it had more the features of aristocracy than of democracy. The southern states have been despotism, not governments of the people." And he's saying, "Look, this moment-" - This is the moment. - "Is here. And it's not gonna come back again." - It's a small window. - If we miss it. - Right? It's over. - Small window for generations. And I think a lot of people would say, "Well, that turned out to be true." - It's a telling document, not just because it's by, you know, maybe the most radical of the radical Republicans by any means. But it is a telling document because it shows the realization of that notion that Stevens had of so-called conquered provinces. He said, "No, look, constitutionally, think whatever you want about whether the a state could secede from the union. But they left. And we went to all our war for four years to crush them, defeat them, and bring them back. But now, we control meaning Congress, we control how they come back." And above all, he saw the need, as did others. Frederick Douglass had a similar plan, but he borrowed most of it, I think from Stevens, that there needed to be federally controlled land redistribution. That Freedman's Bureau was called the Bureau of Refugees, Freedmen and Abandoned Lands. Well, the government would decide what's abandoned. But turning, I mean, just think of any revolution in history, the most revolutionary thing often you can do other than using guillotines, is to take land and property from the previous owners and sell it or give it or loan it to the people who were the workers. To some degree, this was attempted when serfdom was decreed illegal in Russia but- - In this moment as well. - Exactly, in the same years. But it didn't work terribly well either. But anyway, Steven's proposal there is this idea that if we really wanna remake America, remake the South, we have to give these political citizens, we're calling them that, economic wherewithal. We have to create economic democracy at the same time we're trying to create political democracy. And oh yes, of course the ex-confederates are still gonna be there. That is the problem. So. - So that's gonna turn out to be, you know, little spoiler alert, as we're about to move into the 20th century, One of the big debates and claims of 20th century politics, the progressives, the new dealers, they're gonna come along and say in a different kind of economy, in a different kind of context, that you cannot be a fully realized political citizen without having a certain kind of economic security. And there are gonna be a lot of debates about that. A lot of people who don't agree with that or have different definitions of economic security, but the relationship between political citizenship and economic citizenship is not going to disappear after this moment. - Not at all. It's gonna grow in importance. It's gonna be a process over time. And we're still in that process, aren't we? - So can we fast forward then a little bit to then the political crisis that this all creates in Washington in the 1860s? You talked a lot in lecture about the radical Republicans. We heard a little bit about Andrew Johnson, who is a real character. We didn't talk as much about the impeachment crisis, which of course, over the last several years became one of those touchstones, one of those historical examples. We don't have that many. We apparently are gonna have more and more, but we didn't have very many examples of this. - None. None for a president at least. And so, yeah. - Well, the Johnson, what happened, Tulsa impeachment is of course the template for all future, at least considerations of presidential impeachment. And it came about precisely because you have two fundamentally different approaches to reconstruction. Andrew Johnson's approach to reconstruction was the union, as it was the Constitution as it is. And what he meant by that is no civil and political rights for Black people. Put the union back together as fast as possible, Yes, slavery's over, southern states must be readmitted quickly. And as fast as possible, we need to stitch this government back together with no revolution in liberty and political rights. - The very opposite of what Stevens is wanting. - And you read them. And if you actually read, and that's in the book too. Johnson's veto of the Civil Rights Act of 1866, you in crystal clarity, his vision of states' rights is how the federal government should function. He does not believe in any kind of rights for Black people. And he wants it all done fast. Now they lock horns, totally lock horns. And he's not a Republican. We need to remember that Lincoln put him on the ticket in 1864 because he was the only senator of a seceded state that stayed in the union. Of course, Lincoln didn't live long enough to regret it. But it's also interesting too, we should say that in Lincoln, in the hundreds and hundreds of books on Abraham Lincoln, it's very rare that anybody takes a moment to say, "Hey, why did he put Johnson on that ticket anyway?" But that's another story. But Andrew Johnson and the Republicans lock horns, and it's a fundamental struggle over the meaning and nature of reconstruction. It's not just personal battle, although there was some of that too. It didn't help him when Charles Sumner went to his office to meet with him and tried to negotiate, and Sumner put his top hat on President's desk and the president spit tobacco juice in it. I mean, Johnson had some habits that did- - Good old days of tobacco juice, whiskey, and smoke-filled rooms. - But why not use Charles Sumner's top hat? Why not? Anyway. - But Charles Sumner gets caned. People spit on him. - He does, he does. - I mean, it's a rough career. - Well, he had a personality that drew some of that, but nevertheless. And so, but in the '66 off year elections, the Republicans totally drug Johnson at the polls in the fall election of '66. And they returned to Congress then by '67, a veto-proof Congress, 2/3 majority of both houses. And that's when the reconstruction acts are all passed in the winter and spring of 1867. It puts the south under a military occupation to an extent, five military districts with a commanding general and a process by which the states had to agree to the 14th Amendment, 13th Amendment, the 14th Amendment, the first Civil Rights Act, Black suffrage, and in order to get back in the union. And it is the system by which all 11 Confederate states were readmitted to the union. They were readmitted by the radical Republican plan. But all through that process from '66, seven, '68, big presidential election into '69 and '70, and by '70, all of the African Confederate states are readmitted to the union on that system. But it has, of course, instilled. And Andrew Johnson encouraged tremendous hostility in the White South. Meanwhile, just before Johnson Leaves office, he was impeached. There were about four stages to his impeachment. But the final one had to do with his attempt to remove the Secretary of War, which was a violation, said the Republicans of an act they had passed in order to get him to break it, which was called the Tenure of Office Act, which was ultimately not constitutional. The President has the right to appoint his cabinet officials, but he finally, after four attempts by the Republicans, and they failed in the previous three votes in the Judiciary Committee, they finally did impeach him in the House. Judiciary Committee recommends full house votes, 50% in the Senate trial. In the end, this trial doesn't occur till the spring of 1868, and he's not gonna run for office again. He promises that I will never run again. And the Republicans get scared of what they've done. They are becoming the party of impeachment. They're becoming the party of throwing the President out. And there's a certain baggage to that. And so they begin to arrange a deal. It literally was an arranged deal that the vote would be cooked such that Johnson would be acquitted. Certain people had to cast their votes certain ways because of the presidential election that fall. And Ulysses Grant, the famous general, is their candidate, or most want him to be their, they don't want a TAR grant with any of the responsibility of the impeachment. So let's get rid of impeachment, even though, as a lot of scholarship on this, and I have always personally agreed with that element of the scholarship, which I think is dead right, that Johnson should have been impeached, perhaps even earlier for his brutal obstructions of reconstruction policy, money allocated by Congress, laws passed by Congress over and over and over, his personal obstruction to the process of reconstruction. If impeachment means anything in the Constitution, he had committed impeachable offenses. So he's acquitted. He goes back home to Tennessee and he actually ran again to go back to Congress. But as they say, old Andy never went back on his raisin. And he is buried in east Tennessee with a copy of the Constitution on his chest. "Stand on the Constitution," Andy Johnson always said, but that impeachment was a kind of a politic, it wasn't just a political spectacle. It was almost a political blowout of much of this tension that had grown over reconstruction policy. And then Grant will narrowly, narrowly win that 1868 election in Great Park because of about 400,000 Black male voters in the Southern states that voted for Grant. - So I have a question about electoral politics and the electoral politics of reconstruction. One of the things that has always puzzled me a little bit about the American Civil War, and maybe about everything that's happened since, is about the US two-party system. But particularly in this moment when everything else is changing, when you're undoing the social order, you're freeing 4 million people from slavery, you're destroying the political system. - How in the world those parties survive? - How did the Republican Party and the Democratic Party survive through this as the only two parties that we are still stuck with in this day, for better or worse, right? The 20th century is going to have lots of challenges to this change? - Gonna change a lot, but there's still two parties. - They mean different things. They build different coalitions. But so do you have a theory or an explanation for why that part of our political system, which as Joanne said so many times, was not intended, is not written in any formal documents, has no legal standing, and so should be in some sense, flexible, there should be other possibilities, but it lasts through the Civil War. So why did we end up stuck with the Republican and Democratic party? - I have a couple theories for that. They're not worth any more than most theories. But one is midterm elections. Because in midterm elections, as we well know in our lifetimes, the party in power in presidency anyway, or in Congress, often suffers. Usually suffers. 'Cause they're responsible for whatever is current. And that's gonna happen in reconstruction. The Democrats are gonna have a blowout in the off year election of 1874. And at that point, the Republican party is saddled with grand administration. Scandals, they're saddled with the terrible effects of the panic of 1873, the economic depression, which is really hitting in by '74. And they are by then the party of all the conflict. Oh, they've led the country from 1861 to 1874 through Armageddon and all of the issues over race and the southern problem, the race problem. And for good reason, a lot of northerners are not only tired of that, they're utterly preoccupied with the economy. So off year elections, we see this in other places during reconstruction where the party out, which is usually the Democrats, make big gains. But here's one other thing. There was a moment, 1872, the general election when the two-party system was in trouble. There was a third party movement called the liberal Republicans. They ran Horace Greeley for president. It's one of the weirdest elections in American history. Partly because Greeley was so weird. Greeley was a long time editor of the most famous newspaper in America. The New York Tribune is in his old age now. In fact, he's gonna die right after the election. He's in his old age now but he wants to be the reconciler. He wants to put the union back to, he'd been an old abolitionist, a great Republican, but man, by 1872, he says, "No, we need to challenge Grant, challenge the Republican party." They called themselves the liberal Republicans. And it was quite a movement. There were a lot of Republicans who came with him and some Democrats, he made deals with Democrats because a whole lot of Democrats, Southern Democrats wanted reconciliation. There's Greeley out traveling across the south. He goes on a big traveling campaign to help people learn about agriculture, but also to learn about reunion and reconciliation and let's all class pans across the bloody chasm. That was heady stuff. But it didn't work. It almost worked, but it didn't work. Partly because Greeley was not a great candidate, but the liberal Republicans caused havoc and they almost got grant defeated. You know? - Okay, so the answer is- - Because a third party movement within your party. - The answer is that Horace Greeley was too old and too much of a weirdo. Because there are these moments of possibility. - There are a lot of moments for third parties that almost make it. - That come along. And then when they're gone, they're really gone. - John Anderson. The board members of John Anderson. - That is, I was a student of Eric Foner in graduate school. - Yep. - And Eric Foner had just written his big synthetic history of reconstruction. And you know, his story about how reconstruction comes to an end, or how we ought to understand reconstruction and its disappointments is that there was that moment in the 1860s, particularly. Radical republicanism, a big push by emancipated people to claim their rights to move, to reunite their families, to kind of realize- - He got elected to office, - This huge number of Black office holders. Yeah, at the time he was writing a book, I think it was called "Freedom's Lawmakers." There was just a- - "Freedom's Lawmakers." Which was vignettes about all the- - Directory. It was a directory, - 450 Black men elected to office. - Exactly. But the story is ultimately one of disappointment, of unrealized promise, of backlash, as we might put it in more recent terms. So how do we get from, you know, the impeachment of Andrew Johnson? These grand new amendments and moments of possibility to, you know, this rather more crabbed version of reconstruction and violent version of reconstruction that ensues. - There's one of your reasons, and again, I love the question because it is, reconstruction, I've always felt, and many historians have argued this now, was ultimately defeated politically, and to some degree militarily. If you count these paramilitary groups like the Ku Klux Klan as military. Why was it defeated? Because it was a revolution and all revolutions have counter revolutions. They do. I'm not a big fan of cycles of history, but that's one cycle that tends to happen. If there's a big social revolution or political revolution, there will be a backlog. - People react. Do they ever? The millennium was supposed to have come when Barack Obama was elected president twice. And where are we now? But anyway, so that process of the defeat of reconstruction is setting in in resistance in the White South. And among Democrats in the North who are state's rights Democrats and racist Democrats as early as the passage of these reconstruction acts and the 15th Amendment. And the 15th Amendment being the voting rights Amendment, as I said in my lecture, was viewed by people as well, this is the last act. Everything's done, we're done. Let us have peace. Said Horace Greeley in the New York Tribune. And then he started running for president. But that resistance to reconstruction in the South and among Northern Democrats was just as fierce as the radicals ideas about equality and an interventionist activist government. So what leads to so-called southern redemption is first of all, an economic depression, which changes everything about people's attitudes and point of view. It's Democrats taking back control of the United States Congress. Scandals, hit the grant administration, whether they were the whiskey ring or accredited mobile or many others that hit right into the White House. And it made granted, especially by his second term, he does get reelected in '72 closely. It makes his whole second administration a constant process of fending off scandal. And the Republican party no longer, 1874, '75, '76 is the party of freedom and equality and emancipation. They're trying to kind of run against that now. And then there's violence. It's the only time in American history when political violence of a large scale became almost normative in at least seven of the southern states. - And by political violence, you mean not just racial violence, but active violence at political polling places? - Absolutely. - Aimed at people who are trying to vote Republican basically. - Exactly. - In these southern states. - The primary target of the Ku Klux Klan were Republicans, white or Black. And there were white Republicans in the south, so-called carpet baggers, but some of them white southerners, their actions were political. They wanted to blunt Black political activity and power. They wanted a blunt Black economic act. They wanted to blunt, if not destroy Black economic independence. And in certain regions of the south, they were successful. If you just add up the numbers and you look at the details of some of these massacres, you begin to realize that reconstruction was defeated by paramilitary action, by extra legal political violence. Now, in the early 20th century, the country's gonna face tremendous labor violence, and racial violence. The red summer of 1919, which you will have to cover. - We'll get there. - And that violence was horrific. And then of course, there's lynching, which I will bring up in the next lecture, but we've never had a period where people are just murdered at the polls. - In a really open fashion, open in an explicitly partisan fashion, and in a way that is directly tied to the attempt to exercise the right to vote right in a duly authorized election. - And elections that therefore people understand are partly the result of some people being shot, some people being intimidated, and huge numbers who just are so intimidated that they don't even go to the polls. Now, we worry in our own time about voter suppression of various kinds. Some of it visible, some of it not, some of it legal, some of it not. But we haven't at least reached the point of murdering each other at polls, which did happen during reconstruction. It shows what the stakes were. And the stakes in the South for white Democrats were essentially, and no one should apologize for saying this, the stakes were the reestablishment of white supremacy. In society, in education, in politics, and in the economy, there's gonna be a place of Black people, but it's gonna be very confined. Now, they don't have a fully developed Jim Crow system, yet that doesn't fully take hold until the 1890s. But reconstruction in some ways is a rehearsal for Jim Crow. - So one of the things that happens, and maybe we will sort of wrap up here with some reflections. So one of the things that happens as reconstruction comes to an end is that the country then immediately begins to debate not only the meaning of the Civil War, but of reconstruction itself. So historians have very passionate debates about this. But in class, we're reading a couple of, well, I guess we're reading one and viewing another, really important cultural documents that come out of this 50-year period after the end of the Civil War, the decades right after the end of reconstruction in which you see a kind of cultural wrestling with the meaning of it all. So one of those is Huck Finn, which is written "The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn" by Mark Twain, which is written in the 1870s and 1880s. So it was written right in this moment, but is set in the 1830s and 1840s. And so one of the challenges of reading that book is are we reading about the 1870s and 1880s, or are we in fact reading right about this? And you sort of have to read that book both ways in its language and its preoccupations. And then the other cultural artifact, I would say, that we are looking at is the 1915 three plus hour silent film, "The Birth of a Nation," which is, as you've written about on the 50th anniversary of the end of the Civil War, a re-narration of the lead up to the war, the war itself, and especially reconstruction, and the rise of the clan as it was seen by a certain segment of the population at that 50th anniversary mark. So these debates, as you've said, many times, have never ended. But I wonder if you wanna finish out with some reflections on these, these two really incredibly towering, influential, lasting, disturbing racist in the case of Birth of a Nation. Racially quite complicated in the case of Huck Finn. How do you reflect on ways to approach those kinds of? - Well, I'm half apologetic for putting Huckleberry Finn in the course, but only half because it's a tough read the first time, I suppose, for people who've never read it. But it is a worldwide classic. Translated into 67 languages. It's viewed by literary critics over time, as they endlessly say the greatest American novel. I don't know all the reasons for that, partly probably because Mark Twain literally is inventing a language in that book. It's the dialect of the Mississippi Valley. It's the dialect of the frontier, which he knew well, he grew up there. But it's the story of a 12-year-old boy and an older man slave named Jim. They are these iconic figures. One representing the quest endlessly to escape from civilization. Huck can't, well, Huck hates his father, who's a dreadful, horrible human being. Greedy, terrible, violent. And he can't wait to get away. He wants to get away from school. He wants to get away from any constraints, that American urge to just fly from constraint. - And his father is such an interesting, I read his father as a kind of paragon of the Gilded Age. - Oh yeah. - Full of lies. - Money, lies, greed. - He only wants money. Everything that he says is violent and false. - Right. And Huck lives that whole novel trying to realize he has a conscience and realize that maybe, just maybe, as he says, I can't pray a lie. Just love that line. But the praying of a lie is about what he's gonna do with Jim 'cause he's helped Jim escape and that's against the law. And he's, "Oh God, I broke the law." Turns out Huck loves breaking laws. But Jim is this wonderful, incredible, complicated figure of a, obviously not educated. And Huck is always trying to educate him, teach him some history about English kings and everything else. But Jim has a wisdom about love and freedom and family and honest labor and protecting his friend, the simplest of virtues. And the two of them end up, of course, on a raft itself, one of the greatest metaphors, a raft on the Mississippi River, vulnerable to everything including steamboats and vulnerable to scam artists of all kinds. And there's a scam artist on every other page of every Mark Twain book. But we get a morality tale about greed and money and power. And just what kind of future this America, this place has. And it's set out there on the sometimes, utterly free placid Mississippi River. Those moments when they're on the raft of pure quietude are magical. And he at times describes sunrises and so on. But then at other times, they're on a raft on a turbulent river, full of danger, great danger. Like the country is almost always. But I loved your opening point there about yeah, it's written and published in the 1880s, but it's as though Twain is constantly trying to rid the past of the present. He hates his present. Twain had a real fight with the America he had grown into. It's there in his book "The Gilded Age," which gives the name to that whole period. He had more than a beef, he had a hatred for a lot of, at the same time, Twain was his own perfect hypocrite. He loved money. And he was always trying to make it. Of course, he's trying to make it with his art and with "Gilded age," he didn't do so well with the book, but he did very well with the stage play. - I'd recommend that Yale students who want a field trip could head up to the Mark Twain house in Hartford. - That Pool table in the room where he wrote- - Which is an kidding amazing place. And they do really wonderful tours of Twain's life. And particularly, this question, the relationship between art and money, money, what built this house, how these novels- - He lost it all and then had to get it back. There's a real tragedy in Mark Twain's life. But no one taught America to laugh. That's why I really- - I have forgotten. As I was rereading this, I've forgotten how funny this book is. - He was, above all. - 'Cause it's had so many serious controversies and big terrible attached to it. - Oh God. - It is just an incredibly funny- - Are never about Twain's humor, which is body as hell. You know, it's about the use of the N word and depictions of an uneducated Black man and so on and so forth. But I really put it in there, in part because Twain is a satirist, to put it mildly. He sort of taught the country satire. I suspect it's why so many writers have so admired him, because who can match him? And the mixture of morality tale with satire, with deeply serious political content at the same time, you're just laughing all the way through it and then do it all in dialect that works. - I tried to read some Mark Twain, some Huckleberry Finn aloud to my son when- - Oh my. - He was about eight years old. I thought, I have this captive audience. - Oh yeah, true. - We're gonna go through the great works of American literature. And then I opened it up and I had forgotten about the dialect. And I immediately hoos him aside. - The book called rotting it. - Education is incomplete. I Failed as a parent but- - Well, there are other books that really are for children in a way. "Roughing It," you should try that. - Okay, well, it's too late now. Too late now. - Your son, Nick is too old now. - Grandchildren. - Let him figure out it all on his own. - But do you have any other thoughts- - "Birth of a Nation," oh boy. - About "Birth of A Nation?" - Oh, Lord, yeah. - And about the process that you've written about so widely, particularly in your book "Race and Reunion" about re-narrating and then re-narrating and re-narrating once again, these stories about the Civil War and reconstruction. So where are we in 1915 with that story? And what does "Birth of a Nation" represent? It can be, I think, quite a shocking film. - Oh, first time you see it- - Is you watch today - And people don't know whether they'll laugh or cry when they see it. - It's also three hours long and it is silent. So it is a challenging film to watch just in a kind of experiential sense. But how do we understand what the value of watching "Birth of a Nation?" - Well now going into the characters and whatnot, what "Birth of a Nation" becomes is, becomes a great cultural icon because it's a classic silent movie at the birth of silent films. But it's also DW Griffith's way of capturing based upon the novel and other writings of Thomas Dixon, deeply white supremacists, highly popular, successful novelists from the South, (indistinct) of Woodrow Wilson's book, "The Klansman" in particular, it's the summing up or the putting into visual form, the basic version of the Civil War and reconstruction that most Americans, by then, by the 50th anniversary of the war, had come to understand, observe, to a great degree, believe in not all, but by the time of the 50th anniversary, most Americans were comfortable. - Most white Americans. Yes, although the reconciliation of spirit also took hold of Black people too, in different ways. But most white Americans have had come to believe that reconciling north and south, northern whites and southern whites was a good thing. And that all sides had fought heroically and gloriously for their version of the right. And that reconstruction had been a terrible period. A period when everything went to hell in a basket. When the country tried to be too radical, Black suffrage was too much too fast. 15th Amendment, terrible idea. It needed another half century or something to work. Black people weren't ready for all the elements of freedom or the practice of liberty and worse. And that all that violence, clan violence, other kinds of violence, well, it's unfortunate, but probably necessary if not even really important for the reestablishment of white supremacy. So what you get in "Birth of a Nation" is- - So that was the narrative of 1915 of the- - It is. - Moment of the 50th. There's all kinds of reconciliation is culture at that time, not least of which was the famous blue gray reunion at Gettysburg, which I highlighted so much in my book, "Race and Reunion," which was a festival of reconciliation between northern and southern veterans soldiers. But in "Birth of a Nation," you get, you know, a white supremacist epic story. The heroes are the clan who liberate white women from Black male rapists who liberate villages and towns taken over by Black politicians who are always looking at white women in the wrong way, but always just taking power wherever they could get it and taking money wherever they can get it. They were corrupt. They were sex fiends and they had to be stopped. They were a kind of a poison on the body politic. And in the end, it's the ride of the clan that becomes the great climax of "Birth of a Nation." But "Birth of a Nation," of course, was a cinematic original. I mean, it did things with movie making no one had ever done before, as everyone says. But it also was wildly popular when it hit the theaters. But it was also roundly resisted. - Protested. - Yeah, and protested. From Los Angeles to New York to New Haven, Connecticut, protests occurred everywhere the NAACP led the protest. It's also always been, and this will be key, I think for our students, if they only see an hour of it, to realize that it became a huge question of free speech. Was this just artistic freedom or was it a movie that can reach millions now that truly endangered people? I mean, clan groups actually would ride horses and march outside theaters to celebrate this. So for Black people, terrified by even an image of a Klansman no less than James Weldon Johnson. The now soon to be by 1916 Field Secretary of the NAACP and many others like him. Sometimes even moderate Black leaders said, "No, this has to be banned. It's so dangerous to put this in the public theater for children to see." And that's always been a tough question about free speech. What is one person's pornography is another person's freedom. And one person's racism is another person's freedom. And we've had that struggle in some ways ever since with art and culture. DW Griffith just wondered, you know, he defended his film, of course, and he went on to make other films, but there were films made about "Birth of a Nation," against "Birth of a Nation." Too frequently however, the people making those films just didn't have the money or the resources that Griffith had had. But that film was viewed by millions of Americans in 1915. And again, if one only sees an hour of its content and you try to realize you took your 12-year-old to see that film who doesn't know much of anything about American history. And you may not either. That's American history and it's put on the screen in epic form. And it took generations in some ways, to begin to overcome it. - I've always thought of that film as sort of the cinematic origin story that was supposed to justify Jim Crow. - "Birth of a Nation," yes. - "Birth of a nation," of a particular kind of nation of this post-war nation. - Being separated. - And in 1915, kind of looking back and telling that origin story from this white supremacist perspective. And that's sort of where we're heading next week. So you are gonna talk about the birth of Jim Crow as a formal system of segregation. And then something really important is gonna happen on Thursday. - Yeah. - Which is that I'm gonna lecture. Finally for the first time - To the third- - And we're going to try to make our way forward. - Gonna pass Baton to the- - To 20th century. - Yes, to Professor Gage who will take us all the way through the 20th century. And our wonderful audience out there. If you think I had trouble getting so fast through some of these lectures, consider what Bev has to do, the whole bloody 20th century. And it was very bloody, I'm afraid. But I do wanna say I'm still gonna return a little bit to this thing called the Gilded Age next week, but also move West and talk about native dispossession and the origin of this Jim Crow system in the South. So can't wait to wrap it up and turn it over to you. - Sounds kind of dark, really. - Yeah, it's rather dark. - So it's not a great period for- - I know there's a reason it was called the Nadir of African American history, but you know what? I'll throw a little Twain humor in there too. And maybe I can think of a song to put in to lift our spirits, at least at the beginning or the end. I'm not sure. What's an important song of the 1890s? - All right, well, that's the question we'll leave with. - Let us know out there if you. (laughs) - Stay tuned and we'll be back next week. - Yeah, great. Thanks, Bev, and see you next week. (ambient music)