(soft music) - "Both parties deprecated war, but one of them would make war, rather than let the nation survive. And, the other would accept war, rather than let is perish, and the war came." That's in paragraph two of Abraham Lincoln's second inaugural address, still I think perhaps the most beautifully crafted, simple, and amazing presidential speech ever made, he's laying some blame there, but he's not gonna gloat. It's March 1865, the war is almost over, the surrenders haven't occurred, but they're on the horizon. 1/8th of the whole population said, "Lincoln, he went to the point, he didn't avoid it." 1/8th of the population were colored slaves, not distributed generally over the union. (David chuckling) No kidding. But localized in the Southern part, these slaves constituted a peculiar and powerful interest. Wow, what an understatement. And then, came this simple sentence, "All knew that this interest was somehow the cause of the war." That's the most remarkable "somehow" in American rhetoric. Somehow? Somehow, all knew. Well, all haven't always known since, but that speech went on, he said, "You know, most of us, all of us hoped for a war," quote, "Less fundamental and astounding." His words, "Not as long, not as bloody, not as deadly, not as fundamental." But then, he throws it over to God for a little while, the prayers of both could not be... He says, "We both prayed to the same God, but the prayers of both could not be answered. That of neither has been answered fully, the Almighty has His own purposes." Out in that outdoor audience on the back portico of the capital that day, were all kinds of people. Frederick Douglas was about 11 or 12 rows into the audience, down to Lincoln's left, we've now spotted him in the blow-up of a photograph, Douglas was there. And he would walk Pennsylvania Avenue behind the presidential carriage back to the White House. Douglas had dreamed of writing this speech for Lincoln, but said prayers of gratitude when he realized Lincoln wrote it, that was more important. He invokes the providence of God, which was so 19th century, but then he said that, "We finally hope," as he famously expressed it, "And fervently pray that this mighty scourge of war will speedily pass away." But, or he used, "Yet, if God wills, that it continue until all the wealth piled by the bondsman's 250-years of unrequited toil shall be sunken until every drop of blood drawn within this lash shall be paid by another drawn with the sword, as it was said 3,000-years-ago, so still it must be said, the judgements of the Lord are true and righteous altogether." "Every drop of blood shed by a lash shall be paid by blood shed by the sword. Slavery caused the war, slavery must die in this war, and we must prosecute it to the ugliest end and end it." That's not the Abraham Lincoln of 1861, sending an olive branch to the South, they had no olive branches of course left now. He did end with the famous last paragraph, and it's what everybody loves to point to when they need a little Lincoln, when they needed the Lincoln they want, when they need the Lincoln pure, they go to that last little paragraph, "Where the malice toward none and charity for..." It's so poetic, why not? "Charity for all, with firmness in the right as God gives us to see the right, let us strive to finish the work we are in, to bind up the nation's wounds, to care for him who shall aborn the battle, and for his widow, and his orphan to do all which may achieve and cherish, adjust, and lasting peace among ourselves and all nations." You can often see the Second Inaugural referred to only in through the last paragraph, "Charity for all." Without bothering to look at that long middle-paragraph, which is, "Retributive Justice", without that middle paragraph, that last part? Psh. Lincoln's last acts were many, he had said back in '63 at Gettysburg that this war was "testing", "testing" was his verb, a "testing" of whether any kind of republic like this could long endure, he had at least miles of the word "equality" in that tight, little, short speech, though he had no idea where that idea was going, the Gettysburg Address is about the "Last Best Hope of Earth", a phrase he had actually used earlier in 1862, "A republic, could it survive?" And then by '65, he's explaining in three-paragraphs what the word meant, and within a month of course, he was shot, and murdered in Ford's Theatre, as shocking an event as Americans had ever experienced, if you read Civil War diaries, you read diaries from the spring of '65, all kinds of people would blacken the edges of their diary when they referred to the news of Lincoln's killing. Herman Melville wrote a poem about it, you knew I was going there. It's called "The Martyr", he trying to capture that moment, "Good Friday was the day of the prodigy in crime when they killed him in his pity, when they killed him in his prime. Of clemency, and calm, when with yearning he was filled to redeem the evil will than though conqueror be kind, but they killed him in his kindness, and their madness, and their blindness, and they killed him from behind. There is a sobbing in the land of the strong, an a pall upon the land, but the people in their weeping, bear an iron hand, be aware of the people weeping, when they bury the iron hand." Would reconstruction be the iron hand? Yes, for a while. I'm simplifying here, but that's what we do in this course, it's why I need Melville. "He'd lieth in his blood, the father in his face, they have killed him, the forgiver, the Avenger take his place. The Avenger wisely stern who in righteousness shall do what the heavens call him to, and the parricides remand, for they killed him in his kindness, and their madness, and their blindness, and his blood is on their hand. There is sobbing of the strong," Melville ends, "An a pall upon the land, for the people in their weeping, bear the iron hand, beware the people weeping, when they bear the iron hand." If you get inside of the assassination of Abraham Lincoln in it's immediacy, it's context, the war has just... Well, it's not even fully ended yet, but the surrendered Appomattox had just occurred on the 12th of April, he's killed on the 14th... Or, shot on the 14th, dies on the 15th, the news has arrived, the most joyous public news in American history, Lee had surrendered to Grant, in a little village called Appomattox. The details of the surrender weren't out yet, but they are gonna be quite lenient, and within 48-hours comes the news, Lincoln's been shot in the theater, and there have been attempts on the lives of the Vice President, the Secretary of State and two or three other cabinet members. Well, they made sure that had been stabbed in his bed. It's pretty clear there was a conspiracy to wipe out the top of the Federal Government by John Wilkes Booth, people didn't know about Booth just yet, they will very soon, in an attempt to decapitate if you like, the government. It's gonna make Andrew Johnson President of the United States overnight. There'd been deaths of presidents, but never an assassination, we know a lot more about assassinations now in our history, unfortunately. They didn't. Martha Hodes wrote a great book if you're looking for a book to get you inside the Lincoln assassination, and especially the mourning, the short, and longer-term mourning, social mourning, public mourning, national mourning, and it's meanings, not just for Lincoln, but for that war. It's got "mourning" in the title, and right now I'm forgetting the full title but, somebody will look it up for me and shout it out within 10-seconds, probably. Martha Hodes' brilliant book, the legacies of this war will go on to... Arguably forever, they're still here, they're still around, they're probably visible on your bookshelves, they may be visible in some of your assumptions, they may be resonant in some of your thoughts, some of your beliefs, some of your worries, some of your attitudes about government, centralized government, the federal government, federalism. States rights, race. Every time the United States has a racial reckoning and count them, how many have we had? Let me reflect back to the first one, which was Reconstruction, immediate aftermath, and the emancipation of four-million slaves, what do you do? Who are they? How would the be defined? How would the United States reinvent itself? Would it become a second founding of the United States? Yes. How long would it last? Reconstruction will tell. The legacies of Civil War may still survive in unconscious ways in the way we mourn. To some extent, for a very long time, it had tremendous affect on how people wrote, it brought a new so-called "realism" to writing, which would in haphazard ways take hold of American literature throughout the rest of the 19th century, with a few exceptions, but it would be fought against, it would be countered by a sentimentalism born by this war, that became irresistible to Americans, how do you want... How do you forget, or at least elide the most horrific experiences you ever had? You find some alternative memory, we're all capable of that, we probably have all done it. You look for happy stories, you look for something more pleasing, more pleasant, more reconciling. And there was... There was good old Walt Whitman, Whitman was trying so hard, he did it in his greatest poem, "When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom'd", I'm not even gonna read from it, but you should read it, it is Whitman's otherworldly meditation on the death of Lincoln, and the funeral train, Lincoln's 22-day funeral train from Washington, all over the country, out to Springfield Illinois, and he puts a bird, he calls it the "warbling", "a sparrow in a bush" and Whitman is sort of his own character in that songbird he says, "Might, just might with his songs, bring us somehow to reconcile." And he says, "I walked toward the bush, and on one hand I have the horror and terror of this war, I have death, death, and death," he says. In the other hand he has hope and reconciliation, and could that bird's songs make it happen? It's a kind of universal human prayer, that there might be a way to get over this. He said in another poem, that he literally entitled "Reconciliation" in 1865, one short verse, "Word over all, beautiful as the sky, beautiful at war, and all it's deeds of courage must in time be otherly lost, that the hands of the sister's death and night incessantly softly wash again, and never again this soiled world, for my enemy is dead, a man divine as myself is dead." That's a poem called "Reconciliation", he's trying. He's trying. But America was in ruin, there were a lot of people out there now saying, "Oh, the United States has finally grown up to be a real country." We're a real country now, 'cause we have ruins. All the great European civilizations of course had lot of ruins, and the greatest ruins in the world were in Greece, and Rome. You wanna see a real civilization? Go to Rome and see the ruins. Forget about all that history that bought all the ruin... Brought all the ruin. It's a photograph of Richmond, it's the end of the war. This is a photograph of... No, the other one was Charleston, sorry. This one's Richmond. Four little Black kids, who have found themselves a union cappy, it's an incredible photograph. They found themselves a union cap, and they got their photos taken next to a column. What's ended? What's begun? I don't know, you can read into that photo, a lot of that, we could give you that as a final exam question. Look at the photo, discuss. You want that one? Visual learner right there wants that one? Yes? Okay. But then, there was this guy, when it comes to Sherman, he wasn't ready to reconcile with anybody, never was, and he certainly wasn't gonna reconcile with all the enslaved people who followed his army from Atlanta to the sea, he didn't want them there, but they were, hundreds at first, then thousands of them. There were no Black soldiers in Billy Sherman's army, he didn't allow it, even though the law said he had to. Sherman wouldn't have fought this war to end slavery, but he knew he was doing that, and he didn't particularly like it, that's why you gotta read students that colloquy between the 20 Black ministers led by their selected leader, Reverend Fraser, face-to-face with William, to come to Sherman in an old beautiful house in Savannah. Once Sherman's army reached Savannah, they sit down and discuss the meaning of the war, that's up on the canvas, read that exchange. Sherman left before the 20th question was even asked, he couldn't take it anymore. But, Sherman had an attitude that a hell of a lot of Americans did, about this war at this point, and it has easily as much to do with what's gonna happen in Reconstruction, as did Lincoln's kindness or leniency, or grace? In that Second Inaugural. Here's Sherman, "As for changing the opinions of the people of the South, that is impossible, and they must be killed or dispossessed. We must colonize and settle as we go South, enemies must be killed, or transported to some other country." Now, if we heard allegates say that today, we'd say, "Whoa this is... This is a recipe for ethnic cleansing." (David chuckling) Or terror. And that's in part, what Sherman's march to the sea was. Sherman was constantly appealed to by white Southerners, especially by women, "Please sir, have some mercy." He answered a Miss P.A. Fraser who wrote to him in Georgia, complaining that the Yankees were tearing everything down, they were burning everything after they stole the hogs, and the hay, and whatever they could steal. And he wrote back to her, and he said, "What to God ladies acted their mission on Earth?" That insist... That insist that, "Instead of inflaming the minds of their husbands and brothers, to lift their hands against the government of their birth, and stain them in blood, had prayed to forebear, to exhaust all the remedies afforded by our glorious constitution, and thereby avoided horrid war, the last remedy on earth." "Too bad, lady." Is what Sherman's saying, "Pay the price." Now, that's not the stuff of reconciliation, you can be sure. And the men, of the so-called "Radical Republicans" who are going to devise Reconstruction, are fully aware of that, and some of them are full of their own retribution. You've all probably heard you know, that everyone was waving bloody shirts at the time of... Boy, these hombres are always worth looking at, this is a photograph taken of three confederate prisoners at Gettysburg, after the battle. The deepest legacies of the Civil War of course, which I've already implied were in the lives lost, the lives ruined, the lives and psyches damaged by massive war, by over and over, month after month engaging in this kind of war, we didn't have any terminology for post-traumatic stress in the 19th century, they had a phrase they sometimes used called, "shook over hell", "Oh, that guy must've been shook over hell." 'Cause he was not right, you know? Or he was suicidal. Waves of suicides by veterans in the wake of the Civil War, there's a whole new little kind of corner of scholarship on that now. Wanna join the field? Of course photographers did this over and over, and over, these are some of the dead at Spotsylvania Courthouse in Virginia in 1864, lined up, ready for the grave diggers. And Winslow Homer, our great landscaping... Well, he seascapes, landscapes, a great 19th century painter, who went South, he went to Petersburg, he saw the trenches around Petersburg, which were there for 10/11-months. He saw the troops, he left us... I don't wanna show you any more than one of these, 'cause I could talk about nothing else but Winslow Homer the rest of the day. But, this is Winslow Homer's painting, he called it, "Defiance, Inviting a Shot". These guys lived in these trenches for months, and months, sometimes only a couple hundred yards apart, and this guy, according to Homer at least, has got up on the top of one one-day and said you know, "Hey MF, shoot me! Come on!" Don't know if he got shot or not. Soldiers went crazy. Somebody now though had... That's Walt on the right, he snuck into the photograph of Andrew Johnson here, I don't know how that happened. But, this is the man who of course replaces Abraham Lincoln, why was he on the ballot? Good question. It's kind of a little blemish in Lincoln's... Whatever, star? Gee ay, why'd you put old Andrew Johnson on the ballot with you as your running mate in 1864 and get rid of Hannibal Hamlin? It's because Hannibal Hamlin in New Hampshire wasn't any good to him anymore, Andrew Johnson seemed poetically very useful, he was the only senator from a succeeded state, the state was Tennessee, the only senator from succeeded state who did not succeed, who did not leave his seat, he stayed in the US senate. Eventually, Lincoln appointed him the Wartime Governor of Tennessee, more on that in a second, when Lincoln sets up these fledgling little governments. Andrew Johnson was... Well, he was many things, he was an East Tennessee stump speaker, he was an old Jacksonian democrat, he believed firmly in states rights, firmly in the union, and firmly in slavery. The two Andys would've gotten along very well, Andrew Jackson, Andrew Johnson. To call Andy Johnson racist to his bones is not... Not even getting there, but he was a staunch unionist, and he would not... He thought succession was a terrible mistake by the Southern states and he said so, and he stayed in the union. His slogan for Reconstruction, even before the year was over, was, "The union as it was, and the constitution as it is. Put the union back together as fast as possible, but don't change the constitution." No civil rights, no voting rights, no rights for Black people, no racial equality in America. Yes, slavery's ended, slavery's over. Eh, he wasn't thrilled by that, but he knew that was a fact. But, this experimentation with racial equality? He'd have nothing to do with it. Backup with me though, in the middle of the war, you'll note that on the outline I had a category for "Wartime Reconstruction". A lot goes on between 1863 and '65, explicitly about the idea of Reconstruction within Washington, and certainly in newspaper editors' offices all over the North. If indeed the North wins this war, what would malice toward none and charity for all mean to Abraham Lincoln? Well, he already worked this out. I'm gonna go quick with this. Lincoln put together as early as '63, what he called a 10% plan, that meant that first of all, it reflects Lincoln's constitutional views, Lincoln believed that succession had not really happened, because it's illegal, they couldn't succeed, so they're still sort of in the union. Yeah, they've lost 650 to 700,000-men in this godawful war, but the Southern states didn't really leave, legally. So, his goal here all along had been to squash the rebellion, force the confederacy into defeat, and surrender, and part of that forcing of them was emancipation an enveloping, rolling process of destroying the South's labor system, economy, and future. Lincoln would've kind of preferred more of a restoration or reunification, he was a gradualist by instinct, you know that from whatever I said a week ago about his pre-war views. He wanted this process under executive authority, he didn't want the radicals in his own party to get hold of this process, he didn't want congress to get the power over this process, 'cause he knew it would be much harsher, and much longer. Got that right, Abe. He wanted a rapid, lenient, and moderate Reconstruction so as in his view, this is Lincoln, to avoid further Civil War. The harsher the Reconstruction process might be to Lincoln, this is well before the war is even over, he believed it would just mean the war would never end. Bands of confederate troops, bands of rebels would be roaming around the South and still making war on the united states, he wanted a clean ending to this war, so that it would not end like many civil wars in history have, they never quite end, the rebels go to the hills, or the sea, and their sons come back. That kind of is gonna happen to the United States in a different way, (David laughing) it's caused "The Lost Cause". Lincoln put out a plan, the end of 1863 was called "The Proclamation of Amnesty & Reconstruction", he would pardon all ex-confederates he said, "With serious exceptions, high-ranking military officers..." Although he left that a little loose about how high-ranking. "Those who had resigned their commissions, or their judicial, and congressional positions to aid the rebellion." Now, that meant anybody who had resigned from congress, resigned from a federal judgeship, it meant Andrew Johnson would be... He wouldn't have to be pardoned, 'cause he didn't leave, but he's the only one, that's why he's on the ballot. He had a vague category two here that he was not going to pardon anybody who had quote, "Mistreated Black soldiers." Now, how that was gonna be proved exactly, never was able to determine. And then he simply said, "When 10% of the voting population of a given state..." And that voting population would be deemed as of the 1860 election if X-hundred-thousand people, men, voted in Alabama in 1860, when 10% of that number had taken an oath back to the United States, established a government, they would be recognized and returned to the union by the president. He's gonna establish new governments of the sort for a little while in three states, Louisiana, Tennessee, and Arkansas, fledgling to say the least, they were pitifully weak, they were totally dependent on federal troops, and the parts of their states that were occupied. But, his fellow republicans in congress are up in arms over this. In early 1864, that same winter of 1864 with the impending presidential election of 1864 ahead of them, some of his fellow republicans are gonna lead an effort to dump Lincoln from the ticket, 'cause he's gone... He's just gone lenient, "He's gone soft in the confederacy," they say. And they wanna replace him with John C. Fremont who had been their candidate and their standard-bearer back in 1856, who was still, though he was a dandy, and a playboy, and not always trustworthy, he was deemed more abolitionist, more "left" we would say, than Abe Lincoln. But mostly they were just angry at the show of grace toward the South, and their response was led by Thaddeus Stevens, and Charles Sumner, Stevens is on your upper-right, he almost fits in that category of John C. Calhoun as the sternest looking SOBs in the mid-19th century American politics. Thaddeus Stevens was one tough character, he was brilliant, he was unrelenting, and he was a radical abolitionist from Pennsylvania. Charles Sumner at the lower-right was a very different kind of personality, he was to a bit of a silver-spoon-born in Beacon Hill in Massachusetts, Harvard boy. But, he too became without question, a radical abolitionist, he gave long speeches in the senate when they finally let him speak, laced with Latin and Greek quotations just to show off, he knew that most of his colleagues didn't have a clue what he was saying, you know, people just do... Some people go into French once in a while just to show you, "You know, I'm fluent in French." Fine, but what did you say? You know, nothing against French, I wish I had learned it better. Anyway, Stevens and Sumner had an answer for this, and they start their process of trying to take hold of Reconstruction policy during the war years and then, especially after, Thaddeus Stevens said, "No-no-no-no-no, none of this 10%." In fact he called the idea of only 10% of a Southern state taking an oath in all the... He said, "That quote is a mere mockery of democracy." And Stevens said they should be treated, the ex-confederate states as quote, "Conquered Provinces", it's a phrase worth remembering, 'cause it kind of explains things. "They should be treated as foreign, conquered, provident provinces in a foreign war." And under the constitution, that's pretty clear, you conquer someone else's territory, well there's gonna have to be a treaty, and treaties are approved by what? The US Senate. Not by presidents. And Steven claimed he was using the Principles of International Law and he was to a great extent. Charles Sumner came up with an even more kind of overt phrase, he called the confederate... He said the confederate states had committed state suicide, that's pretty clear, they'd kill themselves with states, done, gone, they gotta be recreated. Who creates new states under the US constitution? The congress. Who admits them to the union? This is a battle royale now developing even in the war years, politically, is they're trying to win the war. Sumner said, "No, those 11 succeeded states have to be returned to the status of unorganized territories, they have to be reinvented again, and they're gonna be reinvented by the congress, especially a republican-controlled congress." And to Stevens, and Sumner, and their many friends now... Charles Sumner hadn't always had many friends, they see Reconstruction as a period of experimentation. To go back to Joanne's idea of the "Holy Earth", the American Revolution, those guys were experimenting, well so were our second founders. The second founders were experimenting and they wanted more time to do it, they wanted Reconstruction to be slower, much more harsh, and radical. They passed what they called the "Wade Davis Bill", it's up on the outline, it was named for Henry Winter... No, Benjamin Wade of Ohio and Henry Winter Davis of Maryland, two republicans, yes there were republicans even in Maryland. They answer Lincoln's 10% idea and they say, "No-no-no-no-no." They wanted a majority of white male citizens, of any ex-confederate state, though that majority, every one of them had to take what was known as the "Ironclad Oath", claiming they had never aided and abetted the war effort by the confederate states of America. Now, already you're thinking, "There is no majority in Georgia, of white men, that never aided and abetted the Confederate War." That's the point. By making the entry fee the Ironclad Oath, you're making sure this is gonna take a long time. Yeah, it could be altered at some point, of course, an oath is an oath, until it's a different oath. Thirdly they said, "All officers above Lieutenant," which is just about everybody, and all civil officials in the confederacy, federal, and state, would be disfranchised forever. Leadership class of the South would be eliminated from their polity, and they would be explicitly declared in that elimination quote, "Not a citizen of the United States." It was almost like an invitation to go into exile, just leave, go to Brazil, go to England, go wherever the hell you want, but leave. Now, they may bend on that... Well, they will bend on that one. They were treating the confederates as conquered enemies, in their language, in their proposals, what did Lincoln do with that bill once passed? He gave it a pocket veto, you know what that is? You just don't react to it, you put it in a drawer, pocket veto. Then eventually, he issued what he called his "Proclamation on the Wade Davidson Bill", that was in July '64, this is when he's under such pressure, not even knowing if he... If his own party's gonna support him for president, but he's taken on... He's taking on his own party now, and he was trying... He tried so hard to be conciliatory to them, he had good relationships with Sumner and some of the other... He didn't have a good relationship with Stevens. And then he said to them, "I do not completely reject any proposal." Okay, what the hell does that mean? Thank you very much, meeting is over. He's trying to placate the radicals, at the same time he's trying to keep hold of Reconstruction planning, and keep hold of winning the war, and if possible, keep hold of winning re-election. If there's any point in the war where Lincoln might've just gone off and walked into the Potomac, and said, "I've had it." That would've been it. But he couldn't, so here are... Here are the divided sides, a slow, harsh Reconstruction led by congress, a much quicker, more lenient Reconstruction led by the president, after the fall of Atlanta, after Sherman Sheridan's marches down through the Shenandoah Valley after fall of Mobile Bay, after Lincoln gets reelected in the fall of '64, so much changed, not least of which was that the congress in early... 16th of January of '65, created something called "The Freedmen's Bureau". "The Bureau of Refugees, Freedmen, and Abandoned Lands" was it's formal title, the United States had never had an agency anything like this before, it was a huge government social welfare program, trying to answer the needs of refugee-freed people, and refugee white people all across the South as the war was winding down and coming to some visible land somewhere, it actually didn't pass congress 'til the first week of March, right before Lincoln's second inauguration, it had many basic purposes, "It's only gonna last four-years." This government agency to give the wherewithal of survival to human beings on both sides in the South, never been done before by the federal government, and went against so many people's visions of federalism, "Federal government shouldn't be doing this." But nobody else can. It was the USAID program for the white refugees and Black refugees from total war, and they will do amazing things, more than that, we move ahead to the late 1860s, next time they will create schools, they will... They will give out millions of rations of food, they'll create hospitals, they'll settle some 30,000 displaced people on new land. They'll negotiate the first ever contracts between freed people, and their former owners, which were not easy to do, but they did it. In it's entire existence of four-years, the Freedmen's Bureau spent $5-million on education for the freed people, the Civil War itself was costing $2-million a day by '64/'65. Freedmen's Bureau never had enough budget to do much of anything, but what it did with what it had is remarkable, and it left an extraordinary legacy there as well. Now, the 13th Amendment also passed, a month and a half before that, the 13th Amendment. The amendment, the simplest of the amendments that ended slavery forever, or we can always hope, it has two simple sentences, look it up. It ended involuntary servitude of any kind, forever, except for imprisonment for crime. Now, there's a whole lot of advocates of working against the incarceration crisis in America, and they are working against that for very good reasons, but a whole lot of blame has been thrust on the 13th Amendment, because of that phrase, "Except for imprisonments for crime." It's in my humble view, always been wrong-headed to blame the 13th Amendment for our incarceration program, which stemmed from those ridiculous drug laws of the 1970s and 1980s, and you wanna blame the 13th Amendment? Way too easy. That got into the constitution because it gave validity to the Emancipation Proclamation legally, removed all legal doubt, and freed the slaves everywhere, not just in the states in rebellion, not just in sections of the South, they freed the slaves everywhere. The passage of the 13th Amendment, if you've... How many of you've seen the movie "Lincoln"? Yeah, not as many in the upper deck, hmm. That's all about the 13th Amendment, Steven Spielberg originally was gonna make a film, an epic about the whole Lincoln presidency, all four-years of it. And then, once they got going into it, they realized, "No-no-no-no, that's way too big." And Liam Neeson quit on 'em, and happily they got Daniel Day-Lewis, greatest actor on planet Earth, and they made it about the passage to the 13th Amendment, about one-month in Lincoln's presidency. But, what a day it was and then it bang narrowly passed in the congress. One of Douglas' sons, Charles, was in the gallery in the House of Representatives when it passed that day, and all the screaming, and cheering, and hugging on the one side, and all of the shouting and ugly expletives on the other were happening, and he wrote a quick note to his father that said, "Father, this is your day, you should be here. Why aren't you here?" He couldn't be everywhere for God sake. Yeah. All right... And all along, waiting in the wings, and he wasn't really even this is John Bingham, he was running... He was the chairman of the Tribunal that tried John Wilson Booth... Well no, tried? Booth was shot. Tried the other members of John Wilson Booth's conspiracy, in the murder of Lincoln and the attempted murder of others. John Bingham was an Evangelical Christian radical abolitionist from mid-Central Ohio, he'd been in congress now for quite a while, he was very well-respected as not only a congressional tactition, but a serious and aggressive abolitionist thinker within the law. And Bingham led the effort by early 1866, in those astonishing debates in the US congress over a 14th Amendment... They needed another amendment, they needed another set of laws of some kind, yes, they're gonna be free, "We're freeing all the slaves." But, who are they? What are they? And Bingham, he wasn't alone in this at all, but Bingham says over and over, in the floor of the house, "We need to federalize the Bill of Rights. We need to establish equality before law. We need to establish birthright citizenship." Now tempo, I'll come back to that slide, even though you can't read it. This is Section 1 of the 14th Amendment, it's ratified in 1868, but it passed in June 1866, after a knockdown drag out debates in the congress, this is the second founding of the United States, and no one has to apologize for using that term or that phrase anymore, it's in the titles of many books, including one by Eric Foner. What holds you together as American citizens, what holds this society together if you can keep it, is Section 1 of the 14th Amendment. If my microphone works over here? What did it mean to federalize the Bill of Rights? Well, Bill of Rights has all sorts of rights in it, but Americans had always lived under this system of federalism which says, "You can only really enforce these things at the state level." Bingham says, "Nope, we fought in blood in this war, we sacrificed so much in this war, now it must be enforced by the federal government. All persons born or naturalized in the United States and subject to the jurisdiction thereof are citizens of the United States and the state wherein they reside." Sentence one, Birthright Citizenship now under attack, has been under attack by, let's be honest, republicans, for years. If you can eliminate that first sentence of the 14th Amendment, you got a whole new legal lever to get immigrants out of this country. There is nothing more sacred in the US constitution, than Section 1 of the 14th Amendment, except possibly, sentence 2 of the 14th Amendment. "No state shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States." Who's a citizen? Everyone born here. "Nor shall any state deprive any person of life, liberty, or property without due process," how often have you heard those two words in our recent immigration debates? "Of law, nor deny to any person within it's jurisdiction, the equal protection of the laws." The Equal Protection clause, "Equality before law." Is probably the source, or the cause, or the subject of about 2/3rd's of all litigation in American courtrooms, everyday, and as we speak. What does "Equal Protection" mean? It's been... It's been interpreted 1,000 different ways. It's been interpreted in favor of affirmative action, and against affirmative action. in favor of toleration, and against toleration. It's been interpreted for racist purposes, and anti-racist purposes. It's been interpreted to support gay and LGBT rights, and to denounce them. I could go on, and on with that list. These are just words, but the umbrella that is hovering above you as American citizens, is John Bingham, Section 1 of the 14th Amendment, and the fellowship have a stamp, a US stamp. You know what that is? Long been an effort to get John Bingham on a stand, but nobody knows anything about him. We're trying to remedy that. All right, I'll leave you here. That same winter, 1866 in February, Frederick Douglas gets together 12 Black men... Actually, one white guy was with him, one of his sons was with him, Lewis. They got an appointment at the White House to meet with Andrew Johnson, they knew that Johnson didn't want to meet with them, they knew it wasn't gonna be happy and pleasant. But, they wanted to go to the president and demand the rights, civil, and political for Black people before congress finally decided whatever they were going to do. They sat down for a full hour with the president, and he barely would look, and speak. Johnson gave them a speech, he said, "You know back in Tennessee, I used to own slaves, but I freed mine." What are you supposed to do with that? "Oh, thank you sir." You know? "Now that the slaves are freed, the real inequality is for white people." Where have you heard that? They did, right to their faces. Douglas kept trying to interrupt, "Mr. President, may we ask-" "No, you may not." For 45-minutes he lectured them about how there will never be racial equality in the United States, because if there is, it'll lead to inter-marriage, it'll lead to race riots, and they ought to be happy that they're at least free. And as they were leaving the room... I've left out a lot here. Douglas finally said to his delegation, "We're done here." And they... They're walking out, and everybody in the room could hear Andrew Johnson say, "That Douglas is just like every other N-word in the world, he'll slit your throat when you turn your back." I don't know what Douglas did in that moment, I've always imagined he must've turned around and looked in Johnson's eyes with that look. (David chuckling) But, then he went back to a hotel office where he and his group gathered, and Douglas wrote a new speech. That's what he did, he went to his desk to know what he thought, and he wrote a speech about the crisis of the land, the problems before the country, in the midst of this debate over the 14th Amendment, and before he ends the speech, and he kinda lost it, he advocated the constitutional amendment to eliminate the vice presidency. (attendees laughing) Fred, and a couple other weird constitutional amend... Fred lost it there, but before he ended the speech he said, "You know, our constitution is pretty good, it's all well and good when a good man is serving in the presidency, but..." Hmm, he missed the punchline. "We have to have a constitution that serves us when the bad man is in presidency." (attendees applauding) I didn't say that, Frederick Douglas did. Thank you, have a good Autumn break. See ya next time. (soft music)