Well. Hello again. This is the America 250 A history, the podcast. I'm here with my wonderful two colleagues, Joanne Freeman and Beverly Gage. We're meeting today on, September 11th. Always a day of, somber commemoration and a reminder, that history never stops happening. And we've already addressed our students, virtually all of whom were not born by 9/11. And the other half of the people attending, of course, who can remember something like 9/11. We're living in a particularly precarious political moment. And that, again, is, a recognition that, one of the reasons we do history is because it just never stops happening. Today we're going to discuss Joanne's two recent lectures, which were on the - roughly put on the Articles of Confederation and, the emergence of the US Constitution. Huge subject. And we're going to take up also some of the readings, as best we can. Joanne, you made a point at the very end of your last lecture that this whole period of the coming of the American Revolution, the creation of the articles for structure, and then, of course, the the move toward a U.S. Constitution as crooked as it was, in terms of a, a historical path is a time when the founders of this republic were trying to decide and then determine whether humans could actually govern themselves. I thought that was a great idea to end on, because this kind of what they were trying to do all along, especially once they'd won a war and had to demonstrate to the world. “So is this republic going to last or what?” What do you mean by that? Well, you know, it's easy to forget how experimental what they were doing was and certainly how they much they thought about how experimental it was. It's a world of monarchies. And these people are. And particularly when now you're beginning to talk about the Constitution. They're trying to create a different kind of government that has public opinion. The public at its core, at its heart, that's like the as I said in the lecture, the beating heart of our government is the public and public opinion. And that's just different, from what had happened before. And it's unclear what that means. And not everyone is equally charmed as to the fact that that's happening. And actually, next week when we begin talking about the 1790s, we'll be talking in part about people who are more happy with a more democratic government, people who are less. So all of that in their mind is along the lines of the question you just asked me, “can we actually do this? Like, can this actually work?” These are all some of the things that fascinate me about the period, because not only are they thinking about that, but they talk about it. It runs through everything they do. There's like a tension and a fraughtness, because they understand that at any second it could all collapse. Well, one of the things that was striking to me about the Federalist Papers, so... oh! I did it, I made the big mistake! -You did it before I did. Joanne shooting daggers at me across the table. -The Federalist Essays Ok they are not the Federalist Papers. It was just The Federalist. All 85 of The Federalist. For essays, essays. Okay, we can call them essays. But we usually turn to these as highbrow disquisitions on reason and reasoned government and checks and balances and these sets of abstract questions. But if you sit down and read them and particularly read between the lines, there's this fear there. “If this doesn't work, we're really screwed.” And and these two words keep coming up that I wonder if you could reflect on. One is tyranny and the other is anarchy. And these are kind of the two specters that are looming out there if this thing called a process that you talked about in lecture or Constitution isn't going to isn't going to work, right? Right. And those are those are the two ends of badness that are looming out there. You know, either things loom back towards a monarchy and tyranny in some way, or there's just going to be anarchy and everything's going to be out of control. And in one way or another, there'll be no government. So in their mind, and it's good that those words are floating throughout, because those are very real concerns for them that those things there is underlying those essays, some fear. Now, of course, as you suggested, that Federalist Essays are kind of a commercial advertisement for the Constitution. They're trying to sell people on the Constitution. So the goal is to make the Articles of Confederation seem really scary. And, you know, inept and incompetent, and the Constitution is the way to go. But even people like Hamilton and Madison, who are really strong nationalists in this time period, you know, part of the reason they're writing The Federalist is their fear that this might not happen. And if it doesn't happen, then what happens? So, you know, you have Madison and Hamilton frantically churning out these essays, going into newspapers, coordinating express riders between Virginia and New York so that they can stay up to date on what's happening. Week after week they're at their desk writing these essays. Some of them are first drafts. That always kind of killed me. -Yeah, they just send it in. I've been oh, come on. They hit the send button after only one draft? You could say they were actually made for the age of social media. It's true. All right. Articles of Confederation, before we throw it in the dustbin of history. You have a soft spot. I think, for the Articles, because, you should explain that. But it's always there in the middle between the revolution between the Declaration of Independence, the Revolutionary War, and then, of course, the great Constitution. -And then the Articles of Confederation. Yeah, yeah, but my God, they have a sort of government that lives under them for years, even though they didn't ratify it till I think you said 1781. What were the Articles again? And how did they function or not function? What did they at least lay down that the founders then, of the Constitution could work with? And why did they get a whole lecture? Oh yeah. The little old Articles. Yeah. Those little ol’ Articles. Okay. I'll maybe I'll start with, why I think they're important, which has to do with why I do think I never thought about the fact that it seems like I have a soft spot for the Articles, but I do think - Oh, I took it that way. Maybe I’m wrong, - No, I kind of like that. No. Kind of, you know, I have to think about that. I have to process that. But, I do think, just as you said right, they’re, you know, dismissed or not, thought about they’re a failure, they’re a, you know, training wheel government. But the thing is, you just suggested it in the end of your question, unless you understand what they were and what they were trying to do and why they why they failed, specifically, everything that comes after it, even just the Constitution and the Constitutional Convention, doesn't fully make sense. You can't understand how they got to the Constitution and how radical the Constitution was. And, what a big deal it was for them to do what they did in drafting the Constitution. Unless you see what the Articles were and, you know, they themselves describe what they are, they create a League of Friendship. Yeah. And League of Friendship. And so the, you know, the point of the Articles- -After the games are over, they can go home. Thank you friend I feel. I played a good game. Exactly. Pretty much. You know, they were in a revolution. They were breaking away from a monarch. Yeah. So then they managed to break away from a monarch, but they were very worried about rights, about privileges, about who they are and what their states are. Remember that their colonies sort of, in a way, were like their country. So the articles really preserve the essence of the states as centers of power. And there are only certain powers that are given to the Confederation Congress, which really doesn't have a lot of power anyway. So it makes perfect sense as a first try at a national government. And it it preserves and all the things it doesn't have, the things that they were really scared of. And, you know, for all those out there, including our students who are at times wondering why states rights is so powerful in our polity, you do you kind of need to go back to this origin, because the thing is born of the states. States. And we may not like it. We have a terrible history with states rights in certain periods of our history, but it's just part and parcel. It's inherent to what they experience, and it's not going to go away with the Constitution. No national is scary in this period. National is like, “uh oh, they’re going to erase the States” like it's some big scary thing and maybe it'll be there in that way it would be maybe tyranny, not anarchy, but still national. The word national isn't really in the Constitution because it's a scary word. They're terrified of that kind of power. I do want to warn all of the people from Connecticut and Rhode Island and Vermont who have been feeling very special in your lectures, that the significance of these particular states is going to rather recede as the semester goes along. Well, I always feel the need to. I think I can find a way to bring Vermont back during the Civil War. I'll work on it. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Well, okay. They have a war to fight here. I mean, I'm still struck. We didn't focus a lot on the war, but they fought a Revolutionary war, and it was a it was actually a very bloody war under the structure of the articles of Confederation, where they could barely tax themselves and often didn't. Soldiers by the thousands who rarely got paid, material of war that they could barely afford to buy. Take a venture here just once, if you don't mind. How the hell did these people win the Revolutionary War? It wasn't, it wasn't because of the structure of their government, was it? Or was it? You know. Wow. That's a big question, David. I know, I'll answer quickly - -But we’re doing a lot of big questions! We are doing big questions. Definitely they did not win the war because of that government. And I as I mentioned in class. (They won because of France.) Okay we can just move on. That’s the easy answer, that’s easy. But yes, without France -The French monarchy came to their aid. Without France, things would have been really grim. But, you know, it was also a war fought on home ground. It was a war fought that put the British at a disadvantage as far as supplies and men. The British were fighting by old rules. So they're like, “I know if we get the capital city, they'll collapse.” So they're fighting according to different rules. And for the British, the Caribbean is much more important. So when things start to go crazy down there, like, oh, well, we'll move, we'll move more, you know? So there are all kinds of reasons why, the revolution goes the way it goes. But part of it is it it's a war at home, and it's a war that, you know, in the years leading up to the war, they're absolutely focused. First as British subjects, and then as Americans on their rights and their privileges. If you are a British subject in this period, they were bragging around the world that they had the best liberties and the most rights. The Rights of Englishmen. Yes, that was a supreme thing. And so it's not an accident that those people begin to feel that those rights and privileges as colonists are being taken away, and that they're still wrapped up in that understanding. Well, can I can I follow up on this war question? Because thinking about the constitutional convention, thinking about the Federalist Papers, we have these highbrow debates going on, but many of the people who are participating, whether you're talking about a figure like George Washington or some lesser known folks, they had this tangible experience of war, of death, of suffering, of aspiration in the very, very recent past. -And losing. They lost a lot of land and battles. Right? They had lost. They had seen people they cared about died. Their families had become sick. That letter that you, that you had from Abigail Adams last week, that was, you know, explaining just all of the death and suffering that's here. And it's all very subdued in readings like this. But when you described, why is it so important that George Washington is up there as a figure at the convention itself? And part of it is his leadership and his reputation. But part of it is this experience of shared suffering, often among these very young men. So I wonder if you can talk about maybe how that social experience of war is really shaping some of these relationships and ideas that are going on. Shared suffering and no safety net. Right. So the the revolution. If they lose, they were going to hang. Yeah. Be traitors. That would be a bad fate. The people who in one way or another served at headquarters with Washington were around headquarters along the lines of some of what you're saying. It's not enough, in a way, to say they could see that the Congress was not powerful enough. What they saw was, we can't get blankets. We can't get food. You know, so the aides from Washington's headquarters are knocking on farmhouse doors to try and get supplies because they can't feed and clothe soldiers. They're looking for hogs they can slaughter to feed the troops. They're they're there. They can see and feel in a very real way, everything that Congress can't do constantly. So it's not an accident that a lot of those people, you know, Hamilton comes right out of that, Washington comes out of that. It's Henry Knox is another one of these guys. They come out and they immediately become, “we need a stronger government.” But it's for all of the reasons you're suggesting, because this isn't a high falutin, ethereal conversation about, you know, theory. It's very real. They felt and saw what the government couldn't do, and it was almost everything. So they have that sort of in their-it's a visceral kind of understanding that that didn't work. And we fought a revolution. And all of the things that you just mentioned happened with bloodshed and and suffering. And if we don't get this right after the war, why did we do that? But this is the moment where we can stand up and live up to what we think we're capable of doing. And how does that make you reflect on what we all know has been a long debate among historians. How radical was this revolution? Or was it in the end well, a pretty radical break from monarchy and from Great Britain and, for certain liberties, and yet in the end, they have to put it all back together in a very conservative way. Say some. So, help out our our many listeners out there on this question? Do we think of the American Revolution as pretty radical because, well, it it won. We became a republic and oh, my God, the Republic is still here. Or, it's it's more complicated. How radical was this revolution? Where do you come down on that? Well. I know that's too big a question. It is a big question. People have only been debating this for uh 250 years. -Forever. I'm going to answer like a historian. And there’s a graduate student somewhere right now, answering it in his or her orals class. Probably! I'm going to answer like a historian. Oh. That's allowed here. Thank you. Depends on how you're defining radical. Right. So if you're thinking about radicalism as new ideas about society, new understandings of the connections between people, I suppose in a general way, you might argue it's radical. However, Gordon Wood wrote a book titled The Radicalism of the American Revolution and the response to that book. So if people are interested in this debate. Yeah, reading the book and then going to the William and Mary Quarterly, and there's a forum on the book and people writing essays in there are saying, “Really?” Like, let's talk about women. Let's talk about Black Americans. Let's talk about who doesn't have any rights- In the 1950s no one would have responded that way. But they are now. Well, right that that that there are so many ways in which you can say, yeah, what does radical mean? Yeah. You know, and interestingly, years and years and years ago I took part in a conference and it was historians and historians of the French Revolution, and we were together in a room talking about, similarities, overlap, things that we could. And what we discovered was, you know, the American Revolution People were like, you know, compared with that, we we were pretty civil. All told. And was it. At least, we didn't do that. Was ita social revolution, was it not a social revolution, what does that mean, was it a political revolution? So these are really big questions, but they're not necessarily settled questions. But it is true. I think you can't declare that the revolution is radical without really asking a lot of these questions. Right. And getting beyond just the act. Yes. Of declaring independence. Yes. It was a bold move. Risky. Okay. But before we get to this glorious constitution, a lot of events happen. Stuff happens. Said the historian. Yeah. Stuff happened. Events happened. Events happened. And by the time these these 55 people are going to meet in Philadelphia, they got other things quite immediate that they're worried about; rebellions, conspiracies and so on and so forth. Let's dig into that a little bit, because that seems to be it's got to be on their minds when they get there. We got to do something so that x, y, and z don't happen again. Right. So yes, that's something, we have to do something. Something has to happen. We'll lose the moment. Yeah. On the one hand. On the other hand, bad things are looming out there. And on a third hand, if we could say, you know, one hand, another hand and yet another hand, they they're thinking about their home state. They're thinking about, you know, one of the interesting things throughout this period, particularly again, we'll talk about this in the 1790s, but people see, like, okay, the Constitution created a new government and then it went into effect. George Washington was the first president. And wouldn't it be exciting to be in that government? And the fact of the matter is, generally speaking, people did not want to serve in the national government. What was it? Was it important? Would they actually matter? The action was in the states. The state was where everything was happening. We’re saying that again, aren’t we? Yeah, well, I guess that's always one way or another, but still, part of what's happening in this period is that you have to drag people away from their states and kind of, get them to focus on the fact that something is going to have to happen nationally, even if you're not quite sure what it means or how it's going to work. A Pennsylvanian was still a Pennsylvanian... Jefferson called Virginia “my country” well into the 1790s. Well, I wonder if we can get into some of the details. So last week in your initial lectures, you suggested there are words that in the 18th century, don't mean what we think that they mean today. And as I was going through and rereading The Federalist Essays, I was noting some of these words. Right. So one of the the standards is democracy versus republic. And for a while, I would say maybe 15 years ago, it was sort of a hot shot thing to say. If you wanted to be in the know, to be like, “this country was not founded as a democracy.” It was founded. It is a republic. Right. And then, hopefully that's played itself out, although maybe it's still. Not so much. -There are different sides now on that one. Right? Yes. There are different sides. -Trust me, not so much... I must just be less in that debate than than I once was. But, we have we have those terms to talk about and what they meant at the time, maybe some of their ramifications. And then we have this big question, which is going to be so central to this class and to American history, which is the question of executive power and even if all those other people in the national government might feel like they're not very important, people do understand the president or whoever or this executive or executives are going to be is going to be is going to be pretty important. So, I wonder if you have reflections on democracy and Republic and their resonances, but but this question of executive power, I mean, we're just going to come back to it again and again and again. It is in some ways the theme of the 20th century. If you're talking about what happens in American politics. -It’s the biggest power question. Right? In a way, it's it's the biggest it's all about power and who has it in one way or another. Everything I'm talking about is about that. But that's like the sort of, you know, central point of power is ... Especially when you have to write a constitution, it’s now “What's the power? Who has it?” But as far as a democracy path of your question... -Well, we’ve got a much more powerful president and the same Constitution anyway, that's a different set of debates. We'll get there. Though, as far as a democracy part, as they understood democracy in this period as they defined it, it was government by the all, which in their mind was chaos. Yeah. It wasn't something necessarily grounded on representation. And so, you know, even as someone like Thomas Jefferson, I talked about this, I think, in the first lecture. Right. Who says, I don't know about “democratical” in the great 18th century sense, “democratical government.” So on the one hand, a purely democratic, a democracy in their mind, not so great. A republic which gets back to my previous point about grounded on public opinion that the people have the most power. That was more along the lines of what they wanted. But there are lots of different kinds of republics, and what they were creating was a democratic republic. And one of their worries, right, was that actually you couldn't have either a democracy, but especially a republic that was going to be this big. So they're looking back to the classical world. They're seeing these much smaller communities and city states and other attempts of the republic. But that anxiety about bigness is so prevalent here, whether you're talking about big states and small states or you're just talking about this major landmass. And they’re worried about farmers are going to take over the state legislature. But but if you think about the fact that republics in the ancient world were little. And the United States are city state, think about it. So spread out. You know, there's such an expanse. Soon to be much more spread out and they know that. Yeah. Well, they're certainly moving in that direction. They're aspiring to that. But that simple fact. Because if a republic is grounded on the people coming together in one way or another and debating and being aware of what's going on and then making decisions, how the heck does that work? Yeah, when you can't really easily even communicate between, you know - and Hamilton and Madison, “we'll need express horses so that we can figure out what's happening.” That was that felt like a really big challenge. So yeah, that feels like a fundamental, sort of practical component of how do you how can you make a republic work in this kind of a space? And how democratic should that republic be? So things are falling apart in 1785, 86, 87 and there is this nationalist, segment of leadership led by a James Madison and a Hamilton and others. There are the New Englanders who are nationalist, and then there are those who kind of settle back into their hatred of central, centralized government of any kind. And then, I don't know, maybe we'll just go on and just be Connecticut. You know with no foreign policy or whatever.. But thing happen. Shays Rebellion and other conspiracies, break off of a piece of North Carolina. The wacky 1780s There you go. Okay. The wacky 1780s That's good. They weren't roaring. They were wacky. They were. And pretty soon there's, some growing, I don't know if we should call it a consensus that they're going to have to get together and come together in a - they don't want to call it a constitutional convention at first. They're going to come together and what, revise the Articles of Confederation, because it's still scary if you're going to make one country and a much stronger constitution in order to get these states to almost all show up. So this is a very confusing moment. It is. And I would not say there's a consensus. No. Okay. I would say there are people who feel that really strongly. And you're right, Hamilton, Washington, they're writing letters to each other, basically screaming, you know, bad things, bad things. But there are other people who are not convinced of that. Don't think much more needs to happen than maybe tweak the articles a little. -They like their localism. They like their localism and they really are loathe to give up control over their country, right? Their their world, their state that anything above that feels scary. And I talked about, you know, one of the things that happens in the constitutional Convention is that people who are really opposed to the idea of really strengthening the government don't come. Right, right. So it's sort of already tilted towards people who really want to strengthen the government. So they have, you know, the, the Federalists, and they're called Federalists because federal meaning different layers of government, much less scary than national. The Federalists have a big advantage at the constitutional convention. They don’t call it a national convention. They wouldn’t get near that word, would they? Yeah. No. Scary word. Can I introduce another scary and complicated word? Sure. Okay, so that word is property. Which is all over, not only the Federalist Papers, the declaration. Right. Yeah. Well, actually. And and. He skirts around it. And you're right. Yeah. It's right that, So property. I think when you make a case, as many historians have, that the American Revolution is not so revolutionary. One of the ways that people look to that is that the people who were rich at the start of the revolution are still pretty much the people who are rich, at the end of the 1780s into the 1790s, that the fundamental class structure doesn't change. There's obviously a deep concern about protection of the right of property. So we have we have property in that sense. And then, of course, we have property in a very powerful sense as it's being debated, you know, are enslaved people in fact people or are they property? And you gave a very powerful description of, that debate in class today. It's in one of The Federalist essays. I'm not sure if we read it, for class, but it's. But it's worth taking. It's worth taking a look. So property reflections on on property, its meanings in that moment, its complications in that moment. Well, and the complications are huge, right. Because, go back to the revolution and, you know, the, colonists are, like, upset that there's a direct tax being placed on things within the colonies on a stamp tax. Like, wait a minute, property. You're taking over in some way, our property. And we don't have a way to object, and we don't have a way to be, you know, represented in a proper way that in some way, all the way back, they're thinking about their right to their property and their right to have a certain amount of power over their property. In a very not necessarily human sense, enslaved sense, but even just in a broad, sweeping object sense. But yeah, then the constitutional convention and, and we're going to be talking about this certainly all of your lectures, I think, are going to talk about this, David, is that, suddenly at the Constitutional Convention, you have the fact that if you're talking about representation, then what happens to people who might be people and might be property, depending on who you talk to. And depending on the context. Right, exactly. Context. Exactly, exactly. So there, you know, Americans are really good at sweeping this under the rug or sidestepping it or ignoring it or pushing it away. As soon as you're talking about representation and counting people, that becomes something that at least is going to have to be looked at. And as I talked about today, they don't talk about that very much. As happens so often, you know, they essentially say, ooh, this is a deal breaker. Yeah. It was striking to me. I just, if I can just follow up on that, how many of the things that we think matter so much that are the central concerns? They're often there, right? They're not missing altogether things like slavery, but they're interested in a whole different set of the fact that you weren't going to have titles of nobility. Right. It's much more central to this set of conversations than. And they're really worried about how how states are represented as states vote by themselves. How are senators- How does voting appen? How does voting even happen? Well, they have to be, they’ve got to figure out... But you know, you're so right, Bev, you know, ever since the founding, this question of slavery at the core of the Constitution, in some ways, more so in the last, let's say, 4 or 5 decades, Richard Wright once said, “Slavery is America's sore thumb sticking up through the Declaration of Independence.” He could have said the Constitution even moreso. There it is, You know, the 3/5. Now that's a deal made. Why? Well, it's a deal made, in a sense, to sort of sweep things under the rug. Right? Southerners are saying we want to count all of the enslaved people in the South. And they were adamant at first. Oh, absolutely. And it's a huge deal, right? A lot of New Englanders rose their backs against that. Absolutely, it’s going to give them a big advantage in numbers, in representation in any number of things. So it makes sense that they're pushing for that. And it makes sense that the northerners are really upset about that for any number of reasons that compromise the. Reasons and some of them because they had serious abolitionist leanings. Like I talked about Gouverneur Morris today who said “Well, this is just immoral.” Here's Gary to I think, yeah. All kinds of people who actually actually have moral - Even Adams. Yeah. Go ahead. I'm sorry, but but but that 3/5s puzzles the worldl in a way. Well, in their mind, given kind of where you were going Bev, about like titles of nobility, right in their mind, it's like, well, okay, here's kind of a compromise. Right. They get something. But they don't get everything. And so we feel a little bit okay about that in the North if we're not really focused on morality. Yeah. Yeah. Right. Yeah. But if we put that aside and we're just focusing on strength in different parts of the union. Okay. 3/5 kind of smooths it over and becomes a way 3/5 of enslaved people, count and so fine. But as you know, I mentioned briefly in class and certainly you've talked about before, the problem with that is that gives Southerners a huge advantage in the national government, because they- -It’s why Jefferson wins. The enslaved people give them a huge number advantage in representation, which they play at and and dominate and use that in all kinds of ways. So it may feel like it's kind of sliding things under the rug, but it, it, it's perpetuating and in a sense even worsening, a problem. It creates and enables a southern bloc that controls the national government. What about that electoral college? So-called. It wasn't brand new. It turns out states had tried it or some states had tried it. But where are they getting that from and why? I mean, in general, one of the big ideas of it - -Because they feared democracy? Yeah. Part of it, but part of it is that. Right. Because and, you know, I talk today about how Hamilton's, plan of government, he has electors choosing electors choosing the president. Because electors remove the decision from the people, the masses. So it feels like and it makes sense, Hamilton was not someone who was very excited about democracy. It makes sense that he would find a double way to sort of back away from the people making that choice. So part of the Electoral College is precisely why we're frustrated with it today, is that it's supposed to get past the American people in some way and enable the decision to be made beyond popular preference. Is it fair to say now Hamilton is beloved because of a musical, but most people would never have wanted to live under the Constitution he desired? Where do you come down on it? You’re a Hamilton expert. Well, and so the curious thing about being a Hamilton expert in the last couple of decades, so I, I have been studying Hamilton for like 50 years. Oh. And for a big chunk of those 50 years, he was a villain since I was 14 ish. I know it's scary. It's scary. I know I'm the ultimate history nerd. -She’s not exaggerating. No, I'm really not exaggerating. You had Hamilton on your wall at 13. I had his, writings, his published writings under my bed. Ooh. Volume three. No, I'm. I'm actually really not kidding. Oh, okay. I'm actually, I believe you. I’ve just revealed something about myself. -It was a dark childhood but go on. But I’ve forgotten where I was going, what was the question? Would most people who come to love Hamilton in the musical not want to live under his constitution? They wouldn't like him. They wouldn't want to live under his Constitution. He was -  so, in my computer I have like 800 bazillion lectures I've given about Hamilton. And before a certain year, the lectures were: “He's not necessarily totally a villain.” Oh you’re trying to... A little bit of rehabilitation. And I know you've never heard of him, but he's actually a founder. Yeah, right. But but so, you know, if I talked about him... That all changed, 15 years ago? I went from “he's not a total villain” to “he's not so great, folks, like you come down off the walls, you know, he's he's not as great as you think he is.” But it's partly for these reasons, right? He wasn't a fan of democracy. He wasn't a fan. You know, he we'll be talking about this next week. He wasn't a fan of states. Yeah. He comes from the West Indies. He's not really from a state although he lands in New York. All right. At various points he says essentially, wouldn't it be great if states were just administrative units under the national government? I mean, people's heads would explode if he'd they thought it was. Almost extreme nationalist. He is an extreme nationalist. In a time there weren't many. Can I throw out one more word before we... I think we have some questions. We do have a few. So, this is, a word that comes up in the readings, but I think it's also important in thinking about our relationship to history, to a figure like Hamilton, to the Constitution, to, almost any historical moment or figure you might want. And that is the word imperfect. They spend time talking about we know this is imperfect, but we're going to have to do it anyway because it would be worse not to do it. But this is also, I think something that historians often wrestle with that we wrestle with as citizens of the 21st century. Looking back to the past, how do you reckon with the flaws and imperfections of the document that was produced of these, of these figures? So how did they think about it? And I guess, how do you how do you think about your relationship with, with, with these imperfect figures of the past? You know, I mean, certainly, you know, I suppose you could say, you know, the human condition, you strive in one way or another for perfection, however you define it. Right? Well, this would be great. This would be perfect. And right now, particularly with politics at a sort of fraught level, people buy into or don't buy into something because it feels to them like if it's not perfect, it's very sort of 18th century ish, right? If it's not perfect, something horrible will happen. What's interesting in early America is when you look at actually, Ezra Stiles, who was president at Yale at the time, any number of other people, Benjamin Franklin, when they are asked to talk about what they think about the Constitution, and actually, Hamilton, “well, it's not perfect. It's really not perfect, but I don't know what else we can do right now.” They were horse trading. They, they they all acknowledge. When you’re horse trading, you know, it's not perfect. They they don't know how to do it better. They're going to buy into it for now. They think, you know, anarchy or tyranny are much worse. So they constantly talk about this and readily acknowledge that it's not perfect. Now the flip side of that is once it kicks into gear in 1789, it starts going suddenly. Everyone's like, it's really not perfect. And we've been saying that ever since. Exactly. Back to the before we leave the Constitution. And we do have a couple of good questions here from all of you out there. I don't want to leave executive power either. No, that's what I was going to go. Oh, okay. Cool. Let's come back to that. You know, they bandied about all kinds of ideas for that thing called the President. Yeah. And the they do have consensus they don't want anything really resembling monarchy. Although Hamilton may have flirted with it. Hamilton's, called a monarchist for his entire life. And not without reason at times. But they do create the single person presidency. Although they had other ideas in play. They did. So, not surprisingly, if you just very recently fought a revolution. broke away from a king. were very outraged about that kind of centralized power in one person. You're going to be really worried about the same thing in creating a government. And in state governments, they very you know, the first stabs at state governments took powers away from the governors of states. And gave more power to legislatures because they were scared of this kind of thing. A national executive. -No more Royal Governors. No more royal governors,. A national executive, scary thing, because it feels like, if you're in a world where everything is monarchs and you yourself lived under a monarchy, how can you not look at that kind of figure and see a monarch? So that's what people think of it. And the reason why it becomes such a big deal is that they're trying to figure out how to hem it in one of the things that they did. And that's a good way of putting it. There. Yeah. Well, how do you limit it. Right. And they talk about not having one person. They talk about, you know, having a council, an executive council, a committee of some kind, because then you're not giving that much power to one person. You're dividing power up between multiple people. And that felt a little safer until, they begin to talk, or at least some people begin talking about the fact - Hamilton talks about this, Hamilton talks a lot about executive power in The Federalist Essays. And the one of the things, not surprisingly, since he was very focused on that. But he makes the point that, you know, well, if you have a council or a committee and there's like three people, they can hide behind each other, like one person can behave really badly and then blame it on the other guys, and you won't be able to see who's actually corrupt and dangerous. But if you have one person as the national executive, well, then yeah, shame about being blamed for bad things. That was amazing in your lecture. It's totally true. They will feel ashamed. You got an audience reaction. I mean. They laugh that that was part of the logic. Subtly done, I must say. That will hold people back that will hold the president back from behaving too badly because he will know he might get blamed for what he does. On the matter of representation, before we leave that, there also, famously in the Federalist Madison, in number 10 and 51 and other places, they’re really worried about factions in human nature. And it's I think anyone who reads these essays for the first time has to be a little surprised how often they use the term human nature. This is about who we are as humans. We're going to fight with each other. Put together a department of academics, they will divide up somehow because that's what we do. Same with the country. They’re really worried. So are you gonna. You're gonna, on one hand, fear that centralized executive got to contain that. On the other hand, we don't trust people. People are factions by definition. How do you control them? This gets you to Hamilton, right? Hamilton. And he is extreme. But he has this horrible view of human nature. People are bad. You can't trust anybody to be selfless. So. So fine. We need a really strong government that will channel selfish passions. And that's how you deal with it. You create a government that will push the people in their natural selfishness in a direction that will help the whole. That's his logic of strengthening the government. And that's one of the most famous lines from the Federalist right. “Ambition must be made to counteract ambition.” People love to trot that out at any moment... -And we think it works. But here's an important thing to think about, and an important thing to think about when we talk about factions is that I think we tend to associate faction as party. We think of factions as parties. And they used that term too and used it, but. They didn't see factions as parties right at all. And they didn't think parties as an organized thing. Not only was it not a good thing, they assumed that if there was anything like a party, then it was a sign that everything was going to hell. And, you know, parties were evil. Parties are bad. So, you know, parties are groups of people who are only interested in promoting themselves, which one might argue is potentially, you know, an accurate way of describing a party. But they thought, you know, if in a republic, people come together and fight things out and then come up with something for the larger good. You might have factions. You'll have people bumping up against each other. These guys weren't naive, but the idea of having big parties that like cross state lines and it wasn't part of their logic. And so in the end, and we have about three minutes left or two minutes... this is going to get ratified in a, fairly bloody, lumpy process. I like lumpy, lumpy. Crooked, crooked, lumpy, whatever. And it's going to be a strong anti federalist or anti-constitutional persuasion out there. They're going to lose. But. The fact that it was successful in emerging at all, is it because of this system of federalism which some of us love to hate today? Federalism slows everything down. It you know the relation. It's deliberately ambiguous. Yes. Who has the right right? The nationalgovernment? The state governments? But that's why we always fight about the Constitution, because in some parts of the Constitution it doesn't seem ambiguous at all but the other side says, oh yes, it is. But that's that's one of the reasons why federalism seems like such a brilliant thing at the time. Right? It's like, well, national government does some things, the states do some things, and then there's this sort of murky middle ground, and we'll work that out as time goes on. So what they’re creating you said is a national pact, an agreement that just gives them enough structure to say yes, at least most of them to say yes through, and I thought you used the term well-advisedly: Process. This is procedure and process and they don't agree. And they all get something they want and they all get something they don't want. That, of course, is very American to celebrate that. Oh, we're a people who knows how to compromise. They didn't assume. They weren't naive. Right. So they didn't assume, like we're all going to join hands and like, yeah, compromise. But they did assume that if people bang up against each other enough that there will be a way to come up with a solution. The structure itself would save them from themselves. Yeah, that's actually a good way of putting in. What the Constitution is supposed to do. Is that going to be, what we what we learn next week? What are we learning next week, Joanne? Do we learn next week that- We're reading Hamilton for next week? We are reading Hamilton for next week. Well, one of the things we’ll see... -More Hamlton! ...next week - I can't help it. One of the things that we'll see next week is, real confrontation and conflict over precisely, what is happening on the national stage and what is happening in the States and what it means about the survival of the nation, the shape of the nation, the character of the nation, and really kind of where you started out with, Bev, really real ground level ways that you know, might I might probably will tell this story next week. But there's an anecdote from a, Pennsylvania senator named William Maclay. It's in his diary. And he adored George Washington. He in his diary, he often calls him The First Man. And, he walks into a dinner party and The First Man is by the door, and he doesn't know what to do. We've all had that moment around people who. Oh, yeah. First time you meet. Some famous person doesn't know what to do. He makes a bow. He thinks it's an awkward bow and he kind of high tails it. He sees a seat across the room, and he's going to go to the seat across the room. And then he sees Washington essentially say, Senator McClay, come sit here by me. You would think Senator McClay would think, wow, this is great. Senator McClay thinks, okay, I started walking away from him. If I turn around and walk back, I'm kind of kowtowing to him. And if I kowtow to him, he's going to start thinking he deserves to be kowtowed to. And maybe he'll start thinking of himself as a monarch. And maybe the Republic will fail. God, the whole the whole, the whole, all of history is at stake in whether he sits next to Big George. -He does not take the seat. Oh my God. He does not take the seat. So that's the level of immediacy and fragility. And the degree to which it's really, really, really experimental in their minds. Well, we have kind of run out of our time. Lest anyone out there thinks this was all going to be rather wiggish and triumphal, we're just getting to the blood on the floor by next week, apparently. So, thank you to both my colleagues and Joanne, especially for taking all these questions so, so wonderfully. And come back again next week. Those of you, a bit of drift out there about what's happening to the United States. It's why we do history. So thank you for listening and watching and see you again next week.