(pensive music) - I wanna do a little something before I launch into today's lecture on the Constitution. I'm doing it because today is September 11th, and I realized that I think all of the students here were not alive when September 11th happened, which makes me feel 892 years old. But I wanna just read you a few paragraphs that I wrote within a day or so of September 11th, 2001 to commemorate the day, basically. And as luck would have it, when I went back and looked at it, it segues directly into the main theme that I'm going to be addressing in today's lecture on the Constitution. So just a couple paragraphs. It was published in September in the Chronicle of Higher Education if you end up being interested and wanna see the whole thing. Okay. So remember, this is from 2001. "In a way that no one ever wanted or imagined, the events of this month have taken us back to the mindset of an earlier time when the American nation was newly formed. The generation that helped craft a new government in the late 18th century had a profound sense of the nation's vulnerability, both as a sovereign state and as an actor on the world stage. There was no telling if the United States experimental government would survive. And judging by the period's many crises, every reason to suspect that it would not. There was a constant fear that the New Republic, supposedly a new and different breed of governance, would be subsumed by a foreign power and a corresponding suspicion of foreign cultures and foreign loyalties. This crisis mentality led to the periods off noted 'high emotion,' shaping a style of politics grounded on personal attacks and accusations and a defensive justification of any means to promote the proper ends." And that's actually gonna be part of what I'm discussing next week. "The United States is now feeling a national vulnerability as deep as any it ever felt before, given our longstanding confidence in our nation's power, reach, and international dominance. It's an unfamiliar feeling that we are all experiencing individually on a profoundly personal level, and emotions are high. Our national world, as we understood it, standing alone, virtually invincible, no longer exists. Foreign powers, however they're ultimately defined, have breached our borders, and there can be no absolute promise that they will never do so again. We must reconstruct our understanding of our nation and its meaning in our lives. We must also remember, over the centuries what has restored the American nation again and again, is process. The workings of the national political process and its ultimate grounding in deliberation, debate, and compromise. Even after the nation dissolved into Civil War, it reformed itself into something new and stronger, founded on the same basic grounding principles. At this time, when anger and outrage threaten to force a course of action, we can, and indeed we must have faith in the constitutional process to guide us. Our emotions and their impact on pending political decisions will be the basis upon which future historians will judge our time." Now, that was from 2001. What I'm going to be talking about today is the importance and the meaning of constitutional process. And as you'll see, that means more than structure. It means a lot of different things. That's gonna be an underlying theme of what I'm talking about today, and I'll circle back to this at the end. I'll be talking about more than just the fact that the Constitution creates a structure of governance. You'll see at the end what I mean that's bigger than that. So as we turn to the Constitution, in the last few lectures, we've been watching the New Nation slowly begin to figure out its shape and form, essentially figuring out what kind of a nation the United States would be. Just beginning. We're still figuring that out, but they're beginning. As people were discovering throughout the 1780s, it was one thing to protest against things you didn't like in a government as Americans had during the revolution, but it was quite another to come up with an alternative government, to come up with something better, and then to get others to agree. It took years to get to the point of the Constitutional Convention. And I don't have time to go into detail about it, but the convention was only reached essentially by backing our way into it. There are a number of conferences and meetings in which people kept getting together from different states and saying, "Wow, trade and commerce is really hard. Maybe we need to do something about the government." And eventually they backed their way into realizing that something had to happen about the Articles of Confederation. So essentially everyone did not join hands and say, "Of course, there must be a stronger constitution." As much as Alexander Hamilton probably wished that that is precisely what would've happened, people were really figuring things out. The creation of the Constitution and its ratification was a process, and it created a process. This was a debate. It was a national debate during which people really seriously considered what they were doing and what it might mean. The process, the fact that the nation did have a debate is significant, and it's not a process that was disconnected from the revolution. The things that Americans had been yelling about during the revolution were not just rhetoric. People had been truly arguing about and defending what they considered to be their fundamental rights and privileges as British subjects. So now, years later, as we're looking at arguments over a new form of government, some of these same things are being yelled about. People's fundamental rights as American citizens, among other things. People consider these things to be the legacy of the revolution, right? If you've just engaged in a revolution, you understand that you're breaking away from something that you knew and you're reaching for something that you consider to be better. Whatever happens after that point, particularly when you know you're figuring out new forms of government, you're going to know that what you're ultimately talking about is the legacy of the revolution. The revolution was aimed at breaking away from England to have better and more just forms of government among other things. So the debate over a new Constitution was not just a high-level ethereal, rhetorical, political debate. It was about the potential ground level legacy of the revolution. Now, think back to last week when I mentioned Pauline Mayer's book on the Declaration of Independence, and I talked about she has that chapter in it titled "The Other Declarations" that shows how individual towns were debating independence so they could decide what they felt about supporting it. I always find that, I probably said this when I talked about it, profoundly moving. We're talking here about not an identical, but a similar process of debate of really trying to figure something out to make a major decision, and hopefully a smart one. So I want you to bear that in mind as I discuss the Constitution today. We're not talking about a done deal. We're not talking about something inevitable. We're talking about a process of debate and decision-making. And it's a debate that was fundamentally about the placement of power, which is really the heart of governance as a whole. Now, I'm going to focus basically here on several main areas that were vitally important and that cut to the heart of what I just mentioned, the placement of power. And I have to say, because I feel some responsibility to James Madison, whenever I give a lecture, and it's only the one lecture I can actually commit to the Constitution, he's spinning in his grave, and I'm really sorry, James. I'm really sorry. I can't go into more detail. I'm doing the best I can with the time that I have. So you're not gonna get a super deep analysis of every part of the Constitution. Today's lecture is going to emphasize the process of creating the Constitution and some of the controversies that were bound up with that process, with that debate, and with the placement of power. Controversies that were bound up with the causes and logic of the revolution that remained important during the debate over the Constitution. Now, in the same way that it's easy, I've talked before about all of the of courses we have when we think about early American history, it's just as easy to assume that nationalists like James Madison and Alexander Hamilton were right, and that their opponents were shortsighted and wrong. These nationalists, men like Hamilton and Madison, felt that they were vindicating the revolution and preserving its achievements. And when we look back with the advantages of time, we can see their point, but this strong nationalist argument was not the only argument circulating at the time. And if you're reading this week's assigned readings, you're getting a very good taste of that by reading Federalist essays and anti-Federalists essays. Even before the Constitutional Convention, people had valid fears about what might result from it. Fears about a strong centralized government that would be strong enough that the states might not have any role at all. And that kind of fear led some states to feel that they perhaps shouldn't participate in the Constitutional Convention at all. In essence, some people really feared that strengthening the national government in this way was some kind of a counter attack against everything that the revolution had meant. This was a real debate going on in every state. And to give you a sense of the flavor of this debate, I'm once again going local. And I just wanna offer you a taste of what the Connecticut debate sounded like when they were deciding whether to send people to the Constitutional Convention. So I'm gonna be talking about... And, actually, I have to remind you at this point. It's important to remember. When the Constitutional Convention met, and I'll come back to this, they said they were gonna revise the Articles of Confederation. They didn't say they were gonna write a new form of government. I'm gonna come back to this point soon. But initially, the purpose of the Constitutional Convention was to strengthen, in some way, the Articles of Confederation. So that's what these Connecticut people think they're talking about. So May 12th, 1787, the Connecticut legislature began debating whether Connecticut should send delegates to the proposed convention, ultimately becomes the Constitutional Convention. Newspapers reported on what happened in Connecticut very explicitly, and that's because it was important and people could read of the newspaper how this was being debated. And there were four members of the Connecticut House of Representatives who came forward and said they were opposed to sending delegates to the convention. All of these men were from small towns near the Massachusetts border, and all of them, in one way or another, warned that sending a delegate to the Constitutional Convention would endanger the liberties and privileges of all Americans. Eliza Fitch, you're gonna get some great 18th century names here. Eliza Fitch said that the convention might end up abridging the American people's privileges by creating some sort of unjust centralized government that didn't consider the people's wellbeing. Daniel Perkins, remarkably modern name there, said that the men who would be named as delegates to this supposed Constitutional Convention would probably be a bunch of rich aristocratic men who wouldn't understand or care about the problems of the average person in Connecticut, so whatever came out of this convention was bound to ruin the poor. This is a good 18th century name, Hosea Humphrey. Hosea Humphrey said that the convention would probably take away Connecticut's rights to protest against or veto things. The state of Connecticut might not matter at all under a stronger form of government. And the fourth representative, Abraham Granger, was very straightforward. He said his constituents didn't want delegates to be sent to this convention, and he represented his constituents. So there you had it. No go. We shouldn't go to the convention. And he added, he agreed with his constituents because the convention would probably end up creating a monarchy. All of these men, either directly or by implication, rejected the idea that the American Union or Connecticut was immersed in any horrible financial or political difficulty. And actually, Abraham Granger explicitly said, "The articles are okay. They have plenty of power. And joined with Connecticut's own constitution, we're probably okay." And as I mentioned already, some of these men said, "Anything could happen at that kind of convention. Privileges might vanish, rights might vanish. The purpose for fighting revolution might be defeated." So here in Connecticut, the legislature debated whether or not to send people to Connecticut to the Constitutional Convention, and here are four men arguing against it. But there were also nine men who spoke ardently in favor of it. All of these men were from commercial parts of the state. And they all argued that the wellbeing of both the union and the state of Connecticut required a more powerful central government. One of these nine men even brought up an embarrassing example of the powerlessness of the Confederation Congress. Apparently, when the Confederation Congress had requisitioned money from all of the states in the recent past, Connecticut had just refused to send any. And this one delegate, this one member of the legislature says, "We didn't send any money, and Congress couldn't do anything about it." So he's like telling on himself, basically. But it's a good point, right? Congress asked for money. We didn't send any. What could they do? And what about problems to come? These nine men raised these kinds of issues too. What if the union began to disintegrate? What if the union was invaded? What in the world would the Confederation Congress actually be able to do about it? Now, obviously, in the end, Connecticut voted to send delegates to the convention, but not without a real debate. So even just participating in the convention was a big deal that required that kind of serious contemplation. And we haven't even gotten to the creation of the Constitution yet or its ratification. So ultimately, 12 states sent delegates to the Federal Convention, which met between May and September of 1787. And I should say, usually, historians refer to it as the Federal Convention because it's about a national constitution. And every state, in one way or another, had its own little Constitutional Convention, but you can call it either one. So 12 states sent delegates, one state did not. Rhode Island. Okay, who's from Rhode Island? Okay, I see a couple hand. A couple, okay, that's good. Rhode Island, if this were my American Revolution course, a continuing theme in that course would be Rhode Island. (crowd laughing) Rhode Island is a problem. So this is late in the game, but Rhode Island decided it wasn't gonna participate in the convention, again, showing that this is really a debate. And it was enough of a matter that it did not take part in the convention and, ultimately, didn't sign on, didn't ratify the Constitution for a long time that when George Washington became president early in his presidency and decided to go on a tour around the states, sort of to show his presence and, you know, "Hi, I am here, and we are a nation," he didn't go to Rhode Island because it wasn't part of the United States yet. So this was serious. They're taking these things seriously. So from the 12 states that went, 55 delegates attended the convention. And overall, they were well educated elite men, many of them were lawyers, many of them had experience working in their state governments, in the continental or confederation congresses. This doesn't mean that they were professional politicians. That didn't exist in this time period. You were assumed, if you had a certain status, if you were a gentleman, that you would do something, be working for the public good in some way. But politician is kind of an insult in this period. And you could debate amongst yourselves, whether it's still an insult. But in this period, you really didn't have professional politicians. So it's one thing to work now, and again, in a Congress, quite another, to create a constitution for a new nation. Now, in some ways, these delegates were really a self-selecting group because people who were really opposed to the idea of strengthening the government pretty much decided not to attend the convention. The obvious problem with this strategy on the part of those opponents to the convention is that somewhat ironically, by not attending, they left something of a consensus at the convention itself. Most of the people at the convention ended up being nationalists, in one way or another. Although there was a pretty big spectrum of what that meant to be a nationalist, not everyone was a hyper nationalist like James Madison or Alexander Hamilton. But regardless, because people who fully opposed strengthening the national government largely didn't attend, it meant there was a certain level of fundamental agreement at the convention. Though, it's important to note that in the end, even some of these men who attended decided not to sign the final Constitution. Two of the delegates to the convention were particularly well known, and their presence actually mattered. One of them is George Washington. He presided over the convention. By this point... And, you know, I always say to my students like, "You should avoid saying things like, 'This was the most important man.' 'This was the most important moment'" 'cause you're almost always wrong. In this case, his presence there really mattered. He was the most trusted elite figure in the United States at the time. Why? Because at the end of the revolution, he went home. He surrendered power. That's not what happens after wars in world history. In world history, victorious generals take power. Washington resigned his power and went home. That made him the most trusted man in the United States. Even King George said something along the lines of, "Well, if that's true, he'll be the greatest man in the world," right? Who gives power? So by his being there, it was assumed that the people might trust a little bit, at least, whatever was going on at the convention. So he's kind of already a legend in his time. The other person who was there, who people really knew about and whose presence really mattered as far as his reputation, was Benjamin Franklin. He had an international reputation at this time. His presence there suggested that whatever was going on in Philadelphia was important and had some major support. Now, James Madison also played a major role at the convention. I'm going to come back to the sort of concrete legislative way in which he did that, but it's worth noting that one of the many ways in which he played a major role in the convention has to do with the notes that he took on what was happening. He basically sat there and recorded every day everything that happened. Although I will say, as someone who has read over his notes, he didn't include any of the jokes. Constitution making is a serious business. But aside from that, he recorded He often went to the people who had been speaking and asked them to confirm that he was being accurate. And there is a box at the Library of Congress that contains Madison's notes from the convention. The Library of Congress has a safe that includes its top treasures. And one of them is this little box of Madison's notes detailing what was said at the convention because there were people who took notes on parts of it, but Madison really offers the most full understanding we have of what went on. And I suppose it's not surprising if you know anything about James Madison. He has this little tiny, neat handwriting. And he has, you know, you can see him crossing out and inserting compromises in. I mean, you can, in a sense, not only see the process unfolding in the words, but even in the process of him recording it on these little bits of paper. So Madison's notes ended up being significant to an even greater degree because it was agreed at the start of the convention that its proceedings would be kept entirely secret. The logic being that if everything was kept secret, delegates would feel free to really speak their minds without being scared of what the public would think. So for example, if someone wanted to rise to his feet and argue that what the United States really needed was a monarchy, he could feel free to do so. And Hamilton said some rather strong things at the convention, and they haunted him until the end of his days. And what he said towards the end of his life was, and he literally says this in one letter, "I thought this was secret." "Weren't we supposed to just toss around ideas?" Okay, so Madison's notes are important, but what's particularly significant about Madison's role in the convention was his creation of a plan of government, which ultimately becomes known as the Virginia Plan. Madison arrived at the convention with a plan of government in hand. So, in a sense, he immediately set the terms of debate. Now, he may have devised that plan of government, but given that he was already known to be an extreme nationalist, he wisely decided not to present his plan himself. So he asked someone else to give it, who would not immediately be recognized as an extreme nationalist. So maybe the plan would be listened to. He asked fellow Virginia delegate, Edmund Randolph, to present the plan. And Randolph was popular, and Randolph was influential, and Randolph was an impressive speaker, unlike Little James Madison. I can say Little James Madison because I actually discovered in the last week that I'm only 4'11" tall. I wanted to grow old being 5' feet tall, and now that has lapsed. So I can speak about short founders. Okay. So on May 29th, just a few days before the convention opened, Randolph stood up and very diplomatically and gently raised the subject of altering the Articles of Confederation. Though, as you're about to see, his suggestions entailed a lot more than that. So first, he reviewed the weaknesses of the articles. Then he proposed a series of resolutions. The first one intended to put people off their guard to calm the nervous. His first resolution resolved, quote, "That the articles of Confederation ought to be so corrected and enlarged as to accomplish the objects proposed by their institution, namely common defense, security of liberty, and general welfare." So first, he says, "Okay, let's correct and enlarge the articles." What followed was not that. What followed was a rather radical plan of government that did far more than correct the articles. It basically proposed to demolish the Articles of Confederation and create in their place a new strong national government grounded not on the individual states, but instead on the American people themselves. This plan of government, the Virginia Plan proposed, and this will all sound very familiar to you, that the new government would have three branches. The first was a bicameral legislature. The lower house elected by the people, the upper house elected by the lower house from candidates named by state legislatures. The national legislature would have the power to nullify any state law contrary to the Constitution, and representation would be based on population. The second branch was the national executive. The executive would have a qualified veto over acts of Congress. It wasn't specified in the Virginia Plan whether the executive would be a single individual or a committee of several men, nor was the term of office specified. And we're gonna come back and talk about that in a moment. And, of course, the third branch was the national judiciary, which consisted of one or more supreme judges and inferior courts to be chosen by the national legislature to hold office during good behavior. So you can see the outline of what we end up with. You can also see a lot of things that we do not end up with in our constitution. The Virginia Plan also had a flexible amendment process and a procedure to deal with the admission of new states. As I just said a moment ago, you can hear the basic outline So at the start of the convention, things look kind of auspicious for the nationalists. And sure enough, early on there's a vote that the new national government ought to be established consisting of a supreme legislative, executive and judiciary branch. And that's accepted. And that's a major victory, a commitment to set up a supreme central government with three branches. More nationalist victories followed. For example, the convention decided to make the executive one man. Giving one man more power than might have been expected. The logic for this is really interesting. So there was a debate, and I'll mention this again in a few minutes. There was a debate about the executive and how powerful he should be and how much power he should have. And the idea of having three men or more in a council was, "We don't wanna give a lot of power to one person. You can't give all that power to one person. So let's give it to several people, and things will be safer that way." The argument against that was, if you have several people, a council, an executive council of some kind, one of them can do something wrong, and then hide behind the others. So the idea was, if you have one single executive, if he does something wrong, it will all be obvious that it can be pinned on him, so shame will prevent a single national executive from doing anything that really violates the basics of the United States. It's in there in the Federalist. Find it, that was the argument. Okay, so then they began to discuss representation in the lower house of the legislature. I'll talk about this again in a little bit more detail in a moment. For now, I'll state the obvious, which is clearly smaller states didn't like the idea of having representation in Congress be based on population, and large states were a lot happier with that idea. Small states had good reason to fear that larger states would simply overpower them. So on June 15th, William Patterson of New Jersey, not a huge state. New Jersey, always gets kind of a bum wrap. Okay, I gotta ask. New Jersey. Ooh, a lot of New Jersey. Okay, I'm not gonna say anything too bad about New Jersey, I promise. William Patterson of New Jersey, not a huge state, produced his own plan conveniently enough called the New Jersey Plan that was supported by other small states like Delaware and Connecticut. The New Jersey Plan suggested a one-house legislature in which each state would have one vote, a plural executive, so more than one man, elected by the Congress, and a Supreme Court chosen by the executive. So you can see how, in some ways, this plan is hanging on to the vestiges of the Articles of Confederation. So, for example, a one-house legislature, each state has one vote. Even so, it's giving more power to a national government. Three days later, someone successfully moved to postpone consideration of the New Jersey Plan, and instead to really consider just revising the articles. At this point, probably feeling a little panicky about what was going on, Alexander Hamilton stood up and made a dramatic move. On June 18th, he made what some say was indeed, as the musical says, a six-hour speech proposing his plan of government, which was extremely nationalist, that basically reduced the states to administrative subdivisions. There's actually a letter of his in which he essentially says states are kind of pesky. You know, like, it would be much more sort of useful and administration would work better if they had a lot less power. This was not popular. He said that there would be a supreme executive in each state appointed by the national government, not by the people, that that chief executive would be elected for life during good behavior and elected by electors who were elected by electors. That's as far removed from the public as you can possibly get. Hamilton also proposed a Senate chosen for life during good behavior and an executive with absolute veto power. As someone, at the time, one of the delegates to the convention put it, Hamilton's rather dramatic speech was quote, "Praised by everybody, but supported by no one." And indeed, that performance haunted him until the end of his days. This is, like, the dramatic part of the Constitution, clearly, 'cause we have sirens. Okay, I'm about to do an intensely grave injustice to the Constitution. The founders will all be spinning in their graves now, but I'm gonna condense my discussion down to four main issues. Okay, four issues that were particularly controversial, in one way or another, and that also show how concerns and ideals of the revolution continue to play a role in American politics and public life years later. So, in essence, the revolution was the beginning of a national debate over America's identity, political structure and values, its purpose and meaning as a nation, its fundamental nature as a country. And that debate continues to the present day. By definition, that debate is never-ending, and it has to be, when we, the people, are shaping our nation's destiny, which is the core of our constitution. One of the fundamental things that the Constitution did was plant public opinion at the center of the distribution of political power. This was not the case, the same way in monarchies, what the framers intended. Was it in a way that in their mind hadn't been done in modern times before? Public opinion would govern in a democratic republic. The public opinion, what people thought, would be the essence of power. Whoever got office would get office based on public opinion. If public opinion turned against someone in office, that person could be removed or impeached. Public opinion was the beating heart, at the core of our constitutional system as it was set up. And when you, I'll talk about this, I suppose, a little bit next week, but they talk a lot once the government kicks in about trying to figure out how to get public opinion There's not polling in this time period, so they tend to do things like sit in taverns and listen really hard. They're trying to figure out what the public thinks, but they all agree that it matters. We can also talk about who the public is next week. A second key issue to discuss is representation. The question here is an obvious one. Should it be based on population or should each state have a single vote? And again, this is a big state versus small state battle. It was a real sticking point, and a committee ultimately came up with a solution later known as the Great Compromise or the Connecticut Compromise, because it was proposed by Connecticut delegate Roger Sherman. Connecticut moment. I don't know if you all know this, but if you walk by the Union League Cafe on Chapel Street, I believe that's where his house was. And there's a plaque on the outside of the Union League Cafe testifying to the fact that that's a Roger Sherman place. So Roger Sherman has a sort of Union League moment. I think he's the only framer that signed the declaration, the articles, and the Constitution. So he's there for all of it. Okay, so representation, one big issue. Another major issue of debate, though it only lasted for a few days, so, in a sense, it wasn't a major issue of debate, and it should have been, was the issue of slavery. And on August 8th, Northern states attacked slavery on moral grounds, proposing taking no account of slaves as part of the population when allocating representation in the national legislature. So basically Northerners are saying, "Why give Southerners increased representation based on people who they see and treat as property?" Obviously, Southerners disagreed and defended slavery on both moral and economic grounds, and they were joined by some Northerners who were afraid that the union would dissolve over the issue. Gouverneur Morris of Pennsylvania offered a nice statement of the anti-slavery point of view. And then this is something he said at the convention. "Upon what principle is it that the slave shall be computed in the representation? Are they men? Then make them citizens and let them vote. Are they property? Why then is no other property included? The houses in the city of Philadelphia are worth more than all the wretched slaves who cover the rice swamps of North Carolina. The admission of slaves into the representation, when fairly explained, comes to this. That the inhabitant of Georgia and South Carolina who goes to the coast of Africa and in defiance of the most sacred laws of humanity tears his fellow creatures from their dearest connection and damns them to the most cruel bondage shall have more votes in a government instituted for protection of the rights of mankind than the citizen of Pennsylvania or New Jersey who views with a laudable horror. So nefarious practice." Pretty clear. Charles Pinkney of South Carolina tried to justify slavery, saying, quote, "If slavery be wrong, it is justified by the example of all the world. In all ages, one half of mankind have been slaves." And he talks about Greece and Rome and places in modern states where there's some sanction of slavery. So slavery has a moment of debate, but it's important to note it was little more than a moment. The debate occupied only a few days. The issue was seen as a deal breaker. And when the delegates held up their concern over slavery against the idea of forming a union, so basically when people stood up and said, you know, if we really address this, it might dissolve the union, which we already saw a moment like that with the Declaration of Independence, the convention decided not to confront the issue of slavery, which is the beginning of a trend that continues for a long time into the future. They even memorialized their inability to confront the issue in the document itself. In Article I, Section 9 of the Constitution, the article that deals with Congress, it says, quote, "The migration or importation of such persons as any of the states now existing shall think proper to admit, shall not be prohibited by the Congress prior to the year 1808." It's the most indirect language you can imagine. It's basically saying Congress can't stop the slave trade before 1808. But look at how indirect that language is. "The importation of such persons as any of the states shall think proper to admit." Can there be a more indirect way of referring to slavery? So the word slave and slavery don't even appear in the Constitution, the original Constitution, Even more noteworthy, slavery was embedded in the Constitution in a more direct way, having to do with representation. Obviously, Southerners wanted enslaved people to count and computing how many representatives they would have. Northerners, of course, did not want this because it would dramatically boost Southern representation in Congress, and that's what Gouverneur Morris is partly talking about when he's protesting. "Why are we counting enslaved people as people when Southerners don't consider them people?" The ultimate compromise between north and south was what we now know as the Three-Fifths Compromise and it embeds slavery in the Constitution. It essentially said that three out of every five enslaved people would be counted when determining a state's total population for legislative representation and taxation. So regardless of whether it's five-fifths or three-fifths, even if it's only three-fifths, what that does is give Southern states a disproportionate amount of representation based on counting people who Southerners did not see as people. Okay, so we talked about public opinion, we talked about representation, we talked about slavery. Now I wanna talk briefly about the national executive, and this has obvious links to the revolution. And I'm going to actually, I'm gonna give you a confession. I forgot to print out the end of my lecture this morning. But it's on my computer, so I'm switching. Switching to reading it from my computer. Okay. So the revolution had been a revolt against strong centralized power in the form of a monarchy. And we've seen in a recent lecture how constitutions that were created in the 1770s really showed this ongoing fear of tyrannical executive power. So due to that fear of strong executive power, states creating new state constitutions in the 1770s stripped away powers from state governors, legislatures in these state constitutions were given more power, even as the governors were being denied power. This kind of question about the power of the central national executive came up again and again during the convention. How should he be elected? By electors chosen by state legislatures? By state governors? By the national legislature? By popular election? How long should he serve? Proposals ranged from two years to life during good behavior. The ultimate compromise suggested that the president would serve for a four-year term and there would be no limit on how many terms he could be reelected. He would elected by electors in the separate states, which reassured delegates who were worried about state's rights. Because each state could decide for itself how to select its electors, so states could decide if they chose to, to have a popular election for electors or choose some other method. Each state had a number of electors equal to the number of their representatives and senators in Congress. So, this seemed like an executive who was being controlled in some way every four years. In some ways, this executive was granted a surprising amount of power, considering prevailing fears about monarchy. He was commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces, he could carry on diplomacy, he could recommend measures to Congress. Given the prevailing distrust of executive power, even these limited powers were surprisingly generous. Now, part of the reason for this amount of trust in a national executive was faith in the idea of checks and balances. The idea that in the Constitution, each branch checked and balanced the other. There was limited power for the executive. As people who had experienced and broken away from a monarch well knew, there could be no balance without an executive with limited power. Now, obviously, this discussion of the convention is beyond a vast overgeneralization in the interest of time. But on September 16th, 1787, the Constitution was agreed upon. On September 17th, 1787, it was signed and sent to the Confederation Congress to pass on to the individual states so they could ratify it. Now, the ratification of the Constitution was also a debate because there are any number of things that could have gone wrong at this point. For one thing, the Confederation Congress might just disapprove of the Constitution and refuse to send it on to any state. The convention had done something it wasn't asked to do. It had created a new government. It was asked only to revise the article. So it could have been that the Confederation Congress said, "Interesting thing you've done here. We're not interested in passing it along." So they could have just stopped it right there. For that same reason, individual states could have rejected the Constitution and refused to ratify it. And even if some states seem likely to ratify it, if large and influential states like Massachusetts or Virginia or or New York rejected the Constitution, their influence might compel other states to follow their example and vote against it. So those who really supported this new Constitution had quite a challenge facing them. If the Constitution made it to the states for ratification, if the states agreed to consider it, there still had to be a debate about whether or not this Constitution felt like a just and trustworthy division of power. Now, talking about ratification brings us to the Federalist essays. I have to offer you a factoid that I found out this morning. So many, many, many, many people, probably the majority of people, refer to the Federalist as The Federalist Papers. And probably many of you have assumed that's what it is and seen it. That was not their name. They are the Federalist. And when you see them publish, and what I have here for you is actually a newspaper from the period showing you what it looked like when it appeared in a newspaper column, because that's how the Federalist was released in newspapers. There's some kind of goofy thing to its left making fun of various kings in other countries. And then to its right, you can see the Federalist No. 1. It becomes The Federalist Papers, apparently, in 1961. Why? Because of the book I assigned you. I didn't know that till this morning. So Clinton Rossiter in 1961 decided The Federalist Papers, that's what he was gonna call it, and that caught on. And I have now, like somehow or other, sinned by assigning that book for this class, except it's a really good collection. His introduction is really good, but now you're holding the beginning of where The Federalist Papers comes from. Okay. Now, the Federalist essays were not objective. They were a commercial advertisement, selling the Constitution. All told, there were 85 essays, each of them published in New York newspapers between October of 1787 and May of 1788. They were brought out in book form in June of 1788. They were intended to influence the New York ratification debate, and then, of course, they were sent to other states. Now, as suggested by its title, the Federalists, although it demonstrated many things about the Constitution, had one overriding argument, and that was the benefits of federalism. Not nationalism. The authors were sure to stress they were not talking about nationalism. Nationalism was terrifying. That suggested one really big national government. States no longer mattered if you're talking about nationalism, but Federalism was more comforting. It's about the national government and state governments. Now, to demonstrate how badly the government needed to be energized, the Federalist essay showed again and again the disaster that would reign if the Articles of Confederation were allowed to continue. It's hard to say definitively how much those essays actually influenced the ultimate debate. What we can say is that on June 21st, 1788, the Constitution became the official framework of the government of the United States of America when New Hampshire became the ninth of 13 states to ratify it. Now, obviously, that Constitution helped determine what kind of nation was being created, but it did far more. Number one, most obviously, the Constitution created the fundamental structure of our government. Number two, it served as a national pact. Americans agreed to abide by it as a kind of national pact. That's why it's at the root of oaths that officeholders take upon gaining office. It's the root of our existence as a nation, the Constitution. Number three, the Constitution also addressed a major question unleashed by the American Revolution. It's a question about power. Americans were deciding where and how to invest power. The Constitution deals with that. And fourth, and this is kind of where I started. The Constitution provides us with our process of government, which is particularly essential during times of crisis when a nation most needs objective, directions, to at least begin to lead the way. Our political process, our constitutionally determined political process is supposed to be our anchor in trying times. After the fraught election of 1800, which I'll talk about next week, when it seemed as though that election was gonna potentially not happen, maybe it would be overthrown, it's very dramatic, someone went up to Jefferson and said, "Well, what would've happened if armed people had seized the government and taken it away from you?" All of this was potentially happening in 1800. And Jefferson said, "Oh, well, we would go back to the Constitution. We would maybe tweak the Constitution, but the Constitution is there to help us in moments of crisis like that." Now, over the course of American history, there have been several such moments of extreme contingency that have really vital lessons to teach. These moments share something in common. In one way or another, there are moments when the American people know that something fundamentally American is up for debate. In a sense, these moments are pathway moments, moments when serious talk is happening, a some kind of fundamental change in the national ethos. The 1790s was one such moment when the nature of the ground level workings of democracy in the new nation was under debate. How democratic would the new nation be? That's the beginning of that conversation. The 1850s were another when slavery was under debate. David will get up and talk about that. The 1960s were another. We now turn to Beverly Gage when civil rights And the present is yet another. A moment when, in part, we are once again debating the persistence and foundations of democracy. I promise I'll be done in a moment. Hamilton talked about this in the first Federalist essay, and he explains, I'm gonna read this because he puts it really movingly. I read it in almost every class I teach. He says, "It seems to have been reserved to the people of this country by their conduct and example to decide the important question, whether societies of men are really capable or not, of establishing good government from reflection and choice, or whether they are forever destined to depend for their political constitutions on accident and force. The crisis at which we are arrived may with propriety be regarded as the era in which that decision is to be made, and a wrong election of the part we shall act may deserve to be considered as the general misfortune of mankind. The founders created a government through a process of reflection and choice. They never assumed that it was perfect. It most certainly wasn't. But they assumed that during moments of crisis to come America's constitutional process would be the key to national survival. Without that constitutional anchor, we risk devolving into a government where might makes right, which, in many ways, isn't really a government at all." Thank you. (crowd applauding)