(upbeat music) - All right, well welcome. Welcome to all of you to America at 250. It is an amazing thing to see all of you here gathered in one place to talk about American history. I am Beverly Gage, I'm a professor here in the History department. You will be hearing from me again at the tail end of the course. So we thought we might start with just me up here saying a few words. You'll then hear from my colleagues, Joanne Freeman and David Blight, and then I'll come back up here at the end of today's session and talk a little bit about the logistics of the class. And I will say as we were making all of these preparations in registration and the police and the fire marshal and all of these in the last couple of weeks, it was such a thrill to think that all of that was happening because of an American history class. And so we thank you all for being interested, for wanting to come here and join in this semester long conversation about what the United States is, what it has been, and maybe also a little bit about where we go from here. To start out, I wanted to visit a few people in the 20th century, the period of American history that I study and specialize in who looked out over their own country and saw things that were troubling and tried to figure out what to do. First is a man named Reinhold Niebuhr, who's one of the great theologians, philosophers, and social critics of the 20th century. And in 1930, he looked at the world around him at the United States at his own community and said, I see a real divide between what I want this place to be, what I want American society to be, and what it seems to be in reality. He was looking to the 1920s, which had been a period of repression in American history, a period of disappointment for many progressives who had not seen the big dreams of that period of history earlier in the century realized in that moment it was a period of backlash against immigrants, against people of color. And then in 1929, the Great Depression came along and it seemed like maybe American society was actually going to collapse from within. And so in 1930, he looks out, says, how do we think about this? And his quote is that he decided society is a quote, mediocre compromise between the real and the ideal. Second person that I wanted to visit is someone, I'm sure you have heard of, the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Speaking in 1962 at a very different historic moment. He had made his way as the country did through the Great Depression, through the Second World War. And this is sort of the peak of post-war prosperity for the United States. But it's also a moment in which many people are questioning whether the United States is going to live up to its promises of being a true democracy. The civil rights movement was underway particularly, but not exclusively in the south. Student activists had started to come together to take action, freedom rides sit-ins just beginning around the country. And what Martin Luther King said in that moment was, America can't afford the luxury of anemic democracy. And he looked to the students who were entering the movement and said, when these students sit down at lunch counters, they are in reality standing up for the best in the American dream. The third person that I would like to visit is another name that may be familiar from around the Yale campus, and that's William F. Buckley, one of the great figures of the modern conservative movement. Someone who looked at American liberalism, looked at the rights movements that were emerging around the country and said, I don't want any of this, right? That this is a troubling path to be on. And very famously in the mid 1950s had said, I stand a thwart history yelling, stop. Well, by 1970, Martin Luther King had been assassinated. Many of the movements that were congealing around the anti-war movement were causing controversy all over the country. And Buckley look and said, that's the problem, right? That's the trouble that the Supreme Court, other forces in American society were quote, making the constitution incoherent. And then he concluded with a phrase that I think is really interesting to think about. He says, repression is misunderstood. That there are moments where repression is desirable, where you don't want what he perceived to be the chaos and trouble, lack of respect for law that he diagnosed as part of the problem in 1970. So why do I start with these three figures? Well, there are a few reasons. One, is that they were all looking out trying to make sense of the world around them, the society around them, and that's part of what we're going to be doing here, through the lens of American history. The second is that all of those words were spoken here in Battell Chapel, at moments when the conversation was happening within these very walls. And we want to be part of that conversation. That is a conversation that is happening over time. We're gonna be looking to figures of the American past to guide us, to remind us that actually complicated problems can sometimes be solved, to assure us that even if you think you're solving them, you're probably doing some things wrong. And also that change is the real constant of not only American history but human history more broadly. And those figures were in conversation with each other. Martin Luther King looked to Reinhold Niebuhr for guidance. He wrote part of his dissertation at Boston University, in fact, about Niebuhr. Buckley was looking to both of them in a critical way to carry on that conversation. And right now, on the cusp of 2026, is a particularly valuable moment for all of us to enter that conversation. It is, as most of you know, going to be the 250th anniversary of the Declaration of Independence. And that means it's a moment for public reflection, for community reflection, for personal reflection, and above all for national reflection. There's gonna be a lot of that going on next year, and we wanted to start the conversation now so that we are all equipped to think about those things as 2026 comes. And of course, it's an important moment to think about American history because we are once again at a time when many people are looking out on our society from a variety of perspectives and thinking about how to improve it, thinking about how we relate in the present to the past. And I think really wanting to know something about history and the historical tools that we can use to understand things better. So that is what this class is all about. It is going to be a whirlwind tour through American history from 1776 up to the present day. That means we're obviously going to be selective about what we say up here at the podium. We can't cover everything, but that's also why you all are here to carry on those conversations between yourselves in section with your families, with people online. I'll be back in a few minutes to talk about some of the mechanisms we've built into the course to do that, but for now, welcome, welcome to America at 250 and I'm gonna turn it over to my colleague Joanne Freeman. (audience applauding) - My first confession to you is that yes, I am standing on a box. (all laughing) What can I say? I'm five feet tall. Okay, I am very, very happy to be here with you, with my colleagues in what really is a community of history because however many of us there are here, we are a community of learning and of history, and that matters, particularly now. In a sense, it's a blessing that will be thinking about our nation's past on such a sweeping scale with its semi quincentennial. Its 250th anniversary almost upon us. It's a time for thinking historically and for thinking towards the future. Along those lines for the next few weeks, thank you. Okay, hopefully you could hear what I've said up until now. Along those lines, for the next few weeks, you'll be hearing from me about the period that we actually will be commemorating next year, the American Revolution, and a few decades after it, the creation of the Constitution, the early years of the government, and we'll make our way just past Andrew Jackson. Now, that is a lot to cover in eight lectures, I'm gonna be discussing the entire American Revolution in one lecture, it normally takes me an entire semester to talk about the American Revolution, but as Professor Gage has already mentioned, this is a different kind of course focused on big questions, big ideas over a long sweep of time. Now, there are any number of things that I find particularly fascinating about this time period. One of them is its sweeping sense of improvisation. Breaking away from Britain was a huge risk in and of itself, and I'll be talking about that next Tuesday in the first lecture lecture. But even after that point, the entire period was framed by improvisation and risk. The United States was trying to create a democratic republic in a world of monarchies, and people considered this new American government as experimental, they use that word actually all the time. We are engaged in an experiment in government. So in essence, people were making it up as they went along, and they were never entirely sure that their decisions and actions were right or would actually work out for the best. Now, this is not typically the way that we envision the founding, which is I think all on capital letters. That tends to be the way we think about the founding, as though it's entrenched in stone. But really to fully understand that period, you have to know that it most decidedly was not etched in stone. One of the best ways to understand that idea of early American improvisation is to have someone from the period attest to it. So I give you ladies and gentlemen, John Adams. Adams had a lot of things to say along these lines. Actually, John Adams just always had a lot to say, but he's particularly good on this idea. In his old age, Adams like the other surviving founders, spent an enormous amount of time answering letters from complete strangers who wanted to know what really happened during the revolution, like what really happened at that point in history. Now in the case of Thomas Jefferson, those kinds of letters drove him crazy. He called answering them the burden of my life. In at least one year he once said he received over a thousand letters of that kind. At one point he said, and I pass this along to you as a handy Jefferson quote that you can pull out at any moment. It's easy to remember facing a pile of these letters that he did not want to answer. He said, and I quote, "Is this life" Now, Adams had similar letters and totally in character in answering them he spent a good deal of time punching holes in the bubble myths of the American revolution that were circulating by the 18 teens and 1820s. Over and over again he told people, you know, things back then were not as unanimously patriotic and glorious as they might seem from the long view of time. In response to one letter, Adams insisted, the revolution did not represent a big wave of unanimous patriotism. As he put it. Every measure of Congress from 1774 to 1787, was disputed with acrimony and decided by as small majorities as any question is decided these days. And as far as iconic revolutionary moments were concerned, even those were not as glorious as they seemed even at this time. In one letter, Adams recalled what he was thinking as he watched his fellow congressmen sign the Declaration of Independence, talk about iconic moments. He said, quote, "I could not see their hearts, but as far as I could penetrate the intricate foldings of their souls I then believed and have not since altered my opinion that there were several who signed with regret and several others with many doubts and much lukewarmness." So clearly Adams was insisting a lot. The revolution was not this golden haze of perfection. It was a human struggle and that struggle mattered. Adam summed all of this up in a letter that I particularly liked because it's so straightforward. In 1811, he wrote to one correspondent who once again had a sort of tell us about the glorious founding letter that he wrote to Adams. Adam says, "I ought not to object to your reverence for your father's, but to tell you a great secret, as far as I am capable of comparing the merit of different periods. I have no reason to believe we're better than you are." we were better than you are. That's quite a statement. My point here is that to Adams and to many others, you are not supposed to look at the revolution as some kind of perfect founding moment, and in a sense, to these people worshiping the founding era in that way did more harm than good. The revolution and the period right after it had been about beginnings and testing and struggling about beginning traditions and starting patterns of governance about new constitutions. But those beginnings and testings and strugglings were supposed to go someplace to continue on, to aim for improvement. They represented the beginning of a kind of national conversation about who the United States was as a nation, and what it could or should be going forward. Worshiping the founding era or any part of early America generally as a golden age, makes it seem as though the time for that kind of hard work ended with the passing of the founding period, which it most certainly hasn't, and which was never what the founders intended. Now, I'm sure many of you expected me to get up here and talk about the founders, and in future lectures you will certainly be getting a dose of that. But my larger point in coming weeks goes beyond that. In one way or another, I'll be talking about democracy and power, who had power, who didn't have power, how that shifted and changed over time and how it profoundly shaped our nation. Now, when it comes to the first thing that I just mentioned, democracy, one of the issues that dominated the revolutionary and early national periods in fact was how democratic was this new nation supposed to be? On Tuesday I'm going to discuss what democracy meant to people at that time period as opposed to now. For now, I'll just say that in coming weeks we'll see time and again, American people of all kinds striving to be heard. We'll also see some elite folk who are not entirely comfortable with that kind of broad democratic reach. And in one way or another that question, how democratic should the United States be, rove its way in and out of the entire time period that I'll be discussing and obviously far beyond. The powerful rhetoric circulating at the time about that theme, about democracy, about gaining rights had a really powerful influence. It was not just words. The rhetoric of liberty and rights meant something particularly powerful to people who didn't have them. And I wanna offer you just an example of the power of ideas and maybe more importantly, ideals on real people. In 1773, four black enslaved men in Boston wrote a petition to the representative of Trenton, Massachusetts who was their representative. And I'm just gonna read you a few lines of this petition that they signed. "The efforts made by the legislature of this province in their last session to free themselves from slavery, gave us who are in that deplorable state, a high degree of satisfaction. We expect great things from men who have made such a noble stand against the designs of their fellow men to enslave them. We cannot but wish and hope, sir, that you will have the same grand object. We mean civil and religious liberty in view in your next session." That's the power of political sentiment and political rhetoric, right? That's a sense of mission that you can see spreading. Throughout this course we're going to see American people reaching for that kind of goal, seeing where America could go as a nation and often being silenced or ignored. My coming lectures will be talking about these kinds of big formative questions, but mostly from a ground level human perspective. As you can probably already tell from some of what I've said here today. In the process, we're going to learn a lot about America's national character, how it was shaped, and how it changed over time. People in the early part of my time period had a really self-conscious sense of America's national character. They thought about and worried about shaping it. They actually very deliberately tried to shape it in all kinds of creative ways, and I'll be talking about some of them in weeks to come. They were asking really important questions. What was America's national character? What kind of nation was the United States going to be? In a way that is an eternally open question, but there are periods in American history when that question, what kind of nation would the United States be? Had a particularly powerful resonance and immediate power and meaning. The revolution and early national periods were one of those times where people really were reckoning for the first time with what the United States was going to be. There have been other such moments. We are living through one of them now. In those moments when big questions and high stakes are at hand, a full understanding of the full range of American history is particularly important. Our history, our full history, for better and worse is who we are. It got us here and our understanding of it in all its complexity can help us move forward. Our history represents our roots as a nation and helps us determine the path ahead. For that very reason throughout American history, there has been an ongoing fight about what parts of history should be included in our national narrative and what should be excluded, whose voices get heard. Hopefully, by joining us for this semester's broad view of American history, you will emerge from this course with the ability to consider for yourselves our many national narratives with a full understanding of how we got to the present day and where we can go from here. Thank you very much. (audience applauding) - I don't need the box I guess. What are you all doing here? God. Get ready to generalize. When I was asked by my esteemed colleagues to do this, I took a big gulp because no one teaches like this anymore. No one does the whole story of the American nation in one course, nobody. I said something like, Bev, what are you talking about? And then I also took a gulp because I'm gonna have to be between and after these two brilliant lectures, and I decided, why not? At my advanced stage, I need a challenge. So why not? Walt Whitman, to a historian, he put it right up front, almost like an inscription in the last edition of "Leaves of Grass." It's brief. You who celebrate bygones, who have explored the outward, the surfaces of the races, the life that has exhibited itself, who have treated of man as the creature of politics, aggregates, rulers and priests, high habitant of the Allegheny, treating of him as he is in himself in his own rights, pressing the pulse of life that has seldom exhibited itself. The great pride of man in himself, chanter of personality, outlining what is yet to be I project the history of the future. Okay, Walt, I've always taken that as a challenge. No, Walt, we do it too. Historians are chanters of the surfaces and aggregates. We love our aggregates. We we'd love our data, we love evidence, we should love evidence. We even love studying rulers and priests and on and on and on. But historians are also poets. Some of them. I've never accused all of my colleagues of being poets except these two. Now, briefly though, following on Whitman, what actually is history? Some of you know that I like to go to the first book we know of ever written in western civilization, Herodotus, the opening sentence of Herodotus, the history. I've always wanted to write a book called "The History." Whoa In it he says, "I Herodotus of Halicarnassus. I'm here setting forth my history. That time may not draw the color from what man has brought into being, nor those great and wonderful deeds manifested by both Greeks and barbarians fail of their reports and together with all of this, the reason why they fought one another." I dunno how closely you could hear that, but what is Herodotus saying? History he says it's the color, it's the story, it's the narrative, but it's also the reason why. It's the interpretation. It's both. It's the oldest book we have in its first sentence telling us, history's a story and it's analysis. We promised to try to do both. Actually, we will do both. Another favorite writer, I'm doing what Bev did in a way, and thank you Bev, for teaching us a little of the history of this happened in this very room. I had to throw out my neighbor because she already used neighbor, but that's all right. Robert Penn Warren said in a throwaway line, in a poem, history is the thing you cannot resign from. You can try, you can avoid it, you can walk around it, you can deny it, you can erase it, you can obliterate it from museums. Oops. (audience laughing) But you cannot resign from it. Oh, James Baldwin, who left us so much to chew on about what history is. History Baldwin said in the 1965 essay, is not merely something to read. It's that too don't. And it does not refer merely or even principally to the past. On the contrary, the great force of history comes from the fact that we carry it within us, or unconsciously controlled by it in many ways. And history is literally present in all that we do. How often do you feel that? Maybe not very often. We often don't like to. How does it feel when the past somehow enters your bones and you start feeling it and it's really uncomfortable? Now you've probably really learned something. And then Baldwin concluded that passage with this almost horrifying image. He said, if Americans ever really begin to face their past, and in his case he was speaking about slavery and racism, they would be entering into his words, a dialogue with that terrifying deity called history. A terrifying deity. Sometimes that's what history is. Maybe that's why some people want to control it so much 'cause it terrifies them. Where should we begin American history? At a lot of places, we're gonna begin with the American Revolution 'cause we gotta get all the way to the early 21st century. But where do you begin? Do you begin the hold of a slave ship? Do you begin with John Trumbull paintings across? Where are we? Down the street of the Declaration of Independence or Lord Cornwall is surrendering to George Washington at Yorktown. They're right up the street folks. Should you begin with Emanuel Leutze's, westward the course of Empire, or an image of Lincoln signing of the Emancipation Proclamation. Where are you gonna begin this? Or do you begin with images of massacres and the burning of Wampanoag and Narragansett villages in King Phillips War? Or do you begin with the final signing of that constitution or the passage of the second constitution in the 1865, '7 and '68, '69? Do you begin with Dred Scott? Do you begin with Brown v Board? Shelby v Holder, US v Windsor, Roe v Wade, Dobbs v Jackson Women's Health Organization and the United States versus whomever about immunity? Where do you start? Do you start with a tragedy or a triumph with pain or with pleasure? Because American history, like everybody else's history is full of all of that. Last couple thoughts, Tony Morrison, when she gave her Nobel laureate address, anybody ever pulled that up and just read it? It's only 10 pages. It's a classic, you know Empress Morrison essay, but she gave it at an extraordinarily hopeful moment. 1993, Cold War had ended, Berlin Wall was down, pox Americano was spreading, the world was opening up. The horizon seemed limitless. Soviet Union had collapsed. There was no more bipolar. We thought nuclear standoff in the world. But what does Tony Morrison do in that speech? She warned her audience that when you feel a triumph, watch out, history's waiting. And she warned about what she called status language, censored and censoring, ruthless in its policing duties. It has no desire or purpose other than maintaining the free range of its own narcotic narcissism, its own in exclusivity and dominance, status, control of history and language. That was her concern, and she warned, she said, if the state controls your history, it exists. Then her words to sanction ignorance and preserve privilege, and then she invented a term. This doesn't seem like more the lyrical Tony Morrison, but she said, don't commit tongue suicide. Don't muffle your voice. Don't cut your tongue out. Don't let the state control your thoughts, your language, your speech. My period is of course, the middle of the 19th century through the end of the 19th century. It has been called many, many, many, many things by historians in the past in a journal called "Civil War History." It was once called the Middle period, which is utterly unsexy. A middle of what? Is sometimes Antebellum America was called the Golden Age, sometimes the age of ambiguity. The great David Donald taught a course called, The Age of Ambiguity about Antebellum America. Sometimes it's been called the Age of Dread, the coming of the Civil War. And then the Civil War has been called all kinds of things, as many of you know, including the late unpleasantness by the Lost Cause advocates. This whole period has been called, an age of compromise and conflict. That's way too nice. Of course there's compromise and conflict. It's also an age of disunion and disaster. Joanne's gonna create the union. I get to destroy it. And then help you watch it come back into being in a second founding and try to hang on through the end of the 19th century. This is a history of the American nation as best we can do it in 26 lectures, and 13, or 14 discussions on Thursdays over at the studio where we're gonna conduct our own kind of faculty section, so to speak. Welcome back to a lot of you from the Yale community. Welcome all the Yale students. Stick around for this crazy ride, and we're anxious to take it with you. Thank you. (audience applauding) - All right, well that's a little taste of where we're going, what we're gonna be thinking about. David and Joanne are complaining about having to cover a lot of territory, but I have to do the whole 20th century, and so that is going to be its own challenge as well that we will get to later in the semester. For now, I wanna talk a little bit just about this class and how it's actually going to work, because we've spent a lot of time thinking about this. It is a somewhat non-traditional class, but the first thing that I wish to say, is that Yale students, it's a real class. It's a real history class where hopefully we will have a lot of fun here in lecture, but in which you are supposed to come to lecture in person, you are supposed to do the readings, and I will say there's a pretty serious reading load for this course. Unsurprisingly, we had a hard time figuring out how in all of American history to choose a set of readings that would highlight the many, many different things that we want to be thinking and talking about. So there's a lot of reading. We hope that you will do it. We expect that you will do it. We hope that you will do it in the old fashioned historic way, which is by getting some books and sitting down with them and spending some time with them and then talking about them. I'll say a little bit more about that in a minute. Last piece that makes this a real history class is that we are going to be holding sections every week. They are required sections for undergraduate students. If you're registering for the class, you need to be registered for lecture and for section as well. And section is gonna be a really critical place where the conversation continues as we start up here. Alright, So it is a real history class that is its central feature, but it is a non-traditional history class in a variety of ways. The first is that it is open to members of the community. As you can see, this is not just a conversation between professors and students, between students and teaching fellows, between students themselves, but with the broader New Haven community. It is a conversation across generations and we hope that you will all avail yourselves of this opportunity of the fact that we are all in here together, engaged in thinking about and making sense of American history. So for those of you who are community members, we are also hoping and expecting to see you in the room every lecture session. And we also have a series of outside events planned. You don't have to go to section, but do the reading anyway. And we will also be having ways to engage there, I think for both sets of people in the room, students, community members. If all of this doesn't sound exciting and appealing to you, coming to lecture in person, doing this big sweep of American history, really delving into the readings, being able to talk with each other, coming to section, heading to the archives, which is going to be one of our great assignments. All 486 registered Yale students are gonna be sent not all at once, staggered to Beinecke and to Sterling Memorial Library to touch history, right, to go to these amazing collections we have here at Yale and begin to do some of your own research. Be able to sit down in a direct way with some of the great thinkers and actors of the age, but also with ordinary people and see what the world looked like to them. But if all of this doesn't sound exciting and energizing and provocative to you, give up your space. There are lots of people who wanna get into here. I never thought I would be saying this, but we have capped the course at 486 undergraduates, but there are a lot of people who wanted those spaces. So if you don't think you can do the work again, please, you will have other chances to engage. So couple of those features as well. One of those chances to engage is that we wanted to find a way not to just stand up here at the podium, but to talk with all of you, and especially to talk with each other, because I have been teaching at Yale for more than 20 years at this point, and it's very rare that we get to sit down and learn from each other, listen to each other. So each week after Thursday lecture, David and Joanne and I are going to head over to the Yale Broadcast studio. We're gonna sit together for about an hour, talking about the week's readings and lectures. We are going to be answering questions that come in through a grab bag address that's up there DeVane@yale.edu and we'll talk more about the details of this as things go along. But we are going to be having that conversation in part just 'cause we want to, but also to model and engage some of the ways that we hope you all are going to be talking with each other and thinking about these issues. So that's one feature. Those are gonna be posted at the end of every week. It should be a lot of fun. The second is that we are going to be recording all of the lectures here. Those recordings are going to go up on a two week delay. We were trying to find a good compromise between broad access and being able to refer back to all of this and trying not to, you know, disincentivize people from actually showing up and being in the room. So two week delay. These are gonna be fully public. So if your parents, or your family members, or your friends back home, whoever wants to be part of that conversation with you, including the people who find us in other ways, that's going to be happening there as well. So there are many moving parts here. One last thing to say about the physical space that we're in. So we are here in a Chapel with its own history and we might talk about that a little bit as the semester goes along. I should say, the quotes that I found and the reasons that we know that Reinhold Niebuhr, and Martin Luther King, and William F. Buckley were here in this Chapel along with many other people at various moments in time, is in fact that the YDN wrote that down. So all of those quotes that I was using come from the Yale Daily News coverage. So I just wanna say those of you who are out there as reporters, you are the scribes of history and I hope that the students in the 30s, 60s, and 70s got it right. So we are gonna be here because this is a chapel setting, as you've noticed, there are no desks and so our strong recommendation is to bring a notebook and not a laptop to try to avoid using electronics in this space. Both because they're distracting to others, but also because it's just an awkward space for that. So handy dandy notebooks we would recommend as the best way to engage in lecture. Alright, so as part of this community conversation, there are lots and lots of people working on this course who have done amazing things besides the people that you are going to see up here. So I wanna take these last few moments to introduce some of those people so you know where they are. If you need to find them after class or at any point in the semester, we can do that. The first is this amazing team of 14 teaching fellows that we have with us here. You may have already been in touch with the head teaching fellow for the course, especially if you were having registration problems. Sorry about that first year students. Hopefully that's all settled, but so Wulf Scouller, is going to be the head TA for our class. (audience applauding) He has answered a whole lot of email in the last couple of weeks, and so he certainly deserves that round of applause. I'm just also going to read off the names of the other teaching fellows. If you could stand when I mention your name. Avery Johnson. Okay, Beck Boorstein. Conor Hodges. Ella Starkman-Hynes. This feels like graduation, but it's not graduation, it's the beginning of the semester. Felix Santiago. Gabriel Mesa. Jacquelyn Davila. Camille Assam. Boren Fatman. She's back there. Paul Seltzer. Precious Muhammad. And Victoria Zabarte. Okay, so these are very important people. They're all working on incredibly interesting dissertations of their own that intersect with this course, but we are thrilled to have such an all-star team with us. There are also a number of people who are gonna be working behind the scenes for the course and we wanted to let you know about them too and say a word of thanks. As you can see here, these are the DeVane lectures that is a lecture ship sponsored by the President's office at Yale each year. An endowed lecture series that is deliberately designed to allow community members and Yale students to participate in class together. And so this is being funded and supported by the president's office at Yale. Maurie McInnis deserves our thanks for approving this, and saying at this moment, you know what? Let's just go for it. Let's do this and make it as big as we can. In the President's office, Michael Hoepp is around somewhere. He's in the back of the room. (audience applauding) Michael has been coordinating all of this. He's responsible for your QR codes and he's going to bring a particularly important person for community members. It's gonna be Michael who's going to be keeping you up to date about events and readings and other things, announcements. We have a video staff here, Guy Ortoleva and Craig Tomlin will be doing all of our recordings here. We have Carl Peterson and classroom support, who's helping with the AV. We have the staff of Battell Chapel, particularly Jamie Nachtigall. I'm probably forgetting some of the people who are putting their time and expertise and energy into this really special thing that we are really excited to do together and I hope that you all come back on Tuesday when we get started in earnest with 1776, and the American Revolution. Thanks. (upbeat music)