 subjected to subjected to though you got us in at least a familiar landscape with the present. You talked on Tuesday, the lecture was titled Race, Rights, and Resistance, and then today's lecture was Reagan's America, so we got the left and we got the right in ways that maybe people watching will be familiar with or not familiar with. So I guess maybe actually my first question for you is, what did it feel like being in this moment immersing yourself in those two ways of looking at the past? Well, it is funny to be doing it with this particular class where we have such a generational divide and who's in the room. And so my sense and those of you out there who are listening can tell me if this is right or not that for the community members, who many of whom have living memories and kind of coming of age memories of these periods of the 60s and 70s, there was one experience going on. And then for the undergraduates, I think we've reached the period where they often don't get to in their history classes. And so the 70s, 80s, 90s especially in my experience teaching undergrads is really a kind of mystery zone. And so I think they were having two radically different experiences of reaching what I think is starting your right to feel like a familiar world. I mean, I think it's important about the 1960s. And this was the first thing that I said on Tuesday, when you say the 60s, it still is, you know, kind of flower power, protest, rock and roll, civil rights, rock and roll. And I wanted to make the point early on that historians really now think about this thing called the divided 60s, which is a moment when whatever liberal consensus had existed in the 30s, 40s, 50s kind of comes flying apart under pressure from the left, under pressure from the right as well, which is the piece that often gets left out of the story of the 60s. And then, you know, lots of people reconfigure their political identities and their political loyalties pretty quickly over the course of that decade. And Bev, let's talk a little bit about, let's get you to talk a little bit more about these two huge phenomena that tore people apart in the 60s. One is the civil rights movement, of course, it brought people together to some extent, but then it tore apart the country and the Vietnam War. I mean, we had a foreign policy and a domestic question of the very nature of the United States that all came to, well, came into collision in about a five to 10 year period, and we've never been the same since. How did those two huge phenomena come crashing into one another? I mean, and now we're talking about my lifetime. So, well, that's what I was going to say before. So give the antidote. This is the first, today's episode was lecture was the first one that I was alive during, right? You guys are so young. So I was having aha moments like everybody in the audience has been and been coming up to you and saying, I remember. So I did that too at the end of the lecture. But David's question. Yeah, well, the civil rights movement, I mean, it's interesting because it's very hard to say when this thing called the movement begins and ends. So historians tend to talk about the long civil rights movement and even that people mean very different things. Does that mean it started in the 30s or the 20s or during reconstruction or I lynching campaign, right? But 1940, which is where you started. There is this very intense period from about 1963 to 1968. When what you're talking about, David, these two forces collide. 1963 is the March on Washington, then the Civil Rights Act, then the Voting Rights Act, but then a surge of kind of experimentation, new organizations, militancy, conflict, fight all around civil rights. And those are the exactly the same years that Vietnam is escalating. Right. Right. The United States really gets in in a significant way, starting in late 1964. And then the peak of troop involvement there, which was, I believe, about 500,000 US troops on the ground at its peak is 1968, 69. And so those two things converge. And I think what's particularly important about the 60s is that they are movements and transformative political experiences that are highly generational. So the people who are being asked to fight in Vietnam are mostly young people. And the people who are most deeply involved in civil rights organizing also by the mid 60s are mostly young people. And so I didn't talk about it much in lecture, but I do think there's a very distinctive generational story about these decades that you don't see really at any other moment in American history. It's like a profoundly cultural moment as in addition to being generational. And it's also, and this is probably not something that lots of people think about, but this is going to come to what you assigned for this week. It's also a moment when strategy and coming up with new and different ways to speak really powerful messages becomes important. So tell us a little about Bayard Rustin's strategies for freedom, the changing patterns of Black protest. Why did you assign that? What were you hoping for people to get from that? Well, it's not a very well known book, period. So everything else that we've been reading at at least in some moment in time was quite well known. It was a revelation in that sense. I never read it. So this is Bayard Rustin relatively late in his career in 1976, looking back on his experiences and trying to make sense of the long arc of the movement. And he himself had always been sort of background strategist from the 1930s onward. There were a variety of reasons for that, as I suggested in lecture. One is that he was in the Young Communist League for a while in the 30s, and that in the midst of red scare Cold War politics meant you had to be backstage if you were allowed anywhere near the stage at all. And then he was also a gay man, which also in the politics of the 40s and 50s meant that you probably were not going to be out front as your movement's spokesman. But what he's so good at doing is articulating and mapping out the varieties of strategies and the many experiments that were used to try to achieve civil rights over the time, right, the courts, political parties, all sorts of efforts at influence. And his argument is that what makes the civil rights movement of the 50s and 60s really distinctive is the turn to nonviolent action as its core strategy. So it's a good book because it's short. It covers a lot of ground. It was a lecture originally, right, which is always a fine reading experience. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know, one thing, there's a moment where he's surveying all the way back to World War One. And then he says, you know, the 1920s for black people was one of the darkest times. That's, of course, contrary to the general conception of the 20s. Boom times, roaring 20s, prosperity, no, he said dark times. He said, we had something called the Harlem Renaissance. He says, at least we could write about it. He has a rhyme with funny, but then he says the 30s were the hopeful time. And there, which is the Great Depression, but he's referring to unions, the New Deal, the Wagner Act, and so on. The government, the government now becomes a source of organization of various sorts. Yes, all kinds of new organizations. Yeah. Yeah. So it's not a book that will just sit easily with people's expectations. I think that's one of the distinctive things about Rustin is that he comes out of this labor tradition. And that's really at the heart of how he thinks civil rights, but also economic security are going to be achieved is through this racially egalitarian forms of labor organizing as well as government action. And, you know, he's making an argument that actually wasn't very popular in 1976. So when he's doing this, he's been a little bit cast out of the movement, or people are describing him as a neo-conservative. And that's partly because of a little bit of that social democratic tradition. But it's more because he is making an argument that, you know, black people in the United States are somewhere between 12 and 15% of the population, 11%, you know, depending on your historical moment. But that what that requires is a kind of self conscious, coalitional politics as the way forward. It wasn't a super popular idea in certain circles, particularly in the early 1970s. But he is a true believer in that. And he thinks that the labor movement and kind of organizing around economic issues is going to be the thing that's going to hold that coalition together. And he never owned up to black power. He was raised a Quaker. He's a serious pacifist. And he doesn't give any truck to the, you could call it the far left of the civil rights movement, although I'm not sure that's the right thing to call it. And therefore, he's still honoring the NAACP in the middle of the 1970s, which is not what most people were into. Black power had such a cultural impact. Well, that gets us back to this question about the culture of this moment and the cultural clashes of the moment. Related to that, one of the things that struck me about it, and it wasn't a central point of the book, but it resonated so powerfully in a way because it wasn't really about strategy. It was about the foundation you have to have in place before you start strategizing. And he says at one point that you need two things to effectively bring people together in a movement that people need to understand the history of where they came from. And they have to have a clear purpose. And that resonated so strongly, right? People need to know where they've been, people to understand where you are, and you have to have a vision of where you want to be, what you're looking for. It was decades ago that he said this, but it speaks so strongly also to this moment that there's a cultural, intellectual kind of a root that you need to understand who you are and where you are and what you want to work an effective strategy. And he surveys for us as readers a whole array of leaders. And I'd ask you to talk a little bit more about A. Philip Randolph because Randolph is clearly Ruskin's hero in a host of ways. Who is Randolph? And people don't tend to know him today. Right. A. Philip Randolph was one of the kind of great leaders of the long civil rights movement. And he's someone he started out as a socialist in the World War One and early 20s period. And he retained a lot of those commitments for a long time. So I think for Ruskin, A. Philip Randolph is really this model of the person who sees race and class tied in together and wants to organize in both. He can change with time. Right. And so he's there from the beginning. His big achievements really are the creation of the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters in the 1920s, the first kind of all black and black run union. These are Pullman porters, people who are working on the Pullman trains. And then in the 40s, in the very early 40s, in the run up to World War Two, he conceives of the first march on Washington, which ends up not happening because the Roosevelt administration gets very disturbed by this possibility. And so it was going to happen. For sure. And so he remains kind of one of the great old men of the civil rights movement in the 50s and 60s leading up to the 1963 March on Washington. And I guess one of the reasons that I think looking at that march through the lens of Byrd Rustin is important is because often when that comes up in our history classes or our popular culture, right, you get Martin Luther King saying, I have a dream. And the story basically is that King was such a powerful orator and his vision was so persuasive that Americans said, wow, we really have to get a civil rights act. And there's some truth to that King is a very powerful order. And it's a very powerful vision. But it really obscures all of the work that went into creating a moment like that, the organizing on the ground, the strategy, the political maneuvering, the fact that that march was a bunch of different things. But one was a direct ask to Congress about something very particular, the Civil Rights Act. And so I think we often leave out precisely what Rustin is good at, which is the strategy. And he was good at the big picture strategy, the grand strategy of organizing. But then he was also really good at like just making sure the sandwiches were where they needed to be. We don't tend to appreciate those people, though, generally speaking, that goes that goes all the way back. I could say the same thing in early America, that the people who are not the people coming up with a big message are not the people thinking about the people but who are organizing behind the scenes, doing the work that actually puts things into place, and nothing happens without them. And then we generally don't recognize. Right. And Rustin's book before we leave him also lays out the probably the single greatest divisive element of the whole civil rights era is whether this should be a movement aimed at the United States government, the American conscience, or a separatist movement. And there were obviously separatist elements of the whole civil rights era. Rustin essentially, though tested, greatly tested, so was King, is never going to give into that. It goes back to your point about only being 11 or 12 percent of the population. But this is a story we have to keep alive throughout this course. What when does great change in this country come by pressing the government, forcing if you can, not just at election time, the government to act, in other words, through law. And when does great change come outside the law? Mass protests, sometimes violent. And of course, the civil rights movement is the prototypical question, the prototypical phenomenon through which we always ask that. In fact, it has strategies in the title of the book. It's all about organization, strategy, and then action. So, you know, that that idea of pressing and where the pressing is coming from, right? That's the story of America. You know, you go all the way back to the revolution. And what you have are people who no longer feel that they can get the king to even read what they're saying. And so they find ways to make demands and speak out in a way that, you know, for them is actually outside the system. All semester, we've been watching people sort of figure out how to make change, really bottom up, even though it requires change at the top. Well, I do think there are certain the circumstances change, the context changes, the issues change. But there are these sets of eternal questions that we I think we talked about this with the abolitionists and with others, right? Are you a movement of reform seeking to kind of save the system as it is, but improve it? Or are you a revolutionary movement that thinks it needs to be torn down? Questions about who's in your coalition? Who's outside your coalition? Are you going to engage electoral politics? Is that a viable thing? Or do you need to find some other set of tools? Exactly the story of the abolition movement. Rustin is asking all these questions to almost anyone who gets involved in politics. How do you make change? The final question somewhere in there. David, you're giving it away. No, but right, the fundamental question in a democratic mode of government is, how do you make change? Not hoping that your representatives are going to do something for you in Congress, but actually coming and speaking and strategizing in ways that are bringing what you want. I will also say with Imbaird Rustin's case, I think he was deeply shaped by the internecine battles of the 1930s and early 40s. The Communist Party had a really wacky vision of a kind of separate black nation being created in the United States. So those same questions were alive in the 1930s. I think that's the moment that really formed him. He had been in the party and then he left and for Byrd Rustin, no one dislikes the Communists like the socialists. Exactly. This is also just a story of factions. Just like in the early republic, when one learns about the early republic, you can't help wondering how in the world did this republic even survive? They thought that all the time. Oh, I know. The factions are so deep. The Hamiltonians hated Jeffersonians, vice versa. We could go back to those examples. It's the same in the long civil rights movement, that's what we want to call it. So many factions, so many different strategic groups, so many schisms, a major part of it rooted in the Black Southern Church, the Baptist especially. But then there are other radicals basically educated and trained in northern universities who don't come from that tradition. The schisms were terrible by the mid-60s and late-60s. That's what I wanted to ask about. You talked today about the rise of the conservative movement, one of the points that you made was the different factions and ideas that were pulled together to sort of create a movement. At one point in the lecture today, you said something like, I guess, was it the conservatives who believed that the parties were too similar? Everybody, lots of people, the left and the right believed that the parties were too similar. Oh, I grew up with that politics. It's like, twiddle-dee, twiddle-dum, what's the difference? But what I was thinking of, which of course I was, is that in my period, when you're beginning to get partisan alliances, in many ways they were very similar. In many ways, they agreed on a lot of things. And the part of the conventional wisdom when you're looking at that politics as a historian is, that's why it was so fierce, is because it was the intensity of small differences with big outcomes. So talk a little bit about the rise of the conservative movement and the bringing together of all of these factions. Yeah, the conservative movement was very self-conscious, particularly through the figure of William F. Buckley and National Review, which gets its start in the mid-1950s, about needing to bring together different factions in order to have not only a kind of set of political alliances, alliances of convenience, but actually trying to make the ideas cohere. And the label that they put on that was fusionism. And fusionism in particular meant you're going to have to get your free market libertarians together with your traditionalist, religiously oriented conservatives, together with your anti-communists. And so they have some things in common. And anti-communism in some ways was supposed to be the glue that held this together because you could fight atheistic communism. That's a good appeal to your religious traditionalists and your fighting concentrated power and control over the economy. And that's your libertarians. But it's an interesting story because that set of alliances and kind of intellectual working through is quite self-conscious among a relatively small group of people. And then the political story, all sorts of things come along that they did not anticipate. And so the political coalition that kind of brings these ideas to power is very much a political coalition that comes out of the reaction against the civil rights movement, the reaction against the anti-war movement, and the very fast changing politics of the 1960s. So when Richard Nixon gets elected or when Ronald Reagan gets elected, they don't have these blowout majorities because of the careful work of fusionism. That's a lot of other stuff going on. And yet the intellectual work that went on to create that vision is important to the ways that politics plays out. There has to be an us. Well, this gets back to Rustin, right? There has to be an us with a vision or a goal or something. And it sounds like that's what you're saying, this effectively. By the time of Reagan, it was, well, I should read more about Reagan and not just for a long time memory. Very dangerous for a long time memory. But Reagan ran against the 60s. And the conservative movement was a reaction to all the changes, including feminism and every movement you could think of. Nixon a decade earlier, more than a decade earlier, is a reaction to the 60s. Talk a little bit more about Richard Nixon and that particular Republican Party, he's completely wrapped up in the Vietnam War, which is what killed LBJ's presidency. But the Nixon phenomenon, Nixon's kind of conservatism is different because he goes back to the New Deal. Well, so did Reagan. And Reagan, Reagan, Reagan just, he's quite old. Which is one of the things that's appealing to me as a future Reagan biographer is that he has this huge, sweet, heavy, yeah, let's do it. But Nixon, Nixon's kind of conservatism was reaction politics to a great degree, the student protest movements, Vietnam protest. But on the other hand, it was still an old older kind of conservative. I mean, Nixon's formative period is the 40s and 50s. It is the Red Scare. And he's a slightly more moderate version of Joe McCarthy and of a kind of anti-communist politics rooted in the Republican Party. But he was a hardcore anti-communist. He made his name on the House Un-American Activities Committee. And then he's Eisenhower's vice president during the 50s. Right. And so he was sort of the right anti-communist pit bull for Eisenhower, who wanted to have this much more kind of moderate self presentation. But nonetheless, he was an Eisenhower Republican in some fundamental sense. In the lecture, I showed a Nixon ad from 1960 when he was the Republican presidential candidate and then one from 1968. And in their style and their message, they could hardly have been more different. Really effective to show one after the other like that. Yeah. I mean, just the reaction against the politics of the 60s. But I think it is important to say that the conservative movement was not just a reactionary movement, which is to say, you know, there's a form of backlash politics that's happening for sure during those years. But it's a combination of a vision that's laid down pretty early on and then that is rapidly adapting to all of these new circumstances that are coming along in the 60s and 70s. In your lecture, you used the word aspiration and the 60s, of course, is well, the 50s, too, but the 60s is such an aspirational time. America rules the world except with the struggle of the Soviet Union. And they're important. Very, very important. And the Kupino-Sol crisis almost blew up parts of the world. But it's such an aspirational time. America can do anything and it landed on the moon for God's sake. But the conservatives had aspirations. Yeah, what was that? Sometimes I think we on the left ignored that. That was precisely what I wanted to get from you is how you would sum up. You had the great passage. Was it from Buckley? Stop. Yeah. Right. They're just stopped. There's too much. But how would you describe their vision, the conservative movement's vision of what it is they really wanted other than stop? Right. Well, I think there's stop and go back is actually something that preserves tradition is quite consistent. And that means different things. Right. So that can mean precisely, as you're saying, what is a conservative? It's someone who wants to conserve. Right. So there's a there's a go slow. Don't make too many changes too fast. Respect established institutions. Respect the order as it exists. There is a version that's very particularly about the federal government and federal power. Now, I think we've said it various moments in our discussions that are you a kind of pro federal or are you a state and local person? Often it just has to do not with some abstract set of questions, but with what these different levels of government are doing. And that's true in this case. But there's a critique, particularly of the New Deal, the concentrations of power, the interventions in the economy, the rise of an administrative state, right? High ex planners. That's one piece. And then as time goes on, Supreme Court decisions, Brown versus Board of Education, Roe versus Wade, the school prayer decisions. Right. So that becomes a critique of a different kind of power, affirmative action, right? They're all sorts of. So I'd say that's that's a key piece of this. And then, of course, there's a win the Cold War, right? It's being it's centered around anti communism writ large, but it's also a much more aggressive approach to Cold War strategy. So sort of wrapped around almost everything in the 50s, 60s and 70s. I mean, the claim was always the foreign policy ended at the shoreline or what's that phrase? Because both sides would agree. Not always. It's a really effective us versus them that has obviously real roots, but it's just as many nukes we did by the intensity of it. And and in every way, right? Culturally, politically, economically, it was such a frame for understanding things that had such a power to it, right? I mean, it's been looming throughout your lectures, the power of the Cold War and cover. So did you? Yes, I had to do duck and cover. We under the desk. We had earthquake drills in California. No, no, no, no, no. For the record, I was born in the 70s. Never had a duck and cover. You know, soft fallout shelter. Funny, you should make this case about communism and anti communism with the Cold War, because next semester, I'm teaching a whole course that is premised on this idea that the politics of communism and anti communism and then particularly the cold.  alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, al alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, al alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, al and that was okay. I mean, he liked those sort of pithy things. And there's a debate, as we'll see, about whether the United States actually precipitated the end of the Cold War or Ronald Reagan or lots of other forces at work but it was defining and joining you were putting your finger on it. Again, not because I grew up then but everybody was aware of nuclear weapons. Did we fully understand what they could do? No. except from the films and well and that the doomsday clock oh yeah freaking doomsday clock movies I was obsessed with the clock and something would happen and it would move one minute closer to the end of time and you know I was little but I understood the meaning of that cinema of that idea and of course for many great Cold War movies but you really were conscious that two powers in the world now had the weapons right and if you really finally believe that it tended to dominate your consciousness how could it in a way how could it well people get all kinds of things to avoid it just as we do when you look at what something like the port Huron statement which is the original statement of students for a democratic society it's supposed to be this generational cry and a lot of what they're saying is what you know how could you have made this world for us right how could you have made a world in which humanity is about to destroy itself they say in that document you know we live with the consciousness that we may be the last generation of human beings alive on this earth so I think the current generation has a version of this in climate change right these kind of apocalyptic fears now that's going to be slower moving and you know hopefully we'll come back from the brink but it but I think it's a good analogy to that sense in the in the 60s like you're telling me that you've created this amazing thing and yet what it's produced is perpetual war the potential destruction of all of humanity and like this isn't what we want we want to make a different intensity of both of the things we've talked about right you mentioned David the the sort of intensity of like we control we rule the world we're the best where you know that's pretty intense and then equally intense is you know that it could be destroyed because you know we're sort of out there and there's the Soviet Union and then the intensity of the I guess aspiration to use the word that you used and of the sense of looming possible disaster that kind of gets it a lot of I don't know the 70s when you say well I do think one of the big stories of if you if you start in 1960 and end in the mid to late 70s one of the really dramatic things that happens and actually doesn't go back even Ronald Reagan or Cold War triumphalism is a sense of trust and faith in the fundamental institutions of the country particularly large institutions right that takes blows in the 70s for all sorts of reasons Watergate being one but not for sure the only one and then this story that we've had through most of the 20th century starting in the progressive era that with human will and ingenuity the future can be better than the past technology right and technology and that faith really starts to unravel in the 70s it is difficult to hold on to and now actually one of the I think most distinctive features of the 21st century in the United States is that many people say that they believe that the future is going to be worse than the past and that's a radical shift in public consciousness and relationship to technology or national identity it's one of the I think saddest and most difficult challenges right now and I think it happened in the 60s and 70s it did bev again I don't have any data at my hands right now but something like the moon landing I mean it has to be I mean I watched it with my grandmother so I was I was well and she didn't believe it I right I was woken up in my pajamas with the little feet and stood in front of this are you all just gonna chat about it's terrible I know but but just all right let's just be historians again in some sense all those young people God bless them who went to port here the SDS the students for Democratic Society went up to port here and and created that famous statement well I and well and I was I was a small part of that about five years later six seven years later but if they had been taking enough history I mean we can be smuggler story and zero for a moment you know they would have seen some of these continuities from two world wars from the total redefinition of the of the you know the geography of planet Earth gigantic bipolar conflict between Soviets in the United States and then this this weapon our technology finally created the weapon that could destroy everything now AI could I mean that's not new but you know God bless them they were they were angry they had all this middle-class aspirations suburban kids it's supposed to be I'm going to college I'm gonna rule the world I'm gonna I'm gonna invent things I'm gonna create I'm gonna be a poet I can be anything I want to end women now can begin to think that's gonna take you yet another decade young women can begin to think I can do anything I want anything that's that's the 60s to this incredible aspiration that anything is possible and then you get a Cuban Missile Crisis and you get one disaster after another you get terrible riots in American cities which astonished people because they because they never went to the cities and suddenly by the 70s there's that's why they had suburbs but but no I mean but by the 70s there's a turning inward like oh my god you know just one of the points that I was making in lecture today is that it is not just young people of the left many of whom were in fact children of 30s leftists right red diaper babies communist children of communists but it was also young people on the right who are organizing who are asking a whole set of questions and I think with our standard it was a creature creature of the 60s unless we forget right I mean whole generations and you know young Americans for freedom was an incredibly important organization for channeling some of those youth energies into conservative politics generally but particularly into Republican politics and into the transformation of the Republican Party and I think it's easy when we talk about the 60s to see theatrical protests and say oh that you know that's the story of the 60s or even violence right moments of conflict uprising all of that but if you actually look at the electoral politics of the 60s and where it leads certainly 60s 70s and 80s it's a very very different story coming out of that and it's a little less flashy in certain ways or it's a little bit less of the imagination but it goes back to actually the same point that I was making about fired rusted which is there's a lot of organizing going on to produce these things that then suddenly seem to come out of nowhere the victory of Richard Nixon or the victory of Ronald Reagan and let me ask sort of related to that from a different angle so on the one hand you have all of this clashing and banging up against you know of all kinds of people banging up against each other on the other hand you have these movements that you've been describing one of the things that struck me about your lectures this week is that in a different way than we've talked about so far obviously you talked about black Americans in the civil rights movement you talked about Native Americans you talked about women you talked about a number of different groups in this period coming forward and in one way or another demanding rights or recognition or whatever you know and it struck me I mean nowadays people like to lump things like that under identity politics but what struck me was the many ways in which these many groups in that moment understood some strategic ways but also in aspirational ways that this was a moment to try and have a voice you know it I ran up to after class and became one of the people in the class who runs up to you and says I was alive then but you know I you put a picture up a photo up of Jerry Falwell with a bunch of sort of happy singers behind him 1980 Reagan running and that I was a college freshman and I went to hear a Reagan speak at a rally and there were Christian singers on the stage and for the first time in my life I thought wait great religion like they don't want me to vote for them and I don't know if they really like me eat no it was like suddenly it was like this explosive brain moment where I suddenly understood that my identity my identity is plural had something to do not necessarily with the politics but with the messages and the strategizing and the many ways in which they were trying to tell a story and create a vision well I will say in the four minutes of lecture where I said and then there came all sorts of movements and started going the American Indian Lords that you know the women's movement the gay liberation movement the environmental movement the disability and all of those things that I felt like I had reached sort of peak America 250 absurdity it was good because well there is something there is a generalization there right which is right movements come to style themselves and organize themselves quite differently in a political moment now that seems very normalized to us today such that it is hard to remember that it is something that was invented at a very particular moment in time and in fact the phrase that you used identity politics is something that's coined in the mid to late 70s in an attempt to describe why this is a useful way of organizing and participate correctness born of that decade but it meant something really different than has come to me in over time the word woke wasn't around yet but I think a point to stress underline is that for every person who went to a protest of some kind in the 1960s or early 70s there was at least one other person who never got near it and hated and I think it took a lot of people of my generation quite a while to understand that didn't want to see that didn't want to understand that I don't think I understood it when I was a high school teacher but it took Regans two elections two successes landslide in the second time and then his and then Bush number one following him we had 12 years of Reagan and Bush there all of that was a reaction to this massive reform impulse of what we're calling the 60s but it was not all a reaction but it comes from somewhere and it comes from a philosophical tradition and more because you're right it's not all a reaction so put in what is well I just the same point I was making before that there is actually a lot of organizing going on there's a vision there's a so it's conservatives had their own 60s right when you say we went when people use the word reactive or reaction it often implies that there's no that it's momentary it's spontaneous and sometimes it is right events change as they go along but I wanted to pick up at something that you were saying about about the the ways that Reagan's election and the politics of the 80s and 90s actually led lots of people to narrate the story of the United States in a different way and it had a dramatic impact on the historical profession actually and on American political history because while there were lots of debates before that moment you know the basic story from the progressive era to the new deal to the great society was this story that was about liberal progress and expanding rights and you know it was never entirely true but it was the narrative that historians were still at least wrestling with and attached to and you know one of the things my graduate advisor political historian named Alan Brinkley in the mid 1990s wrote this sort of mea culpa or call to arms for the historical profession saying huh looks like we missed something and he called for the study of conservatives and right movement and it led to this huge flourishing and outpouring of historical words around that I teach them but many many others do too but it's also I think interesting to look at the ways not only that historians were forced to rethink certain fundamental assumptions but that people are constantly revising what they think the story of the United States is in adapting to well classic examples is how the Vietnam were affected the way we studied the civil war for that matter all the wars but Vietnam had a profound impact on a generation of people coming of age younger now who's wanted to study the American Civil War the American Civil War got much darker bloodier so to speak we started writing about the savagery of war we started writing about the impact on common soldiers because we were surrounded by Vietnam veterans going through trauma and post-traumatic stress there's no question about that link people a lot of people have written about that if you if you look at a decade or two of scholarship about the Civil War it's really changed by Vietnam yeah now it's interesting the revolution but you guys help me sort of fit this together because in the semi-recent past now now there's a bunch of scholarship that's on the revolution was violent right that the revolution was bloody that the revolution we're not gonna talk glorious you know propaganda we're not gonna talk outings to the United States was grounded on violence and it's interesting there was a civil war in the south right didn't well it was some people at the time called it a civil war yeah but but the idea that now in the you know present and a little bit before this point we're getting a bunch of scholarships saying that probably also in the same way that the Vietnam War changed the way people think about the civil war in this moment when we're really kind of examining pretty big founding principles generally speaking it makes sense that people are not so happy to go into a perfect idyllic civic calm founding and I do think maybe this would be a good place to end there's this word presentism the parrots of presentism and you know we're constantly telling students of history not to be presentist and what that generally means is don't see the world as it is today and then assume that the past is the same way you have to set that aside and go into the past forward in time not necessarily looking back right but there's a good form of presentism or at least an inevitable one in which present events the changing landscape around us actually produce interesting new questions about the past they allow you to see things that you couldn't see in the past ask new questions find new narratives and that is a good form of that's presentism well that I have the distance to be able to see new things but also I think along the lines of what you were just getting to to to see different narratives that might not have been so apparent without living through the moment that you're living through I love it we're gonna end on this but let's not quite end on it just yet because that's so important especially as we get into essentially contemporary history because you can be presentist in a very effective way that is your you really are aware of how you're making your assumptions of how you've even chosen your subject of how you're even considering sources in an archive and like God knows we've discovered whole new archives because of the questions we're asking on the other hand you can be the kind of presentist who just says I have an ideology I'm gonna find the history that fits my ideology and I'm gonna convince everybody that my ideology works whether that's mark that is bad just bad history what we're being accused of of course these days and that's you know I always tell my students if you have a if you want to see something in the past you can find a way to find it that's not the way to look back if you know here's the point I want to make oh look I found three random quotes and I can find a way to say it the phone be ready because the past will surprise you right exactly the whole fun part I think of being a historian is being curious and being able to move into worlds that are different from your own so if you're only looking for what you already know then where is the fun in that that's called ideological history we were all taught not to do that and yet today we're defending ourselves against people who think that's all we do you know it's interesting I mean it's immersing yourself in stuff that's an idea we might take up in that last class we're working on it folks we're trying out we're trying to figure out what's gonna happen in that last class you'll be surprised one way or another but I guess this about brings us to the end of our time thank you folks for beaming in with us again for the almost last episode of this podcast I think the next one is going to be the last one which will be what a lot of this ride we've had we have it's gonna be your last lecture and then in one way or another the three of us are going to come together and do something together in that last class about where we've been and where we are that will be amazingly cohesive and brilliant we just don't know what it is yet but anyway thank you folks for being here again and we will see you in the next episode