If you had a magic wand, what is one myth or misconception about addiction treatment that you would make disappear? >> I think I said mine already. Moral failing. that it would be considered a a that some has no willpower or that it's a moral failing. >> The word I'd like to see disappear is recovery. >> Um >> you recover from acute problems. You recover from the flu. You recover from a broken wrist. You can even recover from a bruised nose. But um you don't recover from chronic diseases. You manage them. And if if you're lucky and you have good care, attentive care, you can be in remission. But recovery implies that somehow the problem and the biological changes that occur that uh underly uh the the problem have disappeared. And for many people, they don't and they never will. I think one of the things that distinguishes uh substance use disorders from other chronic diseases is that it's a chronic disease that appears uh in adolescence or early adulthood and but can with time disappear that people some people just age out of their substance use problems without medical intervention even. um that doesn't happen all that often with things like type 2 diabetes or hypertension. So um it is it is a chronic disease recovery is a terrible word to describe how to approach a chronic disease. But that doesn't mean that people can't recover. They can. But while they're in the throws of that disease, to think about recovery as an immediate objective really puts a huge onus on the patient or on the individual to um succeed and when he fails, as is often the case in a relapsing chronic disease, they then assue further care and and put themselves at risk of all sorts of things like opiate overdoses or um liver disease or any number of things that are the squlet of an untreated substance use disorder. >> Robert, I like that. I think that's new. We might use the term recovery in this course. And so I think you've given us something to think about there. And when we do think about chronic diseases, you're right. We think about remission. Um, and maybe that's a much better term when we think about people who no longer have a signs of active substance use disorder. They're in remission um rather than recovery. I think the ICD10 actually look it grades people as you know opioid use disorder mild moderate severe in remission in controlled environments etc. They may be ahead of us, >> believe it or not. >> Thank you for >> other myths that it's easy to stop like why don't they just stop? >> Like they're causing themselves what we perceive as harm. They're not showing up to their job. They get absesses from injection. It's why don't they just stop? I think that's a myth that it's just so easy because I don't have an addiction. So I can look at someone else and say why don't you just stop? it's just causing so much pain in your life or failings in uh relationships or other things. >> And it's a lack of acknowledgement that the disease itself is a loss of control, >> right? >> Or an inability to stop or cut down or control use, If I had a magic wand, I think I would um in addition to the things I've heard already, I would um I I would kind of get rid of the exclusively individual focus we have about this that the problem is always on the problem is always within the corpus, the body of this individual person and we don't and we take it out of the wider social political um and um um policy context that that so deeply affects effects um who who ends up having these kinds of problems. Um there have been a number of different studies that have that have shown that people from diff disenfranchised backgrounds are more likely for various reasons to to need the dopamine re reinforcement that happens within many of the substance use disorders and there so they're more susceptible to that. There's all these other things which which when we only focus on it in our very clinical perspective to help this individual person, we we we ignore that other stuff that contributes to it greatly. >> It also kind of takes the burden off the health care system. It's the problem of the person and then we don't have to take a look at our own >> our own contribution or as a society. >> Yeah. >> All of a sudden, >> but but these aren't even things that the health care system can necessarily mitigate. And so the question is what is our role as as in various parts of the health care system not just to advocate for better patient care but to advocate for better structural >> things uh poverty elimination uh >> earlier attention to um to to to to social inequalities that that create within certain people the pre the preconditions that uh contribute ute to when they experiment with drugs in adolescence or early adulthood, they're the ones that develop the problems, whereas many of us who may have used drugs at an earlier stage of their lives have never developed those problems. Housing first is one is is one of the things that have shown that um that for homeless persons who are at risk for substance use, providing housing first is is a more effective model than trying to help them with their substance use and then help them find housing. that if you have instabil instable housing, you're much more likely to to have difficulty getting over your substance use than you are if you um provide that first. >> Yeah. Very social thing. >> So work on work on housing or work on the the constructs around the person. >> Yeah. >> Um so for for me it kind of I think relates to everything that that you all have said. These are wonderful myths. I think there's an idea that that people don't get better or that treatment doesn't work for me if I've tried it once and it failed or um I know that I could teach it and so therefore it's not going to work for me. And I think that probably my myth would just be some optimism around the fact that treatment can work. Um, and just like a chronic relapsing remitting disease, sometimes it takes multiple treatment episodes over time and that that's that's an expectation or or a realistic um outcome of treatment. This idea of that the person um that a person needs to hit rock bottom before they can um effectively manage treatment. They need to lose everything. may need to um kind of have this the the bottom fallout for for them to be able to engage appropriately in treatment. And I think that that's a >> a really um unfortunate perpetuated myth that uh is out there. The other is about the family members. You know, I don't this idea of enabling, right? if I allow my son, daughter, brother, sister to come into my home and they use drugs there, I'm just enabling them and enabling their condition. And I think we as um addiction providers and people who are really passionate about dispelling myths um really need to help families come to terms with this idea of enabling, right? They're going to use substances whether they're in your home or not. Let's do our best to keep them safe. >> Thank you for that. I think that also brings up the fact that um this is such a stigmatizing condition >> that there's not many um medical conditions that when a loved one has the condition >> the family member also feels shame or guilt or as you put it an enabler. I mean they have their own stigmatizing terms just by being a family member of somebody who's struggling with substance use disorders. It speaks to the multiple layers of of stigma >> that are seen >> and and there are also structural issues there. I mean there are there are whole elements of public housing for instance where if your your child is caught using drugs you are thrown out of your home. I mean pro social problems like that um go well beyond what the medical community can can manage. But I think medical providers and and public health providers have to speak up against those kind of insane policies. >> I I also think just as we're on the topic of stigma, and that's something I happen to be pretty passionate about. Um >> it's it's not even just the disease or the person that's stigmatized, the treatment is stigmatized. Right? So take methadone for instance. No one wants to tell their neighbor, their son or daughter, we have a success story. Our son's on methadone. um it doesn't tend to come across in that um way and and we even have terms and we address this in some parts of the course terms that perpetuate stigma about the treatment opioid substitution therapy. We're substituting one opioid for another. Um we really need to be careful as as uh agents of change to avoid perpetuating that stigma with our language and really being the the people cah who can help dispel myths around that. >> That's right. We don't talk about insulin substitution therapy. >> Right. Right.