Is there such a thing as a marijuana use disorder? I think it often begins with um us looking at the diagnostic criteria for a substance use disorder. And di I mean often what I hear patients say is well it's legal so I can use it and and the sub diagnostic criteria don't talk about whether a substance is legal or not legal. Doesn't talk about the quantity a person uses. Doesn't talk about route of administration for use. It's really assessing, as you've mentioned several times now, sort of a loss of control in ways in which the use the substance is interfering in their functioning in their interpersonal relationships and their sort of in their physical well-being and their mental health that there are multiple domains across which the substance use is having a negative impact on their life. And so um marijuana use as alcohol and opioids and cocaine and all substances that we think of I think can have similar interfering sort the potential to interfere in people's functioning. And so because it's being made legal or because it's being studied or because it can even be useful in some applications doesn't mean that there's not risk of developing a substance use disorder with it. I think it's controversial in part because whereas we know the the the perturbations and permutations that that the harder drugs cause uh with repeated use, we really don't know enough about um what is really occurring in the in the growing adolescent brain when chronic marijuana use is is on board. Um, and until we know that, I think to classify it uh in a category as as starkly as as stimulant use disorder or or opiate use disorder, maybe overstating the problem a bit. I'm not saying that um that there may not be a time when we are able to say that definitively, but I think right now the the jury's out on that a little bit because we just don't know enough about what what THC and other canibonoids are really doing in terms of hampering um you know maturation of of of the brain. Okay. >> So, we might get at um some evidence of a loss of control, but even with that loss of control, is it is it as severe or the manifestations generally as severe as other substances? >> And is marijuana the cause or or the symptom? >> Tell us more what you're thinking, Robert. Well, um, you know, it may be that excessive marijuana use is is a form of self-medication rather than the cause of the problem why the why the adolescent uh isn't isn't doing isn't thriving, isn't doing well in school, is is is cutting himself out of his his previously fairly, you know, reasonable social circumstances. >> Is it potentiating? Is it or is it just a symptom of of self- medication >> which we'd say we consider with regard to all substances sort of often there's that discussion about is a self- medication which speaks to that need to really do a full assessment to address the psychiatric coorbidity and that people who have any underlying condition mental illness are significantly higher risk so I think that's always sort of a question for us >> yes certainly for stimulants and and and for certain conditions um stimulant drugs like you know aderall and rolin are used um therapeutically >> um not not and and actually help make people better. The question is is there a way that for the people who are self-medicating with marijuana we can make that marijuana use beneficial for them rather than detrimental >> and does it vary by person? I mean, I think we do have increasing data that daily heavy marijuana use from an early age increases the risk of development of a psychotic disorder. >> Um, and some people use many many people use stimulants um to to good effect and others use them in a way that demonstrates loss of control and actually ends with some negative consequences of use. And so it might not be as easy as kind of deciding if there's a a marijuana use disorder, but is there a marijuana use disorder evident in this person? Um, in this context, >> Helen, I thought I thought that this that the data pointed to early and chronic marijuana use in teens not necessarily leading to increased um psychotic disorders, but that it might bring on a psychotic disorder earlier. And of course, the problem is with psychotic disorders that the earlier the onset, the worse the prognosis. Um so that that itself seems to be a reason for me to suggest to my patients for instance not you to avoid using marijuana as a at teenage years because if you have a potential of developing a psychotic disorder it might make it happen earlier but I didn't know the evidence was really pointing the other way that um that use could actually um create a psychotic disorder where there wasn't one otherwise. So I think develop determining causality is very difficult. Um but evidence is mounting that there might be a causal association. >> Okay. >> Um but the verdict is the juryy's out. I think that is true or I'll go to >> Dusa and that's why and that's why we need more research. >> But there's certainly genetic variations too with some people being very prone to it even with even just using a single time. Right. So I think and that's what that complicates things. But but I you know I think I think the adolescent brain and really understanding how substances play a role in that all substances um is is something we need a lot more evidence on before we as providers can necessarily um sort of uh counsel definitively. I think our our bottom line is to you know talk about risks, explore benefits with patients and decrease harm. And that's a big >> um also on this topic of marijuana use disorder, I I will say that um it is a substance use disorder that I treat um not infrequently. Patients do come in and they feel like they've lost control. They are having marijuana withdrawal which has been a well um researched and identified um syndrome. Um we don't have any medication treatments at this point for marijuana use disorder. So we use things like u motivational interviewing and cognitive behavioral therapy and and some of the other evidence-based psychotherapies but it is something that's bringing patients into treatment. Um >> is there any reason to think that like that marinol or anything would be useful in a replacement? >> So there's been some research um using draabonol um in marijuana use disorder. Um I don't know that it's it certainly isn't strength of evidence to suggest that this should be used at this point. >> Okay. >> There's also some studies looking at an acetylcysteine adolesence and again strength of evidence active in adolescence than adults.