Thank you Florian for organizing this nice event and thank you for uh hanging around you know listening to us uh telling you uh weird things. Uh today I would like to talk about the decoding problem and the uh statistical mechanical mapping. Um, so my talk will be focused on the theory of quantum error correction. And in particular, I will uh explain to you um what the decoding problem is, how we uh can find appropriate um error correction given some observed syndrome and how solving this problem um is related to some seemingly unrelated problem in statistical mechanics and how um solving one problem can tell us uh something about the other one. So um I like to uh start with a mind mind map so that we see uh where we're heading to. So um as I said in the center of the of the discussion there will be uh quantum error correction and um I'll start the lecture with a brief uh recap of stabilizer codes. Okay. And you've seen uh the stabilizer code formulism in previous lectures. Uh so hopefully this will be familiar to you. And then uh I would like to focus on a um very important model and that many uh fault tolerant quantum protocols are based on namely the toric code and uh you've seen that already uh Yong Shang talked about it a little bit on Monday and so um this should be fairly familiar to you but then I would like to um shift gears a little bit and introduce the formulism of chain complexes. Um so this will be a little bit mathematically heavy but it will allow us to talk about the tour code and the decoding problem in a very succent way. So after we're done with the uh with this heavy lifting then we will uh get to the decoding problem and in particular I will focus the discussion of the decoding problem in the context of the to code. Uh we will discuss um a couple of ideas how we can solve the decoding problem in particular the optimal way of solving the decoding problem. And uh once we done with that uh I will try to explain to you uh maybe not in full detail but at least give you some intuition how the um problem the decoding problem and solving it optimally is related to some um some model in statistical mechanics. So by the end of the lecture uh hopefully I will convey uh to you some intuition I will have conveyed to you some intuition about the statistical mechanical mapping. So that's kind of the plan of the lecture. Are there any questions about where we're heading to what the goal is? Also you know if something is unclear please interrupt me. Um I have some material to cover but we also have some time so hopefully you know the pace should be good. Um and I don't want to lose you at the very beginning some theories. >> That's right. That's right. I will be talking about homology groups. Okay. So this is the overview. So now let's talk about the first part which is stabilizer codes. Um so what is a code? We can think about a code as just a subspace of the helper space where we encode information. So I can I can think about a code as basically a space spanned by state s and those are not some arbitrary states. Those are the plus one vectors of stabilizer operators. So what does this equation say? I have the stabilizer group K S if you if you remember from previous lectures um a stabilizer group is some ailion group that is generated by poly operators. So think about uh products of identity x y and z and uh that group is a billion meaning every element in that group commutes with every other element in that group. Okay. So now I pick some element of that uh stabilizer group stabilizer operator. So the code space is defined as uh spanned by states that are plus one vectors of those stabilizer operators. Okay. So you've seen for instance the the the the simple example would be the three cubit um three cubit repetition code and there the stabilizers would be a ZZ II I ZZ. But of course you know there are um more complicated constructions. The toric code construction would be an example of a more uh complicated stabilizer code. So one thing that is useful uh when we talk about stabilizer codes is um some subclass of stabilizer codes called CSS stabilizer codes. This stands for calderbang shore and steel. And so those uh those codes are stabilizer codes for which the stabilizer group um s can be generated by some x-ype poly operators and zype poly operators. So for instance, the three cubid repetition code would be a CSS code because it has Z um Z operators that generate the stabilizer group. We could add some X operators on top of that. But we cannot have um a mixture of X and Z. That would not be a CSS stabilizer code. And those codes are um nice to work with. And in particular this chain complex formalism um very neatly fits um and we can describe uh very uh nicely the CSS codes. Okay. So I don't want to get uh too much into the discussion of the stabilizer codes because the discussion here is rather abstract and for the rest of the talk we'll be working with the toric code. So why don't we just uh jump into the construction and look at the details of the to code uh construction. So the most typical setting where the to code uh is defined is on the square latis with periodic boundary conditions. So let me write let me draw some square latis. And periodic boundary conditions mean that this edge is identified with that edge. This edge is identified with that edges. So we are basically on a Taurus. So, but instead of drawing uh toi and um stuff that may be difficult to visualize, difficult to see, I'd rather draw um this uh square latice and tell you that the opposite edges are identified. But you know what you should think about is you know having having a Taurus having a donut here, right? This is just a more convenient way to uh draw it. Okay, so I have the square latice. What do I do? And now I will be placing cubits on the edges of that square latice. So remember this cubit is that cubit, right? So let the linear system size be L. This is the length of the of that side of the latice. I can I can pick those two lengths the in the y direction and in the x direction to be the same. it's not essential for the construction. And now what I will do is I will tell you what the stabilizer operators of the Torah code are. So they are identified with geometric objects here. namely for every Z pluck yet for every face of that square latice I will have wait for um Z stabilizer operator so that's one type of uh of a stabilizer operator the Z type that defines the Tor code the other one is associated with every vertex so around every vertex I look at um at the edges that are incident to that vertex and um I define a stabilizer operator associated with this vertex as a um as a tensor product of poly x operators on the cubits in neighboring that vertex and I do it for every um plucket and for every vertex. X. So what I can uh so now I can define the Tor code basically as uh via its stabilizer group. The stabilizer group is is generated by those vertex like operators and plet like operators and here it's for every vertex for every face of the latis right so this is vertex V this is a phase f. Okay. So, since it's a since I claim that it's a stabilizer code, um what was the what was the um the assumption that better be satisfied? This group needed to be a billion. the stabilizer group needed to be a billion. So what does this mean? It means that every guy here needs to commute with uh every other guy. So notice that uh Zstabilizers commute trivially with uh any other Zstabilizer. Uh similarly X stabilizers commute with other X stabilizers. No problem. But there might be a problem. uh we we would need to verify that Z checks and X checks Z stabilizers and X stabilizers commute with one another. Okay, so if they are far apart, no problem. They trivially commute with one another because they don't don't overlap. However, if they are uh neighboring one another, what can happen is well, there is this X operator here. But notice that the overlap of this X operator with the Z operator would be on those two cubits. So X and Z anticute give they give me minus one sign. But if two pairs of X and Z uh if I have two pairs of X and Z, I have two minus signs. So they they commute again. So I hope that this is this is clear to you that this is a good definition that um this group is an abilion group. So this is the toric code. And I have those two types of checks plets and vertices. Z type X type. Any questions? >> Is this a free app group? >> Is this a free group? >> So um this is an a poly group, right? So >> it's a finite group. Yes. Okay. So this is the um toric uh code. Um how many logical cubits does the toric code encode? Well, what I could have uh told you on this side of the board is how to calculate the number of logical cubits. So if so suppose that I have a code with n physical cubits um and the number of independent uh stabilized generators is r. So suppose that r is the number of independent stabilizer uh generators. So what is that what is that thing? So for instance for the three cubit repetition code zzi and I zzz are independent stabiliz generators. But you know this this three cubit repetition code is also uh stabilized by zigis which is a product of this operator and that operator. But the number of independent stabilizer generators for the three cubit repetition code wouldn't be three right because the third one is not independent from this and that. So r for the three cubit repetition code would be two. Okay. So if now I work with a a quantum error correcting code with a stabilizer code that has n physical cubits and it has r independent stabilized generators then there is this very simple formula that tells me what is the number of logical cubits encoded in that code. It is simply n minus r. How uh how could I convince you that this is uh this is the case? I'll just give you an intuition. If I have n physical cubits, then the uh dimensionality of my hbert space is um 2 to the n because I have n cubits each cubit is a two-level system. So you know one of the postulates of quantum mechanics tells me that if I combine n two-level systems then I have a system with dimensionality to the n. Okay. So now I have that dimensional hilbert space and I have r independent stabiliz generators but uh those stabiliz generators are polio operators their values are either plus or minus one. So I will be picking uh I will be picking subspace that is plus one of those operators. So basically each independent stabiliz generator kind of has the dimensionality of the Hilbert space. So if now I start with two to the n and I keep dividing by two r times I end up with the uh subspace whose dimension is 2 to the n / 2 to the r which is 2 to the n minus r and the exponent here is the number of logical cubits as claimed here. Okay, so this is maybe not airtight but this is this can be made very rigorous this this reasoning. Okay, so we have this formula that the number of logical cubits is the number of uh physical cubits minus the number of independent stabilized generators. So what does this uh look like in the case of the torque code? So we have a latis L by L. How many physical cubits do I have? Well, I just need to count the number of edges in that square latice, right? So how many squares in this square latice do I have? Since it's L by L I have L squ uh squares and um each square has four edges. So the number of edges is 4 L squared. But I overounted because each edge is counted twice. uh once from the perspective of one face and twice from the perspective of the other neighboring face. So I over counted by two. So the number of edges does the number of cubits in that construction is 2 L squ. Great. What's the number of um x-type stabilizer operators? Let me denote it by maybe little s x. Um what's the number of x-ype stabilizer operators? X-type operators by definition are identified with the vertices of the latis. What's the number of vertices in the latis? Well, since it's L by L, it will be simply L squ. What's the number of Ztype stabilizers is the number of faces in the latice. We already calculated that it's L squ. Okay. So I just told you what the number of stabilizer generators uh is but we require that we count the number of independent stabilizer generators. So now you may ask okay if I if I take Ztype plates are those operators independent or put it in other words and is it the case that no matter what um what subset of those operators I pick if I multiply them I won't get the identity operator are they independent You can look at it for a few moments and then you realize that actually if I take all the plackets and multiply them I will get the identity operator. So the product of all faces the zz will give me the identity operator. So there will be exactly one relation between ztype operators. I multiply them all and I get the identity operator. So the number of independent stabilized generators would be L^2 minus 1 because of this relation. And in a very analogous way, you can convince yourself that if I take a product of all vertex type operators, those X-T type operators, if I multiply them all together, I also get the identity operator. Why is that? Well, because you know I will be multiplying this xxx by xxx here. This cubit that the support on that cubit will drop and so on and so forth. So again the number of oh sorry first I handle this case. So now the number of uh x operators is also l square minus one because of that relation. I'd like to pause here to make sure that um we understood what's happening at least at the high level. I calculated the number of physical cubits. Then I calculated number of X-Type stabilizers and Z-type stabilizers. Okay, they were not independent. So we identified the relations between them. This means that you know since there is one relation this number had to be uh had to be reduced by one and that number had to be reduced by one two because I have one relation for Z checks and one relation for X checks. >> I had one question about the X type stabilizer and the Z type stabilizers how they're still able to commute when they overlap. You >> mind going? Yes. Yes. So um if you look um at the region depicted here uh what happens is so I would need to say label the cubits so one two three four five six so what we're doing is we are calculating Z1 Z1, Z2, Z3, Z4 times X3, X4, X5, X6. So Z1 will commute with every X here because it's supported on a different cubit. So I can just push it through. Uh Z2 can be also pushed through because it does not share uh any overlap with with the support of that over operator. So but Z3 will anticute with this X3. So if I push Z3 to the right, I will I will um get minus one sign. So I get minus one sign from uh Z3 being pushed uh to the right. And similarly I get minus one sign by pushing Z4 to the right because it will commute with everything but uh X4. So I get minus one sign twice and then I get x3 x4 x5 x6 times z1 z2 z3 z4. Okay. So but you know minus uh one sign twice is plus one. So this this calculation proves that the plets and um checks and the vertex uh like checks commute with one another right and Each of the stabilizers was a little out of place. will still work. >> So um what and this construction so you should think about this latice as you know some placement of the of the cubits. H it doesn't mean that the cubits have to be equally separated from one another. This is just you know a way to um um a way to place them on on a latis. And then what you have to do is you have to measure those geometrically local uh checks. Uh I will address your comment about whether we need a square latice in a second. Any other questions? Okay. So where were we? We were trying to calculate the number of logical cubits in the torque code. So now we have we have n we have r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r is this sx and sz uh added together. So what is the what is the number of logical cubits that the code has? It is k= n minus r. These two numbers together uh give me r which is 2 l^ 2 - 2 * l^2us 1. Okay. But that is two. So the number of logical cubits encoded in the tour code is two. Okay, we have two logical cubits. So we can encode logical information into that code. Um, an interesting thing is that the number of logical cubits encoded in the in the torque code can be uh related uh to the manifold that we uh used to define our Torx code. in particular uh to to the quantity that can be related uh that can be attributed to the manifold called genus. So we denote a genus of a manifold by this letter G. And what is this this this this number this quantity? It basically measures the number of handles the manifold has. So a Taurus has genius uh g equals 1. It has just one handle. But I could consider say I don't know some sort of pretzel maybe I don't know something like that right so this would have three handles. The genus of that manifold would be three. And it turns out um I invite you to think about it uh maybe as a little homework um try to prove that if I were to define the torque code on a manifold uh with some genus G the number of logical cubits would be 2G. I'm not going to get into that too much. I just want to point out to you that this formula works for a Taurus, right? How would you prove this formula? Well, you would just use some oiler characteristic uh basically you uh which which actually brings me to your question uh which is what is essential in the construction of the toric code. Um the Torah code is that I have some manifold of my choice in in we have the discussion um about manifolds without a boundary right so uh it's all closed it's closed manifolds so what I consider is I have a manifold and then I take some tessellation of that manifold. So what what does that uh mean? Well, I just split the manifold into some small um tiles, right? And the rules are that you know tiles have to tile the whole manifold, right? And uh once I have this tessellation I have my you know my my tessellation may look strange. It doesn't have to be regular. It can be you know it can have faces of weird shape. They can be they don't have to be squares. They can be triangles, pentagons, hexagons, whatnot. But the construction would work in a very similar fashion. I would place cubits on the edges of that tessellation, right? I need to draw a lot of circles. And then for every tile I would have the Z operator on all the cubits that are on that tile. And again for every vertex I would have x type operator. So what I what I define to you is basically um the to code construction on any sort of a latis. So it doesn't have to be regular. It doesn't have to be square latis. It can be it can be on something different than a Taurus. And it would work. And again x checks and z checks if they are far apart they trivially commute. If they intersect, they always intersect on two cubits. Thus, they will commute and then you know we can start talking about you know how to prove that the number of logical cubits on a arbitrary manifold is 2G where G is the genus. Notice that the number of logical cubits, that's an important bit, the number of logical cubits encoded in the Torah code does not depend on what type of tessellation I picked. It's a and you know this is a signature that this code is a topological code. Topological here refers to the fact that the number of encoded logical cubits is defined by the topology of the manifold that I that I started with. Okay. So the microscopic details the fine structure of of of this desellation may change but the number of encoded logical cubits will not change. So now you may ask where does the fine structure of the of that tessellation enter and that fine structure of the of of the fine structure not in the you know I'm saying fine structure but it has nothing to do with fine structure in physics. H and this this structure of the tessellation that I work with um tells me what the distance of the to code is. So this brings me to the to the discussion of logical operators maybe one can add pi logical operators of the toric code. So what are the logical operators? What are the piological operators? Um those would be poly operators that commute with um so non-trivial um non-trivial uh logical operators would be uh some poly operators. So suppose that l is a poly operator. What that means is a product of identity X, Y and Z, right? And suppose that L commutes with every uh stabilizer operator L is not in the stabilizer group. So then this L would be non trivial polyop logical poly operator. what is a logical operator? is an operator that changes the state of the encoded cubit or the encoded cubits. we need to talk about logical operators if we want to talk about how we act on the encoded cubits how we change the state of the encoded information. Any questions here? So I was wondering so the logical cube is a top is actually topological invariant right now >> right so I started drawing pictures uh and those pictures will be um will be happening throughout the talk in particular I would like to illustrate logical operators as some um as some string like objects >> also curious >> yes let's do this little exercise which is could we identify some poly operators that commute with those um stabilizer operators of the tora code uh vertex and plucket uh operators. So maybe let's start with picking some uh poly operator that comprises just poly z. Okay. So suppose that I pick z here on this cubit. Right? If I have an operator that only comprises uh Z on on that very location, that that operator will not commute with the neighboring X operators, right? Because they would overlap on on one cubit only. Okay. So, how should I make how could I make this X-Type operator happy? Well, I could consider an operator that has two Z's. Okay. But I just kind of um Okay. Uh and how about this operator? Well, I can do the same trick. I can do maybe Z here, right? So now this operator has even overlap with this uh this weight three Z operator. I'm kind of trying to construct the logical L. Okay, so I kind of build my L to be supported on those three cubits. Okay, but now the problem is pushed. This guy is happy, but this guy is unhappy, right? Okay, so maybe I can push it, you know, down. And here, this guy is also unhappy. Maybe I can push this up, right? But up here means here, right? And then suddenly if I do this notice that every x operator would be satisfied. So if I pick a string of z's that uh that forms a closed loop there will be no xtype operator that will anticute with that zstring. So Z checks will trivially commute with this uh Ztype operator and X checks will also commute with that ZAB operator. And why is that? Because the overlap will always be even, right? It's I, you know, it's it's the same sort of an argument that that we had here when we talked about Z checks and X checks. this would be some non-trivial logical poly operator. So this would be our logical Z operator and I can even define my logical uh my my first logical cubit to be the the logical cubit for which this operator is a Z Ztype operator. So now I want to talk pictorially about what just happened. The logical Z operator can be viewed as a string as a non-contractable string. So this would be one logical operator. The other logical operator would be a different string but going in a different direction. So what do I mean by that? You know this this figure represents a Taurus. This guy here is a non-contractable loop that goes like that. This guy represents a non-contractable loop that goes like that. to some of you who may be familiar with with um with with the math uh hidden behind this construction uh the basis of my uh logical operators can be identified with non-contractable cycles. So how many non-contractable cycles do I have on a manifold with genus G? I have 2G, right? Because for every handle I can have one non-contractable cycle that kind of wraps around the handle and the other one that goes that goes along the handle. So this is a handwavy um explanation why the number of logical cubits should be 2g. >> One question. So non-contractable strings um in the vertical Z that you drew you have this kind of like >> they can be they can be pushed around. That's a great question. >> So you could and you could create another I see why that's in one dimension because it's moving in one. You could create many variations on >> That's right. But it's only >> but they will be equivalent. They will be equivalent. And you're bringing a great point which is I told you that this this is logical Z1. But you know I made this little detour, right? So in particular I could take this this operator let's call it L, right? I could take this operator L and multiply by the stabilizer this this this stabilizer identified with this placket. Right? I could take this this so this is L and suppose that this is my uh stabilizer plet S I could consider L * S so that guy would be just a straight line here right because you know u here I would have poly operators twice so they would cancel one another and I would pick up Z here so I would get this straight line here. So what's the relation of L * S versus L? Are they the same? Are they different? Well, they are the same. And what do we mean by that? Their action on the encoded cubit on the logical cubit is the same. And how do I see that? Well, suppose that I have the encoded state S. I act on it with the operator L. Okay. But now let's look what happens if I act on the encoded state by with the operator L * S. So L * S acting on S. What is it? Well, by definition S is plus one state of S. So this is just S. So you know it's the same and that that is basically what you uh just said. I can have a string I can deform it. What is what is the the process of deformation correspond to? It corresponds to multiplying by the by the uh checks. But pictorially you know I can have a string as long as it's non-contractable, right? I can deform it. As long as I don't uh snap it, it's fine. It will be an equivalent operator. So that's that's that's an intuition you know why what matters is you know those handles where things wrap around because you know I can deform them and whatnot. Uh but they will have the same action on the logical logical subspace. Does this make sense at least at the higher level? Okay, so we discussed the Z type logical operators. What would be the X typeological operators? So the X typeological operators would be very similar. We would just to consider the dual latis. So instead of so you know for instance I could consider like x x x going that that way around right so I'm not sure you guys are familiar with what it means to have a dual latis but you know if I have the square latis the dual latis would We place vertices at the centers of every face and connect the vertices corresponding to two faces if and only if those two faces share an edge. So very conveniently a dual of the square latis is a square latis. It's just shifted by half uh unit. So you can convince yourself that a string in that dual latis that supports x's is a logical x operator because again it would commute trivially with x checks and with every face with every zch check operator it would have an even overlap so they would commute. But now what what will that dude not commute with? That dude will not commute with this Z1 logical operator. Why is that? Because this Z string and that X string overlap on only one cubit. So I could think about this string as representing logical X1. And similarly, if I consider a string going in that direction, I will not draw it because the figure will get too cluttered. This would represent logical X2. Okay, so now we know what the logical operators of the Torah code are. Any questions? >> The first X and the last X in your drawing there, they're the same. >> Correct. logical operators. >> Logical operators X and Z do not commute because you know they have to you know they are P X p Z they have to anti-commute. Any questions? any concerns? I hope that the pictures here somehow make sense. Now we will try to uh we will try to uh make them more um more rigorous uh with this um chain complex formalism. But uh I think this would be a good uh good point to stop so that you have some time to um to discuss to make yourself familiar with this example with this very concrete example of the square latis because starting from here we will shift gears. It will become um maybe more abstract. So I really want you to spend you know this uh this break uh discussing with one another to make sure that uh you understand you know what's happening that you understand uh when I say that you know we can have this non-contractable string I can deform it nothing changes thanks okay so um I hope you know you clarified some um some some questions that you might have had during the But there was this nice question right after we stopped which is okay we talked about non-contractable loops. So those would be the one wrapping around handles but what are contractable loops? Well those would be the ones that don't wrap around the handles or in other words I can smoothly deform them and I can erh get rid of them. Right? So an example of a non-contractable one would be the blue one. An example of a contractable one would be the red one. I can just keep shrinking it until it disappears. Okay. So, um one one uh one other thing that I want to mention to you, I kind of uh set the stage but I didn't deliver the punch line which is uh we had the uh microscopic details and where where would they enter? Well, they enter through the logical operators and in particular the this this structure this desellation tells me what the distance of the code is. And the distance of the code would be the length of the shortest non-contractable loop. So what's the code distance? It basically is a property of the code that tells me what is the uh maximum number of errors that I can tolerate. So the distance is related to the length of the shortest non-contractable uh loop. Uh why is that? Well, because my logical pio operators are those non-contractable loops. So the finer the latis, the longer the the shortest non-contractable loop is. So I told you that it's a topological codes. It's a topological code. The details of the latis don't matter. It's true when it comes to the number of logical cubits. But when it comes to some other useful parameters of the code like the distance, it makes sense to consider bigger and bigger latises because then the distance is proportional to the linear size of the lice. Okay. So now we will start talking about doing error correction with the to code and talking about the chain formalism chain complex formulas. I already uh during the break I already uh drew something on the board. What did I draw? Well, the torque code that has z checks and x checks. So we have an encoded state in the torque code that uh that information is uh is encoded into the into some code word of the to code. But what happens in in reality is that there are some errors that affect the encoded state. Since this is a CSS code, uh I will focus only on correcting Z errors. In previous uh tutorials, in previous lectures, you discussed, you know, how to correct Z errors, how to correct X errors, how to correct face flip errors, how to correct bit flip errors. And you know if we can correct both X and Z errors, we can correct arbitrary errors. I will not get into those details. For simplicity, we'll be working with Z errors for now. But the discussion uh is also applicable to X errors and as a consequence to any error. So I have a state encoded in the torque code and there are some Z errors that happened. I illustrated them with the uh blue cubits with blue Z's. Those are the cubits affected by Z errors, face flip But this is what the environment does. We don't know that this happened, right? So what do we do? We have information encoded in the code in a stabilizer code. So what we can do is we have some state s encoded into our code space. But then there are some Z errors that happened. Right? So now my state is not S anymore. Is EZ applied to S where E is EZ is is you know those Z errors, right? So it's some some state I don't know what that state is but the thing that you do with stabilizer codes is you measure stabilizers and they but by the act of measuring the stabilizers you will first discretize the error if the error is you know some some unitary or whatn not it will kind of make it into a poly error. Second, you will learn some useful information. You will learn the measurement outcomes of those stabilizer operators. So since I have some Z error affecting the state, if I measure Z checks, they will all be giving me plus one measurement outcomes. Why is that? Because the like if I have some Z type stabilizer now my state is EZ SI those guys commute with one another. Ez is an plus one state of Z check. I get easy acting on S. So EZ SI is plus one state of the Z check. So if I measure C check I get plus one. But now so nothing no new information. However, for some X-T type checks sx, it may happen that you know if I push this S X operator through EZ, I may get plus or minus one sign depending on whether this X check operator commutes or anti-commutes with the Z error that happen in the system. So now the this this corrupted state e s may be plus or minus one again state of the uh x-type check operator. Okay. So measuring those those x uh check operators uh can potentially reveal extra information out of the error. So in the example illustrated on the board, what would be the x checks that give me minus one measurement outcome? Those checks would be the ones that have odd overlap with the ztype error. So by inspection you can see that this guy here has odd overlap. This guy here has auto overlap. This guy here, this guy here. So the six x checks depicted in the figure would be the only x checks that give me minus one. The rest will give me plus one. >> So just to be clear when you say odd overlap it means it's touching an odd number of z >> lines. >> Yes. >> Right. So by measuring all X operators all but the six depicted in the figure will give me plus one. The six depicted on the board will give me minus one measurement outcome. And that information is what we call the error syndrome. And that is the input into our error correction procedure. um and that is what we are going to work with. So since I'm drawing figures since uh since there's a lot of handwavy arguments uh in this talk let me let me be a little bit more handwavy let me tell you how how I think about it how it's illustrative to think about uh that problem in the context of the Torah code. So I drew those Z errors as string like objects, right? Those are the Z errors affect some cubits. Cubits can be thought of as edges. So I can think about errors as some subset of edges or equivalently some collection of strings in this latice. Okay. And what's the syndrome? What's the what are the location? What are the locations of X checks that give me minus one outcome? Those are the guys that anticomute with those string like errors. Equivalently, those are the checks that have an odd overlap with those string-like errors. What are those checks? Those checks can be thought of as the end points of those of those string like operators because you know if I have a check like in the middle of the string by construction it will have an even overlap it will commute so it will give me plus one measurement outcome. However the end points by construction they have odd overlap and as such they will anticute. So the error syndrome so we can say that you know errors are strings and error syndrome is end points of strings that correspond to those um those uh string like errors. So this is a pictorial way how we can talk about error correction uh in the torque code settings. So there are some errors they those are strings we don't know uh we don't know what uh what errors were applied in a system but what we do know what we can learn is the end points of those strings. This is the error syndrome that is the input uh into our quantum error correction procedure and this is the information that we work with. So now given the error syndrome given the end points of strings we want to make a guess about errors that happen in the system or equivalently about the strings whose end points we see. questions. So if I give you some collection of end points, what you could do intuitively is you try to pair them up, right? I see some end points. Um so the problem that you have is chick check some number of end points but it's an even number of end points because every string gives you two right so you end up with an even number of points and then you need to make a guess uh about strings whose end points correspond to the observed error syndrome. How do you do it? Well, you know, you can do it in whatever fashion you want. H however, not all the approaches will uh will avoid making errors. And this is the this is kind of uh this is we already starting talking about the decoding problem which is how do we identify what errors happened um without making a logical error. So one strategy would be just to you know pick pick the center of the latis and kind of move everything in the middle. That would be a strategy, right? And then I could just, you know, have like kind of uh you know those would be my string like errors whose endpoints are given by by that configuration. uh that strategy is is uh I know that I'm making like a degression here now but uh this this this is not a strategy that works but actually uh this strategy can be supplemented with say uh some machine learning a machine learning technique uh because this procedure will always bring you back to the code space you may apply a logical operator and uh the question of whether you apply the logical operator and what logical operator you you applied is a classification problem. So you may train a neural network to classify those error configurations and that that's how you can solve the decoding problem here. But it's a degression and uh but I couldn't stop myself from making it. So um but back to the back to the back back to the to what I wanted to to explain to you which is you're given this error syndrome this configuration of of uh of end points. What do you do? So the question is to find some uh strings. Okay. So I don't know maybe we find we kind of look look at the look at the problem we paired them up that way. Um so what does this mean that we that we corrected uh the the errors correctly, right? We can correct errors incorrectly. So what that means is um you know there are some true errors that that happened in the in the system. I I don't know what what they were but something happened in the system. The environment knows what happened in the system. So we don't have to guess the locations of errors exactly. We can be off. But what does this mean to be off? Um it means that the error that happened and my guess of what error might have happened in the system or equivalently that the correction that I implement they have to be equivalent up to a stabilizer. So what does this mean? Equivalent up to a stabilizer is basically this this discussion that that we had on this board here that I had a logical operator and I could deform it a bit. Right? So now you can see that I can deform this black string into this blue string. That's great. And similarly I can deform both both of those blue strings into those two black strings by kind of you know filling the the region enclosed by the black and the blue segments. But it could happen that uh you know there was this very long error and I chose to correct this error by kind of, you know, going in the other direction around the Taurus. And if this was the case, then my correction depicted in black and the actual error depicted in blue would not be equivalent up to a stabilizer because this object here, the blue segment and the black string together forms a non-contractable loop. The blue cannot be deformed into the black just by you know multiplying uh the blue string by by some stabilizer because it's a non-contractable loop. Does this make sense what I'm talking about? Questions. So when we start to like we start from one one of the >> so I can do it offline you know I can just um think what to do what to do and you know at the end I apply uh I apply it everywhere right I don't have to do it like one pi at a time >> so the mathematics follows like >> yes >> it So that's kind of you know the the gist of how we do error correction in the to code. The question, the decoding problem in the Tora code is basically how do we pair up those end points without introducing uh logical errors or equivalently how do we find a correction which is equivalent up to a stabilizer to the error that happened. Yet another equivalent way of phrasing it is how do I find a correction so that the error combined with correction forms forms a collection of contractable loops. Right? Because the moment I I introduce a non-contractable loop I failed. Why did I fail? Because a Z operator applied along this non-contractable loop is a logical Z operator. It changes the state of the encoded state. If I apply Z operator along a non along a contractable loop, it applies a stabilizer. So the state is invariant. So it's harmless. This is good. This is bad. What's the decoding problem? Avoid bad things, right? While still uh figuring out what the correction is. That's that's a very high level uh decoding problem. And the rest of the lecture will be about how do we find those corrections that work. And um in order to to do that I need to now discuss a little bit of the mathematical formulas that is very useful uh for this setting namely chain complexes. H but before I start talking about chain complexes are there any questions about the decoding problem the high level uh aspect of the decoding problem for the to code okay So now let's talk about chain complexes. So what do I have here? I drew three copies of my square latice. So now I can consider a um vector space associated with faces with edges and with vertices of the latis. So what do I mean by that? What do I mean that I have to be more precise f2 linear vector space associated with um the set of faces, edges and um and vertices. So um this is basically Let me write it first and I'll explain. This is this vector space um can be can be defined as basically a vector space whose basis is a set of faces. I know that this this this may be difficult to parse but there is a very intuitive way to think about it. uh this is a a vector space a binary vector space so it's uh so the elements of that vector space are bit strings and each bit string labels the subset of faces I I pick right so the length of a bit string in this vector space would correspond to the number of faces I have here. Right? So in particular, you know, a vector 1 0 0 would correspond to selecting just first face. A vector 0 1 0 0 and so on would correspond to selecting just second phase. I can consider you know like 0 one one 0 0 right this would correspond to selecting a subspace z here and here right so this this would be the the vector space associated with with the faces of the latice similarly I can talk about a vector space a binary vector space associated with the edges vectors in that vector space would correspond to subsets of edges that I pick And similarly here C not talks about a vector space associated with the vertices of the latice. Uh those subscripts tell you about the dimensionality of the object that you work with. Here I'm talking about faces. Those are two dimensional objects. Here I'm talking about the edges. Those are one-dimensional objects. And lastly vertices are zero dimensional objects. Um so let me illustrate now an element in that in that vector space. Uh this would be a vector with two entries corresponding corresponding to the shaded uh vertices uh shaded faces. Um, is it clear what's happening here? >> More or less. >> I was so confused by F2 coefficient of the F2 or >> so it's f_sub_2. >> So it's binary Z2. >> That's right. so I have those vector spaces. Now I what I need to do is I need to um tell you about maps between those vector spaces. So some linear maps called boundary operators. they are denoted with this partial two and partial one symbol. So this is called a boundary map. So let's discuss this boundary map partial to as the name suggests it's a map that gives you a boundary. So I have some region I have some um subset of faces that I picked. What's the boundary of that region? The boundary of that region would be some subset of edges bounding that region. So in the example illustrated on the board, the boundary of this blue object would be that subset of edges. So if I think about this vector as omega, what I depicted here is partial to omega. This is the boundary of omega. Omega is this binary vector in this vector space and partial to omega is an element of of this vector space C1. But I can have also you know some other some other element is in this C1 right for instance denoted here by uh epsilon right and now I can I can apply a boundary map to that subset of edges. What would the boundary map do when I apply it? What would the boundary map partial one do if I apply it to some subset of edges? I should think about those those edges as forming string like operators. The boundary map gives me the end points of string-l like operators. So what are the end points? So for this configuration of of edges, I mean there's no end point, right? Because it's a closed loop. But there are end points for that guy here. So this would give me partial one epsilon. So we saw something very interesting. Namely the boundary of a boundary is zero. Right? And that is the the the important thing. So um in order for this structure to form a chain complex, we actually uh require that the composition of two consecutive boundary operators is the zero operator. And if you think about it uh what you should should think about it is basically you know I started with some region I evaluated its boundary okay so it will form a closed loop and now if I try to evaluate the boundary of of that object it has no boundary it has no end points and that that is this this this condition the boundary of the boundary is zero question. So in the example you're giving this seems like trivial based on geometry but you're saying it's a condition. Is there a case where that would not be trivial? >> Right. So what I did in kind of reverse order is uh instead of giving you what uh a definition what of what a chain complex is I define it via an example but in full generality what a chain complex is is basically you know you can think about vector spaces and linear maps between them and as long as the composition of two consecutive uh maps is the zero operator. This gives you a valid chain complex. Does this make sense? Okay. So, how should we think about those boundary operators, linear operators, linear maps? You know, we have vector spaces. Vector spaces are vectors. In my in my case uh I write column vectors. What are linear operators? Linear operators are matrices that multiply a vector to give me some other vector. So partial two acting on some vector uh will give me some other vector right and this guy will be in C1. This guy is in uh C2. So I can think about um that partial two as basically you know some some matrix and similarly I can think about um I can think about this should be long and similarly I can think about a partial one and so is some binary matrix. H if I multiply um some vector from C1 by this binary matrix I get a vector you see C 0 this is you know uh basic linear algebra nothing fancy here but what I'm going to tell you about is what is actually you know this binary matrix partial two and partial one with respect to the torque code. Can I view the torque code construction as arising somewhere somewhere in this chain complex formulism? The answer to that question is is as follows. I can view the to code construction as arising in the chain complex formul. I start by identifying cubits with the basis of C1 with edges. So here I need to talk about cubits. C2 faces should be viewed as H Z uh stabilizers and um C1 should be viewed as corresponding to either um X checks or um error syndrome that arise that arises from measuring X checks. I think the easiest would be to ex So first let's let's explain maybe the meaning of partial two partial one sorry what does partial one do so I have some subset of cubits that are affected by z errors if I evaluate its boundary three. This tells me uh the end points of those strings, right? But this is this is what we discussed here. This is this is what we discussed, right? Errors are strings. Errors are elements of C1. If I look at its end points, this will be the error syndrome. So indeed it starts to make sense what I'm saying, right? that we have cubits here, we have errors here is the errors. If I evaluate uh partial one the boundary of of the error, I get the error syndrome corresponding to that um that error. So um now if if we buy if we buy uh that what is the interpretation of this uh binary matrix and this would correspond to hx the x parity check matrix what's the parity check matrix? I'm not sure if if you guys have covered that earlier or if you've seen it, but what the parity check matrix is in in coding theory is basically a description of the checks that you measure in order to get the error syndrome. The rows of the parity check matrix specify the support of the checks that you measure. So in our case, uh, hx would uh would uh would have rows uh that tell me about different x-ype checks that I measure. So um in order to in order to in order to illustrate it I would need to label cubits and whatn not. Um but you know those guys would be of the form one one one 0 0 D and you know some other subset of of ones you know somewhere depending on how I how I label my cubits. Um so so for instance if I were to label my cube as like one two three four five 6 7 8 9 10 then I would have you know first row corresponding to that check then the next row should be should have one at the third location and one at fifth sixth and seventh and so on. And if I now apply the parity check matrix to the vector that describes the the error, I get the error syndrome. This is this is the interpretation of this um boundary map partial one. Does this make sense roughly? Um okay. So what's the interpretation of uh partial two? um partial 2 actually can be interpreted as the parity check matrix for Z checks transposed. Uh why is that? Well, if I apply my um my operator partial two and to a vector that has one as the first element and zero everywhere else. What will that do? This will tell me the boundary of the first plucket. So I will get some I will get some vector that has you know one one one zero D and this will be the boundary of of of that plucket of some placket. This tells me the support of that that check identified with that that plaque. So this this this thing basically encodes the support of of the check. So that's how you can see that that this row here this column here encodes the support of my first Zype uh check and similarly the second column would encode the support of the uh second uh check. But that is nothing but the party check matrix transposed because by definition the party check matrix encodes the support of checks questions >> so the reason why I choose a coefficient because orientation doesn't matter >> orientation does not matter here >> you have a concrete interpretation >> yes because I work with cubits orientation doesn't matter but if I were to work with some arbitrary quantum doubles. I would need to have uh an orientation um associated with my uh graph >> boundary of some plucket meaning you know if I pick the you know a vector with just one this would you know if I multiply the partial um then I get the support that the that the e either the support of that operator associated with this plucket or equivalently the boundary of that operator right so that's how I argued that basically the first column of this uh binary matrix encodes the support of the first zch check which means that this column corresponds to the row of the ztype parity check by definition of what a parity check matrix is So, so now uh what's the punch line and now I will not forget about making the punch line. So, uh we have those we have those vector spaces and linear operators between them. We had the requirement that the composition of two consecutive um maps is the zero operator is the zero map. Now if someone gives me such a chain complex then I can use those um this chain complex to define CSS code. How well I'll just use um those boundary maps partial two and partial one as as parity check matrices of my CSS code. those those um those matrices correspond to um correspond to um the to the stabilizer operators that define my CSS code. So I know that maybe the the logic here is uh rather convoluted because we kind of work with an example in mind and you know I I I started kind of you know uh introducing this formalism to describe the torque code and indeed it works but you know if someone gives me this this chain complex I can define an arbitrary code right so I don't have to work with a square latis right um in fact any CSS code can be described by by an appropriate chain complex. Or in other words, for every CSS code, I can I can define a chain complex. Uh it may not look that nice as the chain complex that corresponds to the Torah code. It may not have this geometric uh interpretation. H but it will be you know it it will be uh a good thing. uh it will it will work either way questions. Okay. So now if we have this this this formalism uh I can very succinctly describe what the decoding problem is. uh but maybe maybe before I get there let's discuss a little bit the meaning of this the boundary of the boundary is zero so it means that if I have zch check here okay zch check I apply the boundary operator to it it gives me the support of the zch check. Now I apply the that partial boundary uh to it. What does this um what does this uh give me? This gives me the syndrome of that Z check. But the syndrome of the Z check should be trivial, right? Because Z checks commute with X checks. So there should be no error syndrome that Zype stabilizer gives me. And that is indeed a different uh interpretation of this of this equality. So Now we can talk about the decoding problem using this this notation this formulas. So what what are we given? We're given well we're not given but what what happens is there is some error I denote it by epsilon this is an element of C1 right it's some subset of edges this encodes the locations where Z errors are applied and now uh what is given to us is the boundary of epsilon This is this error syndrome. I'll denote it by sigma. This guy is an element of the image of partial one which is a subset uh of C not. So now what we want to find is we want to find some element phi in C1 such that its boundary corresponds to the given error syndrome, right? And we succeed if and only if the error plus correction is equivalent up to a stabilizer. What does this mean? It means that epsilon plus phi combined are a stabilizer. they they have to be um in the image of partial two. What do I mean by that? I mean that there exist there exists some omega in C2 such that partial 2 of omega is epsilon + 5. This is me saying that I have some error here and this is my correction. So error correction they form a contractable loop. what does it mean that I have a contractable loop? It means that I can fill it with some region and the boundary of that region is epsilon + 5. This is equivalent to saying that there exists an element in C2 whose boundary matches Epsilon plus 5. That's what happened here. Written in a quite succent way. Maybe difficult to parse if you see it for the first time, but the interpretation pictorially should be should be fairly digestible. >> What is is correct. >> So, epsilon is an error. >> Fi would be my correction, my poly correction. I can think about uh just the location where I would need to implement polys, right? I correct z errors by applying z's on some locations of cubits. Instead of talking about, you know, errors that are Z errors, it's actually locations of of Z errors, right? Does this make sense? >> Yes. So, whatever it is like them, they make closed. >> That's right. That's right. A closed contractable loop. So, this condition tells me that it will be a closed loop. Why is that? I I like your question because so if I apply partial one to epsilon plus phi, it's partial 1 epsilon plus partial one phi because it's the linear map. This by definition is sigma. This is what I was given. This by definition of phi is also sigma. And I work in f2 linear vector space. So if I add same object twice I get zero. So this condition tells me that this object has no boundary. It's a cycle. So um however right it's a cycle and success happens if this object is not only a cycle it's actually a boundary right so um maybe there is some Um there is um so there is so there is some uh no main clure to be introduced which is cy right so loops can be thought of as um contractable and non-contractable loops can be also referred as cycles and those would be the um the elements of kernel. of partial one. Those are the objects that have no boundary, right? They are in the kernel of this partial one operator. They formed loops. They formed cycles. Um so now loops split into contractable loops and non-contractable loops. The contractable loops would be the ones that I can shrink in an equivalent way. Uh I can say that contractable loops are the ones that form boundaries of some region. So those contractable loops can be called boundaries and they are the elements of image partial tool and there is some other stuff left here. So every time should be contracted. >> That's right. >> It is a must right >> to succeed. But sometimes in our error correction it can happen that we know that this object combined is non-contractable and then we fail >> and we want to minimize the logical the probability of that happening. That's that's what error correction is about. Um so we have we have kernel partial one we have image partial two now you will be happy uh because you know if I take a quotient of kernel and image I get the first homology group you know to the ones who know you guys know to the ones who don't know what what's happening here is I want to consider an equivalence class of loops where my equivalence relation is I can I can deform them and what the the homology group the first homology group captures is h different equivalence classes of non-contractable loops so on a Taurus I would have four equivalence classes I would have no non-contractable loop Then I would have a non contractable loop in one direction. Then a non-contractable loop in the other direction and I would have both of them. This would be this would be my first homology group. that is defined as kernel partial one over image partial two. But that's that's not that essential if you don't know it. What it captures is I do this decoding. I'm back to the code space. Did I implement logical identity? Did I implement logical Z1? Did I implement logical Z2 or did I implement Z1 and Z2? Right? And success is if we have not touched the logical cubit. questions. Okay. So maybe in the last 10 15 minutes of the talk I would like to tell you a little bit at least try to explain the the optimal decoding and the relation to the statistical mechanical uh model. Um it's it's a tall task because you know um we're running out of time and the derivation you know takes some time but I'll try to at least convey some high level intuition to So what are we given? We're given some error syndrome. So what must have happened is an error must have happened whose syndrome is the given error syndrome sigma. Do we care which error happened? No, we don't. As long as we find something equivalent up to a stabilizer to the error that happened, we're good because we succeed. So optimal decoding what it would do is it would it would sort it would identify first all possible errors that give me the uh the desired error syndrome sigma and it would sort them into different equivalence classes. And what I can do is I can pick um the equivalence class that maximizes the probability as the optimal decoding. Does this make sense? I know that you know so my I have some errors epsilon 1 epsilon 2 da da epsilon m. Now I can sort them into different equivalence classes. E1, uh, E2. In case of the Toro code, there would be four equivalence classes. And the optimal decoding would pick the equivalence class which maximizes the the probability of observing that equivalence class because I'm not asking so what would be the Um the so because another strategy that is suboptimal is for instance I know that one of those errors happened. I pick the error that is most likely a single individual error that is most likely but I don't care about you know picking the most likely error. I care about picking the most likely equivalence class of errors because from my perspective and from the code's perspective, it is immaterial to talk about one error and some other error as long as they are equivalent up to a stabilizer. So this would be what the optimal decoding does. class would have similar errors in them. >> So each equivalence class would have a same number of errors same some number of elements but those would be different elements. So maybe let's let's illustrate that with an example. So if my error is this, then you know I I would sort it say, you know, it goes here. Then if I see an error that looks like this and that, I would sort it say into this equivalence class. And if I have, you know, an error and now this, this would go say, you know, into the fourth equivalence class. And lastly, this chick chick chick chick chick chick chick chick chick chick chick chick chick chick chick would go into that one. You know it's like I kind of assigned them arbitrarily. The point was they would land in four different equivalence classes because all those guys have the same syndrome. they would appear in this list but they would be sorted into different equivalence classes because you know if I combine this and that they are not equivalent right because if I sum this and that this dude is left so what's the probability of having some equivalence class epsilon. Well, it's the probability of having some error epsilon plus um probability of having some equivalent error uh to epsilon plus da da da. So what we just said here I start with some error epsilon that looks like that. What else is in this equivalence class? You know an error that that is basically epsilon but now I need to add something that is equivalent to epsilon. How do I do it? By adding by multiplying the error epsilon by some stabilizer. I can think about the stabilizer the support of the stabilizer as partial two of omega. So here omega is some element of C2, right? Because every stabilizer is is from the C2 vector space. So summing over all elements of the equivalence class epsilon bar is summing over um all elements in this equivalence class epsilon bar is equivalent to summing over all errors equivalent to epsilon and I just need to add all possible um all possible stabilizers to epsilon. So this summation becomes summation over all elements omega from C2 probability epsilon plus partial 2 omega. M okay. So what's the probability of observing one particular error pattern? in order to evaluate that I actually have to make an assumption that my noise is h is independently affecting each cubit. For simplicity, I can assume IID noise with probability P meaning each cubit is affected by an error with probability P and with probability 1 minus P is not affected by an error. So what's the probability of observing one particular pattern of errors? Well, on the locations where I need to see errors, you know, I I need to see errors, right? So the probability there is p to the cardinality of epsilon and on all other locations I cannot see any error. So 1 minus p to n minus uh the cardality of epsilon that's the error configuration assuming I have iid noise with noise strength p. So if I use this expression in this in this formula this this boils down to omega 2 in C2 P um epsilon plus partial 2 omega 1us p n minus epsilon plus partial 2 omega I and uh pull in front the factor 1 minus uh p to the^ of n 1 - p to the^ of n sum over epsilon + c2 p over 1 - p epsilon + 2 partial omega okay so this is the probability of what what we just calculated is the way is is is the probability of of having uh some equivalence class epsilon bar. How do I calculate this this this uh this probability? I need to sum over all possible elements in this vector space C2. I need to evaluate this this expression P / 1 minus P to the power of epsilon + partial 2 omega. The problem with evaluating this this summation is that this vector space has many elements. How many elements? well 2 to the power of the number of faces. So this summation would have an exponential number of terms to evaluate. So this would be a difficult task to to uh to evaluate this expression and this should give you uh some intuition why solving the the decoding problem in an optimal way may be challenging. This gives you some reason to believe that this problem is computationally hard and in fact this problem is computationally hard. Um this problem is computationally hard. Uh it um but what this expression can be uh can be um can be related to is a partition partition function of some statistical mechanical model. So in the last two minutes I'll I'll just uh I'll just uh write down what the model is and um and try to highlight uh similarities between that expression and the partition function of of some uh statistical mechanical model. So we have a classical spin model. For every phase we we introduce a classical spin si that has either plus or one plus or minus one uh value. And um we have nearest neighbor nearest News's neighbor coupling between a neighboring uh neighboring spins. So um my Hamiltonian so this would be like the Ising model in two dimensions. However, uh there is some disorder in the Hamiltonian. So the neighboring spins that whose coupling crosses the this order that this order is depicted in in red this epsilon here epsilon there and they have the minus one coupling. So the the Hamiltonian is minus sum over neighboring spins J. The coupling kapa J S I SJ and gamma J is minus one H if and only if uh this bond is H in the disorder epsilon right so um the spins that are coupled um across the disorder uh disorder bond they are coupled with minus one sign and otherwise they're coupled with uh plus one sign. So it's basically you know this is called random bond icing model and it would be a good old uh icing model if I had no disorder because then all the couplings would be plus one but I pick some of the couplings to be minus one and which ones are picked to be minus one are captured by this disorder parameter epsilon. So for instance you know si sj between those two would have negative coupling but the coupling between sj and sk here would be positive because there is no disorder at that location. I'll just finish by saying that for the uh 2D random bond izing model it happens that the partition function um evaluated for for the given disorder epsilon is related to a probability of observing the probability of having this equivalence. class and epsilon bar. So what's the punch line here? The punch line here is and this would take another 30 minutes or an hour I guess to explain it properly. Um but the punch line here is by studying this statistical mechanical model the 2D random bond izing model that I kind of introduced at hawk. You may be very surprised why this came about. Uh but by studying this 2D random bond icing model and looking at the at the face space of that model that model is held at some temperature T and uh there is probability P of choosing some uh disorder. So each bond can be picked can be chosen antiferomagnetic uh to be to be minus one sign with probability P. So this this model has two parameters. It's held at some temperature T and it has some disorder strength P. Uh there's some you know the phase diagram looks like that. There's the order phase and disordered. by studying this phase diagram and looking at one particular line in this phase diagram called the Nishimorei line. I can find the intersection between the Nishimoi line and the phase boundary of the ordered region of the order phase. Reading of that value, let's call it PRI, tells me what's the error correction threshold of the optimal decoding. And this is kind of a little bit of magic if you see it for the first time, especially since you know I explained this connection in two minutes. So I'm not surprised if you are kind of lost but it's kind of very beautiful. And I guess the purpose of today's lecture is that I gave you some um some basics uh some vocabulary maybe uh for you to now read a little bit more and explore this connection if you find this topic interesting. And um with that I think I would like to wrap up my lecture. Thank you.