- We are surging ahead toward this big godawful civil war, a hinge for our course. I will land you right in the middle of it today and also in its memory, and then return to some questions of causation to set up where we go next, which is deeper into the question of where did this war come from? How do we understand it? How have we explained it to ourselves, or not? But first, we always need a little help, especially from the poets. It's often said that the Irish and the Scots, when they went to war with each other, when the clans went to war with each other, I don't know if this is true, but it makes a great story. (audience laughing) They would always shout, "Spare the poets!" Spare them, they have to tell it. Herman Melville is not mostly known for his poetry, mostly known of course for Moby Dick and a bunch of other novels, at least after, well after he died. But he wrote some fantastic, powerful haunting poetry, most of it right at the end of the war in 1865 and '66. He was Robert Penn Warren's favorite poet, probably because Melville had such a deep and abiding sense of tragedy. He wrote a poem called "On the Slain Collegians". Not clear he had Yale in mind, but he surely could have. "Youth is the time when hearts are large, and stirring wars appeal to the spirit which appeals in turn to the blade it draws. If a woman incites, and duty show, (though may the mask of Cain), brothers, or whether it be Truth's sacred cause, who can aloof remain that shares youth's ardor, uncooled by the snow of wisdom or sorted gain? The liberal arts and nurture sweet, which give his gentleness to man. Train him to honor, lend him grace through bright examples meet. That culture which makes never wan with underminings deep, but holds the surface still, its fitting place, and so gives sunniness to the face and bravery to the heart. What troops of generous boys in happiness thus breed. Saturnians through life's Tempe led, went from the North and came from the South, with golden mottoes in their mouth, to lie down midway in a bloody bed. Woe to the homes of the North and woe to the seats of the South. All who felt life spring in prime, and were swept by the wind of their place and time. All lavish hearts on whatever side. Of birth urbane or courage high, armed them for the stirring wars. Armed them, some to die. Apollo-like in pride, each would slay his Python, caught the maxims in his temple taught. The anguish of maternal hearts, must search for balm divine. But while the striplings bore their faded parts, the heavens all parts assign. Never felt life's care or cloy. Each bloomed and died an unabated Boy, nor dreamed what death was thought it more sliding into some vernal sphere. They knew the joy, but leaped the grief, like plants that flower ere comes the leaf, which storms lay low and kindly doom, and kill them in their flesh of bloom." That's called, "On the Slain Collegians". It was Melville reflecting and this idea of unabated boys marching off to war by the thousands and thousands, so many not to return. One was Uriah Parmelee, see his name here on the Yale Civil War Memorial. I wrote a fair amount about him in the book. You can pick up the rest there. Uriah enlisted immediately as a junior at Yale when the war commenced in April, 1861. He couldn't wait any longer. There wasn't a Connecticut regiment ready yet. So he went to New York and enlisted. He'll later switch to the First Connecticut Cavalry where he will endure almost the entire war. He'll be cited for bravery at the Battle of Chancellorsville for combat leadership, again, for bravery at the Battle of Ashland in June of '64, and again during the wilderness campaign of '63, I'm sorry, four. He kept a diary. We have the parts of his diary from 1864 and '65. As a Yale student, he went down to Brooklyn to hear the great abolitionist preacher, Henry Ward Beecher Plymouth Church, the famous so called abolitionist church in Brooklyn. He grew up out in Guilford on a farm in a mostly anti-slavery church and family. Seems to be where he came by his abolitionism. Which makes him fairly rare in the Union Army, at least at the beginning of the war. "I am fighting for liberty," he wrote in 1862 to his brother. "For the slaves and for the white man alike." He believed the South, the Confederacy had, quote in his words, "Forfeited any property rights to slaves by their secession." "Secession," he said, "Was treason." They had to be put back into the Union. He wrote dozens and dozens and dozens and dozens of letters that survived to his family. He demanded that the Lincoln administration move against slavery. Now, this kid is representative in a number of ways, not least of which is he sometimes wrote in racist language, which made him very common as a Union soldier. He would use the N word once in a while for the enslaved people or ex-slaves. "I am more an abolitionist than ever right up to the handle. If I had money enough to raise a few hundred contrabands, meaning escape slaves, and arm them, I'd get up an insurrection among them. Told the captain, 'I desert to do it.'" That's in '63. Now, that's a lot of chutzpah, bravado, wherever you want to call it. His bravado began to subside as the years of the war went on, as he became more and more of a hardened veteran, bordering at times on cynicism and terrible loneliness. But his commitment remained mostly intact. He chaffed at the slow pace of the emancipation policy even after it was announced. But after Lincoln's preliminary proclamation, September '62 and the final proclamation January of '61, he changed his tune about Lincoln. He changed his tune about the war. He was threatening to resign and quit before this. Again, some bravado, some performing going on here for his family, getting these letters. Now he could say, quote, "The great heart wound slavery has been reached." After '63. Now his patriotic commitment struggled inside himself as he watched 56% of his cavalry unit, the First Connecticut Volunteer Cavalry, 56% died in the war. He became a scribe of, he was never actually the adjutant who was the person responsible for sending home the letters to the families of the deceased and so on. But he did a lot of that for his fellow dead men in the regiment. I said he kept a diary, the diary's amazing. On August 1st, 1864, he wrote kindly of one of his mates named Tuttle, who quote, "Sings plaintiff songs. He is a great deal of company to me. I read Othello to him last night." Parmelee was an intellectual. He used the word, he carried a personal copy of Shakespeare throughout the war. On August 11, Captain Parmelee was bereft though, '64, that he had loaned his tattered volume of Shakespeare to a comrade named Harrison. He didn't like Harrison so much who had promptly lost it. And by early 1865, he's without his copy of Shakespeare, which seems to have been almost like a emotional guide for him. The First Connecticut was part of General George Armstrong Custer's division, part of the cavalry contingents of Phil Sheridan's army that marched down the Shenandoah, oh well, up the river, but down the valley in Western Virginia as part of the grand strategy, the Grand Pincer movements. Sherman's army from the South having conquered Georgia's moving into North Carolina. Grant's army has Petersburg and Richmond under siege. Sherman's army is coming from the west. They're all trying to, you know, collapse on Lee's army, what's left of it around Richmond. And he's with his unit when they passed Charlottesville, and he saw Monticello up on the hill. He was angry, though, because the Union troops had burned part of Charlottesville and he just thought that was wrong. He called it carelessness. On March 4th, 1865, he noted that Lincoln would give his second inaugural address that day in Washington. This is in his diary, and he remembered reading Lincoln's first inaugural March of '61 in a Yale classroom, or maybe it was dorm, his dorm room. I forget. Sherman's army kept marching toward Richmond. They crossed the James River trying to link up with Grant's forces. They actually finally did. They cut, almost cut Lee's army off. And the last entry in his diary is March 30th, 1865. It says, quote, "Went out alone seeking intellectual clearness. What mightn't a man do with this state of mind habitually?" No doubt yearning. The diary's full of loneliness, terrible loneliness. But what might a man do if he just couldn't have time to read? Lee had given his army orders to make a stand at all possible costs at a place called Five Forks just west of Richmond. And after two days of pelting rainstorms, all the spring blossoms came out. Parmelee's unit was encamped with an easy eyesight of a peach orchard in full bloom as were the redbud, as were the dogwoods. If you've ever been in this part of Virginia in April, it's glorious. And on April 1st, they attacked at Five Forks. Parmelee did what apparently he often did. He jumped out ahead of his men, there dismounted, he drew a sword and he leads his men into battle, and he was hit with a cannon shot in the chest and immediately killed. He was first buried in a farmer's yard nearby. Later, the body was recovered. He died in the last major engagement of the war after four years. He's on the memorial. I'll come back to the memorial in just a while. Now when the war came to Yale, I'll explain this in a second, but when the war came to New Haven and Yale and now we'll back up into the 1840s and fifties in the next couple of weeks and explain this a good deal more, you need to understand that this place was transformed. We try to point that out as carefully as we can in the chapter nine in the book, Yale was coming apart in the 1850s, no less than Leonard Bacon colonization, moderate white supremacist, believing the best option is for slavery as to get as many Black people as possible to remove themselves from the country. Benjamin Silliman, the most famous Yale professor, world famous scientist, both of them even, and I'm not even mentioning yet, some of the more abolitionist leaning people at Yale, and they were there, we'll come back to them. Even those two get up at an 1854 rally held here at the college about the Kansas-Nebraska Act, and they were raising rifles for Kansas. "Guns for Kansas", the rally was called, and people would stand up and say, I'll buy one. I'll buy two. I'll buy three. And Bacon and Silliman even got caught up in it. They kind of had to. "Guns for Kansas". Now, motives here, this is true of almost any history. Motives here about how and why people oppose the Kansas-Nebraska Act will oppose the Dred Scott decision will begin to favor that Republican party, which is born out of the Kansas crisis, will begin to line up in ways politically, the country had never quite seen, are complicated and nuanced. They could still hold racist views, they could still be white supremacists, but believe the slave holding south is a threat to the future of the United States. Again, more on this to come, but let me throw the idea out now, and I will come back to it next week. To understand the coming of the Civil War, you have to understand how millions of white northerners who had you know every other bone in their body, might have been a racist bone of some sort. Who didn't really believe in Black equality, who didn't, you know, sign up to be a member of an abolitionist society. No more than 15% of Northerners were ever a member of any kind of anti-slavery society. And that's at their peak back in the 1840s. But they could be frightened of the South. They could be frightened of this slave system that was spreading into the west, that was violating their principles of free labor that was cutting off the future of the United States. That was making it impossible, potentially impossible for the sons and grandsons of easterners, northerners, some of the immigrants who didn't get to go to Yale, most of them immigrants who didn't go get to go to Yale, who see now the future of the United States at stake. They see the future cut off by this slavocracy or what the political language of the day called the slave power. Now today, you know, we're not as kind to the folks who only take a halfway position, are we? You're either all in or you're all not in. You with us or against us? We saw a lot of that in the last spring's protests. That's the nature of protest. That's the nature of radical organizing. Sometimes there's a radical thread running through a certain kind of organizing that you don't see until events make it come out. Well, when secession happened, if you think back to the outline here, I mentioned that Theodore Dwight Woolsey, who becomes president of Yale in 1856 and will be president all the way through the Civil War and reconstruction years, a professor of Greek, a very conservative temperament, had he, but he was in his own ways fairly vehemently anti-slavery. But when it came to secession, he was more than vehemently anti-secession. He declared, he wrote a essay, a public essay announced it, gave speeches about it in the winter, in spring of 1861. Woolsey said secession is treason. It's unconstitutional. There is no right to secession. The United States was in what today we'd call a culture war. The United States was bitterly what we'd call polarized. You want polarization? Go through the time machine folks to 1860 and '61. We'll return to that, and they were on the cusp of an existential conflict. Would an American republic survive this slavery problem and its expansion? Yes, no? Would it end in war? Don't know just yet. Yale people are gonna be on both sides of this. Deep on both sides. Just look at what I do in that chapter with the differences. For example, between Woolsey, the president of this place and somebody like Samuel Morse at that time, probably the most famous graduate. Morse was pro confederate. Not only pro-slavery, he argued that the Confederacy had a right to secede and should win once the war broke out. Now the southern student population of Yale had been as high as 13 and 14. This is all in the book, 13 and 14%, back in the 1840s, thirties and forties and even into the early fifties, it's still high. We have the numbers in the book. But in the 1850s, the southern presence at Yale began to first dwindle and then totally collapse as almost not a solitary southern born Yale student by 1860, '61. They've all gone home. And please look at the numbers. There're on pages one, what, 214, 215 there about. There were a number of Northern Yales who nevertheless fought for the Confederacy 20 some from Connecticut alone. That was a startling number when I first found it. There will be 511 Confederates who will fight for the Confederacy. That's a kind of an official number. The official numbers on the Union side, as I say in the book, went through several different estimates over time. They go as high as slightly over a thousand. They go as low as the seven hundreds. It depends on what you call fight and list and so on. Now, but secession made people choose. It is one of those things that just makes you reorient. Okay, what are you gonna do? You're going back to your home or are you gonna stay here? That's first choice. You're a northern boy. War breaks out. You're gonna be Uriah Parmelee and run off and find the first regiment you can? No, most are not. Rest assured. And what are you gonna do when the draft comes in 1862? Confederacy had a draft first. The Union side has a draft by '63. Both of those drafts were brutally unfair and based on class. Although in the South, eventually they were drafting everybody if they could. In the north though, they set up a brutal system that allowed bounty payments. This is explained in the book. You could get 300, 400 in some states, $500 to enlist. You were paid to enlist. It's one of the ways they got a lot of Black men into the army by 1863 and 1864. Now, I wanna point out that a large number of Yale men did go, possibly that thousand is accurate over the whole course of the war. Some of them served in civilian roles, some of them served in government roles. Most in the Army or the Navy. Many became officers, and 114 of them will die. There are 55 Confederate names and 114 Union names on the Yale War Memorial. More on that in a minute or two. Back to Woolsey, just for a moment though. This was leadership. Now, on the one hand, they kept Yale open throughout the war. Classes went on, they tried to sustain normalcy. The student enrollment only dipped some maybe by 40 or 50 out of 580 students before the war. It tried to keep everything, the curriculum, the process of educating the young men of the United States going. It wasn't so easy. Note this section in the book where I quote from, and there could have quoted from dozens of more, Woolsey gets letters all the time as college presidents do, from Yales wanting to know about their sons. What should my son do? Should my son go? Should my son stay? What if he does go? How can you protect him? Please, President Woolsey? He's my firstborn. Look on page 221, the case of John Thompson, whose father was an 18, I forget now, '38 or '40 graduate of Yale. John Thompson is a student at Yale. His father dearly does not want him to go. Fathers and sons. The oldest story about war. My dad was a four and a half year veteran to World War II, but he didn't want either of his sons to go to Vietnam, it was very complicating for him. This John Thompson though, said to his dad, "I'm going, I'm going, I'm going." And he did. And he's on the Yale War Memorial. He died of disease in 1863. This is what Woolsey said about secession. "If they must secede." This is important because here he does reflect the abolitionist. Well, generally the abolitionist point of view about this. "If they must secede", meaning the South, "Let slavery try its self-sustaining power for the next half century. It will be an experience for the world's good." In effect, he argued over and over that if the South succeeds, it's the doom of slavery. It's the doom of their system. Their system will now be on the line. The United States will have to make war on southern society. Now, Woolsey, being a good Yale moderate though, had to keep saying, he always had to preface all of this by saying, I'm sure we will work it out. However, if they do this, and he's even saying this after secession and the war's broken out, it will be the doom of slavery and the doom of southern society. This town became a war town. All sorts of regiments were recruited through here and drilled down on the common not least of which was, and please look for this in the book, the famous 29th Connecticut colored volunteers. And the 30th. There were two Connecticut regiments. Now, you must probably know, I'll come back to this in a second. That's Woolsey, by the way. He looks like a professor of Greek, doesn't he? (audience laughing) Interesting man. Oh, I'll come back to that and to that. But here, these are two men from the 29th Connecticut. Now, here's an assignment for you. I challenge you. I urge you. Beg you. Go 10 minutes out Chapel Street. Here's Chapel right here. Just go 10 minutes out Chapel, go over that little bridge. It's a place called Criscuolo Park. It used to be called Grapevine Point. You can see all kinds of the oil tanks out there. And you're right along the Mill River where it flows into New Haven Harbor and Criscuolo Park, which has a big softball field and some people go picnicking there. It's mostly today a Latino neighborhood. There is a major monument to a Black Civil War regiment. It's been there at least 10 years now. The sculptor is Ed Hamilton, the same sculptor who did the Amistad Memorial right here on the green. I've even skipped over that chapter, haven't I? I'm gonna come back to it a little bit though 'cause that had an enormous influence on, well, on New Haven, at least for a while. But this regiment, Massachusetts was first in recruiting Black regiments. The famous 54th and later the 55th Regiment, which they did in early 1863. And that 54th Massachusetts famously was sent to South Carolina by June and July of '63. It's in the wake of Emancipation Proclamation. In the fall, Connecticut authorized the same. This regimen originally 1,005 men, although when they departed for the South, they only had 600 and some because of sickness and disease rates. These men came from all over Connecticut and all over New England. About 60% were from Connecticut alone. And when you go out to the memorial, I didn't wanna even show you a picture of it. I'm demanding that you go see this memorial. It's an amazing, it's one of the great Civil War memorials in the United States. And it's right here in New Haven and it's to a Black regiment. And on the front of the main part of the monument, you see this photograph done in stone. But all the way around in a semicircle, you find the names of Connecticut towns and the names of the men who came there by numbers: 135 from New Haven County alone, Black men, 71 from Hartford. This is in the book. And I point out, you know, Danbury sent 21, North Stonington sent 20. I didn't know there were 20 people in North Stonington today. (audience laughing) Small towns, lots of them that sent 3, 4, 5, 6 men. In some of these towns, it had to have been not only the majority of free Black men, but damn near all of them. They wanted to go to war. Now it was a war for freedom. It was a war for Black liberty, freedom, some rights. And please read the section. I'm not even gonna quote from it. When I skip over a Frederick Douglass quote, that's courage. 'Cause I'm usually bereft without it. But none other than Frederick Douglass came here to New Haven. We have the script, part of the script of his speech. And he went out to that encampment on a cold day in January. He stood on the balcony of a building, and he addressed that regiment. And his speech will surprise you. He's already recruited two of his sons into the 54th Massachusetts and one of 'em nearly died at Fort Wagner and was maimed for life. Douglas got up in front of those Black men and in effect said, obey orders. You're in the army now. Yes, I wish you didn't have only white officers. Yes, I wish you had Black commissioned officers. Yes, I wish this and yes, I wish that, but this is a war. Obey. Behave yourselves. Don't get drunk. Don't chase women. He doesn't actually say that literally; he implies it. It's a kind of a buck up guys. We gotta war to win. It's Douglas playing Lieutenant Colonel. He also gave a lecture here in town to a overflow audience. It was his lecture called "The Mission of the War", where he argued in for two hours with the mission of the Civil War, was what he called national regeneration through emancipation. Alright, gotta get up a little field trip. I don't have the money to run a bus or six buses or whatever this would take. 10 minutes up Chapel Street. You're gonna run right into it. I went out there on a cold March day while I was writing this book, and I stood there and counted the numbers of every town in Connecticut. So it's partly why you get all that in the book. I wanna say a word or two here about, yeah, this. Just a word or two. You know, there's been a lot in the press of late a lot, and some of you've probably followed it. Some of you've maybe mercifully avoided. Is America on the brink of a new Civil War? There's been books that come out like this one. How Civil Wars Start by Barbara Walter and How to Stop Them. She's a political scientist. It's one of the books that I think is worth reading. There have been a few books out on this subject, is America on the brink of Civil War that are, dare I say, kind of cheap unresearched journalism? (audience laughing) But are we? We don't know. I did a debate with Akil Lamar, I may have mentioned this back almost two years ago, where we drew straws and I drew the yes we are on the brink, and he drew the no or not, and we just went at it for like 45 minutes on a podcast. It was fun and disturbing. We've had this movie out called Civil War. Some of you may have seen many people avoided it 'cause it is so bloody and violent. It's a very interesting take on an America that has gone to into civil war and doesn't even know why. There have been polls done, two years ago, a year ago, even this year, showing that 52, 53% of former Trump voters said they would be pleased if secession occurred in America, either blue or red. 41% of Biden voters in the latest poll I saw, said they would be 52, 53% of Trump voters and 41% of Biden voters said, yeah. If there was a blue secession, I might join it. Now, people who say yes to that don't have a clue what secession would mean. They don't know where they're supposed to go and show up for it. (audience applauding) They don't know where the secession train is leaving. Thomas Edsall, famous political scientist who's always studying this through statistics, claims that there's no major effective movements to counter our polarization. That's debatable, certainly debatable. Now, Barbara Walter's book, I'll just point this out real quickly and then come back to the larger points. This book, political scientists, what do political scientists do? They make models that are supposed to be predictive. Yeah. Well, the book came out in 2022. She was all over the press. The book became a bestseller. And look I it's a pretty effective book. She studied civil wars all over the world, all kinds of civil wars. And there are many different kinds of civil wars. Ours is only one of 'em. She found that civil wars tend to occur when two big things happen. One, they tend to occur when a democracy is backsliding or an autocracy is on the rise toward democracy. That's when things get tense, fluid, conflicted. And it's in those situations, a democracy in a decline or an autocracy that's bubbling up with some democracy from below that tends to cause sporadic violence, might be low scale violence. Or secondly, civil wars have tended to occur, at least in modern history, where what she calls identity politics reigns. Identity meaning tribalism, intense nationality, intense us versus them, intense racial identity, intense ethnic identity that comes into conflict. And civil wars break out when these trends become for different reasons, irreversible, unreconcilable, if not inevitable. And she also has an interesting analysis, as many people do. And the piece I put on Canvas today that I wrote in the Times two years ago, gets at this explicitly about the coming of the civil war. These situations tend to have a lot of conspiracy theories, lo and behold, and conspiracy theories thrive on what? Simplicity. You gotta, you keep it simple, you gotta identify the enemy easily. Haitians in Ohio. What's the problem in Aurora, Colorado? I can't even remember now. Who are those people? Then you gotta have evil villains. And the story, that conspiracy story, has to develop from some kind of primordial fear. Fear for the future, fear for the family, fear for basic values, fear for basic morays under threat. Some of us would argue that social media itself is a conspiracy, but I don't wanna be too out of my own time. Now enough of Barbara Walter, and enough of scaring you, I guess. Let's think for a moment. Oops. Is that what I wanted next? Yeah. Okay. And I want didn't want him up there. That's a picture there. Okay, a few thoughts on this broad question of where the Civil War is coming from. These are just initial teasers that we will come back to. First of all, more on this later, the Civil War comes outta westward expansion. That's not a surprise to anybody. It's sometimes is used as an almost complete package, a single explanation without Western expansion and slavery's expansion as part of that, no civil war. There's some truth to that. Secondly, the Civil War does come outta constitutional crises, big ones. It leads people to argue, at least on one side, that it was all about state's rights. It's all about that idea of state's sovereignty. Well, it was to a degree, but every time you hear somebody use the state's rights argument, simply ask state's rights for what? State's sovereignty in the interest of what? Of what cause? Of what interests? State's right is a doctrine. A doctrine by itself sits inert until people use it. The United States had two constitutions by, well from the beginning, many argued, one pro-slavery and one anti-slavery. More on that later. We had a pro-slavery constitution from the beginning. That's the one you mostly learn about: three fifths compromise and all those compromises that sustained slavery. And most of the founding fathers, well, no, most of them weren't actually slave holders, but the big ones were. Even little Jim Madison who had some amazing ideas here about checks and balances and consent and his stated public belief that property in man was immoral, but he was a slave holder. But abolitionists are gonna pick up that same constitution later, actually pretty quickly, but especially later. And arguing, no, no, no, there are provisions here. There, there, there, there's a spirit here and a letter here that is anti-slavery. And the two they're gonna argue are incompatible, irrepressible. This war's gonna come about because of this huge collision in the middle of the 19th century over whether the United States would've a free labor future or a slave labor future. Which would it be? And that developed into deep and abiding talk about polarization, deep and dividing political division and deep and abiding racial division. Partisanship, which most Americans still will... If you go out on the street. Run a poll. Do you like partisanship? Most people will say, no, we have too much of it. I wanna argue, and I will come back to this next time and next week, that most of the greatest advances for what you might actually believe in or agree with, even conservative advances, well one might say, especially conservative advances, think of the Reagan era, have come from intense partisanship. We may hate partisanship, but you want to change the country? You need a party, and you're gonna have to probably be partisan, probably even intensely partisan. That Republican party born in 1854 that's gonna elect Lincoln in six years, the most rapid rise of a political party in all of American history tore apart the existing political party system. They were really partisan. And then there's abolitionism. It's as old as the late 18th century. It really gets to, you know, traction and gets on its feet. By the 1820s, 30s, 40s, it was always more significant and influential than its numbers. More powerful than its numbers. It has a radical wing, it has a political moderate wing, it has many wings and stages. We'll come back to some of that. And last but not least, conspiracy theories, folks. The 1850s had two really big ones. We learned our conspiracy, we actually we learned our conspiracy theories even earlier with all kinds of religious conspiracies. Many of which Timothy Dwight believed in, the Illuminati. Those Catholics were out to control your soul. And by the 1850s, there's gonna be two really big conspiracy theories. One's gonna get called by the anti-slavery north, the slave power conspiracy. And they really were effective at selling it, and they weren't all wrong with it. And southerners are gonna sell the conspiracy they called the Black Republican conspiracy that that Republican party was really out for nothing greater or lesser than Black equality and interracial marriage and the destruction of white supremacy. And when Lincoln got up in 1858 to announce his candidacy for president, I'm sorry, for the Senate in in Illinois against Stephen Douglas, he gave a famous speech known to history as the house divided speech. That speech is two things. It's Lincoln in 1858 saying, this country cannot long exist half slave and half free. I believe it will become all one or all the other. It's biblical language, biblical phrasing. His audience understood it immediately. We cannot endure half slave and half free. That's on the first page. He leaves the prose poetry of that incredible speech. He leaves it after page one. The next seven pages of that speech, and you'll be reading it is an argument against the Dred Scott decision. It's an argument against the Supreme Court decision. It's an argument to mobilize the north against I wrote an op-ed recently arguing that Kamala Harris should become the candidate of the Democratic party before it happened. And I argued what obviously has not happened and it won't happen. I argued that she should pick up the house divided speech and take it on the road. We're a country divided, we're half something and half something else. Use it. Show that when you're divided half slave and half free, half blue and half red, half Maga and half whatever the Democrats are, you don't want the same result that came two years later after the house divided speech. But they're running a campaign that's not supposed to be polarizing. All right, I'm gonna end by saying, oh, have a minute. The United States had ruins at the end of the Civil War. I'll come back to that. They had ruins like this in Charleston. Charleston was in total ruins for about 20 blocks up from the harbor. Americans understood mass death by that point. Those who had read some history understood it by other means. And we had Walt Whitman reminding us of the so-called hell scenes of all the men in the hospitals, over 2,000 men whose hands he held, who he wrote letters for as a nurse in Washington DC over two and a half years working there. He wrote about the horribly mutilated, groaning, and moaning of the men as they died. He talked about the lions lapping thirst for blood in this war. He famously wrote in "Specimen Days", his words, "The dead, the dead, the dead. Our dead or South or North ours all." What's the whereabout? "The Whitman, the dead." Now Whitman would go on. He is our death poet. He wrote a lot about death is poem called, "The Wound Dressers", one of the greatest war poems ever written. And if you can, read all 51 pages of, "Song of Myself", because in "Song of Myself", Whitman tries over and over and over to define democracy. And finally in the middle of that poem, not finally, but in the middle of that poem, suddenly a fugitive slave breaks into Whitman's home. A runaway slave just breaks into his house as though history is just breaking into his poem. And Whitman tells us about watching the fugitive slave's eyes roll with all this fear and trembling. And Whitman tells us he nursed the chain marks on the guy's neck and Whitman returns to musings on democracy ending with this unforgettable claim that real democracy is me determining that you shall have everything that I have. Now Whitman wasn't always perfect at doing that. I know I've run out of time, but America had ruins now and a lot of Americans argued that we were a real country now. We were old 'cause we had ruins. (audience laughing) We're like Europe, we can be like England where all the abbeys were destroyed in Cromwell's war. Or better yet, we could be Rome, which is nothing but ruins, layer upon layer upon layer. More on Thomas Nelson Page later. But just the last thought here. I'm gonna come back to this. I didn't quite finish it, imagine that. But out of the Civil War, Yale finally decided to create a war memorial to the Civil War. You walk by it, many of you every day, probably three and four times a day, everyone in this room has been through that hall. It is the most significant memorial to the Confederate lost cause on northern soil done by Yale University unveiled in 1915, planned for six, seven years before that in part because Yale was quite late to creating its Civil War memorial. Many other universities already done it, but once they got to doing it, it was in part controlled by white Southerners, former Yales and current Yales and a whole lot of northern Yales who essentially agreed with them that the only way safely, carefully to commemorate that war of horrific bloodletting and over 700,000 dead and the ripping apart of the American nation. The only way to safely commemorated on its 50th anniversary was to make a memorial nicely to both sides without the single, not just mention, but even thought of victory or defeat. And with allegories at all four corners dedicated, go look, to devotion, to memory, to peace, and to honor. Are you against any of those? Can you be against memory? How about honor? I don't like honor, really? They're beautiful. It's actually a beautiful memorial. The designers were terrific, but it's a monument. I'll explain more of this later and also explain an entire chapter in the book to national reconciliation. And not at all in the least, to why the war was fought. If you think back to the first slide, they decided above all to put all the names, not the Union men in one list, the Confederate men in another list, they're listed by their class at Yale. The upper left corner, their earliest is 1824, and the bottom right corner across the hall is 1867 or '68. They're listed with their name and their unit and where they died, all put together as the committee that created it called in their mingled dust, equal honor. That may not seem like a big statement just yet, but it surely was in 1915. Okay? I kept ya too long. (audience applauding) (gentle music)