Hi, I'm Steve Gervin. I'm a member of the Yale Quantum Institute. My office is right over here. Uh I'm a theoretician but I work very closely with the experimentalists at Yale and elsewhere um on uh trying to design superconducting um circuits for building quantum computers. So uh I'm giving the the introductory lecture to this week course on um quantum error correction and I'm going to start with classical error correction. Uh so that we have the basic ideas down we'll try to understand the difference between error correction and fault tolerance. And once we understand how to correct uh classical errors in the second half of this lecture, we'll we'll do the simplest quantum error correction code. That'll give you, you know, hopefully the introduction that you need to understand the other lectures that you'll hear this week. Uh so, as Florian said, uh the key thing is for you to stop me when I something you don't understand and ask questions. Uh don't be shy. There'll be other people grateful in the audience that you did stop me to ask the question. Uh and um you know I'd much rather un you know uncover a little than cover a lot. Okay? So that you can learn something. Okay. So um it's a pleasure to have you here. and uh let's get started on uh classical um error correction. So uh the the lecture lectures I'm going to give are based on this u tutorial article which was uh based on uh lectures I gave in France. this fantastic summer school at Leouch uh literally on the shoulder of MLAN in the French Alps. uh it's uh available at this u URL and there also uh videos of um three of the four lectures that I gave and I'll I'll make these slides available somehow so you don't have to write down all the links. Okay. So uh so it turns out that ideas of error correction and fault tolerance which I'll define in a second play a crucial role in three areas of classical engineering. Um in the 1940s people began to develop control theory. Uh you have a giant uh uh I don't know plastics factory and the machines have to do things in a certain order and not run too fast and not run too slow and uh stop if there's some emergency condition occurs. And people were learning how to uh robustly control such plants as they're called. And uh how do you control them when there's noise in the measurements you're making of the state of the system? Possibly even your controller is is uh subject to errors. Okay. Uh in the in the 1940s Claude Shannon invented the theory of information and he was working for the telephone company and was very interested in the the resource cost of sending uh telefan signals and uh today internet signals and digital cell phone signals. All the uh theory of communication was basically developed in a series of three papers just came out of the blue from Claude Shannon in the 1940s and uh and then in the 1950s as uh computers were being built Johnyman who who defined architecture of today's computers where you have a a compute unit and memory input soth. Um he was in those days the they used vacuum tubes instead of transistors instead of computer chips and they failed very frequently. He was also extremely interested in how your brain works. You have this giant network neural network and neurons are signaling each other and somehow doing computation and it doesn't seem to be designed and it just seems to work and as uh neurons die your brain uh still can function. Um it's seems to be robust against uh various biological errors. How can that possibly be? And so all of these areas uh uh benefited from people thinking hard about error correction. Uh repairing the state erroneous state of your machine, whether it's the bits in the computer or the the elevator position in a in in an Airbus aircraft. Uh And and then there's this deeper concept of fault tolerance which is the ability to correct those errors even when the error correction system which is also a physical system made of transistors or tubes or mechanical parts and is itself making errors. So how do you correct errors when your error correction system also makes errors? That's fault if you can do that. That's fault faults fault tolerance. Okay. So uh so let's just go through those three examples. So control systems you have a plant uh sensors controller actuator and feedback. And there's some input. For example, a standard example is automobile cruise control. You at the cruise control. You want to go 60 miles an hour. Uh there's the the engine. There's the speedometer. There's a little gadget that says, "Oh, I see the car's uh speedometer says I'm going faster than the set point I chose." So, I should actuate the actuator to ease off on the gas to go back towards the intended speed. But possibly when I my speedometer uh you know has errors when it measures the speed. My controller might make a mistake when it's trying to figure out how to respond. Uh the actuator that moves the gas pedal might have some kind of error in it. And so how do you build a robust uh uh cruise control or an aircraft autopilot or a nowadays a self-driving car, right? You don't want anything to go wrong there, right? Okay. Uh so and then Fondorman was thinking about you know uh how to make robust computers and and in when he started most computers were analog. They were based on either gears or they were mechanical systems or they were voltages that could vary continuously in some circuit. and you used a capacitor to integrate up the voltage over time to get some charge. That's how you did integrals. Uh uh and digital circuits are much more robust against noise than analog circuits. So for example, here's the a thing called a voltage clamp. And this appears in in computer chips. It also appears in your brain and how neurons work. So if you have a noisy input voltage, the voltage clamp will convert it to a binary output. So here's the here's the input voltage 0 to one volt say and here's the output voltage of the voltage clamp. Anything below a half, the output is very close to zero. And anything above a half, the output is very close to one. So if there's a little bit of noise on the input near 0.9 or something, nothing happens on the output. It gets rid of the noise. So you what you've paid a price. The signal only has two levels now, zero and one. But if I have uh uh 20 such bits, I can express levels between u you know a million different levels, two to the 20 different levels, but each bit is now robust. Yes sir. >> Is there any advantage not going in terms of your logic? >> Yeah. So, so you have to build a circuit that changes uh very quickly there and uh there's some price to be paid in in the complexity of the circuit or how fast it responds or something. As you make that steeper and steeper, it it just um gets trickier and trickier. So this is only to indicate that the output is actually continuous but it jumps very very quickly if you design the circuit right and I just drew that by hand. I don't know how quickly they actually jump. Professor Samuel has his hand up >> neurons right >> threshold >> it fires. Yeah. >> So that's why it's not >> Yeah. I think it's more gradual in biology than in electrical engineering. Yes. You >> had a >> Yeah, it's Yeah. So to some appro you're you're trying to approximate a step function, right? Uh there's reasons in biology that you may not want it to be a step function. People often take the this sigmoidal response. Uh and maybe that's slightly more realistic for for neurons. Uh okay. Uh and then uh Fenoyman thinking about computers where pieces fail, your brain where uh things can go wrong uh started thinking about how to build redundancy into circuits, electrical circuits or neuronal circuits. You could have an three entire computers as is done in an Airbus and the computers have to agree on the output before the before the plane automatically moves the the control surfaces on the wings and tail. um uh for example or you could have this could be just some circuits inside a big computer and e you know it has many redundant parts inside and there's some way of figuring out how to make it do the right thing even if one of the circuits fails and we'll I'll show you an example of how we do that. Okay. So uh so uh really the the understanding of fault tolerance in in computation goes back to this guy uh John Fonoyman. Okay. So and then Claude Shannon. So how he figured out this idea uh for in creating codes for communicating information reliably even across a noisy channel. Uh so you uh nowadays and when you use the phone everything is digital actually your the analog uh thing from your voice is digitized. It's transmitted and in packets that all take different routes to get to the other end. But when I was young, uh, you you know, you picked up the phone and there was a wire that was connected from here to Seattle and you if you listened, you'd hear this sort of hissing noise from the various amplifiers in the background and um so so then he started in the 1940s. So the idea is you have a message that you want to send and you pay a price. You have to send a longer message with some additional auxiliary bits and you you you combine those with an encoder that mixes up the message and the extra bits in some funny way. You send it through this noisy channel and some of the bits are corrupted. Then you have a decoder which uh looks at the bits that came and figures out what the original message was and figures out what errors occurred. Okay. And uh in your cell phone there's uh specialized chips at the front end whose only job is to take in uh stretches of a 100,000 bits and encode and decode on the fly very very fast. things that couldn't be done before very fast computers were invented because this is a big computational challenge. And uh it does this on the fly very fast. And the reason is that you need to do that is because you know your cell phone outputs a half a watt maybe or 100 millwatts and the station may not be so close by and there's interference and noise. Uh a really great example is that some of the early satellites like the Pioneer satellite that was launched I don't know more than 60 years ago um has left the solar system. It's way outside beyond Pluto billions of miles away. It's powered by solar panels and it has a very tiny uh transmitter maybe I don't know 10 watts or something and it's billions of miles away and uh so they um actually reprogrammed it partway through its journey after new error correcting codes were invented. they sent up a signal and just changed the operating system and it sends back now they can still they're still in contact uh with this incredibly weak signal of you know I don't know 10 watts or something that's coming billions of miles through the miracle of uh error correction. Okay. And what's interesting is that communication and storage memory are basically the same problem. In communication, Alice wants to send some bits to Bob who's at another place in space. Memory is Alice wants to send a message to herself over time and you know a month later she wants to have the same get get the message she sent. Right? That's what storage and memory is. But it's as far as Claude Shannon's concerned, it's the same problem. There's a noisy channel when you sub transmit this through space as a light wave or radio wave or something. There's a noisy channel when you put this on a hard drive and cosmic rays are coming and flipping bits over time. It's the same problem and it's solved by the same error correction techniques. Yes. >> Can you go more in depth about exactly what a noisy channel is? Like where's an example? >> Yeah, I I will give you one very shortly. Okay. >> If it if it's not satisfactory, ask again. Yeah, sir. >> I'll But basically the the bottom line is Alice sends a zero and it might arrive and Bob might maybe there was a voltage fluctuation or something happened and Bob says it's oh that's a one. He mistakes. He mixes up ones and zeros. Yeah. >> Uh well, there are some hi-fi maybe hi-fi doesn't even mean anything to anybody. Uh there are some audio files who insist that uh vacuum tube amplifiers on vinyl listening to vinyl discs is the best way to do music. Uh but uh and there there is uh there is analog electronics but not not so much still exists I guess. I don't I don't know enough about the current state of things to say much definitive there. Okay. All right. So, uh you know, physicists uh believe that information is physical. It's stored in, carried by, represented by physical systems. For example, and the uh simple example is you have an electrical circuit with a battery, a light bulb, and a switch that can be in two positions. And the physical position of the switch can represent zero and one because there's two two values open and closed switch. And uh if the circuit is closed, the light bulb will light. And the in the information which is in the position of the switch is now being transmitted through space. And anybody who has a, you know, a a light a light detector will be able to receive that same bit of information. Many people can receive that bit of information. That's not true in quantum mechanics. You can't uh copy quantum information. We'll talk about that no cloning theorem later. So, um, there actually are two possible encodings. Who's to say that the light bulb off should represent zero and the light bulb on should be represented by one? You could you could do it the other way around. Doesn't matter. It's your choice. Okay? Is that clear? It's completely arbitrary, but Alice and Bob have to agree on what that choice is, right? And uh so uh Alice could be sending photons of light, pulses of light to uh off, on on off, on on like that. And Bob um Bob and she have agreed in advance that when the light is on, that's a one. And maybe that if if none of the photons are lost or his detector fails to detect them or something, he will receive the correct bits. If they happen to uh Bob didn't get the memo about which what the Alice's convention was, he will get uh he will get exactly the opposite set of bits. But no information is actually lost. It's all in there. All he's got to do if it doesn't make any sense is apply a not operation to every bit and see if that bit string makes sense. So there the the transformation law between the two possible encodings is just bit flip. If it's zero, make it one. If it's one, make it zero. And uh there's no the information content is the same either way that Bob interprets the message. Uh now what's interesting is that because there are these two choices and only two uh that then really there's only one kind of error bit flip. Now, we're going to get to your question about what's a what's a noisy channel. So, uh basically a noisy channel is one in which Alice sends a zero and sometimes Bob receives it as a one incorrectly. Okay. It could be because something happened in the channel or maybe his uh receiver has got some noise. Something went wrong. But the only thing basically that can go wrong is he can make mistake a zero for a one or a one for a zero. There's another there's an asterisk here. There's another thing called eraser errors where one of the bits just fails to arrive. We'll talk about that later. But roughly speaking, the only thing that the noisy channel can do is flip a bit. A classical noisy channel can do is flip a bit from zero to one or one to zero some fraction of the time. When we look at quantum errors in the second half of the lecture, it's more subtle. There are more kinds of errors. Okay, so here's now the answer to your question. Uh uh this is called a noisy binary classical channel. This was defined by Claude Shannon in 1940s. So this represents um uh two states. You could send a one or a zero and if everything is fine, they'll come out the same as they were sent. A zero comes out as a zero. A one comes out of as a one. But randomly each time, this is a model that he made. The model is that randomly each time you send a zero, there's a probability P 0. It'll come out as a zero and a probability P 01. It'll come out as a one. So the you can think of the uh this transition as a bit flip from zero to one. But if Alice sends a one, there's a probability P11. It comes out as a one and a probability P10 that it comes out as a zero. Okay, does that make sense? And the smaller those probabilities are, the less noisy the channel is. Does that make sense? So, um, and as I said, ignoring erasers, there's only two possible errors that a one becomes a zero or a zero becomes a one. So, these numbers, these four numbers define the channel. And since since a a one a one has to come out as a one or a zero, the sum of those two probabilities has to be one. And since a zero has to come out as a zero or one, the sum of those two probabilities uh have to be uh one. So there's really um sort of only two numbers you need to define the channel. those two numbers there. Now, sometimes those numbers are typically they're not equal uh for various reasons. You know, it might be more likely that a one is received as a zero than the other way around. But in the simplest case, the so-called binary symmetric channel or BSC, then these two probabilities are equal to some number epsilon. So the probability that a zero becomes a one is epsilon. The probability that a one becomes a zero is also epsilon. That's a a special case, but it's a little simpler to deal with. So that's the one we'll talk about. Is that clear? Okay. Okay. Good. All right. Now, and now for the asterisk, there can also be erasers. Let's say um let's say um Alice uh Alice has this flashlight, right? And she can send no light. That's a zero. light is on. That's a one. Well, you know, maybe sometimes a a cloud passes in front or there's uh Bob's detector doesn't work or something. Then he doesn't detect the the pulse of light. Well, then he would think it's a zero. Okay. But maybe Alice could do something more clever. She can have a red flashlight and a blue flashlight. One is a zero. They're supposed to represent zero and one, but every time she sends a bit, there should be some light, either red or blue. But sometimes no light arrives. Then Bob knows something went wrong. That's an eraser error. The bit was lost in transit, you know. Okay. And uh so so what's Bob gonna do? He knows he was supposed to have received a bit at this moment. and he didn't. Well, the best he could do is like flip a coin and decide just say, "Okay, it was a zero or one." Either that's correct or it's the bit flip error that we talked about before. So, uh, when you lose bits, it's really almost the same thing as bit flips. And the nice thing is you know which bit not to trust when you're trying to decode the errors because you know there's A-50% chance you guessed wrong on on the bit and you know which one is in the long bit string which ones uh are less trustworthy and that actually helps you decode and this has become this concept of eraser errors has become very important in quantum error. correction these days and something we're we're actually working on. See that? Yeah. >> So the equations that say that just 100% >> yeah because if there aren't any erasers if all the bits get through a one is either going to be rece is definitely going to be received either as a one or a zero. And so with a 100% probability, you're going to get something as long as there's no erasers. >> That's what it means. Yeah. >> Yeah. >> You don't. So you flip a coin and put one of the values in there and then it reduces to the same problem as before bit flips. There's a little higher probability of bit flips because now there's bit flips that happened in transit and also erasers where you don't know what to do. So half of those are bit flips. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, we're gonna you could um uh you could send each bit three times and uh if one of them doesn't get through and the other two are the same, chances are uh you know what the correct value was. We'll get into that. Other questions? Yes. whe >> well uh so maybe uh Alice and Bob have arranged that she's going every second they have the clocks that agree every second she's going to send one bit and uh she's going to send them she's gonna going to send a packet of a,024 bits and then uh rest for 10 seconds and then do it again. They have some agreement and then so he's expecting to, you know, get these on some regular schedule once a second and if he gets one at this time and then there's two seconds before he gets the next one, then he knows he didn't get them one in between. 50% is correct. >> It doesn't, but uh but the net effect is as if the channel was just slightly noisier and had a few more bit flips. And we're going to study how you can make codes that protect you against bit flips. >> Yeah. But we haven't gotten there yet. But you you don't um you don't know what the bit is supposed to be, but you do know in the case of erasers which bit is doubtful. Yeah. Okay. All right. So before we do error correction, let's do error detection. I just want a uh uh flag to go up and say, "Hey, something's wrong. It looks like there's an error. Uh you're going to have to stop and ask Alice to send it again or something like that." Okay? But you can't correct the error. And that's done with a duplication or a twobit repetition code. Okay. So every time Alice wants to send a zero, she sends zero zero two zeros. Every time she wants to send a one, she sends the message twice, basically. Okay, it's not the greatest code, but it's the simplest code. All right, so let's So here's what Alice sends zero or intends to send. Let's say she's we're just going to consider that she's sending a zero. And here's what Bob what what comes out of the channel. This is what Alice puts into the channel. This is what comes out of the noisy channel. Okay. Sometimes uh there are no errors and zero comes out. Sometimes there's one error and it was on the first bit. Sometimes there's one error but it was on the second bit. Sometimes there are two errors and both both bits flip. Okay. All right. So what's the probability? Well uh if P or epsilon same thing uh is the probability that a given bit flips when it goes through the channel and I'm assuming it's a binary symmetric channel. Then the probability that it doesn't flip is one minus P. And you have to have this guy not flip and this guy not flip. And when you have two independent probabilities and they uh and an and they both ha both situations have to be true then you multiply their probabilities. So you get 1 minus p * 1 minus p. Let's say P is 0.1. Then there's a a 90% chance this guy won't flip and a 90% chance that guy won't flip. And the probability that neither of them flipped is 0.9 * 0.9 81%. Is that clear? Okay. Then uh the probability that the first one flipped is P and that the second one didn't flip is one minus P. And then this one has the same probability. It's just in the other order. The second one flipped and the first one uh uh didn't. But those are algebraically equal. I should have written it the other way, but it doesn't matter. The probability they both flip is P * P. So if it's 10% for one of them to flip, it's only 1% for both of them to flip. So it's rare. Okay. Yes. >> Now the last one. How would you be able to differentiate whe >> Excellent question. You can't. So this code cannot correct actually uh any errors. In particular here there are two errors that looks just like the uh Alice intended to send one one and there were no errors. So you would fail to even notice that that was an error. Okay. If the bits agree, uh, you assume there's no error. But in fact, there could have been two errors. If the bits disagree, you you don't know whether it's this case or that case coming from 0 0 or from one one. You can't all you can do is say, I know one of them is wrong. I just don't know which one. So this is this heralds. You can use that to raise a flag and say, "Hey, something went wrong, but I can't tell you what the intended message was." Is that clear? And but sometimes with low probability like 1% you get completely fooled. You there is a error and you don't realize it. Okay. So, uh this is uh so 81% of the time everything is fine. uh this is uh 9% of the time uh the bits disagree this way or that way. So that's 18% of the time basically almost and 1% of the time you get completely fooled. Okay. But in no case can you correct the errors you but uh for the most likely error when P is small is either zero errors or one error. And if there's one error uh the flag goes up and you say I know not to trust the message because something's wrong. A small amount of the time 1% of the time I totally get fooled. I think there's no error. Okay, good. Okay, so um so I'm I'm getting some co there's costs and benefits to doing this. I have to send the message twice. So my bandwidth or the rate at which I can send information is only is lower by a factor of two. Bandwidth is just a electrical engineering term for rate at which I can send bits. I have to send everything twice so I can only send half as many messages, right? uh the the the fidelity the the the fraction of the time that there's no error falls from 1 minus p to 1 minus p^2 because they have to no error. You have to have both of those guys have no error. You have more bits so there's more chances for error. So that's not so good. Uh on the other hand the unheralded error rate that is uh that there's an error and you don't notice it is uh uh let's say I just sent one bit there's a probability p it'll be wrong say 10%. But now the probability that I get completely fooled is only this case. That's only 1%. It goes from P to P ^2. That's good. Yep. >> Do these rules hold? Like if you have three, you have four. >> We'll we'll we're going to do that next. Yes. And uh when you have more than two uh if you have an odd number you can do majority voting and that helps you uh correct errors. Good. Okay. So you that you still get lots of errors from this but you know not to trust that and you can ask Alice to send again or something. Okay. Okay. Um, good. So, let's now go up to three. And now you have uh you can do uh majority voting. So, here's what Alice again just wants to send uh logical zero. So, 0000 she's going to send it three times. So, now you know the bandwidth is down by a factor of three. It comes with a cost but the probability of um uh correctly decoding the message is now going to go up because you can correct errors. Okay. So this is what she puts in. This is what comes out. Sometimes there are no errors. That occurs with uh I've switched from P to epsilon here. Sorry. uh 1 minus epsilon cubed because all three bits have to be correct. Each is correct with probability one minus p or one minus epsilon. There are three different ways to have one error could be on this bit, that bit or that bit that occurs and they so it's each one is epsilon * 1 minus epsilon squared because there's one with an error and two with no error. But there are three different ways that can happen. So there's a three there. There are actually three ways you can have two errors. which is a little funny, but if you think about the one of the three doesn't doesn't have an error. There's three ways to do that. And it's now three epsilon squared because there are two errors. One minus epsilon because that guy, one of them doesn't have an error. And then there's only one way to have three errors and you get 111. Okay. Now let's uh let's do majority voting. So I I go here and I say, "Oh, all three of these tell me it's zero. It's almost certainly a a zero." And uh you get the right answer because Alice sent three zeros. Here, Alice sent three zeros and Bob got one of these. But he looks at it and says, "Uh, one of these is different from the other two." You guys all probably young enough to have grown up on Sesame Street, so you you know about finding out which one is different than the others. So you say, "Oh, I'm going to do majority voting. Two out of the three tell me it's a zero. So I'm going to go with zero as the answer." And that's correct because that's what Alice sent. Okay. So this is uh correctable by majority voting. Here, two of them are flipped. And you say, "Oh, I see two of them are one. Probably the most likely thing is there was one error, not two errors." And so I'm going to decode this as 111. That's wrong. So the majority voting rule fails here. And it fails completely here because you don't even think there's any errors. But actually, it's a very rare situation where there were three errors. Okay. But uh and again uh the probability of no errors has now fallen because I'm sending three bits each of which can have an error. But the most likely errors are the ones with only one error. If epsilon is small and I can correct those. So now I'm winning. then it's uh I still fail if there are two errors but that only occurs with an epsilon squared is for small epsilon that's the most important thing and occasionally there's three errors so this would be 1% of the time this would be one time in a thousand say okay so uh the probability of an uncorrectable error that is there are two physical errors or three physical errors because it's an or you should add the probabilities not multiply them like you do when it's an and so that's um in the limit of uh uh uh well there okay actually if you just add these two terms you get this 3 epsilon^ 2 - 2 epsilon cub If epsilon is, you know, 1% this term is a lot bigger than that term. So it's approximately three 3%. Okay? So if you sent one bit, let's say there's a 10% chance of getting an error. But now after you've corrected these errors and are only fooled by two or three errors, the probability is closer to 3%. 3 * 0.1^ 2 plus a small minus a small correction. So So you're doing better by about a factor of three. So you can make this plot. This is the error probability per bit. If I just and here's the logical error that is after the decoding and fixing any errors that you can fix by majority voting. What's the probability you got it right? Well, if you just send one bit, it's just equal to the physical error probability. But if you use this threebit error correcting code, you get a result that looks like this. And below an error rate of 1/2, the logical error rate goes down relative to just sending a single bit. So you pay a price. You have to use the channel three times. You can't send messages as fast, but you receive them more reliably. And way down here uh it's much more reliably because the probability of getting fooled is got starts with 3 epsilon squared. So if epsilon is 10us 6 that's 3 * 10us 12 you're really gaining whereas uh this would be 10us 6. So you gain six orders of magnitude. Okay. So that you you can define what's called error correction gain and we do this in quantum error correction also. That's where we first defined it actually. It's the physical error rate on each bid divided by the logical error rate. a a thing that uh when Bob does the decoding and corrects the errors, what's the probability that he got it wrong? If this is bigger than one, you have that's good. You have error correction gain. So, it's the it's the ratio of this number to that number. Does that make sense? So, this gets that ratio gets huge way down here. It's very close to one at the what's called the threshold or the break even point. Okay. So if I just uh divide out powers of epsilon I get 1 over epsilon * 1 over 3 - 2 epsilon. If epsilon is small I can throw that term away compared to the three. It's approximately 1 over 3 epsilon. So it's really getting big. for uh uh small physical error rates. So, and this is an important lesson. Errors are much easier to correct if they're rare and but you there is a price a one-third there because I've got three bits and there's each of them can have errors. So, there's three roughly three times as many errors as before, but most of them are correctable. Okay. So if this is 10 the minus 6 uh that's onethird of a million is the gain. It's a huge gain. Errors u uncorrectable errors are very rare. Okay. Okay. Uh so now well that was that was good. Why don't we make a repetition code with five or 500 you know and get really really sure? So um so we have to take an odd number so that there's no ties. Uh so we'll say there's the number of bits is 2 n plus one. Uh the code encodes one logical bit. I send a string of 51 bits say and and I can decode and get one logical bit out of it. Uh that's K. Uh the code there's a thing called the code distance. The code distance D is the smallest number of errors that are needed to completely fool you because it takes you from one code word to the other. So here I have a five bit repetition code. If Alice sends five zeros and there are five bit flips, then it looks like there are no errors. Okay, so the code distance is the number of bits in this case. And there's this standard notation N K D. N is the number of physical cubits. K is the number of logical sorry bits. and D is the distance. Okay, so this would be a 515 code. Okay, now when you have five bits, the major, you know, you can correct one bit, two bits, uh, flipping. But if you have three bits flipped, then the correct bits are now in the minority and the the majority voting is going to get the wrong answer. Okay. So that for for when D is odd uh that's the the minimum uh if if the errors the number of errors is d + one over two. So five + 1 6 over two is three. If I get three errors, that's now the majority and I'll be fooled. Okay, so it turns out that then for very small physical error rates, the logical error rate scales like this. You need d plus at least d plus one over two errors. And when epsilon is small, the most likely thing is that you have d+1 over two and not more. And then there's some big combinatorial factor in front because there are many different ways to distribute those errors over the bits. It could be in the beginning, in the middle, the end as some giant combinatorial factor. Okay? But again, the bigger the distance, the smaller the physical error rate, the better you're going to do. Errors are easier to correct when they're rare. Okay. So, so let's go back to our triplication code. Just n equals 3. Here's the code space. This is this is 0000 is a legal message. 111 is a legal message. Anything else is an error, right? And uh but part of the space, let's say where there's one bit flipped, that's still correctable. But if there are two bit flips or three bit flips, you're out here in what used to be on uh ancient maps uh here be dragons. Uh you know, you're you're going to get uh fooled if you're out here or eaten by the dragons, right? So the error correction circuit its job is to put you back here in the correct place that the uh you came from. If it came from 0000 and had one error, you should put it back there, not there. If there are two errors out here, then you then you you know you're going to put it back and get the wrong thing. So um so let's So that's error correction. Let's again talk about fault tolerance for a second. So this is a either a control problem or a communication problem. And this is the the good place. This is where the number of errors is correctable or uh you know the autopilot can recover from turbulence if it's not too big. Uh and out here uh you can't. Okay. And uh let's in the example of the three cubit repetition code. This is the space that has zero or one physical errors. This has two or three. And uh so you could have errors on the uh the data cubits. I haven't shown you yet uh how you uh do the decoding. Um, but you need some extra circuits, some extra bits to do that. They could they could have errors. Um, you could be could be part of a computer. You're doing operations NAND, exor, and whatever on these bits and maybe those gate operations produce errors. But as long as they're not too bad, you know, like there's still correctable errors, it's not so terrible because maybe the system will correct the error in the next round. Then you have partial fault tolerance. But uh suppose that you uh um uh get some kind of a something happens that causes errors to spread. So now you have two errors uh because you did some gate operation then then you fail. You're not completely fault tolerant. Okay. So uh okay. So, let's make this more concrete now. Here's my threebit repetition code. And I said, "Oh, we just do majority voting. No problem. It fixes most of the errors." Well, how do you do majority voting? you got some kind of little uh computer widget, circuit widget, which I'll just call MAGE, that uh compares the three and outputs the whatever the majority number is, zero or one. Okay, well that's not fault tolerant. it it can correct one error here successfully but this is a single point of failure that little piece of the circuit we were assuming didn't cause any problems but it when you uh are dealing with fault tolerance you have to be very paranoid everything causes problems and this unit could fail it could have some noise or something and then all maybe the majority is supposed to be one and it outputs zero then you end up with zero zero and it's wrong. Okay, so there's a single point of failure. Well, you can make it tolerant of uh uh one of the but you you can replicate the majority voting units. Okay, we're going to assume all the wires don't don't break. Got to assume some you can't be completely paranoid. So here here's your code, right? three bits and you copy them into all three majority voting units. Okay? And then each majority voting unit votes and outputs here. If one of these should fail, the majority you're still inside the correctable space. you'll have like 001 when it was supposed to be 00. Okay, so that's an error, but it's correctable and chances are the when you run this again, uh it'll get repaired in the next correction round. Okay, so that's an example of partial fault tolerance where you you can you're tolerant of a certain number of errors in the form of bit flips and a certain number of errors in the circuit that corrects the errors. Yes. How's this all that collections? >> Uh well, you if you had nine bits and one majority voter circuit, uh this is a single point of failure. If you had nine bits and you had three copies of of this, uh you could be uh tolerant of one of those uh failing because six of the nine would still be correct. Uh there are some subtleties over which one is better. I have to think about it. I think this is actually better, but I'd have to think about it. >> Yeah. We have a layer of like we >> uh yes you guys are great at asking questions. So so let's do memory. Okay. So I'm going to encode in three physical bits. I'm going to check for errors and then I'm gonna wait. That's my memory. I'm storing it. Okay. Then I'm gonna repeat after some length of time. I'm going to check for errors again every every few seconds or something. And now you know what is the epsilon that you put in there? Well, that there's an epsilon m for the probability one of these guys fails. Uh but there's an epsilon for bit flips just while it's sitting there idling, cosmic rays coming or something. And that probability grows with time. So the longer I wait, the more likely there's going to be an uncorrectable error, two errors or three errors here. So I don't want to wait too long. On the other hand, if I don't wait very long and I keep applying these things and they cause errors, that's not good either. And it turns out that the optimal length of time to wait to check for errors and correct them. When the correction is good but not perfect, you should wait until the probability of an uncorrectable error here is about the same as the probability of an uncorrectable error in the majority voting segment. And so as a function of waiting time at short times, you're checking so often that most likely you're causing errors by checking and one of your majority voters is messing up. If you wait for long times, the uh the error rate goes up because you're dominated by bit flips that are occurring in between the error checks. And there's an optimum where the probability of a physical error and the probability of a majority voting error are about equal. All right. You can also do fault tolerant gate operations. Here's a NAND gate. >> Yatform specific. >> Absolutely. Absolutely. So, for example, uh good. So, super connecting cubits uh don't do very well on the idling part. They have errors much more frequently than trapped ions or rberg atoms. Okay. On the other hand, we have extremely good gates. So we don't tend to make errors during gate operations like and and NAND and and exor. Uh so we have to have error correction just for memory. Whereas uh a cold atom system that has a coherence time of 1 second or something uh it would be very hard to get any error correction gain for memory because the memory is already so good. They have a huge problem because their gates are slow and not not very good. Now why why is that? Because the reason they have 1 second coherence times is that their atoms are almost disconnected from the rest of the universe, including your control system. There's this sort of iron law that um uh if your cubid has good coherence, it's because it doesn't couple to the environment or to you. So uh so there's this like engineering conundrum that we are we're all trying to do error correction. They're trying to do it after gates. We're trying to do it between gates. Yeah. Good. Uh so here's some NAND gate where the output is not A and B and uh you can uh triplicate those circuits. Throw in major and and work in this encoded basis of uh uh an error correcting code for each wire. And uh there are two wires in and one wire out. And uh I won't go into the details here, but this is how you would do this in a classic classical classical circuit. Okay, time for a break. Okay, so you have the background now on the simplest classical error correction code, just a repetition code. It's not very efficient. If you want to have a 101 bit repetition code, you have to use the channel 101 times or use 101 channels and uh you're still only sending, you know, one bit. So uh there are much more sophisticated classical codes but um likewise for quantum error correction we're going to use the quantum version of the simplest thing a repetition code but there are lots of uh subtleties that are different than in the classical case. So uh let's start with a quiz. Is quantum information carried by waves or particles? Yes. Uh is it analog or digital? Yes. Okay, you guys catch on quickly. Uh so it's pretty different and weird. And um one of the weirdnesses is the superposition principle. So if I have a register of n let's say three classical bits the register can be in one of 2 to the n possible states either this one or this one or that one representing the binary numbers in this case from zero to 2 to the n minus one 0 to 7. uh but a register of quantum bits can be in an arbitrary superposition of all uh of the states with arbitrary coefficients complex coefficients in front of them. And uh so if you want to represent the most general quantum state of even a small quantum computer with say 50 bits uh the state space has 2 to the 50 um uh basis vectors in it and each one can have a rand some arbitrary complex coefficient in front of it. 2 to the 50 is around 2 to the 53 is about a pabyte. 10 the 15 bytes which is pretty big and uh there are tricks for approximately representing things but you can see that it doesn't take a very big quantum computer before it becomes difficult to fully simulate classically which is part of where some of the power comes from. Uh but this huge information content of quantum superpositions comes with a cost. Uh it's great sensitivity to noise and perturbations and dissipation. Uh all that that quantum state that superposition is very delicate and uh that's why we're going to need uh quantum error correction. So for example the phase of the complex numbers in those superp positions tend to be well defined only for some finite what's called coherence time uh t2 and so uh but despite this sensitivity we've made exponential progress in the last 20 years in terms of superconducting cqit coherence times as I mentioned atoms and ions are very coherent They can store they can remember what state they're in for seconds. Uh that's why we use them for atomic clocks. Uh but with super connecting cubits are many orders of magnitude worse but getting better exponentially better over time. When when the first superconducting cubit was made uh by Nakamura in Japan in 1998, it had about immeasurably short coherence time, maybe around one nancond and now we're up uh in this is a little old uh plot here, but we're up to uh millisecond coherence times. So, six orders of magnitude gain just by engineering better materials, better cubit designs, better um what we call microwave hygiene, all kinds of just you know engineering things and uh but no matter how much progress Yes. >> Sorry. Could you uh explain T1 versus T2? Uh so T1 is um so typically you have some kind of artificial atom like a superconducting circuit or a natural atom and you take and they have quantized energy levels and typically you take the lowest two but not always to be your zero. 0 and one of your cubit. And if you're in one and you're an atom, uh you could fall down to zero and emit a photon of light. Hydrogen does that in about 1.5 nconds. A, uh, transmon supernitting cubit uh, does it in about in free space does it in about 100 nanoconds. Uh, it doesn't emit an ultraviolet photon like hydrogen. emits a microwave photon. But if you surround it by a super connecting box, you can make it live makes it hard to emit that photon and it can live for milliseconds. So the rate at which the state relaxes from one to zero or heats up from zero to one but typically it's downhill. Uh that's that rate is called one over t1. Okay. Uh if you have a so uh so that's you know one goes to zero. Uh if you have zero plus one and the phase of the superp position changes to minus in some length of time. Uh the rate at which that happens is called one over ti the intrinsic defasing rate. And for complicated reasons, there's a thing called 1 over t2, which is 1 over t5 + 1 over 2 t1. The phase might not be changing, but if you collapse from one to zero, the superp position is gone. So there's sort of T1 contributes to the loss of the superp position uh because it stops being a superp position and T5 contributes to the loss of the superp position because it messes up the phase and it just turns out that one over T2 is that particular quantity. Good. So yeah, if someone says tells you about T1 when they you ask them what the coherence of their cubits is, walk away because T1 is not really the it's it's T2 that counts. Okay, other questions? Okay. So uh so we keep making physical progress with better materials, better cubit designs, more isolation uh and coance times are getting longer and longer. So far about six orders of magnitude longer in super connecting cubits. But uh it doesn't matter. You still have to deal with the iron law of quantum computing. There's no such thing as too much coherence. If you know if you get your quantum computer to run for one second, somebody will say some computer scientist will come and say, "Oh, please make it two seconds because I need my algorithm to run longer." You know, there's just no limit. And so, we need quantum error correction. We can go we've gone a long way with reducing the physical error rate but now we're beginning to study quantum error correction to reduce the logical error rate by taking many physical cubits making logical cubits and executing quantum error correction rate. Yeah, there we will never build. Some people think that when you have fall tolerance, you have immortal cubits. No, there's only partial fault tolerance. like it's almost impossible to be tolerant of somebody tripping over the power cord and disconnecting your your computer, you know, or some other correlated errors. You can make the error rate lower and lower and and fault tolerance means that the it's you if when the error rate gets really low, you need your error correction circuit to really not make errors or it'll be the dominant source of problems. That's what fault tolerance is roughly speaking. >> Yeah, it'll get exponentially small. >> Uh if you're if you have a fault tolerant design, but uh exponential in the number of cubits you use technically exponential in the so-called distance of the code. Nathan, >> just as a clarifying little point about this, there's an issue that fundamental about this because what you want is you want to also be able to control your quantum information but the noise processes in your environment figure out that you're using >> that's one of the reasons why there's always going to be at some level errors >> right if you wanna to lock your cubits up in a safe and and protect them from the environment. That's great. But you'll never measure them. You'll never do gates on them, you know. So that's that's the engineering challenge. Good. Um okay. And I've already given this point that we need error correction for memory in supering cubits and error correction for gates in in other platforms. But we still need error correction. Okay. Now quantum errors are more subtle like everything in quantum mechanics is more subtle than classical mechanics including the errors. So here let's just consider one bit. It's in a superp position of zero and one with complex coefficients alpha and beta. And let's say there's a bit flip error. So I apply a pi xax and I the not me but the noise demon applies a pi x and flips the bit. Then it goes from alpha 0 plus beta 1 to alpha 1 plus beta 0. Right? The sup superition it's in a superp position state but the bit flip works on every element of the superp position if there's that one bit. If you have a phase flip, uh, alpha is still multiplying zero and beta is still multiplying one except the sign of beta flips. Okay? Uh, you could have both uh well that's a y error because the pi y matrix is i i i times xz. So that's a global factor of the complex number i, but it doesn't affect anything typically. You can have what are called coherent errors. Suppose I I have my cubid on the block sphere. It's supposed to be here and the noise demon just rotates it a little bit over this way around the x- axis. Well, that's given by this operation, which is a superposition of the identity doing nothing, some complex number and a bit flip. So, did the bit flip or not? Well, it's in a superp position of having flipped and not having flipped. You need to be able to fix those kinds of errors, too. Okay, that's pretty weird. Then there are these nonunitary errors like amplitude damping where one can decay down to zero, but maybe the reverse can't happen. Or maybe it does, but it's a separate process. Maybe there's uh photons l running around in your environment because it's hot and they can excite the cubit. Okay, that's a that's another kind of error. So there are lots of these kinds of errors. Whereas in the classical case we said ignoring erasers, there's just bit flips. Okay, the simplest ones to understand are these pi errors X Y and Z. But um that's not you know necessarily realistic. And these other kinds which are harder to deal with sometimes uh you can't you can't ignore them just because they're harder. They do happen. Okay. So here's the error correction problem. >> Oh sorry >> just to be clear. >> Yes. Uh we are in the business here of designing codes where you can tell when it leaks out of the code space and the cubit can you can make a measurement that raises a flag and tells you there's a problem with this particular cubit. But I'm not I'm not going to go into that here. Okay. uh it does have a number of advantages. Okay, so here's the error correction problem in a nutshell. I'm going to give you a cubit in an unknown quantum state. I'm going to pluck it out of the middle of my quantum computer. It's in some weird superposition state. It's probably entangled with 130 other cubits in my processor. I have no idea what the state is. If you measure it to see what state it's in, the state will collapse to whatever it is you see. Right? If you measure are you in zero or one, it will come back and say yes every time I'm in zero or I'm in one. Um, and the state has changed in a way that you can't tell. So if it develops an error, please fix it. Well, how you know you have to measure something to see what the error is and fix it. How in the world can we do that? And amazingly, it can be done. And you just have to be very very subtle in what you measure and how you encode the information in a clever way so that you can measure learn what error happened but not learn what quantum state the logical cubit was in because then you would collapse it. Okay. And once you learn what error happened, let's say, oh, there was a bit flip on Qbit 7, then I just apply another bit flip and it's fixed. That's the idea. >> Yes. >> Yes, we'll come to that. Okay. So, so pictorially we're going to store we're going to create a logical cubit out of some number in this case nine physical cubits and we've got to encode the logical cubit is you know a phys a cubit is in alpha 0 plus beta 1 that the quantum information is in the coefficients alpha and beta and somehow that information about alpha and beta data has to be hidden inside here in some clever way in some giant entangled state. The information is in the correlations among all these cubits. It's not in any single cubit because if it were then the environment could measure this somehow by by some decoherence or decay process could measure the state of that and then it would learn the state of the logical information and then it would be dead. Okay. So there's some some non-locality and then you need an error correction gadget which I'll call a Maxwell demon that from the uh statistical mechanics that is making these very subtle measurements to locate the errors and correct them and pump the entropy or the randomness out of your quantum state into some cold bath. Just the way uh uh heat flows from hot to cold in thermodynamics and we talked about this in the classical case. If you have n cubits each one is having errors. So the error rate first thing that happens is the error rate goes up by a factor of n. You take a giant step backwards. there are now many more errors than when you just had one cubit. So you better they're paying a big price and the Maxwell demon has to be so fast and clever and accurate and looking for the errors and getting rid of them that it overcomes that factor of n and then you get back to where you started. Then it has to do even better than that if the error correction gain is going to be bigger than one because the error correction gain is the lifetime of the logical cubit divided by the lifetime of the best single quantum component a cubit inside best physical one. Okay. Just because you turn on the error correction and it gets better doesn't mean that you're gaining because you you have to get past that factor of n just to break even. Okay, this is why it's very very hard. Okay, so yeah, so that's uh error correction gain. It's the same thing as we discussed in the classical case. So quantum error correction is a kind of emergent or collective phenomenon much like a phase transition like uh between a magnet being demagnetized and magnetized is a phase transition or water turning to steam. It really uh in order to get an immortal cubit the num you have to take the limit of an infinite number of physical cubits inside your logical cubit which will never happen but you can get close. So weirdly you know among all these physical cubits one is better than all the others and you have to beat that and by adding n minus one not as good cubits but then doing something collective with them you can make it better than than the best one. Okay. So let's start with a quantum version of the repetition code with two cubits. the one we looked at classically, right? We could herald errors, but we couldn't correct them. So, let's do the same thing here. So, here's my um my unknown quantum state. I'm writing it here as the alpha and beta, but we don't know what those are. And then I'm going to do some unitary circuit with C knots and and knots and tophilles or whatever gates. And I want to I want to take this state and copy it into an ancilla that's initially in zero. So I want to go from here to here. And this is the thing that's impossible. Somebody somebody asked about that earlier. Um if you don't know if you know what the state is, you can just follow the same recipe that you used to create that to put this in the same state. But if you don't know what those are, it's impossible. And that's the no cloning theorem. How does it work? Well, uh this quantum mechanics is linear. This is just some big matrix acting on this state vector. And it that if you don't know what alpha and beta are, you can't make that big matrix depend on alpha and beta. It's just a bunch of numbers. But look over here on this side you see there are some coefficients like the state zero has coefficient alpha squared or beta squared or alpha beta that are not linear in alpha and beta. So something's wrong. I have AI'm doing linear algebra multiplying this vector by something that depends linearly in alpha and beta by a big matrix and getting something that depends nonlinearly on alpha and beta. That's impossible if you don't know what alpha and beta are so that you can put those numbers inside you. So that's the no cloning theorem. Equivalently, if I give you an unknown state and you want to copy it, you should have to measure it in order to make a copy to see what it is. And when you measure it, it changes. So that's the, you know, the physicist version of um this is an incredibly simple argument, but uh it wasn't made until the 1990s, I think, and was a huge big deal when people, you know, it's one of those things. Darn, I wish I had thought of that. You know, it's incredibly simple but uh profound. Okay. So, there are no quantum Xerox machines for unknown states. Nathan wants to say something. >> I want to say something, but I was going to avoid it. >> Feel okay. >> All right. All right. All right. Fine. It turns out there's a classical probability distribution. If you could clone an unknown probability distribution, we wouldn't need to poll the entire United States during an election. All we have to do is randomly select one person over the entire country and then clone that person's respon response before we look at it a billion times and then we actually have more information about the US by asking everyone >> who cloning classical information. So actually this is this is moreeneral more more to do with the probability theory. >> Yeah. >> I see. Interesting. Thank you. Okay. Uh so we don't in clone, we entangle. Instead of making this times this, we're going to make this. Right now, alpha and beta only appear linearly on the other side. That's legal. Okay? And in fact, here's the circuit that does it. So here's my unknown state. I don't know what it is, but I apply a controlled knot. So for this part of the state, the control is in zero. So nothing happens here. It stays in zero. For this part of the state, the control is in one. That activates the not operation here and puts the encilla in one. So you end up getting this entangled state 0 0 plus one one. Right? That's a simple C knot circuit and that produces this uh duplication and rep two bit rep cubit repetition code state. Okay, we don't know whether the bits are zero or one. We just know they're the same, right? And so if they're somehow not the same, there's been an error just like in the classical case. But how are we gonna figure that out? So uh I need to measure what's called the joint par operator of these two cubits. Z for the first cubit time Z for the second cubit. If for state 0 0 uh that would be this will give + one that'll give + one so I get + one times the same state here they're the same I get minus1 * minus1 that comes out plus but if they're different one of them gives me a minus sign I don't know which one okay and so if I were able to measure this quantity I would get one bit of information. If it's minus there's a single bit flip error. I don't know where though. So this this operator has igen value plus one and minus one just like a poly matrix. So you can you can somehow measure it by mapping its value onto a cubit and then measuring that cub. Okay. What you do not want to do to measure Z1 time Z2 is measure Z1 and measure Z2 and multiply the results. Why? Because if I'm in this superp position and I measure just Z1, never mind Z2, this and I get plus one, this this part of the state's inconsistent with that. collapses away because that would have given minus one and so I lose alpha and beta I just get zero the state changes if the measurement result is minus one it collapses to this and again I've lost alpha and beta if I measure each of these I get two bits of information that's much more than I want I want only one bit not what is the Not what is is it are they which of these four things am I in but whether the bits are the same or different that's one one bit of information okay so how do I how do this is very important distinction just as by the way uh I always get these questions when I teach this circuit like uh so control not so this guy measures the first Qbit and then decid decides whether or not to flip this one. No, it has to work in superp position. If it were to measure the first bit, it would collapse. Okay? So, it has to be something more subtle. Okay? Uh so it's not so easy to measure this weight two operator, this product of two poly matrices. A more natural coupling would be that like they're these represent maybe nuclear spins or electron spins and they couple to some external magnetic field by the sum not the product. The the states 000 and one one are very different. There's much more energy in this state than that state. And yet this operator treats them as the same. It can't tell the difference. So, I got to do something very clever to learn whether they're the same without learning what state they're in. Is that clear? Okay. So, you have to have experiment clever experimentalist friends. Uh but if you're a theorist, you do it like this. Okay. So, here's your encoded uh repetition code and then you have an auxiliary measurement cubit. The thing you want to measure Z1 Z2 has only two igen values plus one and minus one. If I could map those onto the Z of that cubit and measure that guy, I would learn only the product and not the individual things. So I do that with encoding with two controlled knots. Okay. So if both of these cubits are the same, if they're both zero, let's say, then neither control knot is activated and this comes out to be zero. If both cubits are the same and they're both one, then both gates are activated and this gets flipped twice. Zero to one to zero again. So if this comes out zero, you know they're the same. If they're different, if you had 01, for example, then this would not flip and this would flip or the other way around. So it flips uh if they're different, one of the two gates flips you and you end up in one. So now I've mapped Z1 Z2 onto the Z of this guy and the state becomes one minus the product of the Z's. So this is if they're the same, this is + one. 1 minus one is zero. I'm in state zero. If they're opposite, this becomes minus one. And I get one minus min - one, which is two / two zero is one. Okay, is that clear? So, by uh this clever circuit and the fact that you can't tell the difference between flipping the ancilla zero times and two times, I lose I I lose the information about what the individual bits are on these wires. Only their joint property is left. Okay. All right. So uh let's look at an again this is a duplication code not a three cubit code so it can't correct errors just like the classical case it can only herald the errors so let's consider a coherent error on the uh the first cubit that's the zeroth cubit that's the first cubit maybe or first and second I don't care that's the first okay So I want to I'm going to coherently rotate I'm not but the noise demon is going to coherently rotate the first cubit a little bit and I'm going to get a coherent superposition of no error and bit flip on the first cubit. Okay so I don't even know if there's an error or not. There might not be or there might be. Okay. So I end up with this state cossine theta / 2 times the original state plus I sin theta / 2 times this original state except the first bit has been flipped. Is that clear? Okay. So now I measure Z1 Z2. If if it comes out positive, the the error goes away. It collapses away and I end up in the original state. If you measure and see no error, there is no error and you don't even know that you the act of looking ch made the error go away, but it did. Does that make sense? If on the other hand and that occurs with probability cosine^ 2 theta / 2 by the B rule uh but with probability sin^ 2 theta / 2 the product of the two Z's comes out to be negative and the state collapses to this the alpha and beta are still there but they're multiplying different states and now there's no more superposition of no error and error. There's definitely a full bit flip error because you measured and there it was. You the act of measuring bring brings the error state into existence so to speak. Uh, so that's fine, but I don't know uh uh which bit flipped. So I can't correct the error. I only know there was an error just like the classical code. Okay. So quantum errors are continuous. I can my the noise demon can continuously rotate me on the block sphere but this detector this so-called stabilizer measurement of the joint par uh when I measure it I get a discrete result either there was no error or there's a full error and this uh the the measurement back action makes the error state discreet no error or a full error. And this uh the fact that quantum mechanics is both continuous analog and digital uh is what saves you from the no-go theorem that you can't do error correction analog computers in you know every position of the gears is a perfectly legal one. So how do you you know if one of them got moved how do you tell? Uh it's this uh discreetness of the uh your your ability to make clever measurements that collapse this error state onto something definite that you can fix instead of being continuous that you can't fix that makes this go. Yep. always. >> Uh so if you measure this and you see no error and then you just wait a little while there, you know, errors will creep back. I if you measure and you see there is an error and you fix it, errors will again start to creep back in. Unfortunately, it takes time to measure and fix. So errors can happen while you're doing those things and that's where you have to get into fault tolerance and it's more complicated. Okay. So um so okay so now let's do the error correction just like we did in the classical case with a triplication threebit repetition code and instead of creating it with one C knot to flip one ancilla I'm going to have two C knots to flip two ancillas and I'm going to make this state alpha 0000 plus beta 111 >> yes >> two questions to make sure I'm understanding your diagrams Here you're using one register for what was registers in the previous diagram. You have two lines and you have the knots connected. >> Uh oh no sorry you haven't yet >> no this is the entangle. So uh >> like here >> this one this one was for the measurement. The third one was a measurement cubit, but now we're uh we have the original bit and two extra ones that we're going to entangle with it to produce the code word and then to measure things there'll be more ancill. >> Yeah. Right. Right. Right. So that produces the code word alpha 0 plus beta 111. Good. >> Yes. >> Alpha 0 states 0 states times two states, right? >> Yeah. >> Yep. So I'm I'm applying this circuit. If if this bit is zero, neither of these flip. If this bit is one, both of these flip. So they end up being the same. >> Oh, yeah. That's a C not, right? >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. >> So again, we don't know whether the bits are zero or one. We just know they're all the same. >> And we don't want to know whether they're zero or one. We just want to know if somebody's not the same as the others. Okay. So now uh and just to be fancy, so here's zero logical. Here's one logical. Here's the logical x operator. You just flip all the bits and go from 0 0 to 111. That takes you from zero logical to one logical or back just like the x poly operator. For a single bit uh Z you can just take ZZZ and for Y you just take IX Z. And these uh logical operators obey the same pi uh uh group relations and algebra relations that uh uh single cubit pi operators do. And but now we have two stabilizers, two joint parodies, Z1 Z2 and Z2 Z3. I could also define Z1 Z3. But that's just the product of these two. It doesn't give you any new information. So I I can use these to ask the question, are these two the same or are these two the same? Okay, just like I did in the D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d duplication code and the code words are plus one states of each of these stabilizers or joint parodies. Okay, because I get + one * + one if I were to measure that minus1* minus one for that. So uh uh they're plus one states. Okay. So if I measure these quantities and they're both plus one, I know I'm in the code space. Okay. So let's look at the possible errors. Well, there could be just the identity error. That's our favorite error because nothing happens. You could have you could Oh, this code can correct one bit flip, by the way. Nothing else. uh the first flip, the the first bit could flip, the second bit could flip, or the third bit could flip. If that happens, what happens to the joint parodies? Well, if nothing, you know, there's no errors, they're they're both going to be plus one. If let's say the first bit flips from zero to one, then when I measure the joint par here, it's going to be minus one. And when I measure the joint parity here, it's going to be plus one. Okay? If the middle bit flips, they're both going to be minus one because those two are different and those two are different. If the third bit flips, then the first parity is plus and the second is minus. Okay, so I'm measuring two quantities. That gives me two bits of information and it allows me to uniquely distinguish among the four possible error states. No error or one of the three bit flips. This is very important kind of counting arguments that you you should get enough information out of your measurements to determine what the error state is and no more and no less. Right? So it's very convenient that there are four error states and I get two bits of information and log log base 2 of four is two. Okay. So once I figure out I figure out which error happened I don't know if it happened in this 0000 or 11 one. All I know is that both that the middle guy is different than the other two. So I should flip it back. So once I figure out which error happened, I just apply the same error because X squar is identity, right? If you flip a bit twice, you go back to the original state. So the noise demon flipped the bit. I go in and flip it back. Is that clear? that cancels the original error. Well, if but again just like in the classical case if there were two bit flips. So this went to 011 then I would say oh this par is good. They're the same and that one's off. So it must be the first bit that was wrong. And so I take this to one one. Now I'm done for. I made a mistake. Okay, majority voting failed. Likewise with three bit flips, I would say, "Oh, there's no errors at all. I'm just in the other code word." Okay, so that code can only correct bit flips. But there's a related code that can only correct phase flips. And uh so I'll just remind you of some notation. And so plus and minus refer to states that are in the plus and minus x direction on the black sphere. And there are zero plus or minus one. They're superpositions of north and south pole with a certain phase and the normalization. And they're igen states of the x operator with igen values plus one and minus one. And the z operator is now the thing that flips them. Right? It's just applying hatamards everywhere to change interchange x and z basically. uh and so zero logical is plus plus one logical is minus min - minus x logical is three z's z logical is three x's and uh if there's a phase slip error if I apply a z to the middle guy it changes plus to minus and minus to plus so now it's all the same as before except it works for phase flip bears. And so now Peter Shore uh developed uh who who you know gave us error correction uh among other things uh took this three cubit bit flip code and then made three copies of that as a facelift code using a total of nine cubits. And uh here's the logical states. Uh here you see the superposition of bitflip code states that's sensitive now to phase flips. And um this will correct a single bit flip or phase flip or both. It turns out if they're on the same site, namely a Y error, a single pi error on the nine physical cubits. So it has it's NKD. N is nine physical cubits, one logical cubit, and the distance of the code is three. If I flip all three bits, uh, I get a minus sign on this guy. So that's a that's a a logical phase error. If I apply Z to all of these, I interchange zero and one, and it's a logical bit flip. >> So what does that mean? Z one bar. So that just means zero logical and one logical. I copied this out of something that used a different notation. So remember the logical operators are xxx and zzz. So if I have three errors, that's just a logical operator applied to my system. It looks like no errors, but now I've I'm wrong. Uh okay. So this is like the next most complicated code. And then you'll hear this week about other codes and you'll hear about bosanic codes where instead of using cubits we use microwave resonators that hold zero one two three four five microwave photons and um superp positions of those in one single object. a a aluminum box at low temperature just holding photons. Instead of having three or nine cubits, we have one object. Those are called bzanic codes. Okay. So, are we there yet? Well, uh there's sort of this stairway to fault tolerant quantum computation. uh and we've learned how to make uh work on multiple physical cubits, make uh very accurate measurements and control. We're just now error correction is beginning to make logical memory a factor of two or two and a half times longer than the error correction gain is two or two and a half. um we need it to be a billion, but at least it's above one now. And uh so we're kind of here uh learning how to do operations on logical cubits. You know, you've got this um logical cubit that has I don't know 55 cubits in it. How do you do a gate on that? It's something very complicated and may take you a lot longer than it did to do it just a operation on a single cubit. So the lifetime has to get longer than more long than you think to get real gain which is the gain not just in the lifetime the memory but how many gate operations you can do if the gates are slower that that's a penalty. So this is really really hard engineering challenge but we're sort of just uh entering the the age of error correction and early stages of fault tolerance. So uh we we need to get error correction gain for memory and gates much much bigger than two and a half. uh but uh you know we're we're we're just entering an era where things are changing very rapidly both for supering cubits trapped ions and um and rberg neutral atoms um and I think that's the end so happy to take questions