♪ Deep river ♪ ♪ My home is over Jordan ♪ ♪ Deep river, Lord ♪ ♪ I want to cross over into campground ♪ - Marian Anderson. ♪ Oh, don't you want to go ♪ ♪ To the gospel feast ♪ ♪ That promised land ♪ ♪ Where all is peace ♪ ♪ Oh, deep river, Lord ♪ I thought by the end of this course and all the difficult issues we face, you might all be looking for a campground. (students laughing) I don't know. And I'm gonna end with a passage that refers to "Deep River." We've dealt with a lot of difficult history. All history's difficult if you're doing it seriously, about Yale University, about the coming of the Civil War, about slavery, about reconstruction, its aftermath, and it's continuing aftermath. And there was an election, but all is not dark and terrible in history. And it's one of the reasons, of course, that "Spirituals and the Blues" came into existence. The blues is one wag said, or one lyric said, was always looking up and down. And spirituals were the spirituals. At the very end of the Civil War, and into the two, three, four years afterward, there were a variety of journalists from the North who went across the South to write about the battlefields, the ruins of Richmond, the ruins of Charleston. Northern readers were enthralled with this stuff. This went on all the way into the early '70s. One of the most famous was a journalist, a poet actually, who was hired by a New York newspaper. His name was John Trowbridge. He traveled widely across the South in 1866, '67. He became one of the first battlefield tourists. He began his tour at Gettysburg, actually, in '65, August of 1865. The war's only been over for what, three, four months. He arrived in the town. He stayed in a little hotel in the middle of Gettysburg, and he asked the attendant at the hotel, "Where did this world famous fight happen?" And the hotel clerk said, "All around you." And indeed, he started to walk, down toward the battlefield all around town. He eventually found himself in the Gettysburg National Cemetery, the first national cemetery created out of the Civil War. That's where national cemeteries began, of course. And they were still burying people, still properly burying people. He described a stillness on that summer day in that cemetery, but the stillness and the sound was only broken. He said, Trowbridge was a poet, by the "Perpetual click, click sound of stone cutters," who were finally cutting the gravestones, "For primarily unnamed soldiers." If you've ever been to Gettysburg National Cemetery, you know, like a number of other of the Civil War cemeteries, you'll find these stones that say, "Ohio, 310 bodies, Pennsylvania, 490 bodies." They were buried without names. This astonished Trowbridge, how many were unknown, how many were killed. But then he kept describing what he saw, and he actually walked up to the edge of some of these grave sites, which were, some of the bodies literally were still being reburied, more properly buried than they had been in that terrible summer of 1863, two years earlier. And he appeared into a few of these graves. He actually said, "He saw the ends of coffins protruding." He pondered wearily, "The awful uncertainty of the nation's rebirth." "Will it rise?" He asked, "Will it rise?" And without knowing the answer, how many of us have wondered at different junctures in our history, how about the World War II generation? My God, my parents. Would it rise? You know, how about black people in that whole age of Jim Crow, generations of living under what we described the other day, and I will come back to at least briefly today, the humiliation, the laws, the restrictions, that they nevertheless build societies against and around and underneath and above. But how often did they wonder this thing, this America, this country, these creeds, those Civil War amendments, will they rise? This was the question at ground zero for 9/11. Will it rise? That idea, and there's that word it again. We had a wonderful discussion the other night. Thank you, all of you who came to the book discussion, oh, it can't happen here, but that it is still hanging there. And it should. We haven't perfectly figured out what it is in this course. And that's okay, I didn't intend to actually. (David laughs) Sorry. (students laughing) Y'all probably gonna walk out, you know? The it, will it rise, what is it? Is it the American experiment? Is it this thing, this set of creeds, this idea that nation destroyed in the Civil War, remade all but eroded and destroyed again, somehow we made, and where are we now? We don't know. But that idea has always reminded me of the great, great story in Ezekiel, "The Valley of the Dry Bones." One of the greatest metaphors in the, I mean, among thousands of great metaphors in the Bible, the Prophet Ezekiel found himself in a terrible, bleak landscape, a horrific landscape. Not only Trowbridge was seeing the, and by the way, on all these battlefield he visited, he found bones all over the place just protruding from the ground. They just hadn't been buried. Ezekiel found himself in a terrible, bleak landscape, the masses of horrifying bones. He said, "Were very dry." The dry bone. God confronts him with a question. God says, "Son of man, can these bones live?" Why'd you like to be asked that? Oh God. And an awe, Ezekiel doesn't know what to do. He can't know. God puts his hand on the prophet, breathes into the bones on the parched earth, and they begin to grow flesh and skin. And they begin shaking the bones, start clicking and shaking, and moving about. And God pronounces, "Come from the four winds, oh, breath, and breathe upon these slain, that they may live." A humble Ezekiel then prophesied as he was commanded. Prophets are commanded to be prophets. They don't really choose to be. And behold, the bones became flesh, stood up upon their feet, and you know, there's a thousand interpretations of that fantastic, incredible, beautiful, powerful, horrible story. It may just be reminding us the what? I don't know. It may just be reminding us that whatever happens in history is always very old, and very new, 'cause it's happening to you. Okay, now this is gonna be fun for me. I hope you don't mind. Just to revisit quickly, this, of course, was the photo I had up the other day of the burning of the headquarters building of the newspaper in Wilmington, North Carolina. Burned and destroyed, manly, its editor escaped town and carriage, ended up living in New York City. The white supremacist crusade to take back, not just Wilmington and its county, and throw out its black congressmen and its black policemen, and then black city council members. It totally overthrew Wilmington, that county, and then within a year, overthrew the whole government of North Carolina. And North Carolina was redeemed, the last of the Southern ex-Confederate states to be so redeemed. There were, oh God, I forget, should have had that memorized this morning, many thousands of black people registered to vote, and voting in North Carolina at the beginning of 1898. There were about a thousand who voted two years later. They were explicitly disfranchised, not just by some subterfuge or some indirect way. They were explicitly disfranchised by 1902 by the North Carolina legislature because they were black. Now, what I wanna do next is really kind of, I'll do it quickly, but I wanna show that this place called Yale University, obviously underwent all sorts of great changes, you know, progress, and it's lack of progress, and it's now three and a quarter centuries. We focus mostly on the 17th, well, on the 18th and 19th century, and into the early 20th century. You've read the book, you've read the chapter about all the young black men who start coming to Yale, and eventually some black women, and the graduate programs, music, teaching, it's a mixed story. They faced all kinds of racism here, but they came. You've read the late chapter, chapter 11 about student life around Yale in the late 19th century, which was full of minstrel sea and debates and debating clubs about whether lynching was justified and so on. You've read all of that. We got all that out of the Yale Daily News. But along the way, and by the way, something we did not deal with fully in the book, you know, there's only so much time and space. But in the late 19th century, in the transition from President Porter to the second, Timothy Dwight, and then into the presidency of Hadley in the early 20th, Yale remained by all accounts, and even the historians who greatly admire Yale, have said this, a very conservative place. Conservative, not so much in politics and voting, although maybe it was, but it was conservative in that it resisted change. There was an old guard in the faculty here in the late 19th century that didn't want the curriculum changed. It was fine, they had created it. That's not surprising, as one who's spent most of his life in faculties. We don't let change either, unless it's our change, unless it's my course, my field, my theory. But Yale kicking and screaming, did move into the modern age to say the least, in the science, in the professional schools, the law school, the medical, all the professional schools developed slowly but surely, huge endowments. It took a long time for the Yale Law School to develop sufficient press. It's hard to imagine today since it's like the law school, and every would be lawyer on planet earth, just trying to get in as we speak, probably. But it took a long time for the law school to compete with Columbia, Harvard, and so on. They were in cities, big cities. They wanted to go to New Haven to be a lawyer. It took time. The Yale New Haven Medical Complex took time, before it became one of the great medical centers in the world. Yale created a school of education by the early 20th century. That's how many women got here, to get degrees in teaching. You know, long before Yale went co-ed in the undergraduate program, the first women faculty member was hired to teach in the education school. So it's an amazing growth story kicking, screaming at times, of course, like any forbiddingly old institution. But one of the most inter, to me anyway, and maybe to this course, one of those interesting things that happened into the early 20th century, and right on up through the middle of the 20th century, and into the end of that century, was that the study of slavery was in great part born here. This doesn't get a lot of attention, 'cause who cares about a bunch of historians or historiography, you know, the field and how it grows, and who writes this and who writes that, and so on. You can get a little historiography right now, five minute nap if you wish. (students laughing) But seriously, this man, Ullrich Bonnell Phillips, and just to show, I mentioned the other day, I have this critic out there now on this far right wing libertarian website, who butchered me in a long, long, long essay because of the New York Times piece, and says, "You know, we liberals, can't understand anything." Nonsense, Ullrich Bonnell Phillips was a racist historian. He had fundamental values that were all about white supremacy. He was raised in the late 19th century South. He was educated first at the University of Georgia. He ended up teaching all over the North, of course, University of Wisconsin, University of Michigan. He taught summer school all over the, hey, in those days, people had to go find a place to teach summer school to make a living. He taught summer school in Kansas and California, and God knows where, even Harvard. And he came to Yale in 1929, after he was sufficiently famous. In 1929, Yale hired U.B. Phillips. Now, U.B. Phillips is an epithet in some historian circles, just just mentioning grad students here who are preparing for the orals exams. They probably read a few paragraphs of Phillips, which is all anyone ever bothers to do anymore, which is okay, it's okay, it's okay. But if you grew up between 1900, 1905, '10, and World War II, or for that matter, right into the 1950s, whatever you knew about American slavery from schooling, not every school, but most schools, colleges, books, reading, if you were a reader, you knew it from U.B. Phillips and the people he influenced. 1918, he wrote the book, in great part in camps in the South, actually finished the book in a YMC camp that had been converted into a military camp in 1917 in the midst of World War I. It's called "American Negro Slavery." I might have brought a copy with me. Oh God, there it is, you know? Still in print. He's the first historian ever to dig very deeply in the plantation records. In fact, he started publishing volumes of plantation records. Nobody ever done that before. All manifests of slaves, different kinds of slavery in the cotton belt from the tobacco belt. And no one's really done this kind of work before. And then he started training graduate students. He was the Southerner that everybody wanted on their faculty in the North now, gee whiz. What have we learned about why that might've been? Folks that didn't influence the lost cause, was tremendous, even in the North, again, witnessed the war memorial that I discussed again the other day. He doesn't come to Yale in 1929. He'll spend the last four years of his life here, five years, sorry, he's going to die in New Haven. In January, 1934, one of his books was posthumously published. He wrote many, many, many books, many, many edited collection. There was really no one else like him. There are people who will admit that U.B. Phillips was one of the greatest American historians except for his racism. And there is an entire volume of essays on U.B. Phillips, put out in the 1990s. All kinds of people wrote for it. It's a book that is in part, an act of respect for an early historian who helped create a field, at the same time, it's full of brutal critiques, which is what Phillips deserves. Now, I just wanna quickly, I'm not gonna quote from "American Negro Slavery," or "The Racist," well, maybe one or two. The book is full of these basically denigrations of black people as though this was just common knowledge. The black people didn't have the capacity for this or the capacity for that. They were, "Submissive, lighthearted, ingratiating, fond of display, had a proneness to superstition." All this stuff sounds like it's out of minstrelsy, it's out of (indistinct) or something. No, this was common belief across American society, at least among white folk. They had acceptance of subordination. They were chafing and chattering. They had a humble nonchalance and a freedom from carping care, what the hell that meant? But again, it also then goes on to show in economic and political and social terms, just how incredibly important slavery was to the development of America, and especially the American South. And the South was America's region. In those years, everything was still about what's happening in the South? The Southern problem, the negro problem, the black problem, I won't bitch too much out loud, that we don't teach much Southern history here at Yale anymore. I do that all the time in my department, and everybody yawns. (students laughing) It's okay. He gave a Memorial Day address though, here in 1931. He's on the faculty now. He's famous as hell. They're building the history department now for the modern age. And U.B. is invited to speak on Memorial Day. He gives an address, I'm forgetting the title of the thing there, but among the things, and it's short, it's like 600 words. He knew his audience, they didn't wanna sit there very long. And this was, again, common historical knowledge at the time. He argued that the Civil War had not been necessary. It had been a needless war. It was caused by fanaticism on both sides. If only the moderate voices had been heard, it was common in the scholarship by the 1930s, the so-called needless school, lot of Northerners were writing that. James G. Randall at the University of Illinois, famously, the peacemakers just had not been heard. This was the 1930s now. Americans were attuned. You just wrote a book about this, attuned to this idea that fanatical propaganda could take over the world. But the worst thing that had happened, oh, and by the way, slavery was hugely important, but not really the cause of the war. So commonly held at that time, not by everybody. Du Bois was already working on his book, "Black Reconstruction," in his spare time. That'll come out in 1935, which is a fascinating thing to read in companion with U.B. Phillips. Actually sometime, next time I do a graduate seminar, remind me to do that. And Du Bois wrote a lengthy review of "American Negro Slavery" in 1918, which has about a page or so of respect for the research Phillips did. He says, "This is amazing. No one's ever done this kind of research." And then he just butchered the book for his racism, which is what he should have done. But Phillips, just like the Yale committee that created a war memorial and all across American society, he reserved his most contempt in this piece for reconstruction. "Reconstruction," he said, I'm quoting him, "The hell that is called reconstruction," became what he called, "A remodeled workable regime. And thus, if war chances to settle one problem, it always raises a host of others in its train." Reconstruction had been a shame. Unfortunately, went way too far, egregious in its assertions of black political and civil liberties. And he said, "The failure in the disaster of reconstruction, had made the memories of the wars heroism, merely accost and sorrow." Now, I'm getting pretty nasty to Phillips, I'm sure, but it's okay. I mean, Phillips is a difficult figure. And we ignore him at our peril because he educated the United States about slavery, until some other folks came along. I'll do this quickly. Guys, this is not moving. Carl. (students laughing) Oh, sorry, there we go. My fault, I was hitting the wrong button. As always, Carl, it's my fault. We had a typo up here on my outline. I said, "No, Carl, leave it there. It's kind of the way I work." And he said, "No, no." Well, by the 1950s, '40s, '50s, the study of slavery was about to undergo one of the most remarkable revolutions in scholarship, frankly, American history has ever seen. And it would go on for a decade. It is not quite the blisteringly hot topic, because there's so many other topics now that it once was. But it is still as robust a field as you can even imagine. Before I mention John Blassingame famous book called "Slave Community," the first of these Yale historians I wanna mention is David Potter. Now, Potter was a Southern born American historian, educated in the part in California. He came here in the '50s. He didn't write "The Impending Crisis," that book I pointed to earlier in the course, the book, I said, you know, if all you need to know about the coming of the Civil War in the 1850s is in David Potter's book, it is. He didn't write that till 1976. He'd already left. He'd been working on it, though he'd already left Yale by the time it came out. But David Potter, essentially after Phillips was gone, created Southern history here. The study of the South, which would become one of the most important segments of the teaching of history at Yale, not just for undergraduates, but now the beginnings of a robust graduate program, that will train literally hundreds of people in this field. And came John Blassingame. John Blassingame was hired in the '60s. John Blassingame was a Southern born African American. I tried to find a good photo of John today, and the stuff online didn't work for me. I needed my friend, Mike (indistinct) He could pull one up for me, I should have asked. John went to HBCU in Georgia. He was one of the long line of black men who had gone to HBCUs in the South, and somehow found their way to Yale, especially for graduate school. He studied with C. Vann Woodward at Yale. And he was not the only black American historian that Vann Woodward trained here. Vann Woodward, I'll get back to Woodward in a moment. Woodward was hired, oh, in the '60s, John Blassingame came here, particularly, after he wrote this book, "The Slave Community," which came out in 1972. It wasn't the only, but it was one of the first major works of the modern era that took on slavery from enslaved people's perspective. Controversial book, it used all kinds of typologies that nobody likes anymore. I won't go into all of that. But this book, "Plantation Life from the Antebellum South" by Blassingame, along with Kenneth Stampp, was the first book I ever read on slavery. I didn't read U.B. Phillips until later. I hadn't been soiled by U.B. Phillips. This book had a tremendous impact at the time, and then tremendous criticisms. It would be followed by 1974, five, six, seven, by a revolution in slavery scholarship. Slavery scholarship made the cover of Time Magazine, the cover of Life and Look magazine. But it was here that this field especially began to grow. I should have photographed Edmund Morgan's book. Now, Edmund Morgan, I don't have a photo up here of Ed. It's terrible oversight this morning. One of the greatest historians of America ever. He taught here for 50 years. He was a great scholar of the American Revolution in the colonial era. And his book was called, it came out in the '70s, "American Slavery, American Freedom." It's about colonial Virginia and revolutionary Virginia. I used to test my graduate students, it's less so now. But in my first decade or so here at Yale, I would ask grad students, "What's your favorite book you read?" Not invariably, but very often, they would say, "Oh, Morgan's 'American slavery, American Freedom.'" Partly because he was such a graceful, beautiful writer, but also because the arguments. It was Morgan who showed us better than anybody ever had before, how to understand that paradox of a generation of men who were slave holders, who could create a democratic republic of a kind, the Jefferson, the Patrick Henrys, the Washingtons, those Virginians. It always had been a, you know, how do you explain that? Y'all go read "American Slavery, American Freedom," 'cause Ed Morgan explained it, but good as anybody has ever since. Is this a quaint photo or what? This is ridiculous. But that's how these guys sometimes, would have their photos put in their books. Even David Brion Davis had a pipe photo in one of his books. Jesus, there's Woodward sitting in the courtyard of old HDS, HQ. C. Vann Woodard was hired here away from Woodward, a Southerner, a deep Southerner, all his life. Born in Mississippi, I mean, raised in the South, educated in the South. He'd been at Johns Hopkins for a long time. He didn't wanna come here. He was hired by a phone call, by John Blum and a couple others in the department. That's how they used to do it. They took him like two years to convince Vann to come here. There's some priceless letters in the Woodward papers over in Sterling between Woodward and Robert Penn Warren, I mentioned him the other night in our discussion, the great novelist, the author of "All the King's Men," who spends last almost 40 years of his life teaching here. Warren was already here. Woodward writes to him, says, in fact, read, "Can two old Confederates survive up there in Connecticut?" (students laughing) They use that term ironically. They didn't do that publicly. And Warren writes him back and says, "Yeah, I think so." By the way, David Potter has a letter to Woodward, 'cause Woodward writes to Potter too. "So you survived there for a while, didn't you?" He says, "Yeah, you can survive New Haven, but it has the longest red lights I've ever seen." It does. And when I read that letter, I almost yelled in the archive. I thought, "That's true." We still, you've been to some red light stops where you just never go anywhere. Anyway, okay, sorry. But C. Vann Woodward, greatest historian in the South, author of "The Rise of the New South," "The Strange Career of Jim Crow," which made his career, made his life, made him both activist, liberal, and historian in ways he might, the liberal label, he writes about it beautifully in this book. This is his little memoir. It's an extraordinary little memoir about what it means to be a historian. I really recommend this. Woodward had his flaws. He had his blind spots, especially late in his life. He didn't like what was happening in the study. He became a grumpy old man. And I heard Woodward give a talk once at a conference right near the end of his life. God, he was a grumpy old man. And I've always remembered that, 'cause as I get to my late years. I'm becoming a little bit of a grumpy old man, But I don't want to do what he did at that conference. He just started bitching about everybody under 40 doing history. "Ooh, Vann, don't do that. Think what you want, but don't say it, man." (students laughing) And then this gentleman, David Brion Davis, came here from Cornell after winning the Pulitzer Prize for a book called "The Problem of Slavery in Western Culture." I wish I had more time to discuss it. I'm supposed to be his replacement. There are no replacements. David Brion Davis is probably the greatest scholar, the subject of slavery's ever had, at least in our world. He created a project called "The Problem of Slavery in Western Culture." He was an intellectual historian. He was trained in literature and history, which by the way, C. Vann Woodward was too. Woodward explains in that little memoir why he loves history and the way he does. He gives the novelist the credit; Robert Penn Warren, William Faulkner and others. He says, "I follow the novelist to real insights." He also was a hell of a researcher too. But anyway, David Brion Davis wrote what was originally supposed to be a three-volume study, in Western Culture," the second volume was in the Age of Revolution," then came a volume called "Slavery on Human Progress," "Slavery in the Age of Emancipation." It ended up being about a four-part trilogy. (students laughing) Not right, did it? David died some years back. He created the Gilder Lehrman Center for the Study of Slavery here, Slavery and Abolition here in 1998. The first such institute and center anywhere in the world, an I'm still the director of it. So between the '50s and the '90s, and in out of this century, there were other places this field was being studied, to say the least, but nowhere more important than Yale. I don't know if there'll be a second volume after our first volume. There should be, there needs to be. There could be a volume just on these historians, and the creation of this field. I don't think I wanna write that. So maybe some of you will. If you wanna start with one book by D.B.D., by the way, we have a little shrine to him up at the Gilder Lehrman Center, if you ever come up to the third floor of 30 prospect. And the reason we do is because we have most of his slavery library, which is breathtaking, breathtaking. We have two entire shells of the books he reviewed for The New York Review of Books with all the post-its. (students laughing) I mean, this is weird, isn't it? This is the stuff historians care about, you know? But before he died, he wrote this, "Inhuman Bondage," which was a kind of a summary of all the books he'd written for a general audience. And it's an amazing book, if you want a one volume that kind tries to now. Jim Crow was a system of humiliation. Jim Crow was a system of laws. Jim Crow became a system, a way of life, a structure enforced by violence. Now, I'm gonna spare you a whole lecture about lynching. Lynching is a subject we've kind of touched before, especially, with the violence of the Klan and reconstruction. Virtually, every major African American novelist of the early 20th century anyway, even into the middle of the 20th century, would tend to end their books with a lynching. There's a lynching at the end of the autobiography and ex-colored man. There's a lynching at the end of Walter White's first novel. There's just so many lynchings in literature, 'cause sometimes, it takes the artist to be able to give us access to such things, that we can't otherwise find. This is a pamphlet, an original pamphlet. Well, of course, it's original. Published in 1919, right after World War I, by the NAACP, put together under the auspices or the work of James Weldon Johnson, and his assistant William Pickens. So I'm gonna get to in a second. Now, it has these maps that are almost primitive looking. It's like somebody handmade these, it's so cool. You know, and the NAA was still growing into the forceful, organized, and sometimes, well-funded organization that it became under James Weldon Johnson's leadership in the '20s. But it has maps like this, 30 years of lynching. NAACP collected its own statistics on lynching, so did Tuskegee Institute, so did Hampton Institute. And here, you see the numbers by states. Lynching wasn't just a Southern thing. Look at Upstate New York, look at Pennsylvania, Montana, Oregon. Lots of studies like this were done. This was not an ignored subject by any means. In fact, eventually, this is the last, no, sorry, this gorgeous guy, William Pickens, signed up with the NAACP in 1915, '16. Within a year or two, he was the right-hand man of James Weldon Johnson, who was first field secretary, and then very soon, executive secretary, executive director, executive secretary of the NAACP, Pickens was James Weldon Johnson's assistant, associate right-hand man. They travel all over the South, creating new chapters of the NAA. I was once gonna talk in Savannah. It was probably in Douglas. Somebody raised their hand and said, "What's your next book on?" And I said, "Well, on James Weldon Johnson." And suddenly, there was a whole section of black folk cheering. I thought, "What?" Turns out James Weldon Johnson, had created their local chapter of the NAACP, which they called the James Weldon Johnson Chapter. He was like their saint. There's a popular memory out there of these activists of the NAA, not just the lawyers, but the activists on the ground that created it. Back to William Pickens in a moment. Now, oh good. James Weldon Johnson was first and foremost a poet. He was always a poet. He wrote many other things, novelist, essay, a lyricist, somewhat of a musician. He wrote the Black National Anthem, "Lift Every Voice." He wrote the lyrics for it. His brother wrote the music. He was a diplomat in Nicaragua and Venezuela in Theodore Roosevelt administration, a great columnist for two black newspapers. Eventually, for 13 years, he led the NAACP. He was a great collector, anthologizer of black spirituals, black poetry, oh, black and unknown bards, many, many other poems. I wanna just use one of his poems. Actually, I may use two of them, not sure, depends on your time. He wrote this poem probably in 1929. He published it first in 1930. It's called "Saint Peter Relates an Incident of the Resurrection Day." I put it on the server. If you already read it, you know it. It bears rereading because there's so much in it. There's so much history in it. This is a man who had worked against, by the way, he and Pickens spent many parts of two years in Washington, DC, lobbying the US Congress, lobbying two different presidents to get an anti-lynching bill passed by Congress, which always failed in the US Senate. It would pass the House, and fail in the Senate, over and over and over. This poem was James Weldon Johnson's attempt. By the end of the '20s, he's on the eve of leaving the NAACP. He's so frustrated by these failures to even get a federal anti-lynching bill, 'cause the Southerners would block it. It was James Weldon Johnson, who was one of the principal organizers at least, of the famous silent march in New York City, 10,000 black folks, organized in churches, led out front by W.E.B. Du Bois and James Weldon Johnson, and two or three others at the front of the parade. The silent march of 1917, all the way down Fifth Avenue. The crowds of white people who've never seen anything like this, all the black women dressed in white, silent. All you heard was the, (hand thuds) (David imitates stomping) and lots of banners about lynching. How many lynchings had occurred that month? How many lynchings occurred that year? Names of towns and cities where they'd occurred. Kelly got down to Union Square, parade was over, and they just broke in the dance song. He'd also witnessed in 1925, the march of 30,000 Ku Klux Klans men, down Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington, DC, in their robes. And this poem is his answer to that. "Eternities, now numbering six or seven hung heavy on the hands of all in heaven. Archangels tall and fair had reached the stage where they began to show some signs of age. The faces of the flaming seraphim were slightly drawn. Their eyes were slightly dim. The cherubs too, for now, oh, an infinite while had worn, but a wistful shade of their dimpling smile. The sacred singers of the celestial choir, disclosed a woeful want a pristine fire." Everybody in heaven here seems tired. They've been doing this a long time up in heaven. "When they essayed to strike the glad refrain, their attack was weak, their tone revealed voice strain. Their expression seemed to say, 'We must, we must,' though it was more than evident, they lacked the gusto. It could not be else else-wise. That fact all can agree on chanting the self-same, choral eon after eon." I think that's funny. Everybody who works in heaven is tired. "Thus was it that St. Peter at the gate began a brand new thing in heaven to relate. Some reminiscences from heavenly history, which had till then been more or less a mystery. So now and then by turning back the pages, were wild away some moments from the ages, was gained a respite from the monotony, that can't help settling on eternity." They're just bored in heaven. The St. Peter's trying to shake him up a bit. "'Tell us a tail, St. Peter,' they entreated, and gathered close around where he was seated. St. Peter stroked his beard, and yes, he said, by the twinkle in his eye and the nodding of his head, a moment brief, he fumbled with his keys." You know St. Peter's got a famous key. "It seemed to help him call up memories. Straight away there flashed across his mind, the one about an unknown soldier who came to Washington. The host stood listening, breathlessly awake, and thus St. Peter spake. It was resurrection mourn, and Gabriel blew a blast upon his horn that echoed through the arches, high and vast of time and space, a long resounding blast. To wake the dead, dead for a million years, a blast to reach and pierce their dust, stopped ears to quicken them wherever they might be, deep in the earth or deeper in the sea." Who are all these people in heaven? "A shutter shook the world and gaping graves gave up their dead. Out from the parted waves came to prisoners of old ocean, the dead belonging to every land and climb came thronging. From the four corners of all the earth, they drew their faces radiant, their bodies knew creation, pulsed and swayed beneath the tread of all the living and all the risen dead. Swift-winged heralds of heaven flew back and forth out of the East to the South, the West, the North, giving out quick commands and yet benign, marshaling the swarming mallards into line. The word went forth, spoke by some grand panjandrum, perhaps by some high potentate (indistinct) that all the trustee, patriotic mentors and duly qualified 100 percenters, should forthwith gather together upon the banks of the Potomac there to form their ranks, march to the tomb by orders to be given and escort the unknown soldier up to heaven." Unknown soldier was put there after World War I. "Compliantly, they gathered from each region, the GAR and the DAR, the Legion, Veterans of Wars, Mexican, Spanish, Haitian trustees of the patriotism of the nation. Key men, watchmen, shunning (indistinct) the sons of this and that and of the revolution. Not to forget, they gathered every man of the Confederate veterans, and the Ku Klux Klan. The grand Imperial Marshal, gave the sign column on column, the marches fell in line. Majestic as an army in review, they swept up Washington's White Avenue. They're marching from the Capitol, the Arlington, and the tomb of the unknown. Then through the long line, ran a sudden flurry, the marchers in the rear began to hurry. They feared unless the procession hastened on the unknown soldier might be risen and gone." He might get out. It's his day. It's a poem. "The fear was groundless when they arrived. In fact, they found the grave entirely intact. Resurrection plans were long, long past completing air. There was thought of reinforced concreting. They heard a faint commotion in the tomb, like the stirring of a child within the womb. At once, they saw the plight and said about the job to dig the unknown soldier out. They worked away. They labored with a will. They toiled with a pick and a crowbar, and a drill to cleave a breach, nor did the soldier shirk within his limits. He helped to push the work." He's pushing his way out. "He underneath the debris, heaved and hove up toward the opening, which they cleaved and clothed through it. At last, his towering form loomed bigger and bigger. 'Great God Almighty, look,' they cried." He is a, N word. I published it necessary in the New Republic about this poem and wouldn't allow that N word to be told, all right. "Surprise and consternation and dismay swept over the crowd, and knew just what to say or what to do and fell back, again, as silence. But only in an instant did it last. 'Bedlam,' they clamor, they railed, some roared, some bleated. All of them felt that somehow they'd been cheated. The question rose what to do with them? The Klan was all forbearing him again. The scheme involved within the Klan's suggestion gave rise to a rather nice metaphysical question, 'Could he be forced again through death's dark portal, since now, his body and soul were both immortal? Would he forsooth the curious minded query, even in concrete, re-entomb stay buried?' In a moment more amidst the pile of broken stone, the unknown soldier stood, and stood alone. The day came to a close, and heaven, hell too, was filled with them that rose. I shut the pearly gate and turned the key, for time was now merged into a turn," this is the St. Peter talking, right?. St. Peter's a hell of a storyteller. (students laughing) "I gave one last look over the Jasper Wall and afar just cried a figure, dark and tall, the unknown soldier, dust-stained and be grinned, climbing his way to heaven, and singing as he climbed, 'Deep river, my home is over Jordan. Deep river, I want to cross over to the campground,' climbing and singing, over into the campground,' nearer and louder. over to the campground.' At the Jasper Wall, 'Deep river, my home is over Jordan. Deep river, Lord, I want to cross into the campground.' I rushed to the gate and flung it wide. Singing, he entered with loose, long stride, singing and swinging up the golden street, the music married to the tramping of his feet, tall black soldier, angel marching, swinging up the golden street, saluting at the great white throne. Singing, singing, singing, singing, clear, strong. so heaven took up his song. Everyone in heaven then sang, 'Deep river, I went to cross into the campground.' 'The tale is done,' says Johnson St. Peter, the angelic host, dispersed, but not till laughter. They ran through heaven, something that quivered. It was tears and laughter." History's never finished. (students applauding) When good things happen, when bad things happen, whatever side you're on, the lesson is perhaps of that pole, that we have to keep crossing. Oh deep river, lots of rivers. With all the honesty and truth, we can muster from the spirituals and the blues, from historical knowledge, and from our greatest poets and storytellers. We need justice on both sides of the river. This course has been mostly fun for me, (students laughing) and a bit intimidating. It's been tough to think about facing all of you every Tuesday and Thursday, but the occasional nods I see out there or even, have kept me energized. It will rise, probably. That's the best we can know. Thank you. I wish my mother were alive, I could tell her about that. Wow, thank you, thank you. Students, you know you got a final coming up, but that's early. (gentle music)