- Somewhere about 1862, one of the great spirituals was recorded, that is, the lyrics were written down, by a man in Oklahoma. He said he heard a man and his daughter singing it, and that man's name was Wallace Willis. It's actually very rare that we have one of the great Negro spirituals attributed to an actual author. There is still some dispute over that, but it doesn't matter. It was passed on, and then passed on again. And especially during the Civil War, ministers, and teachers, and union officers were throughout the South, they began to hear and record the spirituals. Thomas Wentworth Higginson did it, the commander of the first South Carolina volunteers. He was astonished at the music he was hearing out of his own soldiers. By 1871, the Fisk Jubilee Singers at Fisk College, Fisk University, one of the colleges founded by the Freedman's Bureau, was formed. And in 1872, the Fisk Jubilee Singers sang "Steal Away to Jesus" at the White House for President Grant. And a year later, they made their first European tour and sang it for Queen Victoria in London, where it's claimed that Queen Victoria sang along with them. Who cares? But if my phone works. (recorded applause) ♪ Steal away, steal away ♪ ♪ Steal away to Jesus ♪ ♪ Steal away, steal away home ♪ ♪ I aint got long to stay here ♪ ♪ My Lord calls me ♪ ♪ He calls me by the thunder ♪ ♪ The trumpet sounds within my soul ♪ ♪ I ain't got long to stay here ♪ ♪ I aint got long to stay ♪ "Steal Away" is often, if you look it up, immediately people assume it was somehow an underground railroad song, must have been, "Steal Away to Jesus. Steal away, steal away. I ain't got along to stay here." Possibly it was a song reflecting the runaway fugitive slave experience. Whether that's actually true or not, we'll never know. But I've always heard it as a song of faith too, of faith in the face of loss, faith in the face of near hopelessness. It may be an escape song, for sure, but escape to something, from something, away from something. Now, Reconstruction is a rise and fall story, and today I wanna begin to make more sense of that. First of all, I'll be conducting a conversation tomorrow, another one of these book talks, this one very special. Johnson Schroeder discovered about 10 years ago now, I think it is, an extraordinary new slave narrative written by John Jacobs, who was the brother of Harriet Jacobs. Harriet Jacobs of "Incidents in the Life of a Slave Girl," the most famous female slave narrative of all. Her brother, a bit older, was a close friend of Frederick Douglass's. There's fair amount of correspondence. But John Jacobs went to sea. He escaped from America. He did not stay. He stole away. And most of the rest of his life, he spent on the oceans. But he spent a fair amount of time in Australia. And he wrote, in two installments, his own version of the slave narrative for a Sydney Australia newspaper in 1855. And Schroeder has had the incredible good luck of discovering the original, and has just published this book. The title is John Jacobs's title of his slave narrative, "The United States Governed by 600,000 Despots." Now there's a title. Gee, wonder what it means? It's a very unusual slave narrative, and we'll discuss that tomorrow afternoon 4:30 in HQ, room 276, second floor. Check it out. I take a great interest in slave narratives, having worked on Douglas's, having discovered two other post Civil War slave narratives. I didn't discover them. They were lobbed in my lap. These things rarely appear, but when they do it's news. His book has had a great deal of news coverage and so forth. But I got him to come, and we'll have a discussion of the John Jacobs slave narrative, and slave narratives generally, 4:30 tomorrow in HQ. Now, the 15th Amendment. What we're gonna do today, if you didn't see the outline already, is discuss this idea of two revolutions, and we'll do the same on Thursday as we take Reconstruction out and set ourselves up for, it can't happen here, or did it happen here, or has it happened here, or will it happen here? But Reconstruction is two revolutions. There's the revolution of emancipation and what flows from it, the transformation of the Constitution and the 13th, 14th, 15th Amendments, and Reconstruction acts, and et cetera, roughly 1863 to '67. And then there's the counter revolution, the revolution of the White South, the revolution of the old planter class, the revolution of White supremacy. All revolutions generally have counter revolutions. There are very few cycles in history you can hang your hat on, that's one. They always happen. And that second revolution was essentially from, well, even before 1874 actually, but especially by '74, as we'll see in a moment. With that election of '74, the Republican Party is crushed, thrown out. We know something about pivotal elections that throw people in and out, whether we like it or not. Yeah. But the 15th Amendment was often considered sort of the last possible great act of the Civil War and Reconstruction. It's the right to vote, the coroners don't have democracy. Let's jump ahead here. I just jotted down here. I'm sorry, this is in my printing, but it might be readable. The 15th Amendment actually had three forms it could've taken. They debated vigorously, in 1868 into '69, three different versions of this great voting rights amendment. They ended up, of course, passing the most conservative one, the first one, where the asterisk is. Now, how did this come about? Well, first of all, there's context. Grant wins the election in '68. With the use of Black voting, based upon the Reconstruction acts in the South, and without that Black male vote in the South, he's not president. Republicans would've lost already. There is racist resistance even in the North, especially in the North, to voting rights for Blacks. In 1868, only 11 of 21 Northern states. I'm sorry, 11 of 21 Northern states still denied the vote to Black citizens. They're citizens now, according to the 14th Amendment, but they can't vote, and that includes Connecticut, which passed the restriction on Black voting as early as 1824. The Reconstruction acts had imposed Black suffrage on the South, imposed it. Southerners didn't vote for that. The memo was drafted between Grant's election in November '68, and his inauguration, March of '69. Three versions, as you see right in front of you. The first would forbid states to deny suffrage on the grounds of race, color, or a previous condition of servitude. That's the one that's actually gonna get into the language of the 15th. A second version, they rigorously debated, and there were radical Republicans who desperately wanted this, would've forbid states to impose literacy tests, property tests, nativity qualifications, qualifications tests of all kinds. And right away, obviously, you begin to realize that could have headed off, at least legally, all the machinations that will be practiced in the Jim Crow South from 1890 onward, over the next 30, 40 years, to prevent people from voting, including counting the jelly beans in a jar. A third version would simply have said, as it says here, would simply affirm that all male citizens, this was the broadest of all, all male citizens 21 years or older have the right to vote, period. That's what the radicals wanted. But they're not really quite running the show anymore, not with Grant's election. That third version would've been a tremendous enlargement of federal power. Some, even Republicans weren't willing to go there. They're afraid of federal power. They still believe in federalism and keeping as many powers as possible in the States. And look around you today. Who controls voting? Every state, every county. We have totally localized voting in this country, unlike many, many other modern democracies. There was much, much debate, tugging, toing and froing, and fighting over which version of this would pass, but the only one they could get passed was the first. There were great celebrations of this. This was putting the right to vote, at least on some level, even with its tenuous controls, if any, there was something truly amazing to lots of people. They had just put the right to vote for Black men in the Constitution. Yes, there will be a rigorous debate between women's suffragists and the advocates of the right to vote for Black men, and a terrible falling out, in time, between the likes of Frederick Douglas and plenty of others, and the leaders of the women's suffrage movement, namely Susan Anthony, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Lucy Stone, and others. The common phrase at this point was, it's the Black man's hour. It was. But women rightfully said, we put off our cause to win that civil war, to bring about Black freedom. We worked our shoes off and more to bring about emancipation. We want the vote. And women, of course, are not in the 15th Amendment. Now, anyone with one eye open understood that if you put women into the 15th, it never passes. There would've been no 15th Amendment. We don't have to like that, but that's the reality. And Douglas was all for women's suffrage, and he's not alone here, by the way, all for inclusion of women, he said so over and over and over, in the 15th Amendment. It didn't happen. That'll have tremendous repercussions down the rest of the 19th century in terms of the relationship of former abolitionists with the women's suffrage movement, and women, of course, are gonna wait another 40-some years, more than that, for the right to vote in the 19th Amendment. It passed Congress on the 26th of February, 1869. The necessary two thirds of the state legislatures, which are just on the verge of coming back into, the Confederate states are just on the verge of coming back into the Union under the Reconstruction plan, but not quite yet. The two thirds of the state legislatures was achieved on March 30, 1870. Douglas, among others, didn't like the 15th Amendment at all. He wanted the most encompassing, the most protective. Douglass constantly called the right to vote, the ring of fire. That was his favorite metaphor for it. He called it the ring of fire around all other rights. If you have the right to vote, you can protect all other rights. It's the ring of fire. And is it? Over time, debatable. But across the country, in the North in particular, the weariness now with all these issues of Reconstruction, weariness with the issues of the South, the Southern problem, now had an easy place to go rest, and that was in this idea of guaranteed rights. What was left to do now? Well, slavery was abolished in the 13th. The 14th Amendment in its various parts created birthright citizenship, the Privileges and Immunities Clause, and equality before law, a revolution in law, in world history. And now you got the 15th. Yeah, it's limited, but look what a start. And all over the Northern press, good Republicans were saying things like the New York Tribune did. Quote, "Let us have done with Reconstruction. The country is tired and sick of it. Let us have peace." What else is there left to do? End of the game. So they said. But our problem here is to understand how Reconstruction, well, sorry, Jonathan, is really now in a process of barely holding on to what it had achieved in a culture, in a political culture, and soon in an economy, greatly changing, it seems overnight, in historical terms. I happen to like this Thomas Hovenden painting. It looks very sentimental. I understand that. It can seem a bit romantic. This was done in 1881 by Thomas Hovenden. He's the same Thomas Hovenden who did that famous painting of John Brown. He actually did the John Brown who has the noose around his neck, I showed you a version of it, on his way to the gallows kissing the Black child. It's a huge painting at the New York Metropolitan. This painting, the Met may have this one too, it's called Chloe and, oh, what's his name? Chloe and, Chloe and, I forgot. Oh, here it's, here it is. Oh, Chloe and Sam. Now, this was an artist depiction of two old people in the South in a sharecropper's cabin. They look self-reliant. They're former slaves. They're both very old. Sam is probably making tea and blowing on it, and Chloe's ironing. I don't know what to make. It's stunning. Is that a flag on that table? I'm not sure. Maybe. But here they are trying to hang onto life, make a life in the circumstances they are left with on the ground, and I'll come back to this business of tenant farming, sharecropping, and what happened to the bulk, around 80% of all the freed people in the South. That's just the music. Now, real quickly again, I found a better map than that bad one I had the other day, and we can make sure you all get this, students, if you'd like it, although you can find these online too. This shows each of the Confederate states, the first date again, when the state was brought back into the union, and second, when they were redeemed by the Southern Democratic Party, that is, taken back by the White supremacist Southern Democratic party, sometimes by the uses of terror and violence, as we'll see in a moment, sometimes by other means. Now, quickly though, have a look with me just momentarily at this. There are zillions of these. Well, I don't know about zillions, but there are thousands of these ads that were put out by former freedmen all over the country. They sent them to newspapers like the Colombian Recorder, I'm sorry, the Christian Recorder, which was the national newspaper of the African Methodist Episcopal Church based in Philadelphia, and this went on for years, even into the early 20th century, freed people looking for their loved ones, freed people looking for their uncle, their brother, their mother, their sister, kinfolk, and they'd run these ads. "Last time I saw Aunt Harriet." "Last time I saw my brother. If you know him anywhere, here's the address." I have lots of these. And by the way, there's a brand new book out. Well, it may not even be out yet. I just did a blurb for. It's not out yet. It's coming out any day. It's called "Last Seen." Oops, I'm supposed to stay here. Sorry, guys. Poor Craig's moving that camera around. Sorry out there. "Last Seen: The Enduring Search by Formerly Enslaved People to Find Their Lost Families," by Judith Giesberg. It's amazing. We'd known about these ads for years and years, and a lot of us teach with them, quote from them, but no one had ever done a deep, deep, deep dive into all the newspapers, the religious journals, and all the places that ran these ads, and she's written an entire book about them now, and it's a very moving book. The human urge and desire to find kinfolk that had all been blown apart by the Civil War, blown apart by the process of emancipation, or blown apart by the destruction that went with emancipation. Look at the one lower left, March 29th, 1881, if you can read it. Sorry. Sorry, Craig. "Information wanted of my brother. He goes by the name William Henry Butts. We parted at the Battle of Antietam, also my uncle by the name of Dick Jackson. We parted at the Battle of Antietam." That probably meant they were in the burial crews. They were probably working there, burying the dead, or serving the army in some form. The others speak for themselves. They're amazing. People give names, name after name, after name, anything that would help locate people. These are all from 1881, but these ads still appear as late as 1900 and 1905. What did freedom mean? A lot of things, but it meant finding family, finding kinfolk. Now, all right, why is Reconstruction, as it's put in place, beginning to fall apart? Well, I want you to look at this with me briefly, just briefly, and we'll come back to it in a moment when I discuss this question of the economic transformations on the ground in the South. This is an illustration of a Georgia plantation, comparing it in 1860 to 1880. This was a quite common thing on the large plantations, the large cotton operations across the cotton belt. The old method of organizing the architecture of the plantation was, the slave were all in one place on your left. This probably was a pretty large operation. But within five to 10 years, very quickly in some places, because of the system of tenant farming and sharecropping, what happens on the right is what took place. People are now moved to other parts of the land, often with a piece of their own land, and not only their own garden, but a piece of land, it wasn't always 40 acres, and they didn't always get a mule, but they spread out. They began to have something they could call independent. That's my little piece of land. No, no, that's yours. There's the divider. Now, this looked like an advancement to the freed people. It gave them the chance to get their women out of the fields. That was one big motive. And their children, for that matter. They built new cabins, like Chloe and Sam had, often one room, maybe two rooms. Sharecroppers cabins still exist in certain areas across the South. Sometimes they call them that, even if they're not. Sometimes they're called slave cabins, sometimes they actually are. They rebuilt the old slave quarters, but in individual dwellings for families, and the dream here was that you'd have your own little plot of land. You could grow on it. You'd grow food stuffs, and some cotton, and you'd get paid for it. But sharecropping very quickly means you're not gonna get paid for it, and I'll come back to this. It's a terribly cash poor society. Now. Whoops. Let's not do the Klans just yet. Now, why does Reconstruction fall apart? Well, there's the question of the waning of radicalism, for sure. Thaddeus Stevens, by the way, an architect of radical Reconstruction, dies at the end of 1868. Some of the other radicals get voted out of office, including John Bingham eventually. But the whole country's gonna get hit with a depression in 1873. We know a lot about the connections between economics and elections and politics, do we ever. I mean, check it out. The panic of 1873 was the longest lasting depression in American history. In different ways and different places, it lasted the rest of the 19th century. It was the first great crisis of industrial capitalism in this country that had now created a great deal of industry, and was beginning to build railroads like crazy across the west. Well, had begun. By 1876, three years into this, half of the nation's railroads had defaulted on their bonds and were in receivership, couldn't function. Construction of new track halted. Before the end of 1873, it halted. By 1874, nearly one half the nation's iron forges had suspended operation. This is big time depression. We just had an election where possibly inflation was the most important issue in an otherwise pretty booming economy. Check this out. The depression reached bottom in about 1877, we'll come back to 1877 next Thursday, the year of the compromise that sort of settled the election of 1876. Over 10,000 businesses across the country failed, went under. The 65 months after 1873, the spring of 1873, remains the longest period of uninterrupted economic contraction in all of American history. Nothing else has completely matched it. Not the beginning years of the Great Depression, and not the financial crisis of 2008. What it brought about, to a degree, was a near death in the faith and progress, progress, progress. And what were the Republicans all about, what was radical Reconstruction all about? Transforming the United States into this great new progressive vision of human equality. Well, they didn't all believe in it on the same level. But what are you gonna do with all that vision of progress now when the entire economic bottom is falling out of society? This was the first great clash between capital and labor now in the history of American industrial capitalism, and it nearly blew the country apart. It did blow the country apart. It was a disaster for workers. Widespread unemployment. By 1876, one quarter of New York City was unemployed, 25%. Go to New York. Get a job. No, not then. Tramps started. The word tramp came into the American lexicon. They started to appear on roadways, and of course, on railroads, all over the place. Unemployed men, people with signs on them, not in 1933, in 1873, that said, "Work for bread." There, in fact, were work-for-bread campaigns in cities. Now, this was a country, in 1873, four, five, and six, that did not know yet how to manufacture massive social welfare. They had done it to some degree with the Freedman's Bureau, but the Freedman's Bureau's last budget was voted in 1870. After that, it was gone. There were attempts by cities, and even states to some degree, to create public employment. Oh, what an idea. Put some people to work building a road, put some people to work building a school. But in the 19th century, ideologically, intellectually, they weren't yet prepared as the country at least mostly was by the time of the WPA, and the New Deal, and the TVA, which didn't necessarily entirely save the American economy, but it sure helped. And then came labor strikes, and violence. And the most violent labor strike in American history was the 1877 railroad strike across the country. And even before that, in 1875, the so-called Long Strike in the Pennsylvania anthracite coal fields shut down coal mining. Class conflict became now a very open subject to Americans, and Americans don't often talk very easily or well about class, but they started to in the 1870s. Now, what was failing, and not just the economy, but what was failing was the vision of the Republicans. What had they based their existence on? Well, resistance to slavery and its expansion back in 1854, but it was based on this concept, this great concept of free labor. And we've come to call it what they did, free-labor ideology, the idea if you could keep labor free, and every individual, every man with his wagon, every farmer with his mule, every farm family could get some land, and cordon it off and improve it, was becoming his and her own capitalist, and they would experience growth, and their children would have more than they would have. Free-labor ideology suddenly looked like it was failing. This idea of free labor as mobility, class mobility, social mobility, failing. And Americans now had to take seriously the idea of dire poverty in a land of plenty, and we've been having to do that ever since, haven't we? How many times do you hear it or do you say it? How can the richest country in the world have this? in the world do that? And of course, what goes with such social unrest is, of course, social order. Well, that's the panic, and the panics not gonna end. Try to have now a national off-year election in 1874, one year, one and a half years into this terrible economic crisis, good luck. And what happens in that 1874 election is pivotal. I love doing elections. Gimme an election conflict and I could talk all day, probably. This is gonna be a route of the Republican Party. Think about it, 20 years into their life, that Republican Party and its leadership had run this country, through the coming of the Civil War, the breakup of the Union, the all out Civil War to save the Union and destroy slavery, the rewriting of the Constitution to give it a whole new vision, which was their vision, and all of that rooted in their old economic theory of the harmony of interests, all interests would ultimately be in harmony if you could sustain free labor and all boats would rise together, that comes crashing down on them in the Congressional off-year elections of 1874. Again, 20 years into their success. Watch out. Headline in the Buffalo Advertiser on the day after the returns came in, quote, "Republican Party struck by lightning." The Democrats captured the United States House in 1874. It went from a Republican majority of 110 to a Democratic majority of 60. I mean, just do the numbers there. That's a huge shift. Part of this is because the Democratic Party has revived. Has revived in the South, and it's really reviving now also in the north. It's reviving as a hard money, White supremacist, anti-Reconstruction, anti Black rights political party, and they got the nation's ear. This election will upset voting patterns and electoral patterns of at least two decades old. Now, Republicans were defeated at local levels, towns and cities and states across the country. Democrats managed to win the governor's offices in New York and Massachusetts where no Dem had done that in quite a while. It was actually the first time since 1858. Of 35 states holding elections, 23 went to the Democrats. It's a sweep. "Busted," read another headline. "Radical machine gone to smash." That was in a Democratic paper in Louisville. Southerners by and large, White Southerners, rejoiced over this. They felt redeemed now, even though some of their states still weren't completely back under control. But the glee the Democrats felt was the despair now of Republicans. Why did this happen? Many reasons. The panic has a great deal to do with it. A worn out political will, if you will, with the issues of Reconstruction. Remember that headline in the New York Tribune in 1870? Once the 15th Amendment passes, it's over. And again, the Democrats were brilliant at practicing the politics of wedge issues. They just keep painting the Republican Party as that party of racial equality, amalgamation, miscegenation, and it's their fault we're having this great depression. Southern states are increasingly redeemed by the Democratic Party. In that sweep of the 1874 election, Arkansas and Alabama, Florida. Democrats took back the legislature in Florida, not quite yet the governor's office. By the end of this sweep, seven of the 11 ex-Confederate states were under Democratic rule. Only four were left, and soon that will be three, before there'll be another general election in the country. This is what I mean by two revolutions. This counter revolution seems to come faster than the first one, but it's in every way politics of reaction, and it's reaction to Black freedom, it's reaction to this increase in human equality and a changed social order. But it isn't just all done by votes and ballots. It's also done by violence. The only time in American history when, I think I implied this already, that violence became a normal, not everyday, but a normal part of national politics. Now, this thing called the Ku Klux Klan deserves a bit of explanation. There's a huge historiography on the Klan, first Klan, second Klan. Second Klan came in the 1920s. It was different, but no less deadly. This Klan was formed first in 1866 in Pulaski, Tennessee. Its first Grand Dragon was Nathan Bedford Forrest, the famous or infamous cavalry commander in Tennessee for the Confederacy during the war. He was by far not the most important Klan leader during these years. Klan-style terrorism first was used to a significant extent in the 1868 election, again in 1870, again in 1872. I wanna come back to their motives and methods in a moment. But because there was so much of it, so much vigilante violence in principally seven states. The Klan did not really operate much at all in the upper border states, but they really did operate in North Carolina, Georgia, South Carolina, Florida, Alabama, Arkansas, Texas, those seven states, and did I name Mississippi? Such that Ulysses Grant, to his credit, when it came to making a war, Grant had great instinct. Grant moved against the Klan. Now this was risky business. Grant didn't wanna move us federal troops back into a Southern state. He just never wanted to do that again. They'd done that. Didn't wanna do it, but he did. He got authorization in the Ku Klux Klan Act of 1870, and there were a couple subsequent Klan acts to buttress the first one, to use federal troops. And to a great extent, after the Klan, especially in South Carolina and Georgia, and North Carolina, had done its dastardly deeds in '69, '70, into 71, pretty much blunted and all but wiped out the Klan by 1872. This was a use of state power, use of federal power. This is an old primitive drawing telling Northerners and Yankees what would happen to them if they came South. And what flowed from that effort of the Grant administration was a kind of a last hurrah of the Congressional Republicans. They established a huge committee. It has a long title. It's the Committee to Investigate the Problems of Violence in the Late Insurrectionary States, and on and on the title went. They produced testimony in these seven states where they appointed tribunals, three judges, actually three congressmen, always two Republicans and one Democrat, 'cause they still had control, in '71, '72. They held hearings in those seven states to try to assess what's going on, who's committing this violence, what kind of violence, are the rumors true? And they had several thousand witnesses, Black and White, former high ranking Confederate officers like John B. Gordon in Georgia, who was a founder of the Klan in the state of Georgia, who came in and lied through his teeth about what the Klan was doing, hardly alone. But from that testimony, they produced 14 volumes of testimony, which is all digitized today. I used those volumes in hard copy, good old fashion hard copy when I was writing my book, "Race and Reunion." It's one of the most amazing sources in American history of raw, on-the-ground testimony by human beings who had been victims of Klan violence. A lot of the violence was intimidation, torture, burning of houses, burning of schools, burning of businesses, and often killings, sometimes mass killings, not always by hooded men on horseback, but sometimes. And the aims of these Klan groups and their imitators, though sometimes economic, were really political. Their principal goal was to stop Republican politics, whether it was Black people voting or White Republicans voting. Their goal was to wipe the Republican Party out of Georgia, wipe the Republican party out of Mississippi, and in parts of the South, they succeeded. Now, pray we will never reach that point again with domestic terrorist violence. But the numbers are incredible. In Louisiana, in this period from about '69 to '75, approximately 1,000 people, mostly Black, were killed in vigilante terrorist violence. Arkansas had over 200 political assassinations of Republicans, Black and White. One out of every 10 delegates to Republican conventions, or even state conventions to write the new constitutions in '68 or '69 were killed. And the numbers, I could go on and on and on. Eric Foner's book has several good examples. He treats, for example, the Meridian, Mississippi massacre of 1871 with some detail. Now, these Klan acts passed by the remaining Republican Congress before they were thrown out in '74 were remarkable acts, because it federalized the... Remember back to John Bingham and the federalizing of the Bill of Rights? It federalized state power, federal power to go into the South and stop a quote, state of insurrection, and to try to prevent it from happening again. I'll spare you the rest of the toll of how many deaths and how many... I mean, the state of Kentucky, for example, somebody did an estimate that there were approximately 400 lynchings in the state of Kentucky in the Reconstruction years. As the old saying goes, Kentucky never really left the Union and joined the Confederacy during the war, they joined it after the war. There were prosecutions that came out of those famous Klan hearings, testimony. Lots of prosecutions. That was the point of the hearings. Could you develop evidence that would stand up in court and you could try these people? Well, thousands were arrested. 3,310 people were indicted. Many pled guilty to get suspended sentences. 'Cause in their communities, what they had done was just okay, fine. 1,143 were convicted. 250 were acquitted. These trials went on for a few years. Most who were convicted received fines or light jail sentences. 65 total were imprisoned for up to five years at a federal prison in Albany, New York. All of them were out, either by parole or otherwise, by the election of 1876. Thousands of people have been murdered, tortured, humiliated, mutilated by Klan violence. America did not seriously adjudicate those crimes. It's one of Reconstruction's ugliest legacies, and it's all over Black art, whether it's novels, or poetry, or other forms. All right, I'm gonna come back to sharecropping and Chloe and Sam a little bit more on Thursday, but I wanna leave you with this. My mic still on? Yes, of course. James Weldon Johnson, the great novelist, poet, essayist, leader of the NAACP, the subject of my next biography, he wrote this magical little novel in 1912 without putting his name on it. The second edition has his name on it. It's called "The Autobiography of an Ex-Colored Man." The protagonist is passing for White. He's Black, but he can pass in most circumstances. And so, he has a certain vision in the book, a certain ear on conversations. It's an incredible little book. The first modern African-American novel. There's so many modernist aspects to it, whatever you think modernism is. There's an incredible scene toward the end of the book. He's riding a train into the South and there are four or five different kinds of characters. There's a young Yankee school teacher going South, full of idealism to be a teacher. There's an old Yankee soldier, some old veteran who's kinda lost his will and doesn't think this Reconstruction thing makes any sense anymore. Never did in his view. There's an old White planter, cotton planter doing very well, and preachers at everybody, tells them what a terrible thing that Reconstruction was. And then there's a Northern businessman who's going South to invest. He's gonna invest, all kinds of things. They're all having a conversation. And an ex-colored man just overhears it. They don't invite him in, he just overhears it. And what Johnson does in that scene is a brilliant illustration of what had happened by somewhere in the late 19th century, whatever the date is he's placing this, you're not told, what's happened to the memory of emancipation in that war. But then it ends, they get to a destination in the deep South, and the city or town that Johnson, or the ex-colored man is in, is having a lynching. There's a big mob and a big crowd. And this is how Johnson ends it. He just happens into this town. He happens upon a lynching, and he's watching it. "A railroad tie was sunk into the ground, the rope was removed, and a chain brought and securely coiled around the victim and the stake. There he stood, a man only in form and stature. His eyes were full and vacant, indicating not a single ray of thought. Fuel was brought from everywhere. Oil, the torch. The flames crouched for an instant as though to gather strength, then leaped up as high as their victim's head. He squirmed, he writhed, strained at his chains, and gave out cries and groans that I shall always hear. His eyes, bulging from their sockets, rolled from side to side, appealing in vain for help. I was fixed to the spot where I stood, powerless to take my eyes from what I did not want to see." What Johnson has captured there, as great writers can, is this notion of what we may always hear, but we don't wanna see. That's kind of what we do with history sometimes. We don't wanna see it. We might hear it, echoes of it, just hints of it, but we don't wanna have to see it. Thank you. (audience applauding) (tranquil piano music)