All right, thanks Florian. And I want to emphasize what Florian said. Please stop me. That's the point of these u you know chalk talk style lectures. Um excellent. Cool. So today I'm going to tell you a little bit about um quant quantum operations and the krauss representation. Um then we'll jump to the naflam conditions for quantum error correction which are uh based on the krauss representation. um of quantum operations. Um and then we'll briefly introduce uh Bzonic modes if there's time. Um talk a hero will talk um about different quantum error correcting codes. Um and they're all going to be more or less based on bzonic modes. So I hope to have time to cover to cover that. Cool. So um to to start we're going to talk about density matrices. So density oh it's a great marker. density matrices. And these are useful um uh or they're really necessary uh when your quantum system uh when your quantum system uh becomes entangled with its environment. And the point is that we don't have access to the environment and so we have to uh in some sense trace over the environment and you end up naturally when you started off uh in a pure state uh you might end up in a mixed state because you've had to trace over uh the environment. So generally the the density matrix the density matrix uh is typically denoted by the Greek letter row uh and it's written as the sum on uh some sum over states uh pj and I uh one more thing my handwriting as you can tell is not fantastic so please uh tell me uh if something is unclear with respect to that um great and uh where this where we guarantee um that the state is normalized and so we say that the sum on J PJ is equal to one. So this is a statement about the normalization um of your quantum state. Um and this is a statement uh about the state of your system. Uh the point is that this can represent a pure state which would just be there there would be no sum there would just be a single state. um or it can also represent mixed states when you have multiple uh states in the sum. So uh so one important thing to note is that these states J uh are normalized uh but not necessarily orthogonal. So a nice exercise. So an exercise is to prove uh so we want to prove that the trace of row uh is equal to the sum on j pj even if uh uh even if the j are not orthogonal. And then another nice exercise is to show that the density matrix uh so exercise uh to show that the to prove uh that row is uh is so-called positive positive semidefinite which just means that if I take the overlap if I look at the expectation value of row with respect to some state s. This is always going to be greater than or equal to zero for all possible states s. So the positive means greater than zero. Semi means I can it can be equal to zero. Um so these are nice things to try and prove. Um, and the way that you would go about proving these is to expand each of these states in an orthonormal basis. Um, and then you can show both of these things. Cool. Any questions on that? Cool. Great. So, some important things to note about density matrices. Um uh we can compute uh all expectation values using the density matrix. So we would compute them via the expectation value of some operator O is equal to the trace of O with the density matrix row. Uh another important thing to note is that row has uh real non- negative values and this is of course implicit in the fact that row is positive semidefinite uh or really it's actually it's really a function of the fact that row is hermian. So row is herian. So given that it's herian um it has to have real values and they're non- negative because row is semidefinite positive semidefinite. Cool. And then the last thing is that if your state is properly normalized then row uh has unit trace summation on j pj equals 1. So if your state is properly normalized then it must obey this condition. Any questions on that? Cool. Great. Um so we have to use so I want to emphasize again we have to use the density matrix and um uh you know mathematical functionalities associated with the density matrix to describe quantum error correction because we're necessarily going to couple to the environment. we're going to lose information to the environment and we want to be able to correct that. Great. Cool. Okay. So, a qu natural question to ask is uh uh how does how does row evolve? And we can answer and we'll ask this question both uh uh uh unitarily and also uh non unitarily. So question mark and question mark. Right? So the question is how does row evolve if I only have sort of normal Hamiltonian dynamics. I don't have any coupling to any sort of weird environment that I'm losing information to. Uh but then also in the context of coupling to a noisy environment, how does my density matrix evolve? Uh and for that um so some important things to note is that uh uh this evolution this evolution must be completely positive completely positive uh and trace preserving and this is commonly denoted with the acronym CP PTP which is kind of fun to say. Uh so completely positive of course uh so completely positive means that you have to um you have to guarantee this condition. So if you time evolve your density matrix it always has to obey uh this condition and trace preserving means that the sum on PJs should always equal one. I should always have a properly normalized density matrix um no matter what. Great. Uh right. Please. >> Yeah. >> Yes. >> Yes. Great. So, let's talk about an example. Let's talk about an example density matrix. So, um is everybody here familiar with like broad cat notation? Excellent. Cool. So let's so let's consider some state uh s which is just um which is going to be some superposition of my two cubit states. So I'll have alpha 0 plus beta 1. Right? So how would I represent this as a density matrix? I would take bra sigh and then I would multiply it uh I'm sorry I would take kai and I would multiply it by the bra sigh and this would then be so what what uh what does this actually look like in density matrix form it's alpha 0 plus beta 1 and then uh how did I get how do I get bra sai from ksai I take the dagger of this equation And so what does the dagger do? It turns the alpha into an alpha star, beta into beta star for complex conjugation. And then I get to flip these for these cats into bras. So then I have alpha star zero plus beta* 1. Right? So then this equals mod alpha^ 2 0 0 multiplying these two terms plus mod beta^ 2 1 1 multiplying these two terms and then I get the um you know the these uh these cross terms here. So alpha alpha beta star plus alpha* beta 1 0. So let's look at this density matrix. You can see immediately that the that the trace of s equals 1, right? Because if I take the trace of s uh if I take the trace so let's call this row here. If I take the trace of row, this is equal to what? This is the sum uh uh this is the sum on uh yeah we'll do this on j row j right this is how the trace is defined and in this case I just take j equals 0 or one zero and one because those are the only states in my hilbert space and so these terms go away when I compute the trace and I'm left only with these terms So this is equal to alpha^ 2 + beta^ 2. And we know from uh normal not using density matrices quantum mechanics that alpha^ 2 plus beta squ has to equal 1. Right? This is a statement of normalization. Great. So that's how I would write down a density matrix of a pure state s where I' where this so this is my pure state. We can also write down the density matrix of a mixed state. Right? So the so an example of that would be some so I'll call this row one here and then row two I can write as maybe um uh one on the square of two 0 0 plus one on 2 uh I'm sorry this should be 12 1/2 and 12 one one this is similar to row one, right? Uh it's has these same uh coefficients here or really what we can say maybe we'll keep it general and we'll have this be alpha squared alpha squared and beta squar. This is similar to row one, right? I have these same diagonal terms, but I've lost these off diagonal terms which I'll call coherences or they're normally called coherences because they tell you something about the superposition state that you were in initially. So in this case in row two uh I've lost uh I've lost any sense of there being a superposition state. I'm in a totally so-called mixed state of zero and one. Cool. Any questions about that? Cool. Okay. Excellent. So the question we want to ask now, so Ray, did that answer your Excellent. Cool. Um, great. So the question we want to ask now is given uh some density matrix that could look like this, but we'll try and keep the discussion a little bit more general so that we don't just deal with cubits. Um although a lot of times we will end up dealing with cubits but um so to keep the discussion more general we want to ask the question how does a how does a state like this sigh or or actually how does a a density matrix like row how does that evolve as a function of time? Yeah Nathan >> yes Yes. >> Yeah. Thanks, Nathan. So the so the difference between the maximally maximally mixed state and the state plus. So the what Nathan is pointing out is that if I measure row two, I get I have uh some probability alpha squared of getting zero and I have some probability beta squared of getting one. That's nominally the same as what's going on with row one, right? So what what's the difference? What is the difference between row two and row one? And the point is that I still have phase information in row one. I could do some sort of quantum gate. I could do some sort of operation to uh this state sigh maybe to put all of the population in the state zero. Uh and then I could measure and I would get uh and I would get oh I'm in the zero state. uh and then but for row two if I do that I'm not going to get the I'm not going to get the same output because I'm in this totally mixed state and I don't have that same phase information. Yeah. >> So what's the alpha star mean? >> Sorry. Yeah. So this this means complex conjugate. So I'm writing alpha I'm imagining that alpha is a complex number. So it's x + i y. And then alpha star means that whenever I see an i, I turn that into minus i. So it's x - i y. Cool. Excellent. Great. Okay. Cool. So let us continue. So the uh right so uh right. So the question is how does row evolve? Uh and so uh um with the Krauss with the so-called Krauss representation which is a lot more scary which sounds a lot more scary than it actually is. So with the Krauss representation uh the density matrix evolves as which I'll call row prime which is row of t plus some uh some delta t is equal to some sum on uh on l kl row of t kl dagger put and I'm putting little I'm going to try my best to put little hats um on things that are operators. Uh and I I will forget and please uh please stop me. Um great. So what's going on here? Uh I have well so and I'll say one more thing and we also require that the sum on L of KL dagger KL has to equal not one but it has to equal the identity. Right? because these are operators. So the sum on this has to equal the identity operator, right? Um so it's maybe easiest to see what's going on here by considering a few examples. So let's let's consider the first example um of just unitary unitary evolution, right? what happens in this case um and we'll consider a time independent Hamiltonian h. So what happens in this case? We would say that row of t plus delta t is equal to u row u dagger where u is equal to e to the minus i h uh delta t and all that over h bar right and uh um and this is that that's basically it right. So the in the case of normal unitary evolution the this is the full expression for how my density matrix evolves as a function of time and we know that u dagger u is equal to the identity right because you can see immediately that if I multiply these two exponentials together one of which has the i turned into a minus ium then I just get uh the identity operator. So this is one example um of uh writing the time evolution of the density matrix in the Krauss representation. And the the the nice thing is that if you ever have a system that has only a single Krauss operator to describe its time evolution then you know it must be totally unitary evolution. So the the the statement is that if you have more than one Krauss operator then there must be some dissipation going on in your system. Any questions about that? >> Cool. Yeah. >> Why is it clear that if you have only one operator, >> right? So, so the um it's it is sort of a bit of an if and only if sort of thing. So, if you if you only have a single um Krauss operator that describes your dynamics u that that is that that is only satisfied in the case where um all of your dynamics are unitary. Um so I'm not sure exactly how to how to rephrase that but the statement is that um if you can't decompose your time evolution into um uh into uh less if you can't decompose it into less than two Krauss operators then there must be some dissipation going on. One one interesting thing that we'll talk about in a little bit is that the Krauss representation is not unique. So you can end up with lots of different sets of these KLs that describe the same dynamics. Um, but if you only have one Krauss operator, then there's no uh that then that must be a unique um that must be a unique uh expression of what your time evolution is. So may maybe I'll I'll give one more example and that maybe might think things more clear. >> Right. So y You're just going to have to have that type evolution. >> Yes, you're going to have at least one. That's right. >> You're going to have you're going to have something like that one in the Hamiltonian representation. So yes, >> you wouldn't be able to have a operator that cannot be represent only one that can't be represented that way, >> right? >> Yeah. You have to be able to write your time evolution in this way. That's right. Yes. Exactly. Yeah. Great. Cool. So let's take an example where we actually have more than one uh Krauss operator and we'll consider the example of amplitude damping. So amplitude damping and in this case the we're going to suppose so suppose uh that during time during time uh delta t uh we have some probability the probability uh of decaying uh from state uh E to G. And here I'm slightly switching notation from zero and one. So sometimes you'll see people write cubid states as zero and one and sometimes you'll see people write them as E and G for excited and ground. Um right uh of decaying from E to G. Um the probability of decaying from E to G is P down gamma delta T. Right? So I have some rate of decay from E to G given by gamma and then the probability that I decay over some time interval delta T is just gamma time Great. So what is the what is the Krauss operator um that will um that will execute this um this decay? Well, it has to be um it has to be K1 which is equal to the square root of P down P down times G E right so what is this going to do when I apply it to some quantum state it's going to take me from E and it's going to put me in G and it's going to and then where does this square root come from? Um well you can see that this actually gives me the right probability that a quantum jump will occur. So if I compute the expectation value of K1 dagger K1 that's the trace of K1 dagger K1 times row. Maybe people can't see over this thing. I'm going to continue over there. right? So continuing from there, I had trace equals 2 trace of K1 dagger K1 row. But we know that the trace is cyclic. So I can take this K1 dagger and I can put it over here. a trace of K1 row K1 dagger and now I'm going to write the so aside I'm going to write the my density matrix row in sort of its mo most general form. So I'm going to write this as uh row g plus row e where this is the entry of the density matrix corresponding to um uh the gg and the e uh operators. And then I have plus row eg eg plus row g e g. Right? So what is this going to do? Um what what is this going to look like? Um well if I take k1 and I apply it to row, what's that going to do? It's going to select out the the e component. So it's going to select out these two components. And then if I apply k1 dagger. So let's write down what K1 dagger is. What is K1 dagger is equal to still square root of P down times uh E G. Right? So you can see immediately that I'm going to select out the E component of this density matrix when I compute this quantity. So this is going to equal then um uh this is going to equal uh p and I'm going to have I get one square root of p down from k1 dagger and I get one square root of p down from k1. So this is going to equal k down a p down row e. So this gives me the right probability that I'm actually going to experience uh one of these amplitude damping events, right? It has to be proportional to the probability um of experiencing a jump, which is P down. And I'm not going to experience a jump if I'm not in the excited state, right? So the that's sort of the the understanding of where this operator comes from. It has to be proportional both to the probability of having a jump and to the probability that I'm actually in the excited state. Any questions about that? Cool. Excellent. Okay. So, we've written down one Krauss operator which corresponds to the jump uh that we've just described. Um and now we need to find what the other Krauss operator is. And the way that we'll do that is we'll rely on the normalization condition. So remember that we have this condition that the summation on L KL dagger KL has to be the identity. Right? So let's write this as uh K 0 dagger K0 plus K1 dagger K1. Right? And now we know that this is equal to k 0 dagger k 0 plus and then k1 dagger k1 is just p down um uh time e right and then what is the identity we remember that the identity is just the sum over both terms in our hilbert case, right? And so now we can derive immediately what K 0 dagger K0 is. So K0 dagger K0 is equal to uh I'm going to move this um I'm going to move this over here. Well, let's just write it down. So k 0 dagger k 0 plus p down e e equals gg plus e. So then we get that k0 dagger k 0 is gg plus 1 minus p down e e. So that's just what k 0 dagger k 0 is. I want to find out what k 0 is. And we can so we can sort of in some sense take a square root of this equation. It's a little bit um it's a little bit spooky because these are operators right but if I have uh an operator that's diagonal meaning that its only entries are you know GG and EG without any cross terms then you can imagine that I have some diagonal matrix and if I want to take the square root of that I just take the square root of each of the entries. So I have k0 is equal to gg because the square root of one is 1 plus the square t of 1 minus p down e and you can verify for yourself that this actually I recover that k0 dagger k0 equals that. Any questions about that? I'm sorry. It's P down. Anytime you see P with a something that looks weird, it's a down. Yeah. So, so I'm just making a statement about what the Krauss operators are here. I'm not yet making a statement about what the state of the system is, right? So, I'm just I'm we're just trying to figure out how does the density matrix evolve? What Krauss operators will I use to describe that time evolution? So, that's what this uh is going to do, but I'm not yet making a statement about the state of the system. Is there another question? Cool. Excellent. So, one important thing to notice about K0 that's sort of that bears repeating is that um so K1 describes or K1 over there. It describes a quantum jump, right? And you you'll notice I've forgotten hats everywhere, so apologies for that. So, uh K1 describes having a quantum jump. And you could imagine that the other Krauss operator would just be the identity. It's not having a quantum jump, right? But that's not what happens, right? So K0 is explicitly not the identity. It's GG plus this weird square root thing on E, right? So it's explicitly not just the identity operation. So what that tells you is that anytime you don't experience a jump there there's something really sort of fundamental here about what this is describing which is that anytime you don't experience a jump you sort of you're updating your priors about what the state of the system is. Right? Every time you don't have a jump you become more and more confident that you're actually in the ground state because the the only time you experience a jump is when you're in the excited state. So the this decay over here is is emblematic of this of of what's going on there. The you could imagine that this describes decay of the probability of being in the excited state as a function of time. Um so there's there's something sort of fundamental going on there and we'll we'll talk a little bit more about that if that seems a little bit uh spooky. Um cool. So let's let's use these cross operators now. Um so you know maybe this will be more clear once we write down actually how the density matrix evolves. Um so let's do that. So how does that density matrix evolve uh as a function of time um under the action of these cross operators. So we'll find so you would you would compute row prime is equal to k 0 row k 0 dagger plus k1 row k1 dagger right so let's explicitly compute this I think that might be a nice a nice thing to do so we have gg plus square of 1 minus p down e times row. Maybe we'll just write out the first step. So, GG plus 1 minus P down E plus and then we'll have a P down out front. And then we have G E times row time E G. So we can see that we have the this. So I'm just using the definition of the the Krauss representation, right? I'm writing down how my density matrix evolves as a function of the Krauss operators as a function of time. And I'm sandwiching row um with K0 K0 dagger. And notice that K0 is the same as K0 dagger. There's uh because it's diagonal and there's nothing complex in the in the density matrix. Uh and then I also have K1 K1 dagger. And you notice that this selects off um the excited state here because the that's the only thing that K1 does. It can take me from E to G, right? So, it's worth um carrying through this math. It's a few lines of algebra. Um and I'll just write down what the result is. Um, it's going to be P down row E plus row G G plus 1 minus P down uh, row E E plus the square root of 1 minus P down time row EG EG plus row g. So we can understand where each of these terms is coming from, right? The probability that I remain in the that I'm in the ground state is given by the original probability that I was in the ground state plus this additional term that comes from the the fact that I can decay into the ground state with this probability the probability P down times row E. As we discussed, this term here represents this update of your priors that I mentioned before. Every moment in time that you don't see a jump, you become more and more confident that you're not in the excited state, that you've always been in the ground state the whole time. So the probability that I'm in the ground state, row E, that goes down as one minus P down as a function of time. So this is a number that's going to be less than one but greater than zero. And then these terms are interesting. They represent a decay of the of the coherences that we mentioned before, right? So as a function of time, the the the amplitude of these entries in my density matrix are going to decay and I'm going to go from the nice pure state that I had originally and I'm going to decay down to the mix state that we talked about before. Right? So let's consider now to gain a little bit more intuition for this. Let's consider the case where P down is small, right? So this is a normal case uh that we consider like here at Yale across the street, right? We have superconducting cubits and they have pretty good lifetimes. The probability of having a decay from the excited state to the ground state is small compared with the gate times that we usually consider. So let's consider so we'll consider P down much much less than one and this could be any combination of the rate of decay being small or the time interval in which I'm asking the question being small right compared with one uh right then we can expand this square root of 1 minus p down so square root of 1 minus p down I just tailor expand this quantity 1 - 1 - x and this is approximately 1 - p down / 2 right and I have there are obviously corrections to that so now let's ask the question what is um what is the what does the coherence term look like in row row prime as compared to row, right? It's equal to this quantity 1 minus P down over two G row E. So I'm comparing the the entry in my density matrix that's the coherence entry. I'm comparing that at this later time uh t plus delta t um to the original time. And we see that it's gone down by a factor of one minus P down over two. We can also compare we can do the same thing for the diagonal entry of the excited state population. And this is one minus P down E row E right. Uh and so this represents again this is just uh this entry of the density matrix that it represents the decay of the probability of being in the excited state. Um and so you'll notice this kind of interesting factor of two that appears here. And this is actually the same factor of two if you're familiar with um coherence times of cubits. People always talk about t1 and t2. So very you know obscurely named quantities. Um but so in this expression for for the so-called this is the so-called coherence time coherence time this is given by 1 over 2 t1 plus 1 over ti so this is the relaxation time and this is the time that's the same so it's the same thing as ampl litude damping. So when I say relaxation or amplitude damping, those mean the same things. I the rate at which I relax from the excited state to the ground state. Uh and then this ti is the intrinsic intrinsic defasing intrinsic defasing time. So this factor of two here is the same as this factor of two. So sort of what what's going on here? The I could have also included in this example some Krauss operator that looked like you know K2 which looked like some some new rate uh you know some square root of P2 uh times sigma Z or something where this is the the the Z poly matrix. Right? This would this would contribute to the intrinsic defasing time. This wouldn't cause any jumps between the the zero and the one or the the G and the E states, right? Because this is a diagonal operator. Forgot the hats again, right? Um but it's what it will do is it will cause these coherences to decay, right? So that's the contribution to the the coherence time here. uh but jumps also uh cause the coherences to decay because you can imagine if I have some superposition state and I have a jump that's going to destroy the superposition state. So jumps must contribute to the coherence time uh and they contribute in this way with this factor of two. Um and you can understand where this factor of two is coming from in uh somewhat intuitively where the the point is that um uh the the the point is that the um uh the decay of the probabilities is a is a is a decay of probabilities whereas the decay of the coherences is a decay of amplitudes and uh probability is amplitude squared. So that's more or less where this um factor of two is coming from. Um so if that wasn't helpful then you can forget about it. But um the that's some way to build intuition for where this 1/2 is coming from. >> Yeah. >> This one. >> Yes. Great. >> That's right. >> But the argument you just made about the factor of two wouldn't be exact. >> So it's not exact, right? Yeah. >> It's only sort of a first order thing. Um >> for evaluating >> exactly so this is this is just a definition. So people often define their T2 in this way. Um and you can separate out these two contributions. You would do a so-called T1 experiment where you prepare your cubit just in the excited state and you watch for it to decay and you get the T1 time from that and then you separately do a a so-called Ramsey experiment. So you would measure T2. So measure measure T1 prep E uh weight for decay decay to G. And then to measure measure T2, you would do a so-called Ramsey experiment after Norman Ramsey. where you prepare a superposition state you would prepare the state plus which is G plus E and this is sweeping a few details under the rug but you more or less wait for that uh superp position to decay away then you that's how you extract T2 and then you can separate out how much of your contribution to your T2 your coherence time is coming from just T1 events and how much of it is intrinsic defasing. Um, and so people in our field often say that we're trying to achieve uh T2 equals 2T1, which means that you don't have any intrinsic defasing. Um, so that yeah, that uh >> uh yes. Is that not what I said? >> You said >> Oh, sorry. I sorry. I I think I muttered through it. T2 equals 2T1. Yeah. Yep. Great. Great. Any more questions about that? Cool. Okay. So, let's um let's talk about um quantum codes now, right? So, now we'll talk a little bit about uh you may be asking yourself, you know, these these Krauss operators are nice, but are they useful? And the the What I want to try and convince you of is that they are useful especially in the context um of quantum error correction. So let's um let's talk a little bit about uh quantum codes uh and noflam noflam great. So the what is the task QEC what is the quantum eric correction task um that we try and accomplish the the goal um the goal generally speaking is to find find two uh logical logical code words. So, and by code words, I just mean states, and I'll call them uh W, W down, and W up. So, W for word. Um uh and we're going to embed them in a larger Hbert space. So, embedded embedded in a large uh Hbert space. And we want these to be robust comma robust to errors KL that can occur. So the picture before we do any math the picture you should have in mind is the following. We have some block sphere and uh these these uh this block sphere is going to describe what's going on with my code words w down and w up, right? And let's say I have some uh uh let's say I have some state and it's represented by this um this polarization on the block sphere, right? So I'm in some some weird superposition state. It's not fully W down. It's not fully W up but it's some coherent superposition of the two. What I want to find are what I want to do is I want to engineer these stage states such that if an error occurs say K0 or or K1 that takes me to a totally different lo sphere described by different states which I'll call E down one and E up one but where the polarization of my block vector is unchanged. Right? So you can imagine that an error occurs. It takes me from this from these two states because if I have an error and I apply it uh to these two states, it's going to change the state. But I want to engineer it such that I have these two states E down one and E up one such that the superposition that I had between the original states is maintained. Right? And this this should work for all possible errors that occur. So if I have some K2 that happens, I want the same I want the same thing to happen, right? This will be E down two. This will be E up two and I want again for my block vector to be um to be preserved and this you know you can imagine that this goes on. So this is the picture to have in mind for the the task that we're going to try um and complete for lack of a better expression. Any questions about that? So it's a bit abstract right now, but we can make it uh more formal by writing down what are the the so-called noflam conditions for error correction. So the nyloflam conditions are really um just what's described in that mini figure over there. But the way that I would write down the naflam condition. So nil llam is the following. I want for w sigma k l dagger k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W W sigma prime I want that to equal alpha K delt K delta sigma sigma prime. So what's going on here? So let's talk about each of these terms uh uh in turn. So delta what's going on with the delta sigma sigma prime. So what well let's first talk about this expression. What does this represent? The kk applied to w sigma prime that represents the error state that I get um when I apply the error kk onto this state. And similarly, KL dagger applied to W sigma bra is the same is the same thing. So these are the look the so-called error words that I get when I apply these operators to my code words, right? So what is going on over here? So the delta sigma sigma prime, why do I need why do I need this to be a delta sigma uh sigma prime? Uh this guarantees uh that um uh it guarantees that the uh that error error words for the same error uh but different but different basis states uh are orthogonal. So what does that look like in terms of this picture? It means that if I apply the error K1 onto W up and the same error K1 onto W down, I need them to land in different states because if they land on the same state, then there's no way for me to distinguish which state I started in and hence no way for me to correct the error. Right? So you'll be introduced to a code by my colleague Takahhiro um in the next lecture that does not obey the noflam conditions and hence errors are only detectable but they're not correctable because we don't know where we started essentially right so that's where this delta sigma sigma prime comes from and then what is this what about the alpha k delta lk this guarantees the so deltal k means that I land on distinct block spheres here, right? So then I know which error happened and hence I can correct it. So um guarantees uh that I know which error occurred. So that's that's important because I want to be able to correct uh the error and importantly so important important this should be this this alpha k part alpha k must be independent uh of sigma sigma prime right the problem if uh alpha k depends on uh uh on sigma and sigma prime is that the the environment will gain some information um about what state I'm in um if there's some dependence of alpha k on sigma and sigma prime so maybe that will be more clear with an example so let's let's consider an example um so actually well let's talk about it like this so we'll Um uh so one the first thing to note is that the the probability of experiencing an error um has to be the same for the code words set another way alpha k is independent of sigma and sigma prime. So let's look at that explicitly. So P k uh down which I'm defining as W down K K dagger K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K on W down. This is nothing other than alpha K right using this definition. And similarly for P K up, I define it the same way. this is also equal to alpha k right so these are the same uh so you know to to repeat myself a third time this alpha k does not depend there's no dependence on the initial state here uh and the the point is that if there were dependence on the initial state then I would have um then then my my uh my superposition that I so carefully engineered at the beginning uh would be uh at worst destroyed or at best perturbed. Right? So the um let's let's consider the example um uh uh uh an where uh where the error can only occur uh for one state. So error uh can only occur for one state. Right? Let's imagine I had the starting state s which is lambda down w down plus lambda up w up. And let's imagine that the error can only occur for one state uh w up right what happens to this superposition state if I apply the error to it then I get the state s prime which is equal to there's some normalization which we can carry around if we like uh but then I get the state k on you up right so the final state has lost any information about this initial um about this initial superposition state that I had I've lost any information about the lambdas um in this case so this would not be an appropriate choice of code words uh if I had the error uh if I had this error um in my universe of errors that can happen um right Um, cool. Okay. So, one last thing I want to say about the noflam condition is that I I wrote down a slightly simpler version of the noflam conditions than they're usually uh written as in their sort of full generality. Um, so in full generality uh so more more generally uh the noflam conditions are as follows. uh W sigma um F L dagger F K W sigma prime is equal to beta L K delta sigma sigma prime so here we've lost the chronicer delta over LK and instead I just have some matrix beta uh which is herian. So this is generally hermesian. So this is the the way that the noflam conditions are generally written down sort of in their in their full glory. Um but uh one thing um that maybe um where is that in my notes? So one thing that I forgot to mention is that the uh is that the Krauss representation and I I sort of mentioned it in passing earlier um uh uh is that the Krauss representation is not unique. So note Krauss representation is not unique and the point is that I can define some new set of Krauss operators that are a unitary transformation of the original Krauss operators. So I have my FJS which are some sum on K U J K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K uh where U is unitary. And the point is that if my density matrix uh transforms as summation on K k row k dagger I can just as well write that as summation on l f l row l dagger and this is a nice exercise prove this this equality here. Um so what this means is that I can take this uh more general form of the nolam conditions and I'm guaranteed that I can put it in that form. Um you can think about that in multiple ways. One the the I can transform my cross operators but I also told you that this beta matrix is hermesian. So if I diagonalize this matrix that I can sort of back out what my Krauss operators are um that obey the nlom conditions in this form. Any questions about that? Yeah. >> Right. So uh it depends on your code. Um and so my colleague Takahhiro who is in the back the um he will tell you I think about a code uh that's called the dual rail code and in that in that case we have two states that can both experience the same error and they collapse to the same state um and so this is something that does not obey the naflam conditions because I end up in the same logical state I end up in the same error state uh after the error happens. So you could imagine I start off with this nice block sphere here, but then that error happens and I collapse down to a point uh because the my error words are the same. Um so that's a case where the nilaflam conditions are not satisfied because I can't uh and I can't correct that error because I don't know where I started. You can there are cases where you can try and detect the error and that's the the nice thing about the dual rail code. Um, but it's not generally correctable. Did that answer your question? >> Any other questions? >> So there's infinitely many KR representations. >> I think the space parameterizing it is um the space of all unitary transformations among the original cross operators. So yeah, whatever unitary transformation you like you can write down is a is a totally reasonable uh representation to use. Cool. Right. Okay. So I think that's probably a good place to stop at 10:30. I had some stuff on bonic modes, but I think my colleague Takahiro will take it from