Thanks for introduction and hi everyone. I'm Takahhiro as introduced uh as AI'm working with Rob as a postto. I'm experimentalist but I do theory part time. Uh I hope I could bridge like know past three lectures to experimental practical considerations in the quantum error. So yeah I will kind of repeat some of the stuff that you know other lectures covered. So it might be nice time to review uh the basics but as well as you know how it kind of connects the real world. I think uh that is going to the thing we yeah I'm going to talk about so feel free to you know interrupt me anytime uh it might be different from what you guys been uh you know learned past few days. So yeah this talk uh may maybe like uh everyone like expect me to do the bisonic uh encoding uh this uh I'll talk about it but I think I want to motivated why we need bisonic encoding in the first place in the first part then yeah as a case study there are two major bisonic encodings uh cat code and URL encodings and these are the you know hardware uh realization of bisonic encodings so I'm going to uh you know exp expl explaining those in detail. Okay. So very very like basic start things to start. So in the quantum computer we are encoding information in a cubit and it is in theory it is like you know superposition of 0 plus one but in reality there are a lot of noise that can interrupt this. I think you've learned it from Steve and Yonan yesterday and also Danny today. uh like the ma major error source is like first of all bit flip error which is you know flip zero and one which is I mean in in experiments we describe a cubit in a two-le system which is basically like you know atoms you know some uh orbital in the atom or you know uh yeah but then we can have some energy relaxation or uh heating in the atoms so that will create this x bit flip error. Uh similarly, there's another type of error called phase flip which will basically change the sign of your relative phase between the cubits. So these two errors are the thing that we want to tackle mainly by uh quantum error correction. So this is very like basic level uh kind of like motivation why we want to do and I think you've learned from Yon yesterday that we have like sophisticated way of thinking about how to correct these errors using stabilizer formalisms or uh repeated error correction schemes but all those are I think theoretical in a sense that it doesn't kind of think about how it can be implemented or like how what is the resource requirement what is the overhead that we need to make uh in order to build these kind of econom error correction and the focus of this today's talk is to basically how to make uh these quantum error correction uh full turn quantum computer hardware efficiently uh this is because I think you've you've seen these uh photos in the news or any quantum articles like this is like one example of quantum computer uh this is a photo by IBM uh a lot of wires uh it's stored in this uh uh so-called dilution refrigerator I guess this size is actually the exactly same size as what you would accept expect in the lab. Uh I think this is shows you like how large the quantum computer can be and this only hosts like 100 cubits and this is a very like hardware inefficient and you know as you might have heard before if you want to run useful quantum algorithms you might want to run something so-called shores algorithms like Florian will talk about this in like tomorrow day after uh I mean this requires uh roughly 6,000 cubits uh in order to run this to break the uh state-of-the-art RSA. But this 6,000 cubit is a logical cubit which means that is error-free and it doesn't uh think about error happen or not. If you want to implement error correction on the short short algorithm, you need like about a thousand to 10,000 cubit per logical cubit that means you multiply 10,000 to 6,000 like that is like more than a million or 10 million cubits and that that is amount of the scale that we have to tackle as an engineer or externalist to create a quantum error corrected uh quantum computer. So that's the reason why we want to think about the hardware efficiency when we built uh build these systems and the today's focus especially the bosonic encoding is one way to tackle this uh hardware inefficiency in a quantum computers. So yeah in the first 10 or 15 minutes I just want to briefly like mention or like explain what is the canonical approach to do the qual correction. This is like a review from like yesterday's Johnson's talk like how do we experimentally make a surface code chronome error correction. So as I mentioned before we have a cubit but it is noisy and we want to implement a corner quantum error correction code on this and the way we kind of tackle this error is to uh encode information redundantly. So we want to implement some sort of like repetition uh code style of things. In this example, we use 50 data cubits. Sorry, 25 data cubits uh in order to implement one logical cubit. Uh it's already a lot of cubits. But uh the catch is that we can have like 2 to the n which is 2 to 25 dimensional hbury space which is huge hill space to make a redundancy for quantum recrection code. So this is the first step we think we need to think about when making a quantum computer. But then we also need so-called the syndrome cubits which will detect the errors that can happen in data cubits that also needs like another not 25 roughly it's like you know 24 cubits uh but you know that adds up to 50 cubits. Now these are not the only thing that we need. We need to make sure that we these cubits talk to each other. So typically they we we do this syndrome uh cycle where we the data cubits will ask sorry the syndrome syndrome cubit will ask the data cubit whether it is experienced xflip a bit flip error or a phase of flip error and typically it's implemented in such a way that you uh apply a sequence of c not gates uh for example if you want to know whether the x uh error happened in this gray cubit uh you will apply a four cot gates uh controlled by the uh syndrome cubit in the middle. Similarly, you have a Z syndrome where you can apply four C not gates to measure the feed flipper. And if you count the number of how many edges you have in this lattice, you would imagine like there are a lot of C not gates. And typically uh you know if you want to do like a back of the envelope calculation each unit cell has like four C not gates and the amount of like units that you would have in this lattice scales as quadratic to the distance the distance here means like uh you know how how long is the edge of this square. So you can imagine that uh if you want to implement a surface code you have to have a lot of C not gates which scales roughly quadratic to the size of the cubits. So if you do like a rough calculations uh in this lattice I think you need 80 C knots and if each of the C not gate has 1% of error I mean you most likely to experience error because like 80 times 1% is almost 100%. So that's how how hard it is to like make like a large scale quantum computers. However, uh in surface go there's an uh kind of competing uh benefit we can expect which is the exponential suppression of logical error rate uh by scaling uh the lattice. So what I mean by that is that let's say so like yeah this P1 error is the error that one error can happen at for a given time if there's two error happens that's roughly P1 square right and in typical uh surface code or toric code we take a sort of like repetition code in one like vertical cut or horizontal cut and then take let's say in this five cubits there's only two errors happening it wouldn't kind of miss this uh vertical line to be uh you know logical error but if you have three errors uh the decoder will like misinterpret this result. So as soon as we get like three errors or more I think we uh we can expect that there will be a logical error but on the other hand the error rate scales roughly uh d over two. So basically if you expand this lattice to like make the distance longer longer your logical error rate PL will uh scale exponentially small. So for the from the rough calculation we kind of expected that C not gate will increase quadratically but with these repetitions uh code style error correction we expect this like exponential separation. So there is so sort of like competing effect of how many errors uh logical errors that would happen as you scale up the quantum computer. So this leads to this so-called threshold theorem where if you satisfy uh error correcting uh sorry if you satisfy the error rate of the C not gate to be below this threshold you can expect to have indefinite uh logical error rate sorry like definitely small logical error rate. So what I mean by that is that if like this P fizz I wrote here is a physical error rate of a given C not gate let's say and then if it's lower than the P threshold which is 1%. Then that means that the P logical will scale exponentially smaller as you make the distance larger. And this is this has been demonstrated in a beautiful experiment by Google uh in last year where they uh implemented distance five and distance seven uh error correction code and then they indeed uh show this scaling by increasing the distance. But the question we want to ask is that if we want to run like a useful algorithm like shores algorithms we want to operate like 10 to like let's say 12 or 10 to the 15 logical cubits and that means that like for logical cubit you need like you know one gate has to be lower than 10 the minus5 and we can also again do like a rough you know back of the envelope calculation how much cubits uh you would require for a given P physical in order to reach this uh number. As you can see, if you are just above the threshold, you typically require like 10,000s or you know a lot of cubits to encode logical cubit. But if you go like let's say 10 times better than the threshold, it just gets better by factor of 10. And this this this like uh win gets better and better as you can make the physical letter rate uh lower. So this motivates us to like engineer better cubit or better protocol to make the pysical as low as possible. And this is the target or this is the goal of our field uh you know in any of the uh you know Google or IBM or our lab. So I mean at the you know current state-of-the-art is just above 1%. It it barely like you know it you know it just got above the threshold but it's not like good enough to implement uh chrono computer harder efficiently. So uh as our experimentalists I mean it's our job to make the p physical small right. I mean theorists make these decoders or error correcting codes to you know uh show this p logical to being exponential suppression but as experimentalists we want to know how can we make this p f small so this is our job sorry yeah >> so when we say experimental material science improvements >> yeah great questions there uh many I will kind touch on this right now but indeed materials also circuit design like electromagnetic simulation all those like physical like uh considerations required to make uh you know long lifetime cubid >> can this be thought of as a flat plane >> yeah I'm sorry yeah there is to so yes >> so is there any way >> yeah that's a great question uh it's actually active you know research right now uh I'm mainly like assuming server ing cubits in this talk but there's a platform called neutral atom uh which is done by Harvard and Cera which they have like floating atoms that can stack surface code on top of each other that yeah that that can kind of make three dimensional as well great great questions thanks so I'll touch on this like you know uh T1 yeah physical kind of considerations so previously I mentioned that the physical error depends on the bit flip error or phase flip errors but that's very like theoretical uh what actually happens in this physical system is that so-called t1 and t5 I think which uh Danny has explained in the previous uh section uh so t1 is so-called relaxation time so this is the average time that uh energy will relax uh for a given time t5 is how how long it uh takes before the QVD phases and uh the P physical can be uh kind of uh roughly scale as the linear scaling of T cycle over T1 plus T cycle over T5 and TOA cycle is like a typical cycle time that requires for error correcting error recussion code. So the question is like how can we uh improve pizz? So straightforward way is to make t1 and t5 larger such that ps will be smaller. So this is uh as you asked you know the materials of the superconducting cubits will matter how clean we can make the we can fabricate the circuit or how well uh it is not susceptible to the electromagnetic environment. These are the actually like let's say main main focus uh of our lab and also uh you can make the tow cycle shorter. So this relates to how fast you can operate cubits. So this is like you know active work done by Google by like shortening the cenote gate time uh as short as possible. Typical time scale for the Google device is about 20 nconds and t1 for t5 in the google is like 100 microsconds. So you can kind of rough roughly guess how much uh the p fids would become in these uh setups. And the last point is to think about uh this is the part that uh we are good at and this is my expertise but thinking about how to leverage the internal degrees of freedom in a quantum system because not like I mean all of the quantum systems are not like ideally two-le system. It can have like higher energy levels like if you think about hydrogen atoms there's not only like two orbitals you have three or four orbitals. So you can leverage those different like orbitals uh in order to like maybe like cut the peds. So let's say you have three level uh you can use the middle level as some kind of like flag state uh and then you can encode the ground state and the second excited state as a cubit. uh this approach is actually very hard very efficient in that in order for the energy relaxation to corrupt the computational state you need two steps jumps uh which means that if you write like probability like it going to be a square of the original tile cycle over t1 so assume that the tile cycle over t1 is about 1% and assume that t1 is much larger than the t5 Y what you can expect is to have 100 times improvement in the P physical and also more strikingly you can be quadratic to the T1 type of error. So this is kind of the game that we want to play uh when we are looking at the hardware. Now if you go back to this like rough calculation what this means is that we can like if we if the state-of-the-art uh error level is about 1% this factor of 100 is significant. If you look at the number of resources we want to make a quantum computer and also this quadratic dependence is very beneficial because the 10 times the improvement in the T1 becomes 100 because of the quadratic dependence. So if you can embed this hardware efficient encoding in your platform, any like improvement on material or any improvement in this like physical level of T1 would benefit you uh quadratically which is like two order of magnitude better uh by one order of magnitude improvement and these uh line of research has been like explored in multiple platforms as I mentioned before it can be implemented in the natural systems such as trapped ion cubits. In this example, there are I guess 10 levels they can play with. And then also neutral atoms has this uh they literally use the real atom and use their orbitals. It's actually it's not orbital. It's like a f high performance high performance structure uh in order to embed uh uh levels. But also uh we can also make this artificial multi-level system in the uh circuits as well. Uh I think uh maybe you have might have known that superc conducting circuits has uh flexibility in designing Hamiltonian or energy levels uh by circuit design and we are able to make uh many level system uh in the similar architecture as IBM and Google. So yep for this talk I will mainly focus on the harmonic oscillator. This is I think you you you might have heard of basonic encoding. Uh Bzon is a harmonic oscillator and uh we try to encode logical information in this harmonic oscillator. And the reason why we want to do this in harmonic oscillator is sorry So we trying to mathematically >> exactly error. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Thanks. Yeah, it's kind of com combining these two things. >> So can we can I add more? >> Exact. Yeah, that's a great question. Yeah, we do. Uh the more Yeah, there's like two competing effects as well. The more levels you add actually you get more susceptible to error as well because you let's say you have five levels you have five photons so there's five times likelyhood of uh error happening. So but then you have more redundancy so you might have more than you know twice or three times uh improve not times a quadratic or uh to the third or something. Yeah. So the reason one of oh yeah the reason why we want to do uh this game on the harmonic oscillator is that this hardware platform has this unique property that I assumed earlier which is first of all it has long lifetime of t1 it's more than one milliseconds uh in these microwave cavities and also it has so-called intrinsic nons bias so and the earlier I assumed that t5 is much larger than t1 and this also uh is like one feature of harmonic oscillator And also it has a infinite dimensional hub space. So you can choose like how how how large your hless space can you uh make for this recording codes. And again uh we are trying to make this first order insensitivity against T1. Meaning that if you look at this T fizz uh which scales linear to the T1 and T5. If we detect up to one T1 error the T1 error contribution will be quadratic. and the T5 we assume that or like we observe that it is much longer than T1. So it is negligible. So we can expect to have this quadratic dependence uh in these kind of hardware and there has been a multiple uh encodings uh which I will touch on later but uh explored uh in the field uh using these harmonic oscillators. uh the major ones are cat code, binomial code which is I think going to be taught by uh Alex tomorrow and also the GKP code and also they're uh not only eretoctable uh I mean a less uh stringent uh type of cubit which is error detectable cubit uh which cannot correct but you know detects error efficiently. uh uh this has uh uh DRL cubit and today's talk I'm going to talk about these uh cat code and durl cubit. So yeah, I'm going to move on to the next section, but yeah, if you have questions. >> Yeah. Yeah. So original encoding idea was yeah proposed by Chuang in 1995 but the uh it was talking about you know error detection property uh but not like how it was how I say not talking about how you implement it in the superconing cubits back then. Uh it was assuming like linear uh optics. Uh so the recent paper by to is about how we actually can make this dur encoding uh given the realistic physical parameters we get from the superconducting cavities and uh showing uh the universal gate sets uh that can be done on this DRL and of course this is not the only DRL papers uh there's another uh paper by Alex uh when he was in AWS using two transmon So uh yeah it didn't show all the citing list here but I'll have it in later if you want to know further. Yeah, please >> just be clear that I'm understanding the twoory one that's achiever. What does achieve break even? >> Yeah. Okay. I'll touch this on later as well. But uh break even means that so you assume like kind of composite system of you know hardware. You have harmonic oscillator. You also need like a cubit to control this. And each of them have lifetime. Let's say cavity is one millisecond and cubit is 100 microsconds. In order for the quantum error correction to make sense, your lifetime of a logical cubit has to be longer than any of the uh components lifetime. So in this example, it has to be one more than one millisecond to claim break even. Any other questions? Cool. Right. So let's talk about the first example uh cat code uh which is error correcting codes. So we use a so-called coherent state uh as a logical basis. Uh have you heard of coherent state? Maybe this is uh yeah maybe it's like overly complicated word I guess to start with. It's just like a uh you know if you inject inject a drive into the cavity uh uh what you get is a coherent state. It's basically like uh the most natural how do I say uh light. It it's it's just a light uh with some average number of photons and uh it's one of the easiest state that we can prepare in the lab and also this has a nice property that it is state of the photon loss operator. So any like photon loss happening on this coherent state doesn't change the state. So typically we describe the coherent state in this so-called fade space uh which uh in this case there is like I should have written x and p but anyways uh yeah let's say there's coherence in alpha uh the photon loss acted on alpha doesn't change alpha but if you act applied photon loss on sorry I think I have different one anyways if you applied alpha a on the minus alpha you get the phase Uh I think I dis sorry the animation was wrong. uh the point I wanted to make was that the depending on the phase of your coherent state the application of photon loss will impart different phase in the front and it doesn't change the distribution of f you know photon number distribution photon number states but what it's important is that there will be a phase imparted dependent on the phase in the phase space and this will be crucial in understanding uh cat code and I think from three or four slides now it's going to be very like arithmetic. It's like very mathematical. But I think this trick I think maybe allows you to understand uh some of these arithmetics. So you can write this coherent state in a superp position of the fox state. The fox state is an jargon uh describing like how many photons are there in the cavity. Uh like n means number of photons. So it will be superposition of like different number of photons. And the important thing is that the uh the coherent states phase uh will be uh actually exponentiated by n as well. So you might expect that depending on number of photons you have multiplication of minus one or plus one depending on even or odd. Now uh this this is where the cat state cat code comes in. Uh the cat state is basically a superposition of these coherent states and you can describe it as follows. The important thing is that if you look at these two coherent states, if it's even, it's exactly the same. If it's even n, it's exactly the same. If it's odd, it's going to have a different uh sign, which means that it will interfere out cancel each other for odd states. So in this superposition, what you would end up is a superposition of the even number states. And when you have a photon loss, this is where this sign game comes in. What would happen is that there will be a phase imparted to the second minus alpha and that will add minus on you know this minus alpha as a whole. So this interference effect will be like opposite on even and odd and what you end up is the superposition of odd states. So this can be like a syndrome for your conmericing code because you know that whenever photon loss happen the parity meaning even or odd changes. So this is like very like simple trick that we can play at the hardware to know whether whether the photon loss happened or not. Is this clear? May I think if you understand this I think you can go later. So if it's not clear let me know. Okay. Yeah. >> Yeah. In in essence, yes. It's basically but that's like not for general states. It's acting as a parity operator. Par changing operator on the specific states which is a cat state. Yes. Cool. So these uh cat states can be used as a logical code word in a you know quantum correcting codes. So we can think kind of categorize like even cat or odd cat uh based on this science. Now I've only explained the superp position of these two coherent states but also you can think of like coherent states between the vertical uh coherent states that can uh consist as a even cat or odd cat as well and it's the same like photon loss logic applies here. Now we we will call the even cat as a code space. This is where you know we ask we can assume that there's no error and then the odd character we call it error space you know if we find that it's an odd that means that it has an error. Okay. So using these uh even cats we can make a logical encoding in this manner. So again we want to encode 0 + one with some superposition and we will associate zero logical to the one of the even cat and the one logical to the other even cat. The important thing is that the photon loss operation will uniquely identify C plus alpha to C minus alpha and C plus I alpha to C minus I alpha and it will preserve this uh superposition uh amplitude and phase. This is a crucial part and this is where the new Laflam uh condition comes in. So this is a different way of saying like satisfying a new Laflam condition explained by Danny. But in principle what we want uh for the quantum error correcting codes to work is this property where this superp position information is preserved under your error and the cat uh code has this uh property. >> Ah yes because uh any so this is like remember the new llam condition. Okay. Yeah, it is satisfying new love condition. That's a short answer. But also this photon loss, where is my mouse? This photon loss A like maps one to one from C plus alpha to C minus alpha. If there is some overlap between C minus I alpha there waiting will change, right? But good. Okay, great. So this is like a theoretical understanding of the cat code like how we implement it in the lab uh is as follows. So we have a sequence of pulses or measurement we want to do for error correction. So we have a harmonic oscillator which lives in dilution refrigerator which is connected uh by wire through the cables uh to the classical computer outside the fridge. uh there's a communication between these uh parties. Now first of all we will encode uh this logical state u to the cat states. Now we measure the photon number parity. I will explain how we can measure this later. But there will be a successive like application of parity measurements that will like let you ask whether your photon are photon state is par even or odd and you can track these uh information throughout your operation. And then at the last step you want to correct and decode. But in order to do that you need to have this kind of lookup table where dependent on like where uh the parody has changed you can apply a correction uh at the end. So this is briefly like what the general flow looks like in the experiment and the idea is you repeat this many times uh such that you will preserve the logical information indefinitely. Okay. So yeah, let's move on to how we actually implement this in the lab. >> Yeah. >> Wait, sorry. >> Oh yeah, this is uh basically like it can be algorithm or it can be like just waiting. The idea is that we can implement like syndrome as many as possible but also syndrome can introduce some additive errors. So like there's like competing effects. You don't want to do sing too much that interrupts the system but like high enough cadency such that it will uh extract the useful information. So we decide after >> yeah exactly cool so yeah again we come back to this harmonic oscillator uh this is just a theoretical description of the energy levels but uh we use so-called 3D microwave cavity uh this is basically a storage of a photons that can live uh there's a standing white mode uh inside this uh cavity that you can store coherent state or like fox states. Now this is not the only thing uh sorry this is we cannot make quantum correction just by a cavity because it's too simplistic or uh we don't have enough contraability just by this cavity. Uh we need some kind of uh nonlinearity that can allow us to make arbitrary state in the cavity. A cat state is not a trivial state. uh we need some kind of uh nonlinearity to make these exotic uh cat states and also parody measurement it's done through this ansula uh cubit transmon and then the important thing is that these are capacitively coupled uh between this uh mode with the transmon which will create so-called dispersive interaction. Uh this is a little bit like maybe not familiar uh from computer science but this is typ like basically a ZZ type interaction. Uh when there's a photon in the cavity they will have a duning on the cubit basically. >> So what does first order insensitivity? >> Yeah first order insensitivity means that uh when I say first order sensitive that means that you are dominated by first order errors. When I say insensitive, it means it's not dominated by the first order errors. Uh like insensitivity means that it's not like it's the error rate doesn't scale linearly to the first order. >> But what does the first order mean? >> First order means the yeah the the shoulder on top of this towel over T1. If it's one, it's linear. If it's two, it's quadratic. Uh, >> first order. >> First order means linear. Second order means quadratic. And if it's incentive first order, that means it's quadratic. Okay. So again we will just going to use this as a diagram but uh what what ansula transmon allows us is to do some kind of non-trivial uh operations like encoding or par syndrome or decoding uh there's too much things to explain for encoding decoding so I'm just going to focus on the syndrome uh the way we do syndrome is to measure the number par of the cavity and this can be explained by this dispersive interaction Hamiltonian. So what this means is that there is like sigma Z which is basically a duning of a cubit like phase operation on cubit dependent on the number of photon in the cavity. So if you think about rotation of the cubit in the equator of the block sphere if you rotate pi it will go to the other end. If it's two pi it comes to where it was. Using these kind of property you can kind of separate even and odd states. And I will explain this by this block sphere. So what you do uh as a sequence sorry is that you prepare n and then you do ramzy sequence uh you maybe danny told you the previous one I'll talk uh razi sequence is basically you place your cubit in the superp position state which is plus state uh which is here right and then dependent on the photon number state you get some rotation the rate at which rotates differs dependent on the photon number. So if it's if the photon number is one, it will rotate to the other end. If it's two, it will rotate twice fast. So it comes back. If it's three, it's like it rotates three pi. So this property is a way that we can distinguish f you know even par and odd par. So at the end you will apply another gate which will place 02 back to G and one three back to E. So this mechanism allows us to like allows us to measure the parity of the cavity without distinguishing each state. So this is important part because if you are collapsing a state within the even subspace, you're changing the state. But this par operation doesn't collapse each fox state. So it is a like a valid way to check whether the parody uh uh in the cavity but as well as not destroying the state in the logical uh code word. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. So this is uh this is in the ancilla subspace. So this is just like ancillary meaning it's not like used as a logical information. This is just to measure it but then dependent on where it was you will have like feedback on the actual logical cubit side. Yes. And that's like brings this to this kind of state machine model uh of logic. I'm going to explain one by one. So this is basically what like FPGA like control hardware uh used you know how do I say how do you program corn error correction uh in the hardware so I'll come back to this sorry if you want to take it I you can take it but uh it's uh it's in the paper of yeah this paper nature 2016 but uh first you encode a cubit on the cavity you prepare cat state And then first you do the par measurement as I described and this will kind of branch out the state machine. Uh if it's zero you just stay but if you have one you have like photon loss and then the subsequent parity check will dependent on the first parity measurement and then dependent on this four different states you will basically decode what was the uh information at the end. Lastly, you can recover it uh using the feedback. So, this is like you know some kind of work you need to do uh behind the scenes but this has to be very fast because by the time you calculate these decoding and uh correction uh photon might leak by that time. So you have this kind of competition between classical hardware uh versus quantum system like you you need to have a long enough quantum system but or fast enough classical control electronics such that you will like beat this uh competition and then uh so this is where the break even comes in where this is they have this this has four different lines where this is something I mentioned earlier the green line is the lifetime of the cubit which is for this study was 17 microsconds. This is not the longest time uh lifetime of the components. The longest time for the component is this gray line which is 287 microsconds. This is how long does the photon single photon decays in the cavity. So the goal for error correction is to beat this 287 uh microcond. First of all, if you encode cat code naively without feedback, your lifetime becomes 147 microsconds. And that's not good because it's not beating 287. Uh but if you applied uh error correction that will improve up to 38 microsconds. It's not like significantly larger, but this is uh uh this was the first break even experiment uh done in any quantum correcting platform. and uh and yeah this this is was done in 2016 almost nine years ago at Beexton. Now since then there has been more exploration on different kinds of error correcting codes like C you know binomial code which is going to be display explained tomorrow and also GKP code and this all uh achieved break even and the the best one achieved is this GKP done by CBAC 2023 which surpassed the break even by factor of two. So this is still ongoing uh progress uh you know made effort by various groups in the world. Cool. Uh is there any other questions on cat code? Uh can have some time. Yeah. >> So the real time feedback. >> Yeah it's both uh so the par measurement is done in the hardware. It's done in the uh refrigerator. Then the readout also happen in the read uh refrigerator. As soon as the readout of the par detection is completed the classical bit uh actually waveform uh information goes through the cables and coming back to the ADC analog digital converter in the classical electronics. Uh yeah that times uh has to be very short and then after it it gets into ADC uh there will be some calcation like whether this state was par or not. Those those are done in this. Yeah. And then dependent on the par decides which pulse to send in the later stage and then those going back to the fridge. Any more questions? I think I have enough time for the Okay, so all these uh demonstrations are neat. Uh however it's a very as you can see from this like it's very complicated as well as like controlling this weird exotic state is actually hard. I mean they they did a very nice job but it is very hard to control high many photon states as you kind of alluded at the beginning like if you have more photons you have more likelihood of like getting errors and there's also uh some nonlinear unwanted nonlinearity uh that can corrupt in the higher states. So and more importantly this ancilla might introduce additional errors to the system and that was also a bottleneck and this has been like an issue for again a decade not decade to be fair like five years or so. Uh how to control logical cubit was not trivial and this was one of the reasons it was it is taking time for this to be like full-fledged quantum computer. Now the recent development happened was to kind of introduce so-called DRL cubit which sort of solves these bottleneck I mentioned just now. So I just going to describe what's it is what it is right first and then kind of claim that it kind of gives you uh good properties. So again uh what you want to do is encode logical state. uh but the game here is like how do you kind of implement this uh experimentally. So you can assign you can basically use two uh cavities uh to encode one logical information. Now the logical zero would be uh one of the cavity have one photon the other being zero. So I call this one zero joint fox state and the other state is 01 joint fox state. And we can use this twodimensional hybrid space as a cubit. Now a good part about so this is called DRL cubit because there's two rails and this has been explored in multiple platforms multiple institutions uh for example using transmons as two rails. It's not a harmonic oscillator but you can use the two level at the bottom to make DRL and the benefit of using this encoding is that uh you can separate uh computational subspace with error space that's what what I mean by that is that any t1 error happen in each of the cavity will result in zero. So this is different from bit flip error. So if you think about encoding the cubit in the two-level system any decay will stay in the computational subspace and it cannot be distinguished but any decay in the durl subspace will go out the computational subspace which allows you to distinguish any errors from operation that you do. Now this is a code space uh or like whole hilly space used for DRL encoding. So I'm just showing the energy levels. So if you look at like there are like many levels, but what this says is that there are like different energies dependent on how many photons you have in each of the cavities. And what you're interested in is this logical subspace 0 one and one zero and most likely it will decay to 0 0. It's very rare to go to 02 because you have to like absorb energy which doesn't happen often. Now you can use uh you can actually think about the syndrome as like a cat cubit but in a different manner. So in the cat cubit we were considered about the par within the single mode but we can think about the joint par uh across two modes. So which basically you know add the total photons between each cavity and then ask whether it's even or odd. And as you can see uh the computational subspace is odd par. And if you're uh if you're stay if you stay in the odd par that means that there is no error. But if you're even par most likely to be in the photon loss uh state which is 0 0 you detect an error. Uh so this is like very simplistic way to do the syndrome uh check. It's much more simpler uh than the cat code. Uh however, as Danny alluded uh in the previous uh lecture, this doesn't satisfy Neil Lafam condition, which means that it's not correctable. It's only detectable. But this I will explain later why this is actually enough or maybe beneficial in the later slides. So this yeah this detection error we sometimes call eratio error because it's out of the computational subspace. So we can think of it as it was erased and I'll describe it as like E in the next animation. But before explaining what eraser error uh is uh I just want to briefly some uh recap what the bit flipper does on the three bit uh error correcting code. So this is what this is showing is that kind of like area or assuming that you implement three bit error correction code uh uh how does the bit flip error on each of the cubit will transition to different state. So 0 0 0 if you have error on the first array it will go to 0 0 1 for 11 one if you have error on the first cubit it will be 1 one zero but this is still like recognized as 111 logical one because you know you take the majority vote but uh you in order for this encoding to have logical error you need two errors right uh you you you need two steps to go through the other Right. Uh for the eraser error you have you can kind of gain some distance uh this is a property where you get after like you know when you separate the computational subspace from this eraser state. So E is like instead of having a bit flip error you can assign this 00 state as E. So this eraser error will need two errors. I mean even there's two errors two eraser errors the state will still have information of zero. So you can assign it as a logical zero. >> Sorry question in these in this notation is each bit one two >> exactly. >> Oh >> sorry >> is this like one >> one cubit one dur cubit? >> One d. >> Yeah. Yes. So in essence uh I mean you need three errors to be like losing information completely and it can tolerate up to two errors and this kind of logic applies to like larger distance and roughly speaking you can have like twice the distance than the bit flip error code and the general flow is basically you prepare some logical code word uh you run whatever algorithm you like uh you take a syndrome which is a joint parity photon number measurement or maybe simply measuring 00 state and if it's zero that means that there is like eraser meaning that you have to reinitialize it getting back to the computational subspace if there's nothing happening you just move on and the bigger picture uh I think this was something related to the previous slide but we I described in the surface code it typically scales d plus the logical error typically scales uh exponential to the this ratio of P phase over P threshold. Uh the dependent on D + one over two but as I mentioned earlier the ratio have ratio rate has a nice property that distance kind of effective distance is about twice. So this uh this dependence on the exponential uh becomes actually twice better and this is quite significant if you think about uh how much logical error it uh can be as you scale up and also the another benefit is that in general this uh error has higher threshold. So uh yeah so you can tolerate more And then yeah I think this relates to your question earlier. Uh so the the study by to at all uh was that by assuming like considering the realistic parameters that can be observed in this cavity uh platforms like how much would the eraser rate would be as well as how much the ply error rate would be and then these two uh realistic parameters realistic error rate over p threshold eraser was significantly smaller uh such that your P logical uh become like quick like become small quickly quickly. So uh yeah this has been like maybe like two years ago or three years ago since we started working on this DRL and since then we've been achieving uh a very like promising result in experiments starting from the single cubic gate where the eraser fidelities is about 0.08% 08% but if you detect errors the post the residual single cubit error is about 0.02% 02% which is significant increase. Also the state preparation and measurement uh again the poly error rate is very small and also eraser rate uh is also suppressed enough. Uh the midcircuit measurement is which is required to measure whether the eration happened or not also performs very well and today this this year yeah the quantum circuits has implemented to cubicate with very high fidelity uh using this platform. So this is yeah the way like we believe that the uh quantum computer can be like built very hardware efficiently. So yeah this is basically end of my talk but I think I started from to summarize I started from like the question about how can we reduce the resource overhead and I think the insights we need to kind of take home uh is to like like leveraging that understanding of the noise at the hardware is very crucial because there's more information than you imagine and leveraging those will kind of benefit you in the long run and also this encoding based on the symmetry is very like you mathematically beautiful but also like practically useful. So these are something that worth I guess exploring in the future as well. So with that yeah uh this is my uh I mean I work with Rob Shokov. Thanks very much for your talk. Uh it is