Thank you for the introduction. Um yeah, as I as Florian said, I my name is Yong Shanding. I'm in the computer science department. Um so I think about quantum computing mo mostly from the computing side. Um but uh today um we're going to talk about um how to uh uh protect quantum information and doing computation uh in the noisy world. Um uh we'll start with some small tricks and uh trying to solve this problem of uh detecting and correcting quantum errors and building our ways up to uh what I in my opinion one of the most beautiful theories in quantum uh in in modern physics and information theory that is the theory of quantum error correction. Um so uh uh not just with tricks hopefully today we'll also have uh the introduction um to the structure and symmetry that's used in um uh in pro protecting quantum information. So uh let's dive in. Um well quantum computers promises to um process information in the huber space uh offering elegant algorithms uh and uh exponential speedups. But there's a catch, right? Quantum states are really fragile and they decay, drift, cross talk, they um interact with the environment. Um the goal of quantum error correction is really u boils down to how do you fight against the coherence of cubits and while you are at it um compute a few things. So um let's first talk about what can go wrong to a cubit. Um so on paper a cubit is pure um in ideal superposition state alpha 0 plus beta 1 for a single cubit. Um but in the lab it's a different story. Uh there's there are so many ways um a cubid can go wrong. Um cubid decode here as I said cubid decode here cross talk interact with the environment. Um but we we'd like to also try to get a clear knowledge of what kind of uh um error could occur to a cubit. So here I list several examples of uh things that can go wrong with a cubit. Um so let's start with something that's more classical. Um I think we we heard about uh classical errors uh and error correction from Steve's lecture before this. Um so let's start with something similar like a bit flip or x type of error that uh map zero to one and one to zero. So a uh superposition of state maps to a different superposition with the zero and one flipped. That's our bit flip. Um there's something unique about quantum uh states. That's the relative phase between the uh uh two basis states. So error can go wrong like a phase flip or a Z type error that map zero to zero itself but one to negative one. So adding a negative sign to it also changes the state. Um so um these are sort of more like a flip error in the quantum states that's more digital or discretized. Um but quantum error can be more continuous or more or less analog. Uh you can have slight perturbation of the relative phase between alpha and beta. For example, in the in in this uh uh equation the you can experience a rotation about the z-axis to the quantum states which introduces a relative phase difference of e to the i delta between zero and one. And for for a very small delta, right? So you can really have infinite different ways of uh going wrong by choosing the different delta. So that's the analog nature of quantum errors. Um there's also probabilistic nature to quantum errors. You can experience um uh some probabilistic mixture of errors. For example, with probability 1 minus P, nothing happens. With probability P, it completely destroy the quantum state into a what we called a maximally mixed state. So remove all information in it. I over two essentially is a random bit. Uh 50% zero 50% one. Remove all the information in it. So this process called depolarizing. Um you can also experience a random Z type of error. So channel called defacing. Um it can be written as uh nothing happens with probability 1 minus p but uh um apply a zflip to the quantum state with probability p and in in in real um experiment you can actually have probabilistic mixture of all the above noise and and uh this is all I'm listing here is some simple single cubit errors and you can also have correlated joining error between multiple cubits. So the uh the um ways that the cubid can go wrong is really infinite and uh uh we'll of course get to this bit more uh later but also I see from the course agenda that you'll talk about uh more realistic noise models for um special uh cubits such as cat cubits or eraser cubits in later days of the lecture series. But in general a uh quantum error can be described as some kind of linear map of the uh density operator of the quantum state. Um this is uh uh the operator sum representation but the intuitive uh understanding is that uh you have a quantum state row. The action of the uh error is like multiplying a linear operator or a matrix e k to this uh quantum state with some probability. Okay, so this is some kind of generic uh description of uh anything that can go wrong with the cubit. Um so it's very difficult it turns out in uh phys in physics labs to completely avoid these errors to isolate the cubits that well. So can the question I want to ask is can we detect or correct them? Um uh there's certainly a strong motivations for suppressing errors because if you're given a quantum algorithm and uh uh that consists of many cubits and many operations or gates on them um the uh uh there are so many ways that uh uh the cubit uh error there are so many places an error can occur. um and they all happen for example um randomly or uh probabilistically. Let's say an error uh that could happen at the rate uh parameter p um and if you look at all the possible locations of error can occur suppose the circuit the quantum circuit has size m then the probability that none of the zero none of the error occurred in the circuit decays exponentially with the size of the circuit. So um uh in in practice if you have an algorithm that uses for example hundreds or thousands of cubits involving uh thousands or even millions of gates u you really want the error rate per gate to be really really low. Um uh so so uh we certainly want to uh suppress these errors um by detecting and correcting them um so that we can reliably compute in the presence of these noise. Okay. So um so how do we do that? We of course want to take inspiration from classical uh error correction. Um um but the outlook uh might seem a little bleak at first. Um uh so here I list several reasons why we uh think quantum error correction is hard. Um so uh thanks to Steve we uh learned about classical error correction and how effectively can be. Um but this boils down to some principles uh uh of classical error correction that you can encode information or copy information redundantly via repetition. And by checking the majority or parity of the uh multiple locations that you store the information, you can sort of tell uh where error occurred. Um you can localize them and detect them u and and correct them. So let's try to take these uh general idea and apply to quantum uh states. the uh it doesn't look so easy because as we said uh there are more errors in the quantum world in particular there are error that are analog you can have maybe a tiny bit of rotation um of errors uh and you you don't want to sort of uh learn that you have uh uh experienced this error um but destroying the quantum state uh as well um and uh you have to detect error without destroying it. And second, you cannot make a backup copies of a quantum state because of the no cloning theorem. Um and uh directly looking at the state by measuring it actually destroys it collapse the quantum state. So if you really want to do computation on it um you want to learn about the error not about the state. Um um so uh and furthermore because quantum errors occur uh at a much higher rate you have to also detect and remove errors at a much higher rate. Um so these are sort of the challenges that we face when we think about error correction in the quantum world. Um so can the cubits really be saved? Uh well uh the answer is yes and the um the solution is also um strongly inspired by classical error correction but you have to have a few ingredients to make it work. Um uh the basic idea is still to encode information redundantly um uh across multiple cubits but the cubits has to stay in some kind of highly entangled states um uh so that we can uh for example if there's an error occurring on one of the cubits uh through some kind of entangled state the neighboring cubits will be able to help and flag such errors um and and try to fix it it's it's like collectively they can uh identify the the mistakes or errors. It's like a neighborhood watch. Uh so everybody has to work together um uh help each other out making sure that uh the collectively the information are intact even though you have experienced local errors. Okay. So that's the um sort of the theme. So let's um uh dive into an example to see this how this works. Um so I think uh this is going to first a quick recap from what uh Steve talked about uh using repetition codes to correct Bifflip errors. Um and uh we'll build up this uh uh technique to uh a more general theory of stabilizer codes. So let's start with this example of encoding um quantum information um in an inctango state um inspired by the three bit repetition codes we can actually copy the bits along each basis states not copying the entire unknown cubit of replicas but uh in tango states like this alpha 0000 plus beta 1 and it's simple to construct using for example two using uh two fresh and sila cubits helper cubits uh and two um C not gates. Um so uh now if an error uh for example a bit flip error occurred to the first cubit that map 0 to one and one to zero the out the state will become alpha 1 0 0 plus beta 011. Um, and if somehow we can check if all bits are the same along each basis, we can tell, right? That's like what the classical error correction is trying to do. Um, so can we really check if the bits are the same? Uh, the answer is yes. And the powerful technique that we're going to use is called the projective measurements. And the uh uh it's quite simple. Um basically you have this data cubit set up this way for the entangled states and we're going to just try to um uh uh use ancilla cubits to check if uh two two cubits are in the same state or a different state um by a series of C gates. You know Cog gates will negate the target if the um control is one uh and do nothing if it's zero. If you have uh uh the the two the pair of C not gates laid out this way, you'll exactly flip the encilla cubit um uh sorry if if uh the uh data cubit one and data cubit 2 are both zero or this uh these two gates do nothing. If they are both one, you'll flip the target uh ancilla cubit twice but flipping it twice is exactly uh doing nothing. Um but if exactly one of the cubit is one and the other is zero um then my ancilla cubit will be uh uh also in a state of one. Um so this ancilla cubit serves as a monitor of whether these two cubits are the same or different. Um now if you look at the other pair of cubits and then check if they are the same or different using another lens anilla cubits you can actually using use the the two bits information of whether cubit one two are the same and whether two three are the same to um um uh deduce whether all three bits are the same or not. Okay. So, uh well that's a little bit abstract but let's maybe take some examples in and also uh this example will motivate the stabilizer formulism of understanding um poly type of errors. So as I said suppose the first cubid experience an x error. uh we can actually also try to see uh what does the measurement result how does the measurement results change in the presence of this X error by propagating this X through the multiple C not gates and um uh we can of course follow some of the rules of uh uh commutation relations of uh uh gates um for example if I have an X gate before uh the control knot where where the x is happens on the happens on the control cubit. This is equivalent to having the control knot apply first and uh an x gate acting on both the control and the target. This is directly followed from the definition of the control knot. Um and of course uh we can do similar things to understand how error propagates through a target cubit. Uh because uh uh this uh is control on the second cubit and uh negate uh the uh first cubit if the second cubit is one. Um negating it is not um negating it before it does not change the fact that it's negating by itself. So it doesn't matter which order you apply them. Um so so this directly propagate through the uh target by using these uh two uh equivalences we can actually try to see how the X error propagated through the circuit and through this uh step-by-step animation. I hope you can um clearly see that the X is going to uh propagate to two cubits and then this line directly propagate through the target. Uh so that this measurement will be flagged. It will be flipped. Um and measurement outcome is going to be one instead of zero. Um and uh things will be a little bit more complicated if you look at the second cubit experiencing an X error because multiple C not gates acting on them. And we can see that first propagate through the uh this C knot and uh this uh X error also has to propagate to the target. Um and uh uh so so both uh uh cubits uh will be measured one. So you see depending on where the error occurred uh you will observe different measurement outcome. That's like uh your uh the signs or the syndrome um of uh of your errors. Okay. Then one final example. Suppose I have two errors occurring simultaneously to the cubit 2 and cubit 3. I'm going to do the same trick in propagating the x error through the c knots. Um first for the first uh x error on cubit 2 it will propagate all the end all the way to the end. Um however this third cubit also experienced an error. So let's do that uh as well. And you should have a x here and x here. Notice that you already had an x. So that actually cancels out with the other um x error. Um so at the end you actually only observe a flag in the first uh measurement result. And notice that this uh measurement result is the same as the first measurement result. So however they they experience different errors. So in other words uh this circuit cannot distinguish between uh this error or this error the these two errors. um you can get confused by just looking at the measurement results. Okay. So we can ask how many errors can this code fixed? Well um if you restrict to a single error so no uh scenarios no scenarios three you only look at the single error that could happen to the three cubits then we can um uh uniquely identify where the error occurred by looking at the different patterns of measurement results. Um so we call the set of uh errors of a single cubit X error the correctable error of this uh syndrome circuit and um if you allow error like double error to occur in the circuit then um sometimes you get confused but of course you can still detect it. I know error occurred but could be either scenario one or scenario three um um but nonetheless I have detected it. That's why we call this family of error detectable error but not correctable. Okay. So, so this is basically a warm-up uh for um quantum error correction codes. Um uh but of course you can uh do the same thing um as I believe Steve has also shown that you can use the same trick modifying slightly to detect or correct face flip error as well. Um so the idea is to encode it in a different basis and do uh different um checks such that the error propagation of Z follows similarly as we uh analyzed in the previous slide and in fact all I did here is to replace the circuit and um um replace the X with the Z. So the way that error Z error propagate through the C knot um is very similar in particular if you reverse the ordering they are uh exactly the same. So you can see the same measurement outcome pattern as we saw in the previous slide and again uh we can identify the correctable errors as the single cubit face flips and the detectable errors as single or double um uh uh Z flips. Okay. All right. As I said in the beginning, uh these are not the only errors that we want to uh correct or detect or correct in quantum uh setting. What about um anal more analog errors? What about continuous rotations? So uh the definition of a rotation for example on the first cubit about the z-axis can be written as a linear combination of doing nothing identity or uh a zflip on the second um sorry zflip in the second term of the superposition um but it's in a linear combination and the weights of the linear combination depends on the rotation angle. Okay. So, uh let's take the same circuit coming from the circuit for correcting face flip errors, a complete Z flips. Now, try to see how does it work for uh Z basis rotations. Um um so what I'm going to do is to take the same circuit but put a uh slight rotation about the Z-axis on the first cubit. Um I can quickly see that there's some irrelevant checks that does not uh uh check cubit one. So let's remove that for simplicity. Um I'm going to analyze by walking through how the states evolve uh over time in the circuit to make to convince you that this uh uh is working. So um uh what I'm going to do is actually more stronger than just this example at first. So I'm going to call this whole quantum state that experienced the rotation the quantum state s. So at time step one you have your plus state because of the headmar gate tensor with the sigh uh quantum state s and um the action of the two cates can be written in the two bases. If it's zero, it does nothing. If it's one, if the control is one, I'm going to negate both cubit one and cubit 2. So that's the x1, x2 on the target cubit. Um, another headmark gate happens after the um C knots. So technically my dash line should be after the headmark. So that's a little u typo. So after the setamar gate I map the zero to the plus one to the minus states I can do a simple rewriting or expanding the plus 01 minus 2 0 minus one um and of course rewriting it and we get this by regrouping the first cubit in the zero state with some other state and one tensor with some other state. We know that if the first cubit is measured zero, we collapse the quantum state into this component. If the ensula cubin measured one, we collapse the quantum state into this component. Okay, so that's easier for us to now see what's the action of this whole circuit including the measurement to my uh data cubits. I'm just going to look at this term or this term depending on the measurement result. Now let's take a closer look at what the quantum state s is after. So let's start with the ideal uh encoded state applying the rotation on it. That's exactly what I did here and expanding it to the uh different bases. You'll notice that I annotated here that this is exactly the uh ideal state or the plus one state of x1 x2. By that I mean if you apply x1 x2 on the bit flips of the first two cubits it does not change the quantum state. Okay. Um so x1 x2 acting on this state remain the same. And then another term left over in this uh superposition is the minus1 ident state of x1 x2. So if you apply x1 x2 to this uh uh state uh you're going to get a minus sign in front of it. In other words, if you look closer enough to this, this is essentially the error state. If you experienced a zflip in the first cubit, right? Okay. So, so that's nice. we have grouped into a superposition of a logical state, ideal state plus um an error state or a Z flip state. So that's like a superposition of the phase flip errors or no errors upon measurement of the ensil cubits. I know I uh will uh perform this action which is an projector on my state side or this action on my uh state s because x1 x2 is a plus one state um uh that acts just the same way as an identity on it. So this action actually does nothing to my ideal state. But this isn't minus one icon state. Uh which means that it will introduce a minus sign that cancels out with what I did with the identity. So if you have this action on this component, it cancels out. Um so this action on the entire state basically projects your superposition into one of the bases. And that's what we want too because this is the ideal state that we wanted. So the collapsing helps us um projecting back to the ideal state. There was a question. >> Yeah. So x1 x2 is that two x flips >> right? X flip on u I should specify the subscript is the index of the cubit. So it's an x flip on cubit one. x2 is the x flip on cubit 2. So it is two xflip but acting on two different cubits. >> Okay. >> Um so uh so the uh summary is that if you uh observe zero in the measurement result we actually collapse the superposition into uh the first term which is the ideal state that we are happy with. If you measured one, you're going to look at the action of I minus X1 X2 / two and it will collapse to this component of the quantum state which is the error state. But that's okay. This is the one Zflip single Zflip error that we know how to correct by looking at the different syndrome patterns from the previous slide. So um with probabil upon measuring one we collapse to this uh single zflip error state. Um so you can see that this circuit can also discretize errors right we started with some analog error um that's a superposition um uh or continuous rotation error but now it's a probability mixture of no error versus uh single zflip errors and then we can uh correct the zflip error just as we did in the previous slide for a zflip Very nice. So the power of projective measurement is already revealing that you can uh not only identify errors if you are clever about which cubits to check but also discretize analog errors. Okay. So um you might ask what about arbitrary errors? Now, in order to uh understand how effective these circuits work for um arbitrary quantum errors, you have to understand what arbitrary errors look like. And uh um without getting into the technical um details too much, um nice clean way in my opinion to model a quantum error is to say you have your uh quantum system of interest that we call the principal system. there's an environment that can potentially entangle accidentally and um um it's also a quantum system and you can use the system environment model to understand what uh could possibly occur to your system cubit. Um simple example if you start with a single cubit for your principal system of interest alpha 0 plus beta 1 you can model your environment as another cubit that you don't have control over but accidentally entangle or interact with my system and then uh because you don't have control uh over the environment cubit um you can model it as some kind of measurement um of the envir environment without telling you the measurement result. So it actually um is the most general form uh of what could happen to your uh quantum system. And um the nice thing about this uh um uh model is that it allow us to understand why poly operators form a complete basis. Um so they are sufficient for us to understand um how to correct. So it's so it's sufficient to understand how to correct poly type of errors so that they can be generalized to uh generic errors. Okay. So um to see uh how um this generic process could be modeled as a combination of poly errors um we can use this this simple example for illustration that there's a process of U some kind of unknown unitary operation between the system and environment that act on my cubits and um because the unitary U could map my uh for example zero basis to any quantum states. Um, but I can group them into for example uh zero with some quantum state on the environment cubid that we don't care about. Um, plus one tensor with the about. Um, same thing for the other basis. It can map one to a linear combination of zero and one. Um but the key thing to notice that it's now entangled with the environment in some state that we don't care about. So let me just write it as some generic unnormalized state five. We can do some quick rewriting regrouping of the um terms um and trust me this are equivalent. If you just expand the whole thing it will uh match the each of the four terms. One thing to notice uh for the system cubit the first cubit before the tensor product it's in fact a uh quantum state that is uh different from the ideal quantum state by a pi operator. Um so the first term is exactly the ideal quantum state. So identity times s and some junk over here for the environment that's entangled. Um the second term is the xflip error that occurred to my quantum state s. The last term I jump over to the last term is exactly the zflip error uh to my quantum state. And the third term is uh both a z error and an x error to my quantum state. And because of the property of uh um poly operators that's that's exactly what happened to if you apply I * y to the quantum state. So you can see that you can write this generic entangling operation between the system and environment as some kind of uh poly operations um to my system cubit. Of course also entangled with uh my environment um but as I said because we don't have control over the environment is no different from tracing it out or measuring it without uh telling you the uh measurement result. um this quantum state will now become a probabilistic mixture of the uh uh poly operator uh outcomes. So with some probability distribution you'll have the no error or bit flip error or face flip error or both. Okay. So the mathematics this is just an example but the mathematics behind it is that the poly operator form a complete basis for the linear channels that we uh model here. Um so you can always write it as some kind of linear combination um of uh uh uh poly operations and uh upon uh measurement or tracing out the environment it becomes a probabilistic mixture of poly errors. That gave us a good uh hope that uh by designing quantum error correction codes that are good at handling poly type of errors they will work for generic errors as well. Um this this okay question >> I think I missed how we introduce the fies on that >> this f this is uh of course um me being uh just uh uh generic for what this quantum state could look like. uh but if you specify exactly what the unitary u does to my uh zero state um of course it's tensored with zero so you can think of it as you acting on the zero basis it's going to give you um zero if you give you a quantum state that is inside of this parenthesis and of course I can regroup my uh terms so that uh uh the zero for the first cubit is here and whatever left over is a um linear combination of 01 for the second cubit I call that phi but uh this could be unnormalized this is not a quantum state it's just my notation for writing whatever that is for the second cubit um it depends on which term you are so these fs are different that is uh another way of saying they are entangled you can't factor them out to be a product state. Okay. Um uh you can more rigorously prove this by showing the basis complete basis fact of poly operators of course. >> Yes question. >> So say you have um just a phase shift error. What is the usefulness of of expressing it as any combination of your operations. Is it because in a real world there isn't such a thing as just phase shift errors? >> Right? So there there are two questions mathematically. Uh it's possible to write uh any error following this model as linear combination of uh x or z flips. Um but in practice maybe you are also asking in real life in physics labs um the type of error that happened does not uh as follow as cleanly as just bit flip or phase flip and they can be more analog or continuous and more random. Um um I think maybe in the next few days you'll hear more about more realistic error models for these uh uh specific uh cubits. Um so what I'm trying to say here is um the the sort of um a a clean mathematical abstraction of errors is a uh linear combination or probabilistic mixture of uh um pi type of operations. um this is to motivate these stabilizer error correction codes that are primarily designed to uh correct poly errors and uh that's for the purpose of this uh following lecture I'm going to restrict to these type of errors and uh the hope is that they will also generalize um because the um this fact okay all right um so what I wrote here is that again as a mathematical abstraction um or simplification of what generic error look like. We commonly want like to analyze how quantum error correction works for a particular error model called the depolarizing channel which is essentially saying that with probability 1 minus p nothing happened but with some um some other probabilities uh you can experience an x error or z error or both error namely the y error in your system. Um and um um so that's an example of a a mathematically simple uh description of a noise channel. Okay. So let's uh try to understand this power of projective measurement a bit more uh in a in a uh sense to motivate uh uh more codes um built from such structure. Um and they all rely on a fact of uh you're doing this circuit under the hood for checking errors. You have some data cubit encoded in quantum state. You have a nilla cubit. it gets uh it reads some little information out of the states information about the error not about the state itself otherwise you will collapse the quantum state. So the way that they do it is to do this kind of uh uh uh control uh a operation for some um uh operation a um and then perform measurement on the encilla cubits. So we we have already done this for the example of the two C not gates inside of this uh gadget. Um, so I'm going to flash through the same derivation that we did, but replacing the x1 x2, which is the previous example, by a generic operation A. And then we can do the same regrouping and define uh some kind of a projective operation I plus a over two I minus a over two and um um uh the the um and the resulting um uh states is either I plus A over two multiplying S if the measurement is zero or I minus A / to acting on s if the measurement is one and uh yes >> sorry um in the previous example or as I've been understanding these you had the um you had cots in which the control was in the data and the operator was on the insula and um could you expand on the implications of the control being on the incilla here >> right so uh this is the first example you are referring to where um it's sort of easier to illustrate first by saying okay I'm just controlling on the data and changing the encell um yep as you can see uh maybe I flash it through too quickly for the face flip error uh scenario um we did this uh kind of circuit where we set up the incilla and then controlled on it target on the data um it's interesting to think about the action of C not gate if there are phase errors on the data the action is uh propagated through the control um because Z um when you commute through the C knot it becomes Z on the control Z on the target. So the flipping of the C knot direction allow us to propagate the Z from Z error from data to Ensilla. This is actually the more um intuitive uh understanding of my subsequent figure where you're using um some uh poly operator here to um in other words in the context of uh the phase flip code to have the phase propagated to the ancilla to the control cubit. Um that's called the phase kickback effect. Um but we're going to generalize this more to um to the uh generic poly errors next. But another way to answer your question about the ordering uh of the C gate is the following fact. If you have a headmar gate sandwiching both sides of the control uh knot gate. This is in fact equivalent to flipping the uh direction of the C knots. You can check by looking at the matrix and how they multiplies. So um there is another difference in the anzilla cubit of the first state is that uh in this example I did not have a headmar gate on my anzilla. So if you uh in fact use the same way that I formalized the uh control a operation, you can see that I set up a hetermark gate here. Um and I can flip my uh the direction of my uh C knots. And of course I can also uh insert headomark gates down here in the target. Um and similarly adding another headmark gate before the measurements. Um and of course I need to end with the headmart. This is equivalent to this circuit and this will follow um uh the same formulism I'm going to introduce. Um okay to make it more concrete let's use a single uh gates as an example. Um oo sorry uh so so another fact about this uh um poly operator is that h * x * h is equivalent to z meaning that uh my control and my c knot this is a not gate sandwiched by headmart is the same as uh control Z operation down here. Okay. So in other words, my circuit with the reversed C knot is equivalent to having the headmar in the ancilla cubit and a control Z um where Z is the target and um for detecting face flip it's the same with the control X for the bit flip is the control Z that's why I can generalize it to controlled A where A is defined by Z or X. So it's um I did flash through the different kind of circuits uh quickly um and they look different with the ordering of the C knots but they are actually the same um type of framework uh of projected measurement circuits with the controlled um poly in this form. Okay. All right. So, so this is a general framework for constructing uh detecting error detecting circuit. Um, and all we need to do is to uh follow this recipe. But of course we have to define what our encoded quantum states uh into um some kind of igen states of my poly operator A. So that the action of this projective measurement is to either uh is to u project into the plus one igon states or the minus one igon states of the operation. Um so uh this will be uh uh easily okay before I talk about an example some terminology um so in the action of a acting on some quantum state uh does not change it uh we call that a the stabilizer of the quantum state but in other words the quantum state is a plus one iggon state of the operation A of course this can be better understood through an example um uh of how this stabilizer uh formalism can help us describe an error detection process. So let's uh build a simple code out of this uh um uh structure. The I want to what I'm going to show is the four cubit code that is capable of detecting any single cubit errors both X and Z at once. Right? Before we use two separate circuits for constructing bit flip or phase flip. Now it's the same quantum circuit that can detect uh either bit flip or phase flip. Okay. when I'm going to assume that the quantum state is stored uh the the logical um information is stored o across four physical cubits and they are encoded in this uh entangle states. If you notice these are sort of two bell bow pairs um um but uh they're as you can see spread across four different physical cubits that I label as one two three four in dark circles. Um we're going to enforce three checks acting on these uh four cubits and uh they are defined by uh the operator a right just replacing the box of a by this uh poly operations. Again here the subscript under uh under the poly operations are the index of the cubit that you act on. There's a nice uh geometric interpretation of these stabilizers and where they act on is you lay out the cubid this way in the four dark circles. We can see that the uh x type of checks uh is this uh weight for checks. So you need an ancilla cubit that interact with all four cubits through the control knot operation. another two sets that are acting on pairs of cubits and they are like sandwiching geometrically uh in this form. More explicitly the quantum circuits that detect errors now becomes this a sequence of checks that uh uh acts on the four physical cubits um using three separate ancilla cubits. Um as I was saying it all follows the same projective measurement uh uh framework where you have the yensilla prepared uh and applied aheadar operation and some kind of control a and when a is defined by uh x bit flips it's the control x control x so the c knots and then measure the encilla similarly if you have the checks uh for the z stabilizer Then you have the ancilla setup entangle that by control Z. So this is a shorthand notation for control Z operation. Um acting on the corresponding cubits and then you do that checks uh three checks given by the three stabilizers. You can uh before I do that, you can quickly check that uh the action of uh the stabilizers on these uh encoder states um are trivial meaning that these are the iggon states plus one igon states of the stabilizers. Um and uh uh now going back to our warm-up example um exercise where you can identify what errors uh can be flagged by the measurement results of Mayanzilla cubits. Um because of the special symmetry and the structure of the circuit we can actually um uh detect any single cubit X or Z flips on the four cubits. Okay. So um as a quick example if I have a X error on the first cubit right here before I enter the circuit then um this X error commute with the target of the C knot. So this ensula cubit does not feel anything um it will not affect this ensula A1. So it keeps moving X commute through the target but as soon as it reaches here it's a it's it's the control Z operation that will um be able to flag uh when flip the uh measurement result of A2. So um this measurement outcome is going to uh flag the uh X error on cubit one. Similarly for all the other you'll observe different patterns and it's detectable not correctable because the patterns are not unique for each error and you can get confused among the different errors but they are all detectable. Okay. Um now you want to refine our analysis further by saying that what if error happened not before my check but during my check. Let's say an error occurred suddenly uh not here uh but after my uh first group of checks. Um this is uh called the circuit level analysis. Uh if error could happen anywhere in the circuit, can my um error detection uh circuit detect them effectively. Um another very important question we also want to ask is what if error happens to my ancilla cubit? What if the error detecting process itself is noisy? Right? That is reasonable too because we're going to use noisy cubits to uh construct the ancilla cubit. Um we haven't talked at all about error that happens on the uh control cubits for example right here the ancilla cubits. So these are all very important question that we have to answer uh before we uh uh implement these uh protocols um for error correction. Um so uh but the takeaway of this slide is that by defining the stabilizers it actually give you a recipe for how you can correct or detect errors um and uh construct the circuit for detecting them. Um it took a lot of uh sort of cleverness in design the symmetry and the structure of the circuit. Um but hopefully we'll get to the formal uh formalism that allow you to construct things uh systematically. But let's focus uh on this issue of what if anilla error has error? What if my error detecting process itself is noisy? Um as an example um let's uh let's uh uh see what happens if my if there is a xflip error on on um my ancilla cubit A1 um at this moment in time. Okay. Um say between the second and the third C not gates of the first check. Okay. Okay, let's say an X X error happens here and according to this rule of uh commutation relations between X and C knots, we can see that it will propagate to uh uh the target cubits uh like that and it also commute through the target. So there's two X flip that uh um lingering in my circuit and then uh this X error will be flagged by this uh CZ operation and um detected by anilla cubit A2 and this uh this error X is going to be detected by this encilla due to this CZ gate. So in this case we're we are okay. Um but let's imagine the same scenario um but instead of uh measuring in this order um I I change the ordering of which cubid I interact first. Okay. Uh so uh logically it does not change um anything um um but it's just uh uh changing the ordering of the C not gate that are that commute with each other but the effect of error detection actually changes. Um so the ordering that I'm checking now is 1 2 3 4 instead of this zigzag shape of 1 14 23. uh the same scenario of an X bit flip error in between the second and the third gate. Now it's not going to be detected because it's going to propagate to cubit 4 and cubit 3 on these two lines. And if we look at the um error dete subsequent error detection for X error um they belong to the same check. Okay, as I said, if uh two flips happens to the same check, they cancel out and uh essentially propagate to um it will flip the ancilla cubit twice so that the resulting uh measurement is not flagged. Okay. So this error, this uh circuit does not detect this particular error but this uh first circuit does. Um in other words the ordering of the um uh checks matters um and uh it it will take a lot of uh analysis for designing an circuit that actually is robust to different kinds of errors. So there was a question >> uh you actually just answered my question. Okay. I was going to ask uh it can if it it can detect errors but how does it know can it detect which cubid it's from with certainty and you answered it which is it can't >> right so depending on the code um sometimes you can actually localize errors and identify exactly which cubit experienced an error in that case I can then perform a correction um to it. This code is a four cubit error detection code, meaning that I can tell if an error occurred. Um um but I couldn't localize or uniquely identify which cubit has the error. Uh which prevented me from correcting that error. But of course, I can uh raise the flag that something was wrong in my um system. So, so this is uh uh also the reason that my my subsequent slides is going to um about going to be about how do you uh make more powerful codes that can correct errors or correct more errors. Okay. Um okay. So this slide is actually showing that um uh ordering of error detection matters and uh it's also code specific um and for some other codes we need extra uh care for defining how to do the uh syndrome measurements so that um the noise in the error detection itself does not ruin the uh computation or ruin the computational states. Okay, in order to talk about more codes, um I'd like to introduce this uh uh beautiful theory behind um stabilizer formalism. Um as we were already uh doing, we are defining uh error correction or error detection codes using stabilizers by telling you what are the stabilizers or the poly operators. um I I'm implicitly telling you how the circuits are constructed, right? Just substitute the poly strings into the syndrome uh measurement or projective measurement circuit. Um perform each check one by one and um you can uh correct for errors. So so this formulism is based on polystabilizers. uh they are constructed uh from poly operators defined uh by these matrices. Um uh and properties of these poly matrices are so nice that we can uh very cleanly analyze the capability uh or the effectiveness of error correction. Um so um uh to understand the power of stabilizers, let's take a closer look at this 4 cubit code and then try to generalize from there. Um uh if we look at the four cubic code we know that the uh encoded states I explicitly written it out but I don't have to um because I can define the encoded states as the plus one iggon states of all my stabilizers. In other words, if I apply the gates of xxx on all four cubits, it does nothing to my states. um or the Z1 Z2 it does nothing to my states. Um that's the definition of plus one states. Um but but what about uh and we also saw that if you have uh poly errors acting on single cubits uh this will uh map these co-work space coerc states into minus one states meaning that uh the ancilla cubit will uh be able to uh flag um because the measurement result is flipped. Um if we look further at other possible poly operations on these four cubits such as Z1 Z2 if I'm applying Z gate here Z gate here I want to understand the action of this operation on my quantum state as well. Um in technically it's a a 2Z error. Um but if we apply Z1 Z2 on purpose um how does it change my states? uh well we can take a look at the two code war states and see what happens if I apply Z1 Z2 is going to uh introduce a minus sign if the basis states are one in either location. So here are two of them. So applying Z twice cancels out the negative sign. So it doesn't change this whole state at all. Same uh this doesn't change because I did nothing to cubit 3 and cubit 4. Now let's look at the uh negative uh uh the second code word states. Um applying Z1 Z2 again introduces two negative signs to this basis which cancels out and it does nothing. So these two states are also plus one igon states of the Z1 Z2 and that uh is uh why I said that um the action of the stabilizers. Notice that this is one of the stabilizers should not uh change the logical information does not change the quantum state um that you are storing. Now let's look at Z2Z3. This is not something that you are uh you have in your set of stabilizers. Um but notice that it is actually the product of A1 and A2 and A3. Right? So if you multiply Z1 Z2 oh sorry this is maybe not. So so I'm uh looking at something else. Uh I'm looking at Z2Z3 um which is uh performing a Z gate on the second cubit and the third cubit. Um so uh what what is the what is it doing? So if I have a Z here it's going to change uh this into 0 0 minus one1 and if I have a Z3 on the first cubit here is going to be 0 0 plus minus one1 also. So this action of Z2Z3 change from the first uh encoded state to the second encoded state and vice versa. Right? So and notice that these two states are orthogonal. So these are the basis of my uh logical information and this action um is a map between the different logical bases. Um so what is a uh mapping between logical bases? Well, that's a logical operation, right? So, if you want to change from a logical zero to a logical one, that's your logical X gate. So, you can also use these poly operators to define how would you like to do computation on it by mapping between the uh basis states. That's an example of a um logical Z operation. Um and uh and furthermore I can also see what happens if I apply x1 x2 um to this uh um uh to this encoded states. And let me just uh uh summarize through this example. We saw that there are properties of these poly operations. Um uh these are sort of multicubit poly operations. It tells you how uh uh to apply poly gates on different cubits. Um and uh they form a group nicely uh form a group because uh multiplying xyz together give you another poly operation. Um and uh um they also have very nice commutation relations. Um uh so exchanging the ordering of applying X and Z uh for example u introduces a negative sign. So um they anti-commute um so so I can write down different ways a poly operation uh uh commute or anti-commute with each other. um x i is ix or changing xx is of course uh the same as xx. So um the nice property of a poly operation is that they uh either uh commute or anti-commute and exchanging the order either does nothing or um adds a negative sign. Okay. So you can check for all different combination of poly operations this way. Um and then I can further group the type of uh uh poly operations by their action on my encoded states. So um for example I had uh I had worked out the example of Z1 Z2 that belongs to one of the stabilizers and we saw that the action of Z uh on cubit one and Z on cubit 2 does nothing to my encoded states. So that's essentially the identity action on my encoded states. In other words, there's no error or no change in the logical information. And you can tell because this also commute with the all the stabilizers in in in here. Um and uh uh there's another set of poly operations. For example, um let's say Z on the first cubit as we saw is one of the detectable error and um it's detectable because it will be flagged by one of our stabilizers namely A1. I know that it will be flagged by A1 because the action of Z1 um anti-commute with my stabilizer A1 um in particular Z1 and X1 commute uh anti-commute um and um that's why the ancilla cubit implementing this stabilizer will be uh flipped um in the measurement result and serving as a flag or syndrome for that error. Okay. So, uh um furthermore, we analyzed the Z2Z3 which is uh um uh which commute with all my stabilizers. Uh but it does change my logical basis information. So that uh acts as a logical operation or logical error. um it commutes with all the stabilizers but change the code words. Um these are of course undetectable because they commute with all the stabilizers. Um but it allow us to map between the different uh encoded states. Um so um changing logical information. So we can group the different types of poly operations into uh things uh depending on their commutation relations with our stabilizers. Okay, with that in mind, I'm going to now quickly introduce um uh something called the surface code, which is essentially a uh larger instance of the four cubic code. As you can see, I'm defining the uh stabilizers of this new code similar in a similar way as I defined uh the four cubit code, right? I'm laying out the physical cubit in a grid, in this case, the 3x3 grid. Um, and I'm performing my checks of uh neighboring cubits using Encilla cubits. and they follow this nice geometric uh layout that they are in a 2D grid um checkerboard fashion and you have this uh yellow checks that is the X stabilizers in the case of uh this phase of the grid it's acting on cubit 2 356 so it's doing the x checks on uh 2356 so it's x2 x3 x5 5x6 that's the stabilizer and for a green uh phase of the grid uh we're doing a Z-type stabilizer um um given by the circuit like this um so once you lay out them this way and define the X and Z type of stabilizers using this uh um checkerboard um fashion um you can in fact correct single bit flip or face flip errors. The nice thing about this code is that I can draw the picture uh because of the 2D nearest neighbor uh interaction uh that's uh given by this special symmetry or geometry of the code. Um uh it's not just drawing this picture easily. This means that we can implement it uh more easily. For example, with superconducting circuits where where you will embed these cubits uh in this uh physical locations and the encilla uh cubits that has to interact with my data can be in the middle and all we need is a degree 4 connectivity allow you to do the control knot operation with its four neighbors and nothing more. A3 does not have to interact with cubit 7 for example. That's nice because of the local structure. Um uh another important feature of this surface code is that it's resilient to hook error. Um recall that uh when I when we talk about ancilla errors when when ancilla cubit can have error themselves uh we want to avoid the error on the ancilla cubit propagating back to my data cubit therefore ruining my computation. This is the type of error called the hook error. And uh you'll notice that I did a specific ordering of the gates in order to make it work. In in in particular for this uh xstabilizer, I'm following the same zigzag pattern that I introduced for uh for detecting the um ancilla error in the previous example. Um so so that's the same zigzag shape. um uh but the Zstabilizer follow another different zigzag way. So so this is more or less like a capital letter N. This is a flipped version of N. So it's actually a different way that you zigzag um that will allow you to detect error that occur during the circuit on the ancilla cubit as well. Um uh different codes will have different uh syndrome extraction circuit or syndrome measurement circuit um and they might may or may not be resilient to hook error. Uh nice thing about this code is that we can find such circuit that are resilient to the hook errors. Um uh what else? Uh we also like the code because these two circuits that acts on different cubits sometimes they share cubits. Um but these can be par completely running in parallel because of the way that we uh uh starts uh and end the different cubits. You can actually do all the gates uh that I lined up in this vertical um layers in parallel. uh for example the bottom you all start with the bottom right of the data cubit right here um because that's the first cubit you interact with from the ensil cubit for example a2 a3 will both interact with the bottom right uh corner of the physical cubit um even though a3 share uh cubit 5 with a2 they they check them in a different order um and then um doing that allow you to do the both checks in parallel and then you move on to the other depending on the zigzag direction uh they will not conflict. This is also really nice. Remember we want to make sure we can detect error fast enough then they occur. So we want to make sure our circuit for detecting error is very shallow in depth um so they can be uh implemented in a very short amount of time. Um and uh the circuit for correcting uh s uh surface code is a constant depth of seven gates per cycle. Seven coming from um the headomar the four cods hetamar and uh uh the measurement. So everything is done in parallel um even though there are so many so many checks to be done uh simultaneously. Okay. So I'm basically illustrating all the different uh uh factors that you have to take into account when you evaluate the uh effectiveness or performance of an error correction circuit. Now let's look at the capability of correcting single cubit errors by this surface code. As I said um we can understand the uh error correcting capability based on depolarizing channel to begin with. Um they follow the nice XYZ type of errors on my physical cubits. Um and the code words can be defined um on the nine physical cubits. it will be a a mess to write down the exact state um of uh the entangled encoded states of my nine cubits. But thanks to the stabilizer formulas, we know it's a state that is a plus one state of all my stabilizers, right? Introduced in the previous slides. So uh by defining the stabilizers as I did in the picture um I'm implicitly telling you what the quantum state should be in uh for the entangle states of the physical cubits um and and uh that's the uh plus one states of all the stabilizers so that uh uh for every element in the stabilizer set the action of it is trivial. Okay. So, um what does the process of error correction actually do? Um it's essentially trying to um classify the different um uh quantum states that my physical cubic could be in into some subspaces. In fact, the direct sum of sephero subspaces that is um uh labeled uh by different um uh stabilizer measurement results. So uh remember the syndrome measurement is a projective measurements um if the measurement results return plus one I know that my quantum states is now in the plus one states. If the measurement result is minus one, I know my quantum state is projected to the minus one igon states and um because of the uh syndrome measurement projection and depending on the plus minus one uh measurement results that's showing up in all these stabilizers, I can now classify uh subspaces that are plus or minus one states of each stabilizers. Okay, so I can do this uh simple classification and um if all the stabilizers show a plus one, I know I'm in the no error case. That's the code space. So everything should start with the plus one states. Uh that's my code awards. Suppose one of the stabilizers are flagged minus one that is projected to the first error space. um and uh we'll be able to uh uh tell what error occurred in this subspace. um so so um uh something I wanted to illustrate now is that how do you know um how many um what's the dimension of the logical space uh defined by this code word space. Okay. So, uh something we can check is the simple dimensionality check. So, in the case of physical cubits, I started with nine physical cubits and uh the entire cuber space is dimension 2 to the n um for the nine physical cubits. And uh of all the possible basis states um uh that span the entire 2 to the n dimensional huber space um some of them are plus one igon state of a stabilizer g some of them are minus one igon states in fact uh I will completely cut the entire hub space in half. One is the plus one igon state group. the other is the minus one state group. Um and by doing this projection I'm sort of picking one of the group. So if I had a uh stabilizer code defined on nine physical cubit that's two to the nine dimension huber space and now I have one two three four all the way to eight stabilizer checks uh stabilizers which each of them can sort of cut the space in half and grouping to either plus one or minus one state of that stabilizer. er um by defining eight of them I sort of um picking u uh one of the two to the a possible groups um in particular the group that that I said was the plus one states of all the eight stabilizers right so so I have cut the dimension every time in half eight times and um so if you look at the dimension of the um uh entire the the the subspace that you picked this guy um is 2 to the 9 over uh 2 to the 8. Okay. Uh so that's exactly dimension two and that's good because a dimension two means that's one logical cubit. Okay, we can define one cubit uh is a dimensional two hubers space out of this subspace. Um same thing actually for the all the other error spaces. They're all dimension two. Um and uh there are two to the eight of them. each has their unique uh u signature of either plus one or minus one um igon states of the stabilizers. Okay. So, so this is sort of a a simple way of counting how many uh logical cubit or how much uh how many dimension you have um uh left after this projection. We'll come back to this calculation when we define more formally the stabilizer codes. Okay. So I think this is a good time to take a break. Um and uh after the break we will do a quick recap of what the uh um surface code look like and also um uh generalize to doing computation on them. Okay. So let's get back to it. Uh so we have defined um this uh code that I call surface code uh on nine physical cubits and we said that because of the eight stabilizers that each uh uh divide the hub space in half plus one igon state uh subspace or minus one igon state subspace. uh we can define uh one logical cubit out of this um uh because I have two dimension left in the subspace. Um so that's the uh sanity check that we have defined and error correcting codes uh that allow us to define the code awards and uh checks. But uh to understand its um uh power in terms of error correction capability, we will look at uh again through examples how to um check for errors uh using this setup. Um again let's uh assume that we have bit flip or face flip type of errors that could happen to any of the nine physical cubits. Um suppose I have an X error on cubit number five in the middle. Um uh the question is uh which checks would flag this error and um uh notice from recall from the previous slides the definition of these codes is that the green patch defines a z-type stabilizer. So it's a Z1, Z2, Z4, Z5. And uh the uh yellow patch defines an X type of stabilizer that is X2, X3, X5, uh X6 for example. Um and we know because of the projective measurements um when an error commutes with the stabilizers. Uh meaning that in the uh error correction circuit, the syndrome measurement circuit, the error will just commute through till the end of the um logic uh the circuit without uh the encilla uh without propagating uh errors to the encilla cubits thereby flagging it. But if the error anti-commutes with the stabilizer, it will flip the ancilla cubit and uh the measurement result will be able to flag them. So what we're looking for is therefore um stabilizers that anti-commutes with this particular error. Okay. So um uh due to the nice property of poly operators that we know um these two patches that check for Z stabilizers because they have a Z acting on cubit number five and yet there was an X type of error happening on it X and Z anti-commute. Um this will flip the ancilla cubit A2 and A7 and they both touch on cubit number five. And uh all the other cubits are going to um stay the same. And in particular, we know that if you have an error acting on cubin number five, x5 in particular, um your quantum states is now a minus one iggon states to these two stabilizers yet uh plus one igon states to all the remainder stabilizers. Um in the in the picture that I had from pre previous slides, essentially you have a um x uh error on cubit 5 that map you from the code space to one of the error space that is minus one states to some of the stabilizers. Okay. Um and uh therefore you have two checks that raise the flags. Okay. So uh that's what I was trying to say. The state even though I didn't write it down explicitly we know uh is a minus one states of these two stabilizers. Um I should have written Z because in X-T type uh error and a green patch. So it's actually a Z1, Z2, Z4, Z5. Um that's an minus one states. Um but plus one states of all the other stabilizers. Okay. Um here's another example of a Z error on cubit number six. Again, we're going to look for uh stabilizers uh that will raise a flag, namely those that anti-commute with this uh Z error. And that is the eight uh that is the X check uh performed on the cubit number six. And therefore we have a flag there. Um now here is a question in reverse. So if I uh perform my checks as I uh requested um and I saw two flags uh raised, can I guess what was the error that occurred? Because after all the error correction process is about looking at the checking the checking for the syndromes uh see the raised flags to guess what error was occurred and then perhaps try to correct them. Right? So uh we don't know where was the error but we can only look at the flags. So suppose A1 A3 both raised the flags. What could be the error that uh caused this? Yes. >> Uh it looks like it could be an X error because both of the flags are raised at the uh X flip zones. >> Okay. So So recall that the yellow checks are X stabilizers. Yeah, >> errors have to anti-commute uh with them in order to raise a flag. >> Oh, >> so >> so that's be the opposite. >> Exactly. >> So it should be a Z error said on cubit two and then well because it neighbors with both checks it will raise the two flexs. Very good. So one possible error uh could be Z acting on cubid 2. Um, are there other possible error that could occur and cause this flag flags to raise? >> Yes. >> Maybe Z1 and Z3. >> Z1 Z3. Good. Uh, Z1 raised the flag and it doesn't affect A2. Um, Z3 raised the other flag. So, so that's uh exactly what I wrote. Uh, also that's another possibilities. Um uh and then we can of course argue which one was more likely um assuming that the errors are all independent let's say and they occur at different locations of the physical cubits then one error is more likely than two consecutive error at the same time. So we can say okay yes indeed there are multiple possible uh error that could cause the flags but the uh single error on cubit 2 is more likely. Okay. Identifying the most likely error is the process of decoding um uh use the syndrome information which is only partial information of what's happening to infer what was the uh cause or most likely cause. Um so uh the process of decoding as I said is uh to to uh trying to figure that out. Um I only showed an example as you can imagine if I uh had lots of errors and lots of flex. It's going to be very complicated to uh check for the possible errors. And uh uh something I didn't um spend much time on is that this surface code is actually um uh generalizable to a larger um number of cubits for larger grid. For example, in this case, it's a 5x5 grid instead of 3x3 in my previous example. Um using more cubits to encode still one logical cubit. um uh you pay the cost but you gain sort of more protection um and um in this case uh uh you'll have more locations for possible errors but you have also do more checks um to try to resolve it and um just to be give you a flavor of what um decoding looked like in practice um taken a surface code of course you can model that as a some kind of graph they are nearest neighbor connected. These are the sites of the ancilla cubits that could raise a flag. And then um you can uh sort of identify the locations of errors that did raise a flag and try to solve uh a graph radical problem of uh uh where could be the um um errors uh that cause those flags. And as you were also doing in the previous um uh slide, because an error could cause both neighbor uh flags to raise, you're trying to match up the two flags that are near that are close to each other. So it's like a matching problem. Um this edge means that the data cube is sitting in between these two flags must have an error to for both of them to raise a flag. Um once you have so many uh uh flags, uh trying to find the uh matching between pairs of uh flags is precisely the task of uh uh identifying the error that would cause the flags. And it's optimization problem because you want to find the most likely error. Um that translates to uh finding a match that is the minimum weight. Um because uh indeed I could maybe say that uh uh there are far distance uh uh flags that are matched meaning that I believe consecutive error occurred um uh to to make that happen and that will occur with less probability. So finding the minimum wave perfect matching on this uh decoder graph uh solve the most likelihood uh maximum likelihood decoding problem. This uh algorithm would work if uh work well if your errors are localized and rare. If it's actually uh uh really uh actively detecting error um it's it's going to be very uh confusing for the algorithm to decode. Yes. >> Uh if two if two errors errors happen around the same area can it unset the flag? >> Exactly. Yes. So, um um I think I might have it uh somewhere. Um okay, for example, let's uh get back to here. Um if I have um another X error that happens to cubit number six, >> uh this flag still is still there. >> Yeah. But uh because this check interact with both cubit 5 and cubit 6 that uh um experienced the errors um uh they will flip the ancilla cubit twice. >> Okay. >> Thereby making it back to the zero and not raise the flag. Um this can also be seen by saying the x5 x6 commute with my stabilizer. That's because uh every uh lo every cubit that has x and z um introduce a negative sign because they anti-commute but they anti-commute twice. So the negative sign actually cancels. um that is an example where the uh flag cancelled out because of uh multiple errors. So then what you'll be looking for is the flag that would be raised here. Right? So A4 would raise the flag because it only checks cubit 6 and then I'm going to try to match this flag A2 with A4. The only way they will be matched is by asserting that there are two error that occurred both here and here. Um so so um there could be um longer distance flags that you have to match assuming consecutive error that happen in between. Okay. So people build software to solve this problem um for even larger scale graphs. And this figure was taken from my colleagues in the Yale uh computer science without with our permission. I took this picture um from their paper. Uh they also have a software called fusion blossom based on the um admin's blossom algorithm for finding minimum perfect matching uh minimum weight perfect matching of a graph to solve this problem efficiently. It's until you can come up with the most likely error that is when you can maybe think about recovery. Um and uh if you can't recover the quantum state fast enough then uh the error occur or decode them uh it also delays um the the whole error detection process and also uh therefore impact the effectiveness of error detection. So we need to do this fast um to keep up with the rate of error and computation occurred with it. Okay. So um to to formalize the whole uh construction we define a surface code using the stabilizers and they're carefully crafted in a way that it follows this geometric symmetry and uh a very balanced checks like checkerboard uh checking for each of the data cubits. Um we can again uh implicitly define the uh uh codware states of the nine physical cubits in this case to be the plus one states of all the stabilizers. And if any of the uh states if any of the stabilizers raise a flag that means you end up in a minus one state of some stabilizers and try to map them back to the original uh code word space is the recovery process. Um the the reason that we can uh uh protect against errors uh is because the higher dimensional huber space namely the nine cubit physical hubers space is uh grouped into um uh codware space that is spread out in the entire huber space. spread out in the sense that uh mapping between the codawware states of all the plus one icon states involve uh multiple pi operations on the cubits. The m the number of bit flips or face flips required to map between logical codearts is called the distance. Um in other words, if that many bit flips or phase flips happened to your code wordss um which map the logical zero to logical one, there's no way to detect them. Right? So if there's fewer error than that you are mapping it to some other states that's sort of minus one igon states to some stabilizers then you can detect them. So um uh any weight d uh poly operations um could occur without triggering any syndrome. Um that defines the limit of which your error correction can work. Um how many errors can you correct? Um in particular a distance decode can detect up to d minus one errors. Right? If you are just short of mapping to another code words, you can tell because it's not a plus one states anymore. Um uh but in order to correct for uh the um code words, you have to know which code words to get back to. Um and that will be lower than the uh code distance. In particular, uh it will be d minus one over two. So it's shorter than halfway between the two different code wordss and then you can go back to the uh closer one. Okay. So people define um code distance to uh help understand the theoretical limit of how many errors this code can correct. Um of course there are other parameters to define what is a good code versus bad codes. um how many physical cubit does it use right that's the physical resources that we have to take and how many logical cubits it defines um uh the ratio between the logical cubits and physical cubit is called the encoding rate right so we're using more physical cubits to define fewer logical cubits and of course if you have larger encoding rate that is more resource efficient so we like to pick codes that larger uh encoding rate. Um as I was doing um in order to get the n physical cubits to encode k logical cubits using stabilizers we can actually we know that there will be n minus k stabilizers because at the end of the day you are encoding a 2 to the k dimensional subspace inside of a 2 to the n physical huber space. um by cutting up into plus one minus one igon states of the stabilizers. Every stabilizer cut the 2 to the n um uh hub spacing half. Um if you doing that n minus k times that's the number of stabilizers you have each subspace you remain is dimension two to the k allowing you to define a k logical cubits. So um uh given a n kd codes you know that you have to define n minus k stabilizers for it. Um these are really structured and has a lot of symmetry in the entire hub space. Um that is why we can uh perform error correction on it. Um so this will only work if the um if the code satisfies certain condition. Um and this condition is defined as some kind of relationship between the stabilizer projections that you do and the set of errors that could occur. Right? So um the checks is only good for correcting certain errors and by uh matching the uh uh capability the the checks with where the error occur you can define um the family of error that can cor that can be collectively um detected or corrected by a code. uh mathematically you can define that through this condition which is the relationship between the types of errors and the projections that you do. Um so I'm not going to uh uh introduce the mathematical um uh definition in depth but uh to offer the um intuitive interpretation of the error correction condition or the Neil Laflam condition u it's in fact pretty uh straightforward. Um in order to uh understand if a family of error is perfectly correctable, I want to make sure that um uh we define correctable by saying that if the quantum state you start with undergo some error channel epsilon uh hopefully your recovery or the detection plus correction can bring you back to the quantum state row. Um this only work if your error detection done by the projection of the stabilizers satisfy the relationship with the errors E subi in the following form and this is not so difficult to see what it means. Um what I wrote here is the interpretation of it is essentially to say that if you have two orthogonal basis states in the code awards you want to maintain that they are orthogonal after uh the errors um otherwise they're not perfectly distinguishable. So sc are two of the basis states in the logical huber space. um first uh my error correction should not ruin the computation itself. So that is guaranteed by saying the projection given by the stabilizers act trivially on my logical uh basis states code words does not change my quantum information if no error occurred. uh if there's some error that occurring for example take any two errors uh it will not uh change the relative angle between the um two uh code wordss in other words uh they remain orthogonal. Um therefore if you perform some measurement along the right basis you can still perfectly distinguish two basis states. Um um and again this picture allows us to see the internal structure of this hub space that we uh uh uh made that that we sort of engineered to uh make sure that uh um each projection um is uh sort of cut the space into subspaces that is uh um uh recoverable. in the sense that two basis operations uh in the code space uh through some error channel that map to the error space they remain orthogonal um so that you can still use a unitary operation to bring them back. Recall that unitary operation is sort of uh preserve the angle between the uh vectors. So um uh um if it's correctable meaning that we can use a unitary recovery operation the basis operation has to stay orthogonal. Okay. So, so this is the mathematical definition of what is correctable. Um, and um, uh, what I want to end with uh, for today's uh, lecture is to say that it goes beyond just uh, uh, correcting error. Ultimately, you want to also do computation while you are performing error correction. So that is the notion of fall tolerant computation on uh, a code. Um for example, you want to use that logical cubit u prepare in some logical state um perform some logical gates, perform logical measurements and hopefully uh physical errors that occur within the logical cubit um is going to um be detected and corrected. So in practice the process is going to be um a cycle. Um so you you prepare the encella cubits um you entangle with the data, you check for errors, you measure the encells and then reset them and that is done for every gate, every operation and maybe every uh now and then and over and over um uh the code checks for signs of error without uh interrupting the computation. Okay, so that's the sort of the cycle of error correction. Um, and just to give you a hint of how to perform computation on the uh defined code. Uh we'll again resort to the stabilizer formalism which is quite powerful uh for understanding what happens to our logical cubit. um you can define logical poly operations to begin with. And it turns out that for this surface code construction um performing logical X on the uh cubit uh is implemented by physical Xgate on this uh set of uh three cubits one, five and nine. And then poly Z operation acts on the other diagonal of this surface patch uh Z operation. Um a quick check that you can do is that uh this logical operation uh commute with all my stabilizers. In other words, it does not uh change um uh if I perform the logical gate, it will not be accidentally uh identified as a error, right? It does not anti-commute with any of the stabilizers. So they will not raise a flag because of my gate. Um and uh you can do the same thing for both. Um uh and then it's also important to see that uh the logical Z and logical X anti-commute with each other. After all, they are pi operations that anti-commutes. And you can see that they anti-commute on a physical cubit of Z of cubit 5, right? So Z5 X5 anti-commutes by enforcing the whole poly operation to anti-commute. Okay. So, so this is sort of not the only definition of poly operations. Uh you can define something else that satisfies these criteria. In fact, this is all you need to define the logical poly operation. Um but that's non unique. For example, I can choose a different set of three cubits for the logical Z. um for on acting on 7 A9 um and uh uh these operations commute with all the stabilizers but it allow you to map between code words. Uh as I was saying in the table uh we can we can group the stabilizers into no errors or um detectable errors or uh logical operations. And here's an example of a logical operation. Um similarly we can define alternative x operations logical x operations along the boundary um like that. Uh okay so um I'm going to um briefly talk about um what you need to do beyond poly gates um but due to the time constraints I'll not do the full description of how they are implemented on surface codes. Um but just to motivate that uh um uh to implement universal computation we need more than poly operations. Um and some of them are Clifford operations and also to uh motivate why stabilizer formalism is so powerful um it can allow us to design Clifford operations on them too. Um we can recall the property of poly uh group elements and uh we define stabilizers from this poly group and um they have properties like they commute uh with each other. Um and uh uh code words are plus one igon states of all the um stabilizers and uh the syndrome measurement circuit. The projective measurement circuits for error detection can be modeled as projectors of the stabilizers. Um the question we can ask is are there other elements that we didn't pick from the poly groupoup that uh also commute with my um stabilizers? If the if there are any um that means they can be defined as logical operations um um or it does nothing to the code words. Uh then it's an identity. So um so we can define another group of operations called the normalizers that are elements that commute with all my stabilizers uh out of the poly group. So the other things that are not stabilizer but they all commute um these are nice things that uh um uh we can see uh act as a logical operation to see how this is a logical operation. We can we can say that suppose my um uh operation um uh map p map the one code word to another. Um then performing the stabilizers do not uh uh sort of change the fact that they will do this mapping because they commute. Okay. Um uh there are other operations that um um uh uh can perform uh operations on um uh the code words. For example, if you define unitary acting on a co-work states um that is stabilized by G um if they do not commute with my um uh stabilizers they can also be used as a logical operation as long as they u satisfy nice properties. Um for example um this is equivalent to sort of um uh doing the unitary operation on the code word states and then stabilized by this uh new set of stabilizer. So, u GU dagger is your new stabilizers of the codes. And these are sort of a motivating example for Clifford operations that uh map from poly operations to poly operations. Um so when the new stabilizers uh fall back into the poly group, they are nicely um defined. Um we can still use stabilizer formula M2 of the poly groupoup polystabilizer describe it. Um so if we enforce this new stabilizer to be element of the poly groupoup um we know that such unitaries are called the clifford. Um and example of those gates are uh hatamar gate phase gates and c not gates. So they map um poly operation to another poly operation. Um so uh performing these operations um and update the stabilizers change the stabilizers um in back into polies uh are are nice properties of these gates. Um but however we have to motiv have to say that these do not form a universal set of gates in the sense that if you start off with a zero state and perform only clifer gates or poly gates on this quantum states you do not get to uh for example only the single cubit ones right so this is a block sphere for the single cubit uh you start with the zero perform poly gates or cascades. It does not get you anywhere on the block sphere. It gets you only um certain points along the block sphere. Um for example, an X gate jump back to one and then a headomar gate uh get to plus and so on. Um so uh if you have probabilistic mixture of these uh uh clifer gates it gets you to the interior of this uh uh octohedrum this um uh stacked uh pyramid shape. So not everywhere inside of the block sphere but uh uh those enclosed by this ocahedron. This is not universal. In order to get to uh densely everywhere on the block sphere or interior of the block sphere, we need another um um uh gate that is not Clifford gates. Um so I think I'm going to uh show you um flash through some of the construction of Clifford gates and the basic idea of non-clifer gates to uh show that uh surface code as a promising example of enabling universal fault tolerant computation. Um uh so by defining uh Clifford gates such as Hetamar gates uh and and face gates and C gates we can construct all the Clifford states. So uh uh it turns out if you want to map between the igen states of x logical x and logical z because of the symmetry of the all the nine physical cubits applying the heteromar gates on each of the physical gates allow you to uh construct the um logical uh hetermark. Uh that is to say if I have a logical X on 159 um because I applied hetermar gate on 159 um it turns into a logical Z um and that's exactly what my logical uh Z is. Uh so that's also exactly how I want my logical hedomar to perform to map between logical X and Z. Um so physical hedomar on nine cubits suffices. There's a catch of course you have to if you if you apply the headmar gate is equivalent to flip the uh x stabilizers to the zstabilizer. So the colors you see are changed. Um so in order to preserve this uh structure it's simply uh rotated by 90 degrees. So it's a heteromar gate up to some rotation. Um and uh uh so that's a way to implement headomar gate and uh same logic follows for control ngate. Um in fact if you do control not between the control logical cubit and target logical cubit you simply perform C not gate of each of the physical cubit respectively. Um so control on cubit one target on cubit one um each on the logical cubits and then pair-wise for everything implement the logical caut um I'm describing the results but you can actually verify it from the um uh logical um stabilizers and how that uh is transformed by the set of physical gates. Um but uh uh as you see that require lots of gates that are not uh easy to implement or draw in the 2D. Um you have to implement a long remote gates and um pair-wise. Uh so people have also thought about uh using other helping cubits to um uh require less uh connectivity. Um so you can use additional logical cubit and interact only in nearest neighbor physical cubits to implement the logical operation and this is called the lattice surgery. Um and uh uh through this we have already discussed its transversal gate set of the um surface code but it does not give you all the universal operations that you wanted. Um uh in fact there is a no-go theorem uh saying that um um no quantum error correction codes can implement u a universal gate set uh with only transversal gates implementation like this. Um so in order to circumvent this but still be able to perform universal computation um you have to uh circumvent it with other techniques and um uh I'm not going to talk too much uh in detail but um the idea to circumvent this nonclifford uh gate uh implementation is through teleportation and uh The takeaway is that you can construct um maybe the next slide is better. Um you can construct a a Clifford circuit that you know how to implement fault tolerantly with transversal operation. Um plus some initial quantum states that we call sort of magic states. uh once you get hands on such prepared magic states uh with high fidelity um we know Clifford gates can be performed uh file tolerantly then the logical operation of the non-clifford operation can be performed uh with high fidelity um it's sort of shifting the difficulty of uh performing a logical Tate into preparing a special resource states and that is relative relatively easier because you can for example um employ post- selection or um trial and error to prepare lots of uh states and only pick the high fidelity ones. So that's a sort of um a better route than directly implementing the logical uh gates. Okay. So, so with that I'm going to end here and um uh uh leave this page up and then u say that this is sort of a um one proposal for scaling up quantum computation um by error correction using surface code. Um in order to perform computation on it, of course, we have to carefully think about implementing the logical operations um uh while performing error correction and um um so so everything nicely fit into this stabilizer formalism that we introduced leveraging the properties of poly operations and uh poly groupoup. Um uh this has proliferated into a a research field of uh um using the stabilizer formulism to define new codes that uh um is capable of uh correcting more errors with fewer uh resource elements and maybe enable logical operations with uh more uh with with cheaper operations. Um and uh hopefully this uh lecture allow you to sort of uh tap into this nice uh formalism so that you can understand these more advanced constructions. So with that uh thank you for your attention and leave this uh slide up for sort of a different code that people designed but still using the stabilizer formulism and hope I hope after this uh lecture you will be able to um join this effort of discovering new codes and uh dis inventing new protocols for helping us reaching uh fall tolerant quantum computation. So thank you.