death penalty cases if no court grants relief or reverses the sentence end in execution. Uh the United States all almost all the states now have gone to lethal injection. There's been this procession of what's the most humane way uh to execute people? Uh is it the firing squad? Is it hanging? Uh in the 1880s, the governor of New York said that hanging was barbaric and New York was going to the electric chair. Uh by uh you know the the the late part of the 20th century, most people saw the electric chair as being barbaric. States also use the gas chamber uh to execute people. But today uh the predominant way of executing people in the United States is lethal injection. Uh it was seen as a you know more humane almost a medically type uh putting somebody to sleep like as if they were going to have an operation. But uh what we've seen in the last 40 years is that lethal injection is not without its problems. Uh the case of Ron El Broom uh is a good case in point. Uh he was set for execution by Ohio. Uh they tried repeatedly uh to inject him with the lethal drugs. He even helped them by trying to find a a place to be injected. Uh this went on for hours uh before they finally gave up uh and he was not uh lethally injected. Uh in 2014 there were executions in which one person said uh I feel like my whole body is on fire uh after the lethal drugs uh started running into their body. In another case uh the person made a lot of groaning and guttural noises and twisted around for a while before finally dying. And so there's there's a controversy uh about uh what drugs should be used in this process. uh the availability of the drugs uh the qualifications of the people who carry out the executions. I mean uh doctors will not carry out an execution because of the hypocratic oath. So the result is that often uh prison guards or maybe EMTs uh emergency medical technicians are are the ones who are inserting uh the needle into the arm of the person. Uh in Missouri, it turned out that the person who was in charge of lethal injections was dyslect dyslectic uh and was often uh operating in a little dark room using a flashlight uh telling other people uh how to mix the drugs up and all that and was not being done with any uh degree of precision at all. Uh which which was alarming uh to the courts as well as to to people in general. uh and the secrecy after uh the practices like that came to light like the Missouri practices uh and after uh the suppliers of many of the drugs the suppliers of many of the drugs pentabarbatital and others in Europe uh increasingly uh would not make those drugs available in the United States uh or wouldn't make them available if they were going to be used for lethal injection. The result being that uh states have had more and more trouble had more and more trouble finding drugs to put people to death with. Uh some states, notably Georgia, uh imported some drugs from a somewhat fly by night uh pharmacy that operated out of a driving school in London. Uh was later uh seized. Those drugs were later seized by the Drug Enforcement Administration uh which found that Georgia had illegally imported the drugs. and secondly had illegally distributed the drugs uh to some other states. Uh increasingly states started using compounding pharmacies. Uh that is these localarmacies that put the drugs together. Uh one judge by judge Kermit Bay on the eighth circuit said some of these are about the equivalent of a high school chemistry class. And so there's been issues about whether or not these uh compounding pharmacies can actually uh provide drugs that are effective uh for doing this. Uh in response to that, a lot of states have made the whole process secret. So you can't challenge it if you don't know what's going on. Uh if you don't know who's carrying out the execution, you don't know whether qualified or not. Uh some states have even gone so far as to say the source of the drugs, the compounding pharmacy is secret. Everything is secret. Uh and uh so the question is can you eliminate the legal issue uh just simply by cloaking the whole process in secrecy uh doesn't really give one a lot of confidence in the system. The notion of a democracy is transparency. Uh but increasingly departments of corrections are going to secrecy uh as a way to hide exactly what they're doing uh in the lethal injection process. Uh one state justified this by saying well it used to be uh that the hangman always wore a hood. Uh so you didn't know who the hangman was. Uh but it's a little bit different when you're buying drugs from a pharmacy uh than when you're the person who actually carries out the execution and might not want all your neighbors to to know about it. Um Kentucky uh lawyers in Kentucky for uh a person condemned to die. Actually a couple of people condemned to die raised uh the legality of lethal injection in a case called Bae versus Ree that went before the Supreme Court in 2008. Uh the court rejected the argument looking at a lot of its other cases in the eth amendment area in which methods of execution had been upheld. the firing squad had been upheld. The electric chair had been upheld. Uh and basically the court uh said in sort of a splintered court uh Justice Chief Justice Roberts joined by Justice Kennedy and Alto said the risk of pain is not so substantial and imminent as to violate the eth amendment. I should back up here and say the argument that was being made uh on behalf uh of the condemned men in this case uh was that they were uh being paralyzed uh and then these additional drugs were being uh forced into their body uh and if they were experiencing excruciating pain uh while these drugs were acting upon them until they finally stopped the beating of the heart uh that would be cruel. ual and unusual punishment that would be unnecessary suffering. It was very hard. There were expert testimony uh saying that it was very possible that this could happen particularly if you had people administering the drugs that didn't know what they were doing because if you administered the wrong dose, the first drug would induce sleep or put the person make the person unconscious. Uh the second drug would paralyze the person uh would eventually cause suffocation if nothing else happened. But then the final drug uh was uh to stop the beating of the heart. Uh but the the question was whether when that drug was administered the person could could feel what was going on or not. Uh Roberts Kennedy Alto say uh that KY's doing enough. They're minimizing the chance that anything's going to go wrong. uh and they're not required. There may be a better way to do it, but that states aren't required to do it the best way. Uh they're just required uh not to take a uh they certainly can't involve the gratuitous infliction of pain. Uh and they can't take a substantial risk of that kind of thing happening. Well, Justice Stevens uh said that under the court's proceed under the prior cases, he thought it was acceptable. He also took the opportunity here to say that based on his many years on the court, he had come to the conclusion that the death penalty no longer uh was serving uh anything but negligible value. That the purposeless taking of human life was uh making only the most marginal uh contributions to society and therefore uh probably uh was was disproportionate and unconstitutional. Uh this was very late in his career on the on on the court. Uh Justice Scalian Thomas said unless it was deliberately cruel, there was no problem. So unless the state was trying to inflict a punishment that was cruel, uh no constitutional problem. Uh Justice Brier uh said that based on his reading of things, Kentucky uh method did not result in an unnecessary risk of suffering. Uh so he concurred. Uh but Justice Ginsburg uh joined by Justice Sudter dissented uh saying that in their view uh the Kentucky uh procedures were not adequate. They were eth amendment grounds that were raised. Uh but those were just two out of seven votes. Uh so it looked like at the time that Bay came down that this was pretty much the end of any challenges to lethal injection. This is in 2008. But since that time uh there have continued to be and probably will continue to be a number of challenges uh to lethal injection. Uh in Kentucky when this case went back when Bae versus Ree went back to Kentucky uh it was pointed out that they had to go through the Kentucky Administrative Procedures Act uh to set up a new execution protocol. And so all of the uh executions were put on hold until such time as that was done. That was also uh done in California. Uh ending sort of stop there were already litigation about lethal injection in California and this added one more uh element to that. Uh there's also uh questions about the compounding pharmacies, questions about the secrecy uh all of those kinds of things. So, uh, while lethal injection was seen as a way to make the death penalty more acceptable, uh, it hasn't quite turned out that way. Uh, some states have even thought about going back to firing squad. Uh, and of course, if uh, saying that's really the only way to ensure the death of a person that's quick, painless, and so forth. Hard to imagine. Utah still uses a firing squad. Some other states are talking about bringing it back. Uh I suppose one other uh method of execution that might be considered is the guillotine uh which also was very fast uh and uh didn't result in any lingering pain or any of the risks involved with lethal injection. Uh but we're probably not going to go there and probably not going to go to the firing squad either. Some states have also uh said they'll fall back on electrocution if need be. But other states like Georgia have declared electrocution unconstitutional under its state constitution. Uh so that's not an option. So uh again, lethal injection was supposed to make capital punishment more acceptable, more anesthetic. Uh it it hasn't quite worked out that way.