Our experts in emotion interview will be with Arturo Behar, the director of engineering at Facebook and he'll be speaking with us on emotion and social media. Arturo uh as director of engineering at Facebook has worked on social tools to help people be more mindful of each other. This includes such areas as identity harm and abuse prevention, ways to develop better online citizens, and tools designed to help resolve conflicts between individuals such as bullying. Previously, he worked at Yahoo where he worked with a global team dedicated to providing a secure online experience. So, I now turn to our last experts in emotion interview together with Art Turo Behar on emotion and social media. So, welcome Arturo. Thank you for speaking with us today. Oh, thank you very much for hosting me. Great. So I wanted to start just by asking you a little bit about what first got you interested in studying emotion in the context of Facebook in the broader world of social media. So we were looking at the reports that we were getting from people um about photographs that they have uploaded on Facebook and usually as most sites do you have these reports that are about the rules of the site. This has some violence. This has some drug use and somebody says hey this photo has drug use. Can you please make it go away? And we would look at the photo and there was nothing in the photo that even remotely looked like that. It was just somebody like smiling, waving at the camera. And we're like, "What's going on here?" And we realized that the person that was submitting the report in many cases, most cases, was in the photo and the person who had uploaded the photo was one of their friends. Um, and so we're like, "Okay, how can we help with this?" And we figured out, "Okay, so you want people to be talking to each other." So we told them, "Hey, can you send a message to your friend? letting them know that you would like them to remove the picture. And we put on an empty message box and only 20% of people would send the message and um and then in most cases even the messages didn't convey really what what it's like hey you know this photo there's something about it that makes me want to ask you to take it down. At that time we began meeting people um that are doing research, scientists from um Stanford and Berkeley and Yale who are doing all of this research about how people communicate and relate to each other. And one of the things that we learned is if you um pick up that somebody else is experiencing an emotion, you're more likely to have a compassionate response, you're more likely to want to help them. Hm. So, we did this experiment where we provided some default messaging that people can edit and send saying, "Hey, you know, like I don't like this photo. Could you please take it down? It makes me sad." Experimented with emotion. And we saw a really meaningful result from that. Over 50% of people would send the message and then most of the people who received the message would remove the photo. Um, I mean, we knew we were on to something and this was uh what began a lot of collaborations we're doing right now where we're exploring what are ways that people can communicate emotion to each other online. That's fascinating. And so I wanted to ask you then, you know, the work that you're doing right now at Facebook related to emotion, um, what role have you found in this work so far, um, suggesting that emotion does play a role in these online interactions in Facebook? Oh, it is uh central um uh because it's it's central to I think how people relate with each other. We're we have this flow now that that we put into place where we say hey I'm in the photo. I don't want others to see me in this photo. If you notice the framing on that is it's very emotional. Um and then we ask you what is it about this photo that that you don't uh like and you give you options that are emotions. It's embarrassing. It's a bad photo of me. Not as much an emotion but an important thing to convey. it makes me angry or upset, makes me sad. Um, and we found that people would select an emotion and then um take the message we provided that incorporated what we have learned about politeness and how you communicate. So um, hey Alice, there's something about this photo that's a little embarrassing to me. Um, could you please take it down? And we found that um, over 60, I think 67% of people will actually send the message, which is huge. Wow. Um and depending on the message between 80 and 90% of people will use the text that we provided. Um which means that we've captured their experience. Um and even um I think more exciting than that is we asked the people who had created uploaded the photo the content creators how they felt about the person who had sent them the message. Um, and remember this is somebody who has just shared something with all of their friends because they think it's really cool and one of their friends told them, "Hey, you know that actually, you know, it's upsetting to me." Well, it turns out that the person who receives the message feels 60% positive. Like 60% of them feel positive about the person who sent them the message. Wow. Um, and another 20% they feel neutral. So, it's like 80% of people, they kind of want to know if they did something that was upsetting to you, which is very interesting to contrast against only 20% of people willing to communicate that emotion to their friends to help resolve a situation. It's so interesting. So, in what way do you think as we're thinking about these emotional relationships between people, you know, and trying to do things that will foster, you know, more positive interactions online, um, I want to ask a little bit about your work. um suggesting that Facebook may actually be one route to sort of cultivate, you know, compassion and encourage it. Well, we we think um based on the research that we've seen about how if you detect that somebody else is experiencing emotion, you're more likely to want to ease our suffering and so hence engage in a compassionate response. Um so I think we all know that emails and messages might not be the best way to convey at least certain emotions. Um happy emotions are actually fairly easy to convey like smiley faces, like buttons, these things um are very easy to convey that are positive feelings. But conveying more complicated emotions like something is embarrassing or something sad. Uh we have all of the all of these mechanisms um that we have when we talk to each other where you can read it in somebody's faces, you can hear it in the tone of their voice. And there's an absence of that today in many online communications. And so when we look at the fabric of Facebook, which is all about connecting people to each other and having great relationships and and cultivating that community over time, um having a mechanism that takes something that could be a source of distancing. Um if if you uploaded a photo and it made me upset and I didn't tell you anything about it, that that pushes people further apart. Yeah, if instead of having that, you can have something where you can communicate how you feel and you can feel hurt like the other person says, "Oh, I'm sorry it made you feel this way. This is not my intent at all." And you begin a dialogue, even if the photo doesn't come down, which is a perfectly legitimate outcome. That relationship gets closer and that bond strengthens. And so we hope if we have interactions that have um a positive result for people that people will go like, you know, what happened there? what can I learn from from that communication and take this into other aspects of their lives. So when you think about trying to promote a community that brings people together as opposed to distancing them apart, is this part of the reason underlying, you know, why there might not be the dislike button that a lot of people are often asking about? I think so. I mean, I think that um dislike uh could be very easily misinterpreted. Um, and the ideal form of a dislike is one that begins a conversation. Um, so you want to be able to say, "Hey, you know, that thing that you uh shared, I disagree with it. Um, or that thing that um that that you posted made me sad or was upsetting to me." Um, and you need really good ways of communicating emotion for that to be a successful conversation. Um, and so we're starting in this realm of like photos and feedback. um and and and also bullying is another area that we're exploring to build tools that can successfully communicate emotion to between people. These more complicated emotions um but we hope that if we do a good job on this that what we can learn here can be applied in many other areas of online communication. So, in embarking in this really, you know, still mysterious but rapidly growing world, you know, of online interaction, has there been anything that's really surprised you during your time at Facebook? Oh, man. I think every step along the way, there's been surprises. um the numbers I talked about which is only 20% of people willing to send a message telling their friends but most of their friends wanting to hear about it feeling good about the contact that was a really big surprise. Um, another one is, uh, when people go into the report flow, for most of them, over 80% it's extremely important, um, for the photo to go to come down. But we believe that the action of um, acknowledging this is what's happening, naming the emotion that you're experiencing, and then communicating that to the other person in a way where you feel like you've successfully um, are heard. Um the combination of those things make it so that at the end of that experience we asked them how they feel about the person that uploaded the photo and the numbers are 50% positive. Um which is again surprising considering you're going into this going like oh why did you share this this image of me? Um, another one that I think has been a very important insight which goes against anything that you've seen in terms of computer design and experience is that uh you get taught in all computer design classes that language has to be very clear and very universal. So we the this slide where we ask for emotion uh how the photo makes you feel. Our first version of it had adjectives um like embarrassing, just the word embarrassing, just the word saddening. Um and we just had like the simplest cleanest UI and then we had an option saying other people could type in and only um 50% of people would select an emotion and then uh the the the other people would 30% would put something in other. And what would they select in other? They would type in it's embarrassing. H we're going like wait there was like an option for right what's going on? Um well it turns out that it's important when you design things online that you use language that matches the experience and they that people use when they talk about things with each other. So we change the options to sentence fragments. It's embarrassing. It makes sad. Um and and when we changed the emotions to uh sentence fragments, we went from A-50% selection to 78%. Um which is in the world of online systems that like 30 point swings are just like completely nuts and wonderful. Um and we've applied that principle in other areas of the work where the language is much longer and much more descriptive than what you would expect from any normal product that you have. But all of the measures of the language say having language that matches people experience that captures what it is that they're feeling and they're trying to say just like really works and and to the tune of 20 or 20 30% improvements in the areas where we've applied these principles. Wow. So in what way have you felt that your collaborations with people at Berkeley like Dr. Kelner, Paul Piff, you know, people at Yale like Mark Brackett among many others. Um, how has this work from people who study affective science, you know, in psychology? How has that informed the kind of work that you're doing now at Facebook? Oh, it's been um insanely wonderful. It's veryful because uh it everything I'm talking about has been born out of conversations with them. So, in the work we've been doing with with Mark um bracket from Yale on bullying um we're asking these really big questions about like what kind of bullying is happening for you? How does it make you feel? How intense is the emotion? I mean, it's it's pretty big to say, hey, are you feeling um afraid? How afraid do you feel? Um and but it's central for being able to give people kind of the tools that they need. Um and the partner and and these are very close partnerships where we meet up with them once a week and we talk through the different ideas. we share the numbers. Um and and uh and the same has been true of the relationship with Paul and Piff and with Derer and Nina Simon Thomas from Berkeley where we sit down and and we look at the experiences people are having and we're asking the big question of like like what's really going on here? What touches? And when we first began getting exposed to their work like the emotional intelligence work and and the um self-regulation and emotional literacy for kids with Mark uh and bracket and the work that that good is doing with Paul's work and Der's work and work about the importance and ways that people communicate emotion with each other. Um it was it was very exciting for us because we're like okay this this is a total application for everything we're doing and and it was the basis of of the compassion research days that we have or which we have another one uh tomorrow that we're very excited about. That's so exciting to hear that Facebook is taking the science of motion and using it to change the way that we interact with this world of Facebook that so many people participate in. Yes. And it's it's our hope by talking about it, like talking with you today, by having Compassion Research and these other um outlets that we're pursuing to help other people understand just how much we've gotten out of our partnerships um with uh our researcher friends. Um and uh and because I think anybody who's building any kind of tools to enable communication, ought to be learning from what we're learning um ought to be um working with their local scientists to figure out how they can explore these ideas. Um because by every measure of the work we've done, it's been a positive thing for the people who use Facebook. Um and and and we hope that by the data that we get and the results that we're sharing that illuminates some pathways for in the field because one of the things you talk about when we're getting started is most studies in the field span one to 200 people and everything we've done here spans hundreds of thousands if not millions of people that have come through this and are telling us how it's making them feel and it's like and so the results hopefully help um open up pathways for other areas of research and inquiry. I mean absolutely those those kinds of sample sizes are things that you know psychologists like myself and the ones you collaborate with we could never dream of right you know there yeah Facebook you know not so bad when it comes to just being able to access so many people right and really get truly rich emotions that are things that are meaningful to them you know pictures of themselves relationships with their friends I mean this is where emotion the meat of it is yes and and there is a real um I think responsibility on us to honor the trust that people have in sharing this information through us and providing them the best tools that we can and and really the genesis of all of of this work is going at the issues that people are having on the site and understanding them and understand what's going on. What happens when there's a breakup and and somebody posts pictures of of the couple when they were there together and how do you resolve that communication between people? Um what happens when uh like a lot of it turns out that a lot of bullying is not intentional. It's somebody coming in and say, "Hey, you look really beautiful today." And then the person looking at at the message feeling bad about their self-image and then navigating that. And up to the point where we began these partnerships, I think the standard for um the industry is like you look at a report and if the report meets certain criteria, a hand comes down from the sky and makes the the piece of content go away. But who learns from that? How do you grow? How do you help the community heal and improve from that? Instead, what we're trying to do with um with the work that we're doing for example on bullying is can you talk to the person if you feel comfortable doing so who uploaded the content. If not, can you reach out to somebody whom you trust that can support you navigating this? Because the best thing you can do for somebody who's the recipient or feels bullied or targeted is to get somebody in their life can sit down with them and help them navigate the situation and hopefully give them tools to navigate it as well. And so this is all this is the first year of the field who literally began working on this a year ago uh in like truly earnest partnership with our scientists. But um but I think there's a lot of good work that remains to be done in the field. So what do you see in store for the future of emotion in social media in Facebook and and more generally? Uh so I think we need to be exploring different ways for people can communicate emotion to each other. Um there's work around voice. Um that's really interesting in terms of feelings. There's work about facial expressions and and and how could you actually communicate those more nuanced feelings through facial expressions. Is there a better smiley to be had um than the ones that we have today? Um and I think there's also a lot of work to be done in supporting different kinds of communities. We're um looking at at at what we can do for example with veterans. Uh whereas a community that in order for them to get support, it has to come from somebody whom they trust and and and is have a sense of identification with them. And so being able to give people the tools that make them feel seen, heard, and met online with respect to each other seems like it's it's something that we're just beginning to understand of the work from the last year and that we will be exploring for the foreseeable future. So what kind of advice do you have for students or people who are interested in learning more about emotion you know and how it sort of um I don't know sort of manifests in this world this social media world and in Facebook what would you tell them if they want to learn more about it? Yeah. So, I would say two things. One is we do have this compassion research day videos, resources, articles, and very happy to see what people have to see for themselves there. And so, we're going to be live streaming the day tomorrow. Um, and uh, and there should be there's going to be lots of really wonderful stuff there. Uh but the other one is I think the biggest lesson that I've gotten out of u my work in this space which is that um a lot of people seem to think that because it's online it is different and and and so you start from the thesis it has to be different online the mechanisms to resolve to see these things it has to be different online and they they start carve out whole new areas and it turns out it isn't like people are people and if you want to make a big difference online the best thing that you could possibly do is do a great job of understanding how people relate and communicate and resolve issues with each other in different kinds of communities across the world. Turns out in Tibet you can't you you have to be in communal living and you have to see the person the day after. So you don't have the luxury of like being really mean to them and then or disrespectful to them because no matter whatever happened I mean you're going to have to live with them the next day pretty close to her. So everybody like people has to be more respectful. Yeah. then you sometimes find you have to be um but you could go into a high school and study what are the emotions that like teens communicates to each other that help them resolve and navigate conflicts and take those lessons and then go look at a chat room online and say what can what have what I learned in the high school what how could I apply this to a chat room um what I have learned from the wisdom of a community that seems to be functioning really well how can I apply that in in this other context and and that's the way that information needs to flow. Uh so I think that the best thing I could tell a student that's getting started on the field is to pick a problem that that gets addressed by successful communication of emotion in real life like within their circle of friends or in a school or something like that and study that and then see how those results and lessons map to an online environment because there's a lot of that that needs to be happening in the coming years and again as I said we're just getting started. Fantastic. Well, thank you so much for speaking with us today, Arturo. It was fantastic to hear your thoughts and thank you very much for having me. Thank you. So, this concludes our experts in emotion interview with Facebook engineering director Arturo Behar. Thank you so much again.