For our experts in emotion interview, we have the honor of speaking with Dr. Jonathan height. Jonathan Height is the Thomas Kulie Professor of Ethical Leadership at the NYU Stern School of Business. He received his BA from Yale University and PhD from the University of Pennsylvania and also completed post-doal research at the University of Chicago. He was a professor at the University of Virginia from 1995 until 2011 when he joined the Stern School of Business at NYU. His research focuses on morality, its emotional foundations, cultural variations, and developmental course. He began his career first studying negative moral emotions such as disgust, shame, and vengeance, but then later moved onto the underststudied positive moral emotions such as admiration, awe, and elevation. This work got him involved with the field of positive psychology in which he's been a leading researcher. He's the co-developer of the moral foundation's theory and of the research site yourmorals.org. He uses his research to help people understand and respect the moral motives of their enemies. He's won three teaching awards from the University of Virginia and one from the governor of Virginia. He's spoken twice at the TED conference, one on politics and one on religion. He's been named as a top 100 global thinker by in 2012 by foreign policy magazine and is the author of more than 90 academic articles and two books including the happiness hypothesis, finding modern truth in ancient wisdom and the righteous mind, why good people are divided by politics and religion. So I now turn to a very special experts and emotion interview with Dr. Jonathan height on morality and emotion. So welcome John. thanks for being here today. My pleasure. Thank you, Jen. So, I thought I might start by asking you a little bit about what first got you interested in emotion. So, I I uh arrived at Penn in 1987 and I was going to study the psychology of humor. Actually, I was going to be a cognitive psychologist and study humor. Uh but I happened to have a chance conversation with John Baron. Um uh and he was interested in decision-m including moral decision-m um and I thought that sounded interesting. I'd studied morality as an undergraduate at Yale in in philosophy and uh so I started studying uh morality but moral psychology in 1987 meant Lawrence Coberg it meant the study of moral reasoning and I was interested in the phenomena but it just was kind of boring and um uh I just felt like something was lacking something was missing and then when I started to read some anthropology I took a course from Alan Fisk uh in cultural psychology and you know it was like the scene in the wizard of Oz where everything goes from black and white to color and it was all so exciting and interesting and it really felt it was like you know it was like a gut feel like oh my god this is it this is really what makes things happen. I was reading about all these traditional societies that a lot of their morality was about food and sex and ministration and handling of animals and it was all this visceral stuff. What does this have to do with morality? Um but clearly the link was disgust or some visceral sense of responsiveness to things in the world and uh Penn happened to have Paul Rosen on the faculty. You know I didn't go there to study morality or emotion or anything like that but pen happened to have all these great people interested in morality and emotion. So I worked with Paul Rosen to develop a scale to study disgust sensitivity and that was just so much fun uh both the emotion and working with Rosin that I I got really interested in disgust as this emotion which is so based in the body and our corporeality but that structures our religions um our highest aspirations are so much of our morality really. So disgust was really my my way in. I was studying morality and I got just luckily I just fell into the study of disgust and I'm still there. One thing led to the next. Great. So I actually wanted to ask you some questions then about your work in this area. So I mean you're widely known for your foundational work at the intersection of you know moral psychology and emotion. Um and I wondered as an expert in this field of moral emotions if you might say just at a basic level first how do you exactly define what an a moral emotion is? Um well the the worst way would be to say what's our morality and then what are the emotions that we want people to feel more of and if you do that you basically conclude uh since almost everybody in the academic world is politically liberal you conclude that the moral emotion is compassion and that's the good emotion we want to make everyone more compassionate. Um that's one way to do it. Um my approach has been from the beginning to look at morality across cultures to look at at just morality as something that humans do like we do cuisine, we do music and it varies around the world. So what are all the emotions that can be involved in creating a moral order and enforcing it? Um I wrote a review paper in 2003 or so where I think I suggested that the we can look at two features especially well I can't find it but I remember um it's it's disinterested elicitors that is you know as we all know most emotions are about me they're about you know my projects my goals what do people think of me right um so we don't want to call all emotions moral emotions but to the extent that we can feel strong emotions at what happens to someone else at them being cheated or harmed or embarrassed or whatever. Uh to the extent that the elicitors are disinterested that is not about my own interests that that's one trait. Uh and then you can also look at pardon me the extent to which uh the action tendency is pro-social. And by pro-social I don't mean just helping people who are suffering. I mean supporting the moral order of the social order which often can have a more conservative cast to it. anything you do that extends yourself that you're not just pursuing your interest but you're trying to support morality or virtue outside of yourself. So if you grab if you plot those two features some emotions are really high on both and so moral elevation uh righteous anger uh there are these are things triggered by things that don't necessarily have anything to do with us and they make us want to fix them. So those I think are really prototypical moral emotions. Um but anything can be a moral emotion. I mean, you know, sadness. Actually, Shoden Freud is a really good example. Shoden Freud isn't just a selfish thing like, oh, he's got more than me and I want him to fail. Shoden Freud or happiness at another's misfortune is especially when people have been sort of pompous or arrogant or they don't you don't think they deserve what they have and then you're happy when they lose it or are humiliated. Well, that's a disinterested illicitor to some extent. Uh, but it doesn't make you do anything that makes the world better. So that's like a a non-prototypical moral emotion. I would count it as a moral emotion, but not as good as righteous anger or elevation or guilt or a few others that are really quintessentially uh they do well on both of those criteria. I was wondering too if you could say a little bit I mean you've talked about different kinds of moral emotions. Um how do you see them as being organized into what you've called different moral emotion families? Uh, one thing I've learned in my whatever 25 years uh, in psychology is that uh, mother nature or father evolution or whatever you want to call it um, doesn't give a damn about our categories and doesn't give a damn about parsimony. So I'm generally wary of attempts to systemize psychology too much. Um, with that said, emotions are not necessarily natural kinds in the world. So they they the emotions that we label do tend to clump together. Not they're not sort of spread homogeneously over the potential space. So um uh what I've done is think about them especially in terms of what's their function. And so emotions that serve to sort of inhibit us or or uh sort of monitor the fit of the social order with us and get us to conform. Um so you know shame, embarrassment, guilt, those sort of fit together in a certain way. those that respond to um uh the that make us judge others other other critical emotions. So uh uh disgust uh anger and contempt. Paul Rosen and I have looked at that at that triplet of emotions. Um there are emotions of sympathy, empathy, compassion. There's a a small cluster there. Um let's see what else am I leaving? Oh, and then of course the other praising emotions, the such a focus on the negative emotions. Uh but um the the big idea that Marty Sullivan had I think in positive psychology is that we as a field have focused too much on the negatives for a lot of reasons. Barbara Frederickson's really critical 1999 article I think it was on what's good about uh emotions, what's good about positive emotions um helped us see that the negative emotions are more discreet. They're sort of easier to study. They're more ancient. They're sort of more of them are ancient mammal or or vertebrae emotions, but the positives are sort of messier. And so that's where I I've done uh both disgust and then sort of got from looking at disgust sort of the opposite of disgust is elevation I believe. So that got me into looking at awe, elevation, uh feelings of of of just reactions to beauty and all that is good in the world. So those are the main families of social emotions. I there are a lot of other emotions, but I'm interested as a social psychologist in the social emotions and especially the ones that make us either try to rise to a higher moral standard or condemn others who aren't doing so. that sort of thing. So, actually I wanted to ask you a little bit since you did talk about your work in these sort of uh feelings of moral elevation and I know you've done some work um as well as with Dr. Kelner on this really mysterious and elusive emotion of awe. Yeah. And I wondered if you could just tell us a little bit more about what are the core kind of features and sort of functional significance of this emotion that we all find, you know, enticing but we don't completely understand what awe is. Yeah, it still is pretty elusive. is sort of like the uh you know the biotech stock that everybody thinks is you know so important going to be the wave of the future and you know hasn't yet materialized let's say um so Draer and I Draer was I think I can't remember I think it was Dak was commissioned to write an article on either on on it or something at any rate we teamed up because we had similar interests and um there was basically no empirical research in psychology on a there's a couple of articles now in the last few years but um when we wrote this in 2003 2004 something like We did a literatur literature review and the entire empirical corpus if you look at psych psych info. Uh there are a bunch of theoretical articles from psychoanalysis and things like that. Uh the only article that reported any data whatsoever was one psychoanalyst who reported uh dreams from three patients including one that was about penis awe. That was it. That was all the data there was in the record. Maybe that's the only kind of awe. Who knows? That's yeah the only kind that they were interested in I suppose. Um, so Dak and I wrote this I think you know I think it's a great review article. It was really fun to write. It's uh Dak and I both like to read around other fields and and you know awe has been written so much about in religious studies and you know the the the transcendent and and in aesthetics um a little bit history um of the early modern era. So there are some scholarly treatises on all but there's almost no data and I set out to try to study it in my lab at UVA um uh with a graduate student Patrick Cedar and we brought people into the lab and the most tractable kind of awe is is nature videos which you know can be really awesome really amazing and we made some really good videos I think and we uh you know got a big screen and got people to watch them and rate them and then and they said that you know they check oh yes a oh that's what I Um, but then we tried to see if it changed their thinking. Uh, did it make them more creative? Did it help them see remote associations? Did it change their moral goals for their life? And we never really found anything. Now, we should have been a lot more persistent. We didn't, you know, we we did a few rounds and then Patrick sort of lost interest and moved on to other things. So, I do think that there is something there that could the descriptions of it are so consistent. What's really intriguing to me about awe um is that it seems to be sort of a cognitive emotion. In other words, it's it's very powerfully felt, but it doesn't make you want to do do anything. What it seems to so what Dra and I concluded is that the two key features are vastness and need for accommodation. Something's really big and it doesn't fit into your existing mental structures. You have to change. You have to do something and uh so awe paralyzes you actually. You just you freeze. You don't want to run out and you know break something or hug someone. you just freeze um and you take in. And there are enough accounts of awe in history that that a person experiencing awe changes allegiances. Uh so Saul on the road to Damascus, the scales fall from his eyes, bright light, uh and he then becomes the devote of of Jesus, a disciple of Jesus. Uh so so we think that awe is like a reset button. it kind of it it's like a reset button that that opens up your cognitive constructs and makes you amendable to having a new identity, new goals, following a new leader. Uh so, you know, demagogues know about all. Hitler knew a lot about awe. Um so it's a very powerful emotion at least in principle. It's hard to get it to work in the lab. Um nature videos don't seem to do it too much. Um but if people are willing to try to study it in situ, you know, go to evangelical churches and um political rallies, uh you know, I I I think we'll find that it has some measurable effects. So what do you think then are some of the most important next steps as we try to push this field forward of of moral emotions generally, but especially some of the varieties you've been talking about, awe and and related feelings of admiration. What do we need to do next to really pinpoint them and understand them? Yeah. Well, I think I think the field's progressing really really nicely. Uh, when I got into it, so I I I am a miserable stock investor. I mean, almost every decision I made about when to buy and sell has been wrong and I should have just done the opposite. But when it comes to academic areas, I I just lucked out that uh I started grad school in ' 87. I sort of put all my money on emotions, uh, culture, uh, morality, cultural psychology, positive psychology. um and every bet has just you know done really well. Um but you know emotion research is is linked to all those fields I just mentioned and I think the field is just growing so nicely since the '9s. Um uh so you know for complex things like emotion you you want to not be locked into one discipline. You want to you need to understand I think we need a psychology which is even more phenomena based rather than discipline based. um uh Robert Sternberg called this a while ago. So, you know, I love the fact that emotion is one of these premier areas, a kind of a convergence zone where you got people who aren't defined by, oh, I'm a social psychologist, you know, or I'm a clinical psychologist, like, oh, I study emotion and that means, you know, I I know something about u, you know, emotion, emotional expressions in animals and and I know about the frontal insula and uh, you know, the evolution of emotion and so I think we've been approaching it from multi-disiplinary perspective for a long time and I think it's really paying off. um the uh methods tend to drive progress and Paul Ecman's uh seminal research on facial expression was so important um and for a while it's but it's for a while it kind of soaked up all the attention those six emotions uh I think for a while now we've gotten beyond that and people are looking at emotions that don't show up on the face and that's the interesting thing about some of these positive emotions gratitude there's no facial expression of gratitude um uh admiration at all there's a little bit sort of eyes widening maybe but it's not really you know the face is not the way in to to these emotions. Um, you know, I think uh looking beyond the the major emotions and finding emotional states that are interesting. Um, one thing I would especially encourage is people to read, you know, the article on uh the weirdest people in the world, how we westerners, you know, we're western, educated, industrialized, rich and democratic. Um so you know emotions don't vary radically across cultures that the radical you know Benjamin warf idea doesn't seem to be true but even still you get a different emotions are related to our sense of self and to the extent that the self varies across cultures emotions vary to some extent so I would encourage uh young researchers to to read that article be you know familiar with that article by Henrik and uh Hina and Noren Zion the weirdest people in the world and just and look at emotions across cultures as well. Um so and I think the field is growing very nicely. Fantastic. So the last question I want to ask you is a little bit about your work that you've been discussing lately and is widely read. Um including a book you know the righteous mind why good people are divided by politics and religion. And I mean here you discuss you know the moral foundations of politics that's really grounded in recent discoveries in moral psychology. And I wondered if you could say not only sort of what are the main arguments in this book but what role do you think moral emotions can play here? Yeah, sure. Happy to talk about that book in my sleep all day. Um, yeah. Uh, so yeah, the book really represents the playing out of all the things I started in grad school. The interest in morality and emotion basically. Um, well the book I mean I don't want to get dactic here but I guess I do. Um, the uh, you know, the book is there's three parts of the book. There's three principles and each one is each one is really about emotions to a large extent. So first of the book is uh the basic idea is uh intuitions come first strategic reasoning second. U now when I was in grad school and in the 90s I was always talking about moral emotion how emotion drives reasoning and then as I really tried to specify these emotions I realized well it's not just emotion it's just sort of intuitive processes in general and not all intuitions are emotional. Mhm. So um so I broadened my my moral psychology out from its original focus on emotions like disgust and anger to intuitive processes more generally. And that is of course you know um automatic versus control processes basically. But the most dramatic cases of moral distortions and terrible reasoning are when you get emotions when you're angry when you're disgusted. Um you get all kinds of what is clearly crazy terrible post talk moral reasoning. And you see it in your opponents. You see, you know, when somebody's angry at you, they make up some ridiculous argument. You can see through it in a second. So, it's just really clear that the basic architecture of the mind is that we got all these automatic processes of of which emotions are the most visible. And when those kick in, they they're functional. They they serve a purpose. The purpose is defending your reputation or um or or criticizing or attacking someone. they harness or hijack or employ all your other faculties, especially your reasoning capacity. So that's what the first third of the book is about. Um moral reasoning is not trustworthy. It is a servant of our moral intuition and emotion. Uh the second third of the book is uh titled there's more to morality than harm and fairness. And this is um from my my time working with Richard Schweder at Chicago and looking working in India and across cultures um that we sort of western you know weird uh liberal types generally focus on harm and protecting victims and that's an important part of morality but there's so much more and in looking at a broader moral domain looking at issues of group loyalty respect for authority sanctity and purity various notions of fairness that are not equality um all of them are attended by emotions and so I think We need if we broaden the if we broaden what we see as the range of morality, we need to broaden what we see as the range of moral emotions. And so some emotions that uh support social order um you know uh responses you when you see somebody being disrespectful um um for example or emotions around group membership, loyalty, patriotism all of these I would count as as moral emotions. Uh the third part of the book the principle is morality binds and blinds. And the idea here is that um we humans made this major transition from being basically individuals like other primates that are you know Richard Dawkins works great for all the other primates uh selfish gene creating largely selfish individuals except for kin you know reciprocity and things like that. But we humans developed this ability to create moral orders sometime in the last half million years when we got symbolic uh culture and language. Um and so looking taking a very Durkheimian approach at at how we bind ourselves together and experience some of our most cherished emotions. You ask people you know what are the greatest moments of your life. Typically it's not going to be something you experienced alone and it's often something you experienced in a crowd uh triumph or or some some group experience. Um, a fabulous book for emotion researchers, uh, is Barbara Erin Reich's book, Dancing in the Streets, History of Collective Joy. One of my the best things I've read on on collective emotion, certainly emotion in general. Um, so that's all about this range of emotions that, you know, it doesn't really show up in in Ecman or um, well, Darwin wrote a little about some of them, but these are these collective emotions that I think could be a new frontier. Uh, social psychology used to be very social and groupish 100 years ago, and then it became very individualistic in the mid- 20th century. Um, so yeah, I think people interested in morality and emotion would do well to, you know, read Durkheim, think about uh collective experiences, which we weird individualists are kind of weak on. So, I mean, as you've talked about all these really important insights relating to moral emotions spanning many different domains, I wonder what you think is in store for the future of this field. H um given how healthy it is, the safest prediction is just more of the same, you know, just going. Yeah. Um you know, people used to think, oh, well, there will be an emotion spot in the brain. Uh you know, now we know it's more complicated than that and lots of different brain areas play play different roles. Um, so I think as as you know, my my prediction is really just more of the same as people get better and better at being interdisciplinary scientists uh who know multiple methods. It can look at emotion from multiple perspectives. You know, we're not likely to discover new emotions that no poet has ever written about. That's not going to happen. Um although the scientific community will turn its attention to emotions that haven't been studied. So more you might call them specialty or boutique emotions perhaps. I think we're ready to bring in uh more more such emotions. Um and uh beyond that um I'm not sure whether genetics is really going to contribute much. I think that's sort of too far away. I think sort of psychology is the core discipline all the different you know clinical and social and then below that we got neuroscience and above that we've got sociology. So that's sort of the central area. Uh I think better integration among those those are the major levels of analysis. Thank you. And my final question for you is so if you have students who come to you, I'm sure they've come to you many times asking for advice who are thinking about embarking in this field. What do you usually tell them? Right. Um well, let's see. I guess I would say I haven't I haven't had grad students, new grad students a couple years. I've been, you know, moving focusing on the book and moving to a business school. Uh but um the grad students I had who were very successful like Sarah Eljo um and Jesse Graham uh Gary Sherman all three basically sort of picked phenomena. Uh Sarah did gr gratitude. She picked that as her her specialty emotion uh and and made great progress. So she had a new angle on it. It was a pretty new emotion and then her emphasis was on relationship. So so you want to you want to bring something new to the table that allows you to see things that others haven't seen. So Sarah looked at gratitude not as like keeping track of debts and paying them back but as building relationships. Um so and that was very profit profitable you might say for her. Um Gary Sherman was interested in um in disgust and worked with me on disgust uh and then got really interested in in perception and he learned a lot about perception and he did some really amazing work looking at how disgust actually um sharpens your vision. It makes you better at detecting uh dirt, things that are not perfectly white. So, I know nothing about perception. This was entirely his idea. He learned up on it and brought in, you know, a lot of classic perception research. So, you know, pick an interesting emotion, emotion that's not overstudied, and then bring to it some new ability or perspective. It could be from another discipline, it could be some new method, uh something that will allow you to make a contribution relatively quickly. Great. So, I want to thank you so much for speaking with us today. It's been such a pleasure. Oh, my my pleasure, J. Love the topic, love the series. Thank you. Great. So, this concludes our experts in emotion interview with Dr. Jonathan Height from New York University's Stern School of Business. Thank you again for speaking. My pleasure. Great. Um, so thanks so