We have the pleasure of speaking with Paul Ecman who's going to share his perspective on the evolution of emotion and whether emotions are culturally universal. So Dr. Paul Ecman is a professor emeritus of psychology at the University of California San Francisco and has authored or edited 13 books most recently as we showed earlier in the course emotions revealed. Um and he's also the co-author with the Daly Lama on emotional awareness overcoming the obstacles to psychological balance and compassion. Paul Ecman has consulted with federal and law local law enforcement, national security, corporate sales and negotiations, health and education professionals and animators at some of the largest animation s uh studios in the world. Um, some of you might know the show Lie to Me and he was one of the consultants there to sort of teach them how to detect uh, facial expressions of emotion being also the founder of the facial action coding system which we talked about earlier in the course. Um, Paul Ecman has received countless awards and honors. U, I couldn't even list all of them today. Some of them include the distinguished scientific contribution award from the American Psychological Association and his work has been discussed in the New York Times, Washington Post, Smithsonian magazine, Psychology Today and the New Yorker. Time magazine not surprisingly selected him as one of the hundred most influential people in 2009. Um he's appeared on numerous sort of media outlets as well u for live interviews including 48 hours dine Good Morning America 2020 Larry King Oprah Johnny Carson and many other TV programs. Um so it's an honor today to have this amazing experts in emotion interview with what is perhaps the founder of emotion as we know it today with Dr. Paul Ecman discussing the topic of our emotions culturally universal. So welcome Dr. Ecman. Thank you for speaking with us today. My pleasure. Nice to talk to you. You know, as really the pioneer that got the study of emotion, you know, put on the map in the first place. I I'd love to hear a bit about for you what got you interested in studying this topic sort of how did you come about to you know land on the science of human emotion? Well, there are a number of reasons and um none of them may be the true reason because I don't know that we always know the reasons for our choices. Yeah. a long time ago when I was an undergraduate that goes back to the 1950s, the early 1900s. Uh I thought that the answer to the world's ills was psychotherapy and the really important thing since individual psychotherapy would take too long was group therapy which was getting quite popular these days. And so I started observing through a one-way mirror group therapy sessions. And the issue was of course how to improve its effectiveness. And the only tools around for measuring what people were doing in group therapy dealt with their words. But only one person speaks at a time. But the others react with their posture, with their gaze, with their facial expression. And this was being ignored. And I thought we need to measure that. if we're really going to improve the effectiveness of group therapy. So, I'll take on developing the methods and the concepts for dealing with what I then called nonverbal behavior, everything other than the speech itself. And uh little did I realize as I started in on this, I found there wasn't much there. There weren't tools already available that could be applied. I would have to develop the tools and there wasn't much conceptually that was very relevant. Um after eight or 10 years I found Silven Hopkins and uh he gave me a lot of help in showing me where he was getting the information from the place but his theory I didn't find very useful. So there was a lot to do but I like that because it was an empty pretty much an empty field. uh and so there wasn't a lot of the kind of rivalry and backbiting that often occurs in popular fields in psychology and uh also it meant using cameras and I was making half my living when I first got my PhD as a photographer and so the idea of bringing the two together I'd use cameras to understand people I like that also and it became clear that in order to settle the most fundamental question which is is non-verbal behavior a culture specific language like phenomena or is it more a product of our evolution and more biologically influenced and universal in order to answer that you'd have to travel for a lot of different places oh my god I wanted to travel and so I thought gee I can use cameras I'll get to travel and nobody's going to be competing with me because at best I mean actually I was told repeatedly you're wasting your time there's nothing here to that was the opinion of academic psychology the former head of NSF who recently also retired as head of all 10 UC systems told me in the 1960s don't you know this is a dead end why are you wasting your time with it I recently saw him and he said Paul, who would have suspected what you were able to find? Certainly not him. Wow. Academic psychology. But clinicians, they knew there was information there. Uh not the academicians. So in those days, NIMH was willing to take a risk. I was doing high-risk research in an area that no one had so far made much success with and they supported it for 30 years. Every grant I wrote was funded. That's an amazing story because I mean since then I mean your work you know has just been pioneering in developing what we know to be the most you know rigorous and widely used tool for coding you know expressions of human emotion in the face. you know, your facial action coding system. Um, and I wondered if you could say a little bit more about the development of this system. Sort of what were the first initial steps and what do you see as some of the most important applications of this coding system? Well, it was a giant task to undertake and I don't think I would have undertaken it if I realized it was going to take me eight years because at that point I only had a grant for five years. Uh, I thought I'd get it done from start to finish in five years. Silivan Tommpkins told me not to try. It was too complex. I'd never succeed. And yet, uh, after one major false start, uh, I realized that what you're seeing is really a mechanical system and there are muscles underneath that skin and those muscles are pulling the skin from one place to another. And if you can learn the anatomy and how these muscles are creating each expression, you can dissect the expression really just from looking at video or film. You don't need I mean a cadaavver is of no use because the face doesn't move. Um so we undertook Fzen and I Fzen and I worked together for 25 years. We were just recently corresponding about how do we manage to work together for 25 years and never have an argument. Very clear division of labor of who did what and it worked beautifully. And uh at the end of five years I was nearly out of money and I was almost there. I thought it was going to take one more year. And I wrote to the people who've been supporting me at NIMH the previous 20 years and they said, "Uh-uh, no more money." Oh, no. See, you didn't build this tool. It's not done. We're not going to put We put five years. We're not going to put more money into it. And just by accident, I was contacted by Robin Fox and Lionel Tiger, who then were running a small foundation, the small Gugen Foundation. And they called me on the phone and said, "We're in town and we like your work. We'd like to give you some money." This is Lionel Tiger. I said, "Come on. Who are you really? You're pulling my leg. Tiger walks and you want to give me money?" No, no, no. They said, "We're really serious." So, really, cut me just for a drink downtown. I did, and they gave me the money to finish it to get it published just to strike a buck. Otherwise, I would have been hanging out a shingle and trying to do psychotherapy, which I had forgotten how to do, but I would have to make a living somehow. It's Yeah, it's amazing how much happens just by serendipity like you're you're telling in that story. Yes. I was uh asked a few years ago uh to give a talk to the medical students about my career and I was the first to give the talk of my scientists who've been successful in their career and I titled the talk serendipity perseverance aim and timing and those I said were in order of importance and any one of those wasn't there I would have been a total failure so things fell into my luck often. And why did I start with this thing? And I got back from uh the work in New Guinea and there was now I thought solid evidence for the fact that Darwin really was right about expression and he was right that gestures are not are totally different. They're a culture specific language but but expressions uh seem to be universal to the species. So I thought, gee, we've got to be able if Tomkins can can go up to the screen and show me where he was reading anger, where he was reading fear, I should be able to develop a method to quantify that. So that was the inspiration and I didn't realize how hard it was going to be, how long it was going to take and yet it still remains the gold standard and it's a lot of progress has now been made on automating it. If you've used facts, you know it takes you about an hour to score one minute of good behavior. So, it's a slow process uh but very precise. Well, soon 70 or 80% of what people do will get scored automatically. That would be a big timesaver being a fax coder myself. You know, it' be a big time then all that'll be left for you are the things that the coding automated coding system is having problems with. So it'll cut down uh the method enormously and increase the number of people who are using facts. Now my colleague Robert Levenson with whom I've collaborated for years you know looking at relationship between expression and physiology on which he is an expert says that's going to really be too bad because then all people who are in a rush are going to start using facts and there'll be a lot of trashy research. Right now the people who use fax have to be very committed because it's a slow process. So I want to ask you then what do you see as some of the applications of fax both within the laboratory and outside the laboratory in these kind of real world applications that I know you've been taking a large part in as well. Well, we've developed separate tools uh for people who want to spot concealed emotions. Uh and you know, if you've learned facts, you know, it takes between 50 and 100 hours to learn it in the first place. That's a big time investment. But in under two hours, you can learn to recognize concealed emotions. Uh and that's an internet tool. 109,000 people have learned it already. They just went online and learned it. people from all over the world with all kinds of purposes in mind. Facts remains of a research issue. If we come to find out, for example, uh how many synonyms are there for anger? Uh we know there are a lot of different ways over 80 different ways that these can show anger. Well, which of those are relevant to salting, which to indignation, which to exasperation, which to fury, which to annoyance? And how many of them show a type of anger that we don't have that we haven't named in the English language? We only have about 12 words for different types of anger. But there many more expressions. So are the expressions just simply synonyms or are they naming things that we have not given terms words for? Words are representations of emotion. They're not emotion. My biggest argument with other people in the field are the people who argue with me. I've stopped arguing back because I think I answered them to my satisfaction. But there are people who are really concerned with the words. Now emotions really each emotion has its own narrative, an underlying story. So anger has to do with defending yourself against threats or insults there. It has to do with fighting in some way. That's the underlying story of anger. Very different than the underlying story of sadness which is has to do with a disappointment. It can be a disappoint. There are many different reasons why you could be disappointed. You can be disappointed in yourself that you didn't really act the way you wish you had acted. You could be disappointed by a lover who rejects you, by a failure to get an article published. There are many different ways but they all have to do with disappointment and feeling sort of lonely rejection obvious. That's the sadness story. So to represent emotions with a single word like sadness or anger conceals a lot of the differences. Now facts measures everything you can do. There isn't anything you can do with a face that facts can't give you a way of describing. And then it's up to us, the scientists, to find out what these things signal. Why in the world would nature give us 80 different ways of displaying anger? They were all synonyms. That would be a waste of time. They possibly have to do with different nuances and those would be interesting to uncover. Now, the thing I'm most interested at the moment in is a great long shot, an enormous shot. And because it's such a long shock, although it have enormous benefit, it would save lives, I so far from the last 10 years have not been able to convince any government agency to support it. Now maybe they will now with the recent events, this tragic event in Connecticut has made violence uh much more sen. So, what I'm interested in and what I have some leads for is what is there a signal that warns us of impending violence? Is there something you can see 20 or 30 seconds before the violent person strikes that warn you they're about to? If there was, it could intervention could save lives. It could even save the life of the violent person because most of these people end up killing themselves after they killed others. What do you see as some of the potential hypotheses about what might be some of the micro expressions that might occur immediately before a violent behavior strikes? Well, Secret Service gave me a film they had put together. Mhm. Of more than 100 assassination attempts where someone was shooting the audience. Not shooting them with a gun, but the camera either a onlooker or a news person and then suddenly a weapon appears and the person strikes. And in three of them, I could see the expression on the face. about 20 seconds of the board it was the same expression and I've since gathered reports from serious crime policemen in five countries including two non-western countries. So I have some really good leads but I'm not going to tell you what they are because I'm not certain I want those who are trying to know what it is they need to suppress. Sure. Well, let me ask you a question about something you brought up earlier, which is your really groundbreaking work on the universality of emotion, expressions, and recognition of emotions. And I wonder if you could describe what some of these initial insights were in your early work um that really gave you clues to, as you said, that Darwin was really on to something in his initial observations of emotion expressions. Well, just by luck, I ran into a program officer in the defense department in what was then called the Advanced Research Projects Agency and he was married to a woman from Thailand and they were having some marital problems and he thought maybe they were misunderstanding each other's emotions and expressions. So he said to me, "How would you like to go out and find what's your is it for anything universal or is it all culture specific? I want you to do basic research on this. I'll give you as much money as you need and um find out is Margaret me right or is Darwin right or are they both right? So give me a proposal in the next week about a million dollars sounds right now. This was 1965. A million dollars was a lot of money in 1965. It' be like 10 to 20 million now. So I went back to San Francisco. I decided I don't know how to do that kind of work. He called me and he said, "Where's the proposal?" I said, "I'm not going to do it." He says, "I'll see you tomorrow." And he flew out to San Francisco and he wrote the proposal and gave me the money. So, I then talked to all of the experts. I already knew Tomkins. I got Margaret me to be willing to talk to me. She wasn't very eager. I talked to Ray Bird Whistle. I talked to all I talked to Charles Ozgood. I thought none of them knew what to do. The thing that you really need to do is you need to find a visually isolated group. Couldn't have been influenced by the media or outsiders. And by a stroke of luck, I found a medical scientist who had been working with an isolated group in New Guinea to find out what was causing a brain disease. called Kuru was killing them these people because they reached adulthood and he had been wise enough to recognize that as important as the work he was doing in his own field just documenting life in the stone age culture. So he hired a full-time cinematographer and he shot that cinematographer shot 100,000 ft of film just social life. Of course, he had never looked at the 100,000 ft. And he said, "You want to take a look? I'll give you a copy." So, I took a copy and FA and I spent a year looking through it. So, I was had all of this film to look through. And that's where I found out what the story was because I never saw an expression I hadn't seen before. If me was right, I should see things on the face I'd never seen. And when I could tell from what happened before or afterwards in the film episode, my interpretation was right. So lo and behold, here was the proof. But that's I can't put that film into a paper science. I have to figure out how can I possibly do research on this. And I went to this medical scientist and I said, "I want to come to your area in New Guinea and look at these people and figure out what kind of experiment I can do." Fine, he said. And so I went and I had funds, you know, to do anything I wanted. I uh the funds at that time were administered by the state of California, and they wanted a receipt for every penny I was going to spend. I said, "These people don't have they're preliterate. They don't write. You can't get your receipts. You know, I have to get a blessing for the project from a voodoo doctor. You won't be able to write a receipt for, you know, I'll buy material goods and give them to them. So, I went two times in a row. The first time the evidence was not bad. I telling stories to these people and ask them to point. No, I did not. No, the first year I didn't do that. I would show them a photograph of an emotion. These people had never seen a photograph before in their life. Had no trouble recognizing. They had never seen a mirror. They were really untouched. So I'd show them a picture and I'd say, "Tell me a story. Tell me what was happening before, what's happening now, what's happening afterwards." Well, you can see the sweat pouring off their face. No one had ever asked them to do such a strange thing. It's telling a story about this thing that they' never seen before. I mean, they recognized it. They rec up the stories. Well, I got the stories and the stories were reasonably consistent for each emotion, but it wasn't I didn't have a big sample. They hated doing it. So I did publish the results in science uh but they weren't really robust and they were based really on 50 40 50 people couldn't get involved. I came back feeling God I just didn't know how to crack this and then by luck I remembered a paper I read by a psychologist forgotten John Deield and he had worked with three and four year olds. Now they don't have a written language. So it was his idea what he would do is he would show them a couple of photographs each one of a different emotion and then he would tell them a story. One of these people is about to fight. Point to the picture. One of these people uh the trial was dark. Point went to the picture. One of these people seeing friends that they really like went to the picture. I thought, "Oh my god, he's got him." So I went back to New Guinea and I used that procedure and we got both adults and children we got almost 10% of the entire culture through our experiment. Now, of course, coming back a second time, they they knew I was just a harmless person. And the word quickly spread, this was really easy, and I'd give them a bar of soap, you know, they liked bars of soap. And so people I didn't have to hike into remote villages. They came in from the remote villages and every morning stood online to be in the experiment. And it only took them about 12 minutes and then they were off. So it was wonderful. Now my formulation is that culture permeates even the signal system itself. It influences exactly what triggers the emotion. It influences what I call display rules. The your intent to manage the emotion. It influences what Hawkfield wrote about how you your attitudes about having this emotion. Uh it influences what you're likely to do. So it isn't that this is a wreath like this. It isn't that culture plays no role, but it is playing a role playing an overlay on a universal single system that in Charles Darwin's words shows the unity of mankind. So as someone who's been a pioneer in really understanding human emotion and the extent to which it's as you're saying universal and then having this veneer of cultural influence above it where do you see the future of emotion going from here sort of on the horizon what's next you know I'm not a good forecaster I didn't for I mean everything just sort of dropped into my lung isn't as if I thought well what's the most important thing to do to understand the nature of emotion now you have to actually take advantage of opportunity so it's really going to depend what the opportunities are I believe that we should stop spending so much time showing people emotion and actually measure emotional behavior and you need to get out it's not as if this is something totally hidden for years I tried to get people to go to funerals. I never was able to find student funerals, weddings, confirmations. There are all of these public situations where intense emotional displays occur as well as of course in the bedroom in the kitchen. It's harder to get in there, but still you can. Uh John Gottman is uh become a a friend and a colleague for many years studying marital interactions. and he's studying couples who are having trouble. Uh he's also studied couples who aren't having trouble. It's not that they don't have disagreements. Everyone encounters disagreements. You know, even though you love the person, doesn't mean you're going to agree with them about every aspect of how to live your lives together and separately. The issue is how you handle those disagreements. can you handle them without uh anger that's in any way harmful? Uh now I've developed a new online tool to try to help people do that. It's called mapping your anger profile which you go through and you discover by moving sliders on a computer screen. The unique ways in which you experience anger and how that differs from an intimate partner. and then the two of you can look at each other and how you perceive each other. Uh that should be online by April or May. Fantastic. I'm sure a lot of couples will find that a useful tool. It is. It's fun. Also, you know, if it isn't fun, you don't learn, right? Learning has to be enjoyable. If it's as tedious as learning vocabulary for a foreign language, that's just memorization. Really tedious thing to do. But learning about emotion, we're all motivated. The thing we would most like to be able to do is to be able to choose what we become emotional about and choose how we behave when we are emotional. Now, nature didn't want you to have either of those choices. So you respond most people without thought and you respond not necessarily in the way that it's going to be most useful to this situation. What's built into you what was really useful in living in a tribal society. We don't anymore. We live in a very very different context. So, but there are skills um that you can learn that are described in one of my books with exercises and you actually do them, you'll start to increase your awareness of emotion at the moment you're having the emotion just to realize afterwards, oh my god, I lost my head. You say, I lost my head. What are you saying? You're saying my head was not really involved. I wasn't really running the show. My emotions were running the show and I only got in afterwards. Now, you want to get in right at the beginning. You want to learn to recognize that impulse, become emotional, and be able to choose whether you want to act on it or not. And uh in my last book co-authored with the Daly Lama, it's called emotional awareness because that's the key key is to develop awareness as early in the episode as you can. And that'll require that you work at it, develop new exercises and new brain circuitry that will allow you to monitor what you're actually doing as you're doing it. And you'll develop or what the Buddhists call a watcher. some part of yourself that is observing yourself and then you'll have more choice and choice is what we'd all like. So when you talk about learning emotion and you know choice as well, I mean these are important questions that students or people in the community who want to learn more about emotion might come and ask you about. How can I learn more about emotion or what choices do I have in the emotions I experience? And what kind of advice do you give people who come to you asking about, you know, how can I get involved in wanting to study this, you know, fascinating but complex and sometimes ambiguous phenomena that's emotion? Well, there's a number of things you can read. Um, there are tools you can take that will make you a more acute observer of how other people feel. I'm just putting another online training tool that helps you learn how to respond to another person's emotions in the most effective way because it's one thing to know that you're concealing contempt from me right at the moment which you you're not but suppose you were if you were how do I respond to that the most effective way and this new tool teaches you how to do that so we can teach you online how to recognize the emotion how to respond to But what we don't yet have an online tool for my daughter is working on it. She's getting her PhD working for a dissertation is developing the momentary awareness as the impulse arises. And for some of us that's going to be a really easy because we have a rather gradual slope of emotional arousal. And there are others who are like the attack dorms of emotion. They go from zero to maximum in an instant. And that's going to be much harder for them. But it's paradoxical that the people who need to learn this the most are going to find it the hardest to learn because what's built into their system is fast responding, not slow responding. But even they can learn to moderate it. So they'll have more choice. Those are exercises and those exercises, you know, I I like to use the example of tennis. Now, you can't even watch the game of tennis on TV and make any sense of it if you don't know the rules. And you can read what the rules are in 10 or 15 minutes. You'll know everything you need to know. And that'll make you a good observer of tennis, but you won't get a ball over the net that way. For that you need practice and a coach and feedback. And my little company, we give workshops to try to teach that. We have a course on emotional skills. It's four days long. Gives you a lot of exercises and uh and practice and feedback. So, it's like getting you to be get the ball over the net in a motion. gives you the footsteps and it gives you all the tools you'll need which if you continue to use them, you'll increasingly have choice about your emotional life. That's what we really like. Well, I mean, this has been wonderful speaking with you as someone who's so revered in the field and I know many of many people, including myself, were inspired by when I was first a young student thinking about, you know, trying to understand what emotions were. So, I just want to thank you so much, Dr. Eman, for speaking today and being part of this series. Well, it's been a pleasure. You know, I found that interviews are really enjoyable if you have a smart interviewer ask good questions you can be deadly. Someone hasn't done their homework or doesn't know how to ask questions, then it's a painful process. But this, as you can probably see, has been quite enjoyable. I like talking about this area of work. Well, thank you so much. Um, so this will conclude our experts in emotion interview with Dr. Paul Ecman from the University of California, San Francisco and the Paul Ecman Group.