our experts in emotion interview. Uh we have the honor of speaking with Dr. Marian Lef France to consider the question of whether men and women emotionally differ. So Dr. Lef France is a professor of psychology and of women in gender studies at Yale University where she teaches courses in social psychology and gender psychology as well as non-verbal communication. So her research focuses on how emotion and power are transmitted in these subtle emotional communication cues. Some of her recent work has focused in particular on the human smile, examining questions such as why do women win uh men smile less than women? Why do women smile when being sexually harassed? And to whom do babies show a koi smile? Um, this work has received widespread attention in various media outlets including NPR, BBC, NBC, the New York Times among many others. So, I will now turn to an interview with my local Yale colleague, uh, Dr. Maryanne Lef France. One of the things I'd love to speak with you about as we get started is what first kind of captured your interest in emotion in the first place? Kind of where did it all begin for you? Well, I think if I can go right back to the beginning, one of the things that I remember my mother saying to me and my sibs, which is pay attention to how people say things, maybe even more than what they're actually saying. So, facial expression, eye contact, gesture. So, she said it matters how things are said. And that's was a really intriguing notion which is if it's how then it means that it's not verbal and if it's not verbal then it must be non-verbal and the what becomes what is it that they're really communicating and that's emotion. So that's I think the the core roots. That's so fascinating because many of what captures our attention in emotion are our own early experiences and observations. Absolutely. I in fact dedicated my dissertation to my mom who and I said to my mom whose ability to tell what was going on between people was the wonder of my childhood. That's wonderful. So that sparked your interest in emotion and so I'd love to ask you a few questions now about the many things you've done you know since then um you know in trying to understand emotion gender and we'll talk about the smile as well. Um, so some people believe that, you know, men and women are profoundly different. You know, we've heard that they might even be from different planets. And I guess the question I have for you is, is this really true in terms of are men and women really from different, you know, emotional planets? Um, do we see evidence to suggest that might be the case? I'm going to do the academic thing and say yes and no, but mostly no. That is, it is clear that there's a profound belief that men, women, girls, and boys are different. And the assumption usually is that it is something essential that the differences are not learned that the differences are not layered over but in fact come at core from our genetics. It is true that there are some differences. We clearly have different organs and uh different bodies. But most of what makes us male or female, masculine or feminine comes much later. We acquire it, we learn it, we specialize in it, we become experts in it. And the thing that's so interesting actually is if you take little kids and you say, "What is your you say to a little boy, what does your mommy look like?" You say to a little girl, "What does your daddy look like?" They posturally and expressively will do it. It will be recognizably gendered. So the very nature of how we sit, how frequently we or how quickly we blink um many of these things we acquire by virtue of observation and instruction and learning. I mean, so it sounds like from what you're saying, it's not so much that men and women are born different emotionally, but it that it's something over time they learn and they're almost socialized in ways to maybe show emotions differently or maybe even talk about emotions differently. Absolutely. And I think it's all of those things that is whatever emotion is, it's multi-layered. It is multicomponent. So we talk about expressivity, talk about subjectivity, talk about physiological, talk about brain kinds of things. And at every component that we study, gender is more or less large or small and then more or less variable across situation. So to say that women are more emotional than men, true in the sense of either self-report. So you get women are you emotional? Yes, women say they are more emotional. But if you do online kind of coding that is you ask at this very second what are you feeling and how intensely are you feeling it then the gender differences in emotion tend to dissipate. Oh that's fascinating. So what do you think then as we try to understand gender and emotion moving forward? What do you think are some of the most I don't know challenging puzzles we're going to face as we try to really tease apart the ways in which men and women are similar or are different? There are a lot of interesting questions. A lot of data um has been collected, but we still don't know a lot about under what circumstances are women more emotional than men and is it more expressive than um subjective. That is if we measure only gender differences in say physiology, there's not much there that suggests that there are profound differences. But if you ask men and women, if you watch men and women, women are much more expressive with their faces, with their voices, with their gestures, it is part of women to be expressive, to be communicative, to, if you will, reach out. And part of masculinity, at least in our culture, is to damp it down, keep it under wraps, be stoic. Yes. Exactly. So interesting. So, one of the things you've also looked at that's relevant to this is, you know, the human smile, you know, and that's something that we're all really interested in sort of why do we smile, you know, who do we smile to, what are the rules that govern different kinds of smiles and you've wrote uh a really compelling book um lip service talking a bit more about this and I just wonder if you could share some of the observations um that you detailed in this book as to why do we smile and is this something that can also help us better understand gender differences in emotion by just looking at something as simple as the smile. Smiling is fascinating for several reasons. One is there is not a culture or a area or historical period in which smiling has not been found. So babies come to birth smiling. In fact, we know from studies of babies in the womb, actually in latter stage trimester, babies are smiling. Now, they're not smiling because they're having a grand old time. Well, they might be, but we don't know that yet. What happens then is layers of socialization, layers of culture, layers of exposure to different contexts and different social roles. So, everybody smiles, but then the question becomes who smiles more under what circumstances. We do know across many many many studies that women reliably smile more than men. But those differences are very very much a function of what age for example you're talking about. The largest sex difference in smiling with women smiling more than men occurs between the ages of about 17 and 23. After that the differences basically disappear so that by middle age there are not really profound sex differences. There are also really substantial within sex variations. So some men smile more than other men. Some women smile less than other women and that variability is really quite substantial. Smiling appears to be in part a signal of underlying positive affect. But smiling is a lot more than that. Smiling in fact is the all-purpose mask. When people are feeling anything but happy, they often will smile. So it covers it allows people to regain their composure, if you will. It holds people off. It deflects too much attention. So smiling is I've sometimes referred to it as a Swiss Army knife of interpersonal relationships. It is multiply useful. It can establish connection. It can stand as an apology. It can suggest that one is willing to cooperate. It can indicate allegiances. So people who smile at each other across the proverbial crowded room are saying, "Gotcha. See you. We're in this. We're special." Um, so that there are many social functions that smiling serves besides being a readout of underlying positive emotion. That's so interesting. I mean, it makes smiling, you know, to be this complex, multifaceted thing that happens just in a blink of an eye, but that in ways is just, you know, subtly navigating our everyday social exchanges. Absolutely. Navigating, I think, is a terrific way to characterize it because we smile at strangers. Not a lot, but smiling is one of the facial expressions that tends to be reciprocated by strangers. If I frown at you and we don't know each other and we're passing each other in the street, you're not likely to frown back at me. But if I smile at you, there may be a very quick recognition and and doing it likewise. So that it gets us through a lot of social situations where words would take too much time, too complicated, too ambiguous. Smiling smooths things out, lets us go through without a lot of tension or conflict or ambiguity. And do you think that there are certain kinds of smiles that may be, I don't know, more socially effective than other smiles or It's a It's actually a great question and I think that's where the research is going. One of the distinctions that researchers have made which I think has some terrific validity is the distinction between what is called the duchen after a French physiologist um the duchen smile which is apparently the really legitimate sign of genuine spontaneous positive emotion and two facial features are involved with the genuine smile that's the mouth and but it also involves the eyes it's actually a muscle the circumference is the eye socket which squeezes. So it causes the eye to close a little bit. It raises there's a little pouching of the lower lid. There's a little crinkling of the outer eyes. There's a little lowering of the upper lid on the outside. That is hard to do deliberately. This that is the mouth is really easy. We all learn how to do that. All someone has to do is aim a camera at us and say smile. We know what to do. We may think it's it's awkward and it's silly and it's inauthentic. So there are genuine smiles but there are many other kinds of smiles. Smiles that have often say if I'm trying to mask negative a effect say I'm feeling actually really sad at the moment and I I don't want to impose that on you. I don't want you to know I don't want to express it. So my mouth may say happy happy smile smile. But if I look at the at the inner brows, I see maybe some tension. I see some other action. So there are smiles like that. Smiles also that come on the face really fast and go off really fast. Often you can see this in people who are in public and they don't think they're being observed, but then they somebody they catch somebody's eye and the smile comes on and the people go away. Smile drops off. So the timing of a smile distinguishes between a genuine and a non-genuine smile. There are also smiles that are purely to convey a sense of let's get through this. Let's just move along. Let's smooth things out. And that smile everybody knows to be polite or social, but it's not about emotion or at least it's not about a readout of what's really going on inside. It's almost like a social regulator in a way. Is absolutely that interesting. One of the things you said that I thought was interesting linking smiling to gender differences is that there seems to be this critical period where men and women do differ in smiling but then after that period I think you said it was 17 to 23 it it disappears. What do we think is going on? Uh why do we start smiling? It's it's converging in our smiles. I guess it's a terrific question. I there are those of an evolutionary psychology band who would say when mating is most critical the sexes should be the most different so that there's no confusion about who you're going to engage with. Others suggest that that's when the social pressure is at its maximum to indicate that one is appropriately masculine and feminine. And there is no better way to indicate femininity than smiling. And in fact, it's at that age that young men who smile, especially if they are seen as smiling too much, the too much means there's something odd about their masculinity. So we question their inherent masculinity if there's too much smiling. It also appears to be the case that that's when gender roles in terms of occupations, in terms of vocations, in terms of preferences, gender roles really are really quite paramount. And there are a lot of occupations and jobs and roles that are really gendered still. That is, women tend to be more caregivers. They tend to be more in public relations kinds of occupations which require a lot of smiling. So we know, for example, if you put men in those same occupations, lo and behold, their smiling rates go up. If you put women in more traditional masculine occupations, lo and behold, their smiling drops off. So it's less maybe at certain ages than the about gender than it is about the separation into social roles that are related to gender. Yeah, it sounds really like it's all about social context. Social context matters a lot. Smiling is probably the most variable facial expression. I think when we look at expressions associated with anger, distress, uh, disgust, sadness and the like, I think then the expressions are often more authentic readouts of what the underlying affect is. Smiling is the great question mark. In fact, Darwin when he talked about facial expressions was a little mystified with smiling because it didn't appear to be functionally adaptive. It didn't appear to arrive from some bodily or some core notion of survival. So what it is is actually still a bit of a mystery. So interesting. Um I want to ask you a little bit further. I mean a lot of your work too has looked more broadly other kinds of non-verbal communication. the smile being being one of them and just how these subtle communication uh pieces of information can actually communicate really important information about things like social power which seems really really profound. I mean how is it that we can convey things about our gender identity you know personal allegiances simply through uh these non-verbal acts or in other words without saying a single word. Non-verbal communication is something that humans need because it is simple. It's efficient. It is, if you will, off the record. So, if you say something to me of a unkind sort, I can say, June, what was that about? Why? Why did you say that? But if you do a little kind of scowl at me, if you bodily turn away from me, if you indicate by certain other kinds of cues, vocal tone that you're really disinterest, I can't say, "Hey, what was that tone of voice thing?" It would sound maybe bordering on the paranoid. It would sound kind of bizarre unless you're a psychologist. Unless you're a psychologist, in which we do it all the time, then. Um, yeah. So non-verbal communication is a multi-layered way of establishing relationships of indicating you've mentioned power who's on top and who's not. Um who's striving to move up who's worried about moving down. So smiling another uh example. There's some data there is some controversy on this but there's some data that suggests that the lower power person with less standing less status in a relationship is the one who smiles more. And the higher power person theoretically smiles less. Now what we find in our research is it's a little bit more complicated but it can come down in some sense to the following. Lower power people may smile more because they have to. In fact we find that lower power people say they smile when they do because of the need to please. They don't want to offend. They don't want people to think ill of them. Higher p power people tend to smile when they feel like smiling and don't smile when they don't feel like it because they don't have to. They don't have to sort of show affiliation. Exactly. They don't have to be a be pleasant. They don't have because they've got the standing. They've got the status and other people need to rise to them rather than they need to um somehow or other be compliant or um differential or submissive. That's not part of the high power role often, right? I'm sure people in their everyday lives can imagine situations like job interviews where they're finding that they may be smiling much more frequently than they normally would, for example. Um, you know, to sort of please the higher power person, but that's often some of a double-edged sword. So, interviewees are often told, smile, make eye contact, smile, indicate you're engaged by smiling. But often the smiling then heads into too much. So often what comes across is this sort of grinning greeniness. And you know sometimes in those positions I'm smiling too much. I got to stop but I can't because you know there there I am with with my smile. So smiling too much happens fairly quickly. That is to say that one can smile too much without meaning to or wanting to. And it can then take the evaluation of the person from competent and socially adept into why are they grinning like that when we're talking about these serious matters. So it can be almost too much of a good thing. Absolutely. In fact, we find especially in studies of women interviewees and men interviewees, women smile a lot, a lot a lot and they are seen often as warm and pleasant and altogether really nice people. But then too much smiling sometimes is correlated with too little competence. So if a person smiles too much, they go overboard in one thing which suggests that maybe that other dimension of being smart and competent and really intellectually skilled, some questions can be raised, right? So it brings their sort of social power down even more. Exactly. Fascinating. So, I mean, this has been really great to talk about all your work on, you know, non-verbal cues, smiling, gender, and emotion. And so, when you think about all the work you've done and sort of the puzzles that remain, where do you see the face of the future going in emotion? Oh, wow. What a question. I think the thing that's wonderful about emotion and emotion research is that there are so many directions. So we talk about, we haven't talked today about it, but huge differences culturally, which raises a lot of basic questions about is emotion universal, is it something that we all share? Well, yes. But if we say look at cross-cultural differences in emotion, the rules for how much one expresses under what circumstances, what emotions are fostered, what emotions are encouraged to be damped down, to go away, issues about where in these massive brains that we have are emotions located. It's likely to be multiply. The one of the questions about emotion I think has to do with in some sense what is it? I mean we assume we know it's everybody knows what emotion is but I think what researchers are finding is it is a really complex phenomenon in its own right and as we proceed into the broader social world culture uh nation his history we will also be proceeding in a more micro level into the brain and there's so many questions to ask and have answered about those connections I mean it feels almost like with what you're saying the face of the future is also what got us started in emotion in the first place kind of questioning the core you know I don't know bottom bottom up issue of what what is emotion you know in the first place it is a really interesting question yeah and lots of work still remains to be done so in terms of lots of work I mean some of it you know we'll all try to do in our generation but a lot of it too will remain for future scholars and students of emotion to try absolutely I I think it's the one of those areas in which we've come up with a lot of interesting data, some really interesting findings, but the questions are as extensive as they ever were. So, what advice would you have for students who are just embarking in the study of emotion or maybe thinking about dabbling with it? What might you say to them? Well, maybe you start with an emotion that mystifies you, um, makes you angry, makes you sad, uh, gets under your skin. Start with some behavior that you've noticed in yourself, say blushing, for example. We know very little bit about blushing, which is related to emotion. If you come from some other part of the of the world of the rural, urban um west, east, south, north, um you you name the location of your origin, you may be fascinated with it seems to work different here than it does in some other kind of place. So start with something that is interesting, aggravating, fascinating, something that says I need to know more about this. Really, that's a great that's a great place to end. Thank you so much for speaking with us today, Marian. Great. This concludes our experts in emotion interview with Dr. Marian Lefrance from Yale University. Thank you again for speaking with us.