For our experts in emotion interview, we have the honor of speaking with Dr. Jonathan Rottenberg. Um, a leading researcher in the area of emotion and psychopathology. Jonathan Rottenberg has pioneered efforts to integrate the basic science of emotion with the study of psychopathology. He received his PhD from Stanford University and is currently an associate professor of psychology at the University of South Florida where he directs the mood and emotion laboratory. He's the lead editor of an of emotion and psychopathology bridging affective and clinical science and he's authored over 30 scientific publications. His work not surprisingly focused on depression as well as crying has received international media coverage including science news, Scientific American, the New York Times, ABC News, and the BBC. He also writes a blog um about depression for Psychology Today. Um, one fun fact about uh, Jonathan Rottenberg is that he decided in his early 40s he was going to train for a marathon. And by the time we'll speak with him, he'll have already run three during that time. So, I now turn to our experts in emotion interview with Dr. Jonathan Rottenberg answering the question of is crying actually good for us? So, welcome John. Thanks for speaking with us today. Thank you for having me. What I'd love to hear from you as we get our conversation going today is a little bit about your journey into emotion. So, what first got you started and uh hooked on studying emotion? Well, I um went to graduate school at Stanford and I was arriving there in the late 90s and emotion was actually very hot at that moment. It was um is a scholarly topic. There were new theories. Um, there were new journals like the journal APA journal emotion coming out. And I had the good fortune of working with uh James Gross who's an expert on emotion regulation. And what really excited me was the possibility of combining all of these methods, physiological methods for studying emotion, new methods for studying uh emotional behavior. uh combining these methods with clinical research. Um Ian Gallib was also at Stanford in the late 90s when I was there and I thought this was an incredible opportunity because here we have these remarkable tools that were increasingly understood as um potentially breakthroughs for understanding emotion. Uh and then we also had a clinical disorder uh major depressive disorder which is very much defined by changes in mood and emotion. Um only only problem was there wasn't very much research. Um, and so I saw this as using new tools as a way to understand in some ways what was the most important part of what I would argue was the most important disorder um in terms of uh burden in terms of the degree of uh recurrence and just raw prevalence. So um I got hooked at that moment and uh I've stayed hooked ever since. And I mean since you got hooked I mean you've just conducted some of the most profound discoveries into really understanding you know what is going on in individuals who are suffering from depression. What are the emotional lives of these individuals and also about the phenomena you know that may be particularly prevalent in individuals who are depressed but is actually something really common to all of us which is crying. And so I'd love to start out asking you some questions about your research. Um first first with the topic of crying. So we can all you know readily recall times in our own lives when we were crying and many of us seem to have these beliefs that when we've cried in some way this has been beneficial for us in some way it's been cathartic or helpful to kind of cleanse us of our negative emotional experiences. Um, but your work is really really exciting here in that it suggests that actually that belief may not always be true and that crying is not necessarily and always adaptive for us. So I was wondering if you could share some of your own scientific observations and findings that sort of now provide a roadmap for helping us understand when crying is and is not necessarily beneficial or adaptive. Sure. I mean, crying is one of the most dramatic emotional behaviors from when we first start out as little babies to the end of life. And it spreads through that whole life course. Uh, and one thing that is particularly um salient about crying is that uh has a distinctive socially uh salient uh signal, namely tears. And so we certainly notice when we cry, other people certainly notice when we cry. And so many people have strong opinions about what happens when they cry or when other people cry. And like you said, there is a very strong lay belief that crying is cathartic. And so that is reflected on surveys. When you ask people, do you feel better after you cry? People report yes. and not just being a contrarian but really wanting to understand to what extent crying is and is not cathartic. Um we dug a little bit deeper and so we used a have used a number of different designs from experimental designs to survey designs to daily diary designs to uh try to look at uh when and where crying might be having benefits u might be cathartic and what we've discovered uh over the years is that not all crying episodes are equal uh so what I mean by that is a number of things determine uh whether or not crying is going to be assess associated with food benefits. Uh one is u the context in which crying occurs. Um and some of these findings maybe aren't so surprising. Um but we just at the end would really want to qualify the idea that when you cry you feel better because it turns out that when you look at crying in the moment or crying in these daily diary designs, it's really a distinct minority of the crying episodes that are associated with mood improvement. So the ones that are are ones in which situation really changes as a function of the crying. So social factors. So do people actually come to the side of the person's uh crying? The crying has its power to draw another. So those episodes that are um drawing in others tend to be associated with mood benefit. Crying episodes in which the situation changes um seem to be associated with mood benefits. Um and finally the the the affective state of the crier seems to really make a difference and this is a one connection to depression. Um depressed people it turns out and people who are very anxious tend not to report that crying benefits their mood tremendously. So um yes crying if anything is associated with mood benefits. non-frying episodes are created equal. And it seems that both social characteristics and the characteristics of the frier make a big difference in shaping whether or not crying is shows any benefit at all. Well, it's so interesting because you alluded to depression and you know when we started our interview I said you know depression for many people is this sort of you know quintessential example of you know profound crying right and so many people think of crying and depression as synonymous but your experiments really challenge some of these big assumptions about how depression actually alters crying. Um, and so I wonder if you could say a little bit about in what ways does crying behavior provide a window into understanding what might actually be disturbed in depression. Sure. Yeah. Um, and this is sort of a a story of um being surprised because when I started out, I thought that our research would confirm um what's in the DSM, so the diagnostic manual uh that's used by clinicians everywhere. and researchers uh defines part of depression as increased crying behavior. And so I thought um what what we were learning is in what ways does depression magnify the crying response and in we wanted to use again these new tools of emotion. So multimemethod research studying emotional experience, emotional behavior and emotion related related physiology bring depressed people into a lab and compared their crying episodes to those of non-depressed people. And the data didn't really cooperate because what we found was that contrary to what DSM depressed people were no more likely to cry for the sad stimulus and perhaps more interesting the changes associated with that crying were actually diminished in depressed people. So their physiological responses during crime like sweat gland activity were actually less than those of the non-depressed people. And then we started to look at other uh kinds of changes and other physiological systems and what we saw mirrored our our original analyses that that wherever we looked depression seemed to shrink rather than magnify the effects of crime. And so this really um made me think about what what what's in the DSM, all these observations that have come from clinicians over the years. And I doubt that they're simply wrong. It's not that they're wrong. It's that they're making those observations in a in a particular context. So someone comes in uh they're depressed, they're being evaluated, and yes, you see crime behavior. But I think what we what we've learned in in the experimental work is that when you present normative so the kind of stimuli that makes the average person cry like this film the chimp or there's this dreadful death scene the little boy is is just ripped apart by this incredible loss. Those kind of normal cryicides cried eliciting situations don't do a lot for depressed people. Uh and so what what it makes me think is that the things that are eliciting depressed people's crying are likely to be different uh than what are the things that are eliciting everyone else's crying. And so this notion again of the context really making a big difference. So I'm thinking well so depressed people reporting to the clinician that they're having a lot of crying. They may be crying by themselves. They may be crying into their pillow. They may be crying because God or some person isn't isn't helping them. It's not that they're there particular sad things um in their environment that are prompting crying. They don't even need um necessarily a provocation. So that gives us sort of a different understanding of what what the statements in the BSM might mean and what the changes in emotion um that depressed people experience might reflect. I mean, and what you're alluding to is another theme in your work, which really suggests that the emotional nature and lives of individuals with depression are quite different from those who aren't currently depressed or maybe don't have a history of being depressed. And I think you've found that the emotions that these individuals experience with depression don't quite fit their current environmental context, which you would refer to as this emotion context and sensitivity. And I wonder what you see as some of the most promising discoveries from this model you've developed um that might help us better understand the nature of emotion in depression. Sure. Um so I've been talking about this emotion context sensitivity since about 2005 and since that time you know there have been another other other researchers um who've replicated this finding which is essentially that depressed people don't report and display uh the normative changes that you would expect to see whether it's positive emotions or situations or negative emotion emotions or situ situation that depressed people are presenting this flattened profile of response or this stereotypy. Um, so I think that's at this point we can say that that's real that we found it in in enough studies and consistently lacrosse labs and so we're really looking at a new set of next questions which is what is this really about? What does this reflect? What are the proximal mechanisms? Whether they're cognitive mechanisms, patterns of thought, whether they're behavioral mechanisms, whether they're physiological mechanisms that explain this pattern that generate this pattern. And a second um key set of questions I think are it also speaks to the meaning uh of this pattern is what is its relationship to the clinical symptoms that you see in depression. So depression with an episodic disorder. So to be diagnosable you need to have at least five of nine symptoms and people people typically will be in episode for some months at a time when you get better and have well periods and so we see this pattern of ECI uh during depressive episodes. Now people have looked um I've not seen uh very often that it um that it's there after the depressive episodes in people who are fluent very well. Now we're studying children uh and one of our um one of our aims is to understand whether the CCI pattern might be an anticedent um to depression. Essentially what we're trying to understand or unpack is whether these changes in emotion might have some causal relationship um to to the clinical syndrome of depression. It's possible that they're actually not important um in causation of episodes of depression, but they might be more important in the maintenance of depression. That is how long depression lasts. So we found that um the extent to which a person shows the CCI pattern seems to predict the duration of the episode. So this suggests that even if um it's not a causal um in explaining why a person becomes depressed in the first place, it might be quite important in terms of how quickly the depression gets resolved. And so I think there are um some potential implications for both understanding treatments, how existing treatments work, refining those treatments and incorporating motion into our conceptualization of treatment which I think is another huge area of opportunity. Yeah, that was when you were talking. I mean, it makes you wonder how much you can translate these really promising findings into aiding issues such as you alluded to treatment or differential diagnosis or identifying people who would benefit from you know different types of emotion related interventions. Yeah, I think there's a lot of opportunity there and there are some work by people like um Andy Demarin which I think is um very important first steps is to even understand how do existing treatments treatments that are reasonably reasonably robust and successful. How do those treatments change emotion? And so simply uh pre and post designs where you have people um tested on different aspects of their emotional functioning in episode prior to the initiation treatment then the same people tested when the treatment um was successful. Although it would be quite interesting to compare emotion and between those who are successfully and not successfully treated. Um because right now I think we mostly have assumptions uh about how treatments for depress depression change emotion experience behavior emotion related physiology in in different contexts. But um we don't have as much data uh as you might um as you might think. And part of it is because people who do drug trials and people who do basic research are often different people and they're very protective of the patients who are in the drug trials and uh these assessments of motion be sort of seen as monkeying around um in their trials. But from a both from a treatment development perspective and innovative science perspective I think it's absolutely essential to understand just descriptively and this is not even getting to the the question that you're talking about is using uh using some emotion data as operary predictor of what kind of treatment a person should get. Should they should this person get CBT cognitive behavioral therapy or should they get anti-depressants? If so, what what specific brand of anti-depressant or specific school within cognitive behavioral therapy? I think ultimately that would be um tremendously exciting and important because what what we have right now is a big problem of not knowing priori what the what the patient is most likely to respond to. And we have with depression the good news is a number of different uh efficacious treatments but none of them are effective for um everyone. um they all have a fairly high non-response or incomplete response rates and so anything we can do to increase the efficiency of treatment and it seems to me that emotion data will be very high on the list of data that I think would would improve efficiency. I mean so you touched on some really important themes about where we need to go next right in terms of really delineating and mapping out this research to aid and facilitate diagnosis and treatment. Um, when you think broadly about the field of emotion, I know we've talked about crying and depression and emotion and treatment today, where do you see the field of emotion more generally headed as it sort of moves into the future? Well, I mean, I think my work is part of a kind of a first wave of integrating um basic re research aspect of science with clinical science and I think there very much needs to be a second way. So part of the first wave was saying we're here, we can do this. Um but developing more mature um and robust and sustainable. So for example, with my own research with ECI, okay, we definitely shown that there that there is a pattern and that it's it's good to show with robust methods um with multiple methods that there is a certain pattern. Now we need to go back and go to the the next step and and I've mentioned a few of a few of the things that would be involved but I think for this could be true for every um different class disorder. So there's marvelous research going on with emotion and schizophrenia and I think that you know is sort of in some ways a model um for where the field needs to go understanding for example uh individual symptoms in schizophrenia like anhidonia or inability to experience pleasure to understand when does that happen what does that reflect and ultimately how does it relate um to clinical improvement in schizophrenia. So, I I really I think that it's a matter of uh continuing to um do what we've been doing. I don't think that we need I think we're on a good uh on a good road. Um but um not losing focus or energy. Um and so I'll do my best to do my small part in in the disorder that I'm studying. But I think that there's a many opportunities because um in parallel um and I I should say also um relatedly that what can happen is to do more explicit comparison. So now we have good descriptions of what's happening in individual disorders explicit comparisons between disorders. Um I think we have much more to go on. So for example, comparing what's uh patterns that we see in depression with those of anxiety disorders near neighbor conditions that are highly comorbids that co co-occur with depression and understand what's similar what's different um in terms of how emotion changes in these conditions. So then when you speak to students who are just thinking now about embarking in this field of emotion, what kind of advice would you give them or have you given them? Trust your instincts. I mean I I would give them contradictory advice of course. So it would be to trust their instincts. I mean I don't think I would have had any success at all if I didn't listen to my instincts um initially about crying. So something I read in the BSM and I was like well what does that really reflect? what does that really mean? What's what what was that based on? And I learned it wasn't really based on a research study. So I thought, let's do a research study and and one thing led to another. And so a student has an insight like that, even if it's not fully baked, um they should act on that. And and the contradictory thing is that at the same time, I think you have to um be able to integrate uh feedback from mentors. So but both things can be true. So you can very much think that you have a good idea um but what the what it's the job and you can stick to your gun but what what a mentor can help you do is shape that idea a little bit and help you see well what can I really learn or what are the limitations or um because I think that science is always this juggling a emotion no different than other areas of science between being novel so having ideas that the field is going to need to assimilate with uh accommodating to um what's already known. And so a good student is going to both be wanting to push the envelope in terms of what we already know, but also finding ways to accommodate what they're finding um with with what we already know. Well, thank you. And it never ends. So it it does when after you're get your PhD and and you're on your postoc or uh in your first faculty position or if you've got tenure you're a full professor your distinguished professor it doesn't matter this will this predicament will always be true where you have to develop new ideas but also um understand the context in which those ideas are happening. So graduate school is just the first first in in some ways most dramatic place in which that uh that process unfolds. Some of it is that many students feel like they don't know anything. Um but the truth is that that even even now the field of emotion is a little bit more mature. There's still vast areas where we really don't know much too much more than not knowing anything. And so um they should feel very confident that they can make a contribution. Well, thank you so much for speaking with us today, John. It was wonderful. It was my pleasure. It was great speaking with you. Always good talking to you. So, this concludes our experts in emotion interview with Dr. Jonathan Rottenberg from the University of South Florida. Thank you again.