In an increasingly full world of AI and automation, where you might be getting your AI bot to brush up your application and the HR department is getting their Ibot to see if your AI bot has got a decent enough application for them. This course breaks through that or at least harnesses that and gets you to the humanto human connections. I'm a fundamental believer that all our good purpose- driven jobs that career building with purpose that job searching with purpose comes when we get those human-toum connections. Hi, I'm Peter Boyd. I'm lecturer at the Yale School of the Environment, resident fellow at the Yale Center for Business and the Environment and founder and CEO of my own company, Time for Good. The name of my new course is The Hunt: Job Searching and Career Building with Purpose. I created the hunt as a course building off my core course on Corsera connected leadership where I am so passionate that leaders can be better no matter where they are on life's journey and where they are in the world. I found how many leaders while leading are also building their career and changing and finding forks in the road and jobs end and chapters end and new chapters arrive. And I thought how can we pull all that expertise of harnessing your purpose, your priorities, your potential and your progress, the four Ps of connected leadership. How can we harness that and accelerate and drive meaning in to your hunt? I think I would love learners to take away from the hunt hope. I'm hoping that they have hope. There's an S in there which is stubborn optimism. I love the phrase from Cristiana Faggeras who helped architect the Paris agreement saying that both the optimism that things can get better and a stubborn realization that things may not be perfect right now. She was talking about the climate. We could be talking here about your job. So, first piece is hope. Second piece is a spreadsheet, like a one-page way of practically coming out with something to do. Hold yourself accountable for your own progress. And then my third one is a start for any conversation, any email, any interview, a go-to place where you're super comfortable in who you are as a person, what stories you love telling, and then how you sell that to the world. And so that idea of being comfortable in that start to any conversation, any email, any interview. surprising fun fact on my job searches. Started all the way back, I think age 12, delivering newspapers in very cold, snowy streets in Edinburgh for about £150 for a whole week. Then onto a supermarket stacking shelves just a few years later, about for 1 pound50 an hour. That's not a lot of money, but here we are. And we keep building on what came before us. If I was to give advice to those that are thinking or in the middle of embarking on the hunt, I think the biggest piece is you are probably underestimating how many people have faith in you in finding that special spot where you have your unique gift matched with the place that really needs you. There are a lot of people that already believe in you. And if I could get across that belief so you have it in your hearts, that's the one piece that I would try and send you away with.