So one thing I wanted to ask was about collaborative care models in um in health care really. So we're hearing a lot about this in primary care and and most often I think we think about mental health care specialists going into a primary care setting as per perhaps a specialist to offer some collaborative care and management of patients. It seems that this might be right for addiction treatment as well. And I'm wondering if we can speak to what that might look like or what a collaborative care model for addiction treatment might look like and if some of us are already doing that. So spending time in an outpatient opioid treatment program. Um it it's interesting um having been there for you know about a decade and watching uh the way the system works. It's 100% collaborative. Um there isn't a single day I could function in my job without all the professions, many of the professions that we've talked about today. So social worker sort of doing the intake process and helping devise treatment planning and counseling around that. um providers um both advanced practice nurse practitioners and PAs or MDs who uh can you know um carry out the treatment plan for the patient provide on-site primary care andor psychiatric um care for the patients uh nurses who can dispense medications and pharmacists who can work with us to really look at medication interactions and things like that. Um, so I think that that's a microcosm that we could really look at from a collaborative care model for addiction treatment that I think has worked well for many many years and think about how that can be adapted to other settings. >> And Janette, I'm going to ask I'm going to press a little bit further because I know one of your passions is really interprofessional education. And if we think about addiction treatment as being collaborative, why would you say it's important that perhaps we learn in collaborative settings? >> I mean, I think you've already heard about today that many of us do very similar things uh in different settings. Um, and if we're not on the same page with how we screen, assess, and diagnose, not only is it confusing for the health care system, it's confusing for patients who access many different ports of the health care system if things are being done differently or they're hearing different messages. Um and because I think um you know addiction does as we've already talked about span so many different professions and uh settings and um patients who are not even accessing care at all as Robert's mentioned a couple times um you know we need all boots on the ground ready to manage this um this disease. And so I think if if we start from an foundational educational level and we're all on the same page and contributing um because I the most important thing is that although we may look at the problem in similar ways um we all have unique training backgrounds behind us and that can really add so much richness to an educational platform. >> Yeah. Let me add that over the course of the you know this treatment of addiction of the history of it um treatment has been pushed to the periphery and into into places that are not connected to other forms of medical care. And that with the collaborative models it allows us to reintegrate this treatment into a into a setting where it's actually going to be effective instead of being pushed to the periphery where it's had less effectiveness than it could have had. >> Do you mind expounding on that a little bit more? Maybe give us an example, Robert. >> Yeah, I mean the the traditional establishment of of methadone clinics in the 1970s really made them standalone drug treatment centers without connections to dealing with the other problems that people with with opiate addiction have. Uh for many of these people, opiate addiction is not their primary medical problem. It's a secondary problem that's occurred because of underlying untreated mental health problems, childhood trauma, um PTSD, all of these things that lead them to try drugs have them drugs seem effective in the short run and in the long run lead to addiction. And if you push the treatment for the addiction to the periphery where you're only treating the addiction, you're not going to treat the underlying problems. And without this collaboration with other people who can help you deal with these other problems, um the treatment for addiction is going to be uh less effective than it should be. >> Thank you very much. Janette, I'm going to push it back to you because you work in one an an opiate treatment program that actually incorporates primary care. >> Can you speak to that? Yeah, I mean I think I think uh really um shows an example of sort of um integrating uh addiction treatment with traditional medical models of um how we conceptualize uh health care um and uh integrating those together I think has um been really effective not only for bringing bringing patients in and you know allowing them to access care that they might not have otherwise. Um but it gets at this um how do I put it? There's a lot of mutual mistrust I think that's perpetuated in traditional health care settings in dealing with patients with substance use disorder. Um so patients don't may have had negative interactions with health care systems in the past. Um, and healthc care providers may have had negative interactions with patients with substance use disorder in the past. Um, and there's this black box of what treatment looks like, uh, kind of similar to what Robert was talking about in these peripheral treatment programs. Um, that no one's on the same page. Um, and I think by integrating addiction treatment with medical care, we can sort of start to break down those barriers and really push away that mutual mistrust and quite frankly work at changing the culture and destigmatizing the disease. That was my thought as you were talking about this that even at the early before treatment centers were open. I mean this was something that was thought of as sort of uh willpower moral failing criminal very criminalized and sort of sent to not to a treatment center but sent to prison jail. um and that bringing it into a treatment center where it's alongside all other medical illnesses provides the opportunity to really see it as a disease and helps to destigmatize it. one model that um that's slightly different than the model I think that you were mentioning. Um for about five years I worked for a primary care doctor in his private in his office and I would go in one one day a week to see his patients who had dual diagnosis or patients he was putting on suboxone and he didn't have he didn't even have the time or the ability to do individual psychotherapy with them or group therapy. So, I would I would provide those services in the off in his office for them in um my primary care office. >> Yeah. >> Thank you, K. I just want to this is a little bit different what everyone else is saying, but I just wanted to go back to something that Janette originally said, and I think it's the awareness. So, I've been uh had the fortunate uh ability to collaborate with Janette on some of these interprofessional educational programs that she's developed. Excuse me. And I think PAs are um you know trained as generalists and I think that you know other uh professions go down very specific training pack paths but sometimes you forget to ask like it's the awareness that in an OB/GYN setting or in an endocrinology office setting for a PA you still need to ask. It's the awareness that it's just a simple question you can ask. It's a simple screening and in that you can collaborate with others in your practice and collaborate with um freestanding primary care clinics associated with you know addiction treatment and other things. So it's just that awareness and that program that she developed was incredible and I think it just made all firstear PA nursing and medical students at our institution aware of the ability and gave them the tools to ask. >> That's great. There's no wrong door. Patients show up everywhere, >> right? So, we need to have the skills to meet that need.