So, how do you keep track of what treatment settings are available in your area and what recommendations do you have for practitioners that live in parts of the country's country with few to no resources? I think uh first and foremost um there are certainly online resources. There's um uh ways to access um uh information uh through various means online >> like the SAMA treatment locator. >> The Sama treatment locator. But I think um sort of gaining a working knowledge after practicing over time and you know a little bit of hearing anecdotally from patients um what kind of experiences they've had at certain places um and what kind of places you have good open lines of communication with. those tends to be the places that although I may have a comprehensive list, there are going to be a few that seemingly are going to work better for certain patients in my clinical setting. That's one approach. I moved to practice once in um Massachusetts and and so a completely different location from here and one of the things that I did when I first got there was first talked to my colleagues to find out where they refer people and then I did a searches and carried a list with myself because I knew the whole treatment setting was going to be completely different what was available. So I think especially if a provider is moving to a new place it's you know incumbent upon them right away to find out what is available. you kind of have some homework. >> Yeah, exactly. Yeah, it's important homework because that that's how you can be effective. >> And if you work on a collaborative care team, sometimes if you have outreach workers, they hear about places and get back to you. Patients are always a very good resource. Licensed clinical social workers are always on the phone seeking care options. So, sometimes you'll just get information from working on a team. >> So, find the people who already know. >> Yep. field trips are great, but if not, give a call. >> Well, I I like Janette's um idea of listening to your patients. I do find >> for multiple things that I'm learning so much from my patients, where they've been, what worked, what didn't work. Um different substances that are being used, how people are using, where they're using. I mean there's a wealth of knowledge that comes from from people who are sort of sort of going to different treatment centers or who are currently using and um beyond patients. I agree sort of colleagues I often just I have a patient I'm needing to send what have you heard recently about such and such a place because even within one facility people are changing staff is changing or over time new treatments have become available or policies have changed some programs that may not have previously allowed patients to be on methadone or buprenorphine may now allow them to be. So, it's it's an ongoing and evolving process, I think. >> Got to update your resource list. >> Yeah. >> Um, and I also think we do talk about this in one of our lessons, but there are kind of questions that you can go through to ask if a particular treatment program is providing evidence-based treatment and what wraparound services or afterare services they might provide, things like that. Um that can be useful and you can find those questions online and also in this Course.