So what common objections do you hear to behavioral interventions when patients come to you? These are interventions like psychotherapy for addiction, um relapse prevention or attending peer support programs. And then how do you address those uh common objectives? Sometimes I have um that I I have patients who um express a sense of a shame to go to peer support things and um and so they to walk in the door is is a huge hurdle for them. Um I think often after they get after they go in and after they're they're seen it's it's there. It's can be helpful. I think also I've heard that um that sometimes the peer support things like AA um that um they find it triggering and they actually find that going in and hearing some of the stories will make them want to go out and use that day. And um other people have actually said to me that that's where that that they've gone there and then they've meet someone else to use with. Um so some of those some of the peer support have um have those issues. I found >> I also think um some folks uh are worried about two things. One is uh spiritual um kind of suggestions in in some of the support groups. Um the other that I've noticed a lot especially in managing patients with opiate use disorder is um uh some of the groups do not embrace medications or phicotherapy. Um and and that that runs the gamut. Um also even in in AA some some uh groups feel uncomfortable if patients talk about being on phicotherapy to manage cravings. Um and I think that that again creates this disconnect uh between what we do on the behind the exam room doors with with what's happening in the community and it would be helpful for us all to sort of be on the same page. I tend to talk to my patients. you might have to try a few different um few different groups in a few different settings and you may find some are different than others. Um so they may have been to one where they didn't feel welcomed if they talked about being on methadone or being on Spoxone or and others where they do feel more comfortable in those settings. I often hear if you've been to one peer support group, you've been to one peer support group that there are they are very different. Um, you know, one thing that does come to mind though is that millions of people out there would say some peer support group saved my life. And so, how do we combat or how do we maybe combat isn't the right word, but h how do we deal with objections like this? >> Well, of course, the people for whom the peer group didn't say their lives can't report that it didn't work for them. >> Say that again. So you're getting at you're getting at >> well the the the you know the people who reported it success it's anecdotal right um for for those for those people for whom it's failed um you know and especially if it's failed to the point of a fatal overdose you know for their opiate use disorder they're not there to say look this didn't work for me so then we look to the data what do the data say and the data say that abstinence-based programs for opiate use disorder don't work. We've known that for 100 years and it's unchanged. There's, you know, they fail for 90% of the people within 6 months to a year. So for the 10% of the people who say it works for them, great, wonderful, but don't push it as a model that's going to work for everybody, don't push it as a model that's even going to work for most people because it doesn't. And in fact, when it doesn't work, people are more at risk for for overdosing and for the other negative consequences. Um so for opiate use >> for in specifically in the case of opiate use because the negative consequences for at this especially at this point with all the fentinel that's floating around um the the consequences uh for for having your tolerance lowered and then using drugs again opiates again is is can be catastrophic very easily. So in that particular case um you know treatment may be worse than the disease that form of treatment >> if that peer support model is saying you may not be on buponorphine and be a part of our group >> or you may not be on methadone and be a part of our group. Not all peer support groups say >> the ones the ones the ones that demand abstinence. >> And by abstinence you mean no medication >> and Yes. Yes. >> or no treatment. No other treatment with medication. >> Yes. or even or and or even don't tolerate the fact that people with opiate use disorder may want the support groups for reasons that have nothing to do with sessation. >> Mhm. >> But may have to do with just anchoring their lives with people who can understand their condition. So the more tolerant to support, you know, there are some support groups that say we we tolerate nothing. Um uh lack of tolerance seems to be one of the prevailing problems in this country in all ma in all manner of realms not just in the substance use world. Um so uh I'm kind of intolerant of intolerance and I think um we're focusing mostly on the peer support and I think the issue of um the treatment the intolerance of a person receiving treatment the pharmicotherapy is mostly what we're focused on but I think um the idea that someone objects to something is not a surprise in general when you're suggesting treatment. And so whatever the objection is, I think the goal isn't necessarily to combat like you, you know, said at first and caught it, but but it's really to sort of pick up on the person being ambivalent about treatment and whatever the objection is. That might be a starting point, but to use that to get to what the ambivalence is about giving up something that while you know the negative consequences might be obvious to us that there's something rewarding in it for them that they'd be having to let go of. And so using it as a a moment to sort of do some motivational interviewing or to really sort of assess what the what the obstacles are for them in sort of embracing this. Shannon, I'm really glad you said that because I think this does get into sometimes why treating people with substance use disorders or any um any illness in which behavior change is needed, it can be frustrating if if you have as a treater have a plan that a that a patient is ambivalent about. And as as I just said, you know, it can feel like a a combat or it can feel like we're at odds with one another. And I think what hopefully this course and what we've learned with motivational interviewing is that if we can stop making it this um you're you're refusing treatment. I mean how often do I see that in the in the car in the chart or you're not compliant or you're not adherent with treatment and simply um acknowledge that the person's ambivalent. the person um is thinking about other ways of of treating themselves or isn't interested in treatment at all and just call it that rather than make it this well this person isn't adherent or this person is refusing >> right and I just to go on what Rob had said about this medication assisted therapy you know you have kind of emphasize to your patients that therapy is very important and including with the medication right so and it's like finding a provider that you can talk to in any setting you have to like the person and so sometimes on this individual which in the clinic I work in has individual therapists you know try someone else you address the ambivalence or the resistance through motivational interviewing but you know it's okay to move on and find another group or another person you can talk to but it's really important treating the whole issue not just medication >> absolutely >> um I also have found this um I guess it's a metaphor or it's an illustration that often often addiction or a substance use disorder is using this kind of go system. You you have a craving, you respond to that, you see a cue, you respond to it and often your your cortex is is offline in that case. Your your primitive brain, if you will, kind of takes over. And so psychotherapy really is about beefing up that cortex of that stop or break system that that allows us to think through scenarios that might be challenges for us in the future and decide what we're going to do do with them now when we're in kind of a safe space so that when you're facing them, you've actually made that muscle, if you will, I know it's not a muscle, but that part of your brain, you've strengthened it. And so it really and that takes time. Just like if you were to go to the gym and you were to actually strengthen your muscles, it does take time. And so you might not see immediate effect. And even while you're in therapy, you might return to use, but keep coming back because it takes a long time to to strengthen muscles and it takes daily practice. Right? >> So that can sometimes be a metaphor that I'll use with patients that that they can understand and then we can um work on those skills. >> Yeah. And it helps to remind people the brain is just another organ, you know, and that the path and the pathways that are used repeatedly are the ones that are reinforced and strengthened. So the analogy of the muscles is not a bad one. >> You're getting praise from Robert. It doesn't happen often. No. Oh, >> come on. Am I that much of a hard answer?