One of the most basic constitutional responsibilities that a prosecutor has is to disclose or to turn over to the defense exculpatory evidence. That is evidence that might suggest that the person accused of the crime is actually innocent of the crime. The Supreme Court has held that that's a constitutional responsibility of prosecutors. The failure to turn over that evidence has often been what's led to the conviction of innocent people. One of those innocent people is John Thompson uh who was uh arrested on January 1985 in New Orleans when he was just 22 years old, accused in two separate crimes, one of armed robbery and the other of murder. Uh ultimately convicted uh of those crimes. He spent 18 years in the custody uh of the Louisiana prison system. 14 of those years on death row and he came very close to being executed on May the 20th, 1999. I want to ask John Thompson what happened to pick up the story at this point and tell us what happened uh just as he was there within a month of execution. Uh John Thompson, welcome. Thank you for joining us. Could you pick up the story and tell us what happened there in the days right before you were to be put to death by the state of Louisiana? Oh well well you know how how my lawyers tell the story it it was interesting they say that you know due to the fact that we had then exhausted all my remedies all through with the courthouse. Um it was no else for them to do other than to trying to find a way to maybe even file the ineffective sister councils on themselves. They just was trying to look at um they feel that like they they let me down. They failed me. So they the first thing they when when they told me that what they was trying to do is I was kind of shocked and I asked them not to do that to themselves but hire some more investigators and that's what they did. Um with with nothing else left to do. We had two cases a robbery case what I received 49 and a half years for that happened maybe 2 weeks after the murder happened. Um um he had he was looking for a 5'7 description with a big bush. Um the murder suspect was a 6 ft tall with a bald head. Um so to say these two incidents happened two weeks apart. Um my lawyers was really, you know, amused about the fact that they prosecuted the same individual at both descriptions. And so I was always trying to prove it's hard like it's one of the it's hard to try to convince a group of lawyers that you're innocent of one charge less don to say hold on I'm innocent of both of these charges. It really didn't have them really take it to really want to fight it at first until everything else was out the door. My murder case was through. So once they decided to take up on it, they hired another investigator that can come in with totally new eyes, totally new view. It was just basically because I was totally out of any other appeals or or any other opportunity for her to save my life. Um, holy and behold, right off the top at the first beginning of the transcript of my transcript, what was asked was it was a tricky situation. It was a motion to a motion. I was just going in their arrangement to plead guilty or not guilty to the murder charge, right? And during the course of me going into the courtroom to plead guilty to the murder charge, three of their kids was in the court and identified me at that time and said that I am the perpetrator that robbed them. The district attorney let it be known that I was identified in open court as a robbery suspect. My attorneys at the time was thinking I'm just going in there for arrangement for the murder. And so they started arguing the case with the district attorney and the judge saying that this is a very unfair identification. Mr. Thompson coming into court by itself. But they thinking that I was being identified in the murder case. But I was Let me just be sure. You're brought into court. You're the only person who's a defendant and these three witnesses are there and they identify you as being the perpetrator of this crime of the crime of robbing them. Right. Um um now give and take that they describe the per perpetrator as being 5'7 with a big bush. Right. I'm although that was my height and my hairstyle at the time when I was arrested. Right. Right now they looking at a 5'7 man with a bald head. Uhhuh. Because the system when you first get arrested the first thing they did me was cut all my hair off. Right. because they was trying to make me look like the six feet tall baldhead man that committed the murder of Ray Laooa. All right. So, they're two crimes. They're two weeks apart. One is the armed robbery and one is the murder. And they're saying the same person can con committed both crimes even though the descriptions were completely different. Completely different. The murder happened first December the robbery happened second. So when you arrested me, when you realize that I don't have no So what happened was in the course of them being um evaluating how to proceed with this particular case, the district attorney office, I'm I'm I'm speaking. Turns out they brought me into this um very um highly favorable to them suggestion of identifying me as a perpetrator. But because of my lawyers and them thinking that this I was being identified as a murder, they arguing the case. They not really paying attention to what the other district attorney is asking the judge. The other district attorney is asking the judge to have all of my blood withdraw, right? Um because of evidence obvious that was left on the scene of the crime. Right. Um and so what happened was um my lawyers were s so busy arguing with them about the identification, he didn't even hear the request. But once they realized and my lawyers came to the conclusion that this wasn't about the murder. Now he didn't all the way backed all the way up. They didn't backed up off the arguments. They didn't back they went to saying, "Oh, we can't be on this case no longer. We don't want to represent Mr. Thompson no longer." That's what the conversation went towards once they realized this was totally different. That was about a whole new issue. They was saying, "Well, we obligated to other cases. We need to get off of this case right now." And the judge refused to let them off the case. And he made them be my attorney. But go back to the original thing was the appointed this um the um public defender office to represent me in these robbery cases. That same public defender office that said they couldn't represent me in the murder case. That's was why I was here with That's was why it was two weeks or two weeks later I'm at this arrangement for my murder is because I had to go through them finding me private attorneys because the public defender office say he couldn't represent me in his murder case because I was someone that um he office feeled that I was guilty and his office feel it like that you know the victim family. So Mr. Bert tail say not only could I can't represent him, I don't believe nobody in my office could represent him in this battle. So, so the blood turned out to be very important evidence in the last days of what was supposed to be the last days of your life, right? Exactly. So, so, so, so how the process went we assuming I'm just assumption now that I was born in Charity Hospital in New Orleans, you know. So, it wasn't hard for them to find out what my blood type was. As a district attorney, only thing you got to do is call the call the hospitaler and realize and just ask them about my blood type and he would give them information. So we that the district attorney never followed up that request that he made from the judge to have my blood withdrawn. He found out that that answer without having my blood drawn. Okay. So the day they decide to take this armed robbery case and pursue it before they pursue the murder case. So they decide to prosecute me for this armed robbery case. They got three of the kids saying that I'm the one robbing. They got Newman Bertail representing me. Mr. Berta did office claimed that he couldn't represent me in the murder, but all of a sudden he could represent me now in his robbery case. I tried to protest it. It didn't go because I couldn't afford to attorney code say you going to get with the code of permute. So I was supposed to go to trial with Mr. Bertail. Mr. Bertail waited till the last day of the trial. The day before my trial to come and see me for the first time the day before your trial. The day before my trial was the first time I seen Mr. Bertail. Your lawyer. Your defense lawyer at the trial. The first time you saw your defense lawyer at the trial was the night before your trial. The night before my trial, which was the first time I learned when this incident happened when they said that this robbery supposed to had took place. So once they told me when the robbery took place, I just fell back in relief because I realized where I was at that particular day. I knew I was at work and I know I could prove I was at work. I know I could have witnesses to come and testify that I was at work. And that's just what happened. I was able to tell Mr. Burell where to go and find my witness, who to bring to court and how to talk to him and find. In that one night, he was able to do just that. So, he was able to bring back the testifier that next day in court for me. Four or five of my co workers, time sheets, my supervisor and all. So, these kids said he was robbed by the Super Dome. I was working at the Mr. Ball auditorium that night. It was December the 28th. When he said December 28, that's the first start of Migra season. So I know where I was at. That was the buy of gra. I'm supposed to get paid $500 $600 cash money. Why would I go out and try to rob kids? All right. So they try to say I change uniforms. I I put on from black to to jeans and go rob these kids and come back and change back into my uniform. They they made it seem like these people at work couldn't actually account for me for eight hours. They could only say I was there and they see me at one given time. But the DA say I left and ran and robbed the kids and came back and do it. That's how he went off in Spain. The jury bleeded it because the three kids was saying I did it. Never at my trial did anything about blood came up. Never. Nothing concerning blood evidence was taken from the scene of the crime. Nothing was saying that we heard about a struggle took place, but nothing was said about blood evidence or anything. Come to find out the day of my trial, the district attorney went to the evidence room to collect all the physical evidence and threw the physical evidence away. Threw the blood pants, tennis shoes away, threw the blood uh pants leg away that was confiscated from the crime scene when when the robbery first took place. When the robbery took place, it was a scuffle between the perpetrator and the victims, one of the victims, excuse me. That struggle led to um blood being left on the um victim pants, leg, and tennis shoes that was from the perpetrator. Um the police confiscated that blood immediately time he came to the scene of the crime. That blood went straight to the crime lab to be tested. That's why the DA the first question was from the district attorney during the course of me being identified in open court to have my requesting that the judge have my blood withdraw to which the judge granted that motion to the defense. Um like I say this this investigator quickly quickly recognized a request for my blood was made at the beginning of of her transcript when she first began her investigation when this charges first came about. So she looked in the transcript to find out what happened and when I was first initially charged with this case, my first court appearance. And that's the first thing she recognized. The the court did type that into play. Even though all the other argument was going on, she did type in the request that the DA made in the judge response granting him that request to have my blood withdraw. All right. Never did he ever come to have my blood withdraw. Never did Mr. Bertel or them ever knew anything about blood evidence existed um in this crime at all. Um we had to say is when all this was first discovered when when we first discovered the blood was evidence they did have blood evidence. They went first thing they went back to do is look at the evidence. Went straight to the evidence and seen all the evidence that was collected. Then look at the police reports and so forth. Right. Exactly. Then we recognize in a in a bunch of the murder in in the murder trial and a bunch of the lot of police reports, a lot of different police reports was stuff in there that really just didn't make sense to the murder case. When we quickly realized that's where it didn't make sense because it belonged in the robbery. So, it was obvious that D was stuffing it in the murder trial to try to keep it out of the the um robbery um police reporting in records of the district at returning office. All right. But so when we really went through it and realized that physical evidence was taken and the physical evidence was to the crime lab. She went straight to the crime lab and figure out where the evidence was, what was happening. We realized that the blood evidence had been tested and he had a final result of the blood test and it was gave and it was sent to the district attorney office himself. One of the district attorneys himself went sign for the results of the evidence and and and so he claimed that he placed it on the head district attorney desk. The head district attorney claimed he never seen you before. Well, what did it say? It said that Mr. Thompson was exclusive. I wasn't responsible. It wasn't my blood. There were two blood types and neither one was your blood type. Me it just so happened my praise God my my blood type was the same as the victim, right? And and and and the perpetrator blood type was totally different. And so it was like it was just a blessing that me and the victim had the same type of blood because if I had had that other blood like the perpetrator had like a lot of like majority of the people do have I think it was OMB. I can't remember which way it was, but I I know me and the victim is have a rare blood. And he said we not, you know, normally the ones that they usually be a plentiful the other way around. And so I could have easily been switched over on that side and not have been dead for a crime I didn't commit. How how soon was this or how what relationship and time was there between when this was discovered that you could not have possibly done this robbery and your execution date? um a month maybe about I hadn't got within them 35 days I hadn't received the date you know they can't give you execution date you got to be 35 days warning right so I had to receive that 35 that the execution date I was scheduled to die May the 21st my son was scheduled to graduate May the 20th so the result of that is your convictions for both the armed robbery and the murder because the armed robbery was used at your murder trial to convict you and also to keep you from testifying. Is that right? Yes, sir. That was the whole plot. That was the whole strategy plan. It was weird because even after the conviction, so now Mr. Bertail fighting, right? Because now he realized that y'all trying to railroad this innocent man. Here go this people telling y'all he was at work and y'all still trying to prosecute him. So now this man that think I'm guilty of a murder, now he trying to fight, right? Fight, but he just got too much against him, right? It was just like they had them railroad that stole all the evidence. They had deliberately went throw the physical evidence away to make sure that he could never find that evidence had never been returned back to the evidence room. I'm like I'm trying to figure out how deep this conspiracy really was because you got a person that work in the evidence room that that's his only job is when people sign in and signing out the evidence, you know. So if you can sign some evidence out and never bring it back, no alarm going to go off. He don't tell nobody that these district attorneys came and took some blood evidence away from the evidence room and didn't return it. He don't tell nobody this. I'm, you know, and right now he's still back there handling evidence. I'm kind of like, what kind of what why do we have this procedure here if you're not going to notify someone when somebody do not return physical evidence back? And that's that was a to me embarrassing to our criminal justice system. that part alone. We ain't got to go through nobody else. That's bring that that would have killed anything that was going on. If he would have did his job, nobody even questioned him about his job. As to this day, he had yet to answer to why he did not notify someone when the district attorney office didn't bring him that physical evidence back. But at I'm sorry, go ahead. Well, I was just going to say, tell us this. I mean, now you had a retrial, right, on both these charges, right? Yes, sir. And what happened? Well, this the thing is all the way during the robbery after the robbery conviction, everybody understood I hadn't had a conviction. I was I was a clean I had a clean pretty much decent record. And so what what happened was the my lawyers at my murder trial tried to ask the judge not to allow that conviction to be held against me because I want to take the stand in my murder case. Right? The judge said if he take the stand, I'm allowed the DA to use it. That's the law. My lawyer told him, my lawyer was kind of smart. Patrick Fannon was a seasoned vet. So Pat came back and told him, "Well, I won't put a RI to the fourth circuit court of appeal because this is not a final conviction. How can you use a conviction that's not final? It hadn't even been on appeal yet, right?" And and so and and the judge say, "Well, if he get on that stand, I'm allowed him to use it. Take your RIT." And so that's the best thing that could have happened to me. Patrick Phantom took that rit to the full circuit and asking them not to allow the court to use that conviction against me. The fourth circuit agreed with the judge and said if if I take the stand the DA got a right to use it. Now this is at your first trial. This is a trial where you were convicted, right? The trials are convicted. So now when I get the reversal for this um robbery, it automatically open up the door for them to review my murder case. Right. Because they know what you just not said. I requested through the court records and all that. I wanted to testify in my own behalf, right? But you did you determined and said that you was going to use this conviction against me and therefore you defied me of my right to testify in my own behalf. And so the fourth circuit court appeal came back and said, "Yeah, we was a part of that." And guess what? Y'all told him y'all was going to use it against him. So he deserve a new trial. So now going back to a new trial, it's a whole different ball game now because now I'm just with the murder. So now they know they don't have a case against me because they know the perpetrator who committed the crime was the one that they cut the deal with Kevin Freeman. They know he fit he was the person who accused you. He the person accused me. He fit the description. 6 feet tall, medium built, bald head. He fit the full description of of of all eyewitnesses who who give description of saying anybody have. It just was the fact that I didn't want to say that he did it that they had no case. And so they had to use him against me then because they had to make a provision. They didn't worry about that from once I wouldn't testify the way they wanted. That's when they put their own robberies on me. When I wouldn't tell them that Kevin Freeman did it and they wanted me to say Kevin Freeman did it and I was there and I know it. I don't know nothing. I don't know Kevin Freeman did. I wasn't with him. If you know he did it, you convict him then. And I So if you Let me be sure I understand. If you had been willing to say that Kevin had committed the crime and that you were there, they would have cut a deal with you. Yes. And instead they cut a deal with Kevin, who apparently was the person who committed the crime, who got out of it by saying you did it. Is that right? That simple. That simple is ABC. Um, you like I say, the only thing I do is look at it. Look at before anybody was caught. Look at what all the witnesses were saying, how the perpetrator looked. Every witness gave the same description. They didn't say no one person I mean no two people did it. They said one. You know Kevin Freeman was the only person that put two people on at the scene of the crime. Well, what happened at your second trial? What happened when the jury you testified, right? And you told them you weren't there and and so forth, right? I testified. I testified. But not only that, we found we had, you know, it was a lot more than about the blood evidence. It's so much physical evidence as would tell from us in the robbery case as well, especially all of these other witnesses. We didn't even know these other witnesses took place. We didn't know they had all these other witnesses gave different description. We ain't know we didn't know they had all these other witnesses. Some witness was so scared that they moved because they told the DA that ain't the man I seen running away. And the DA just ignored the the witnesses. And the witness got so scared he left New Orleans because he's saying that that man knew I seen him and that man going to come back and get me. You know, we had some incredible witnesses that that came and testified to things that that was withheld from us by these same district attorneys. And so like you got right now, the jury took less than I it took 30 about 35 minutes all together after you know the for you to pick um a jury former and all of that and and then go over evidence. But I I'm more than sure it probably took just as long for them to to find a foreman in a jury than it took them to come back with the verdict, you know. Um, so, so they found you, they found you not guilty in 35 minutes. Yes, sir. 35. So, you you had spent 18 years in prison and 14 of those years on death row and the jury took 35 minutes to say you were not guilty. Say I was not guilty. After they heard all what happened, all what the DA did, they, you know, we was allowed because Freeman, the person who testified against me at the first trial was dead. He was he was killed robbing somebody else. You know, people don't understand when we have these wrongful convictions and then you hear these stories like mine because they got some stories just as incredible than mine. You know this. So when when we hear these acts of these district attorneys and we see this, we don't look at well what this perpetrator did to someone else. Who gave him the right to to unleash this individual on the rest of society? So we when we saying that we all he destroyed in this one individual life we just looking at it like that. But what if that perpetrator he allowed to go out there and comm continue to hurt our society continue to hurt s this man was killed robbing someone else. So someone else if he had been convicted originally of this crime he would have never been out on the streets. So now look what this man got to deal with. this man now got to deal with the fact that he done killed the man, right? This was this was just a return to put on this man that he killed the man that shouldn't even been outside, shouldn't even been free to walk around and hurt anybody again and he could have probably been very well lost his life which made him decide he needed to use physical force to kill him. So it's so much that so much responsibility that's go into these cases for us to say that we don't have a system now that that decide we didn't seen enough crazy cases to us as adults and as as as as people that should be responsible for criminal justice system. We didn't seen enough outrageous behavior on district attorneys to say this do happen and it happened a lot. Well, let me ask you this. You you tried to hold the prosecutor accountable here, right? You you sued the district attorney's office and you claimed that not only had they withheld this evidence in your case, but that there was a whole group of cases there in New Orleans. This was in New Orleans. This was a parish uh Orleans Parish District Attorney's Office which had had a number of cases reversed because of hiding evidence and withholding evidence that showed innocence. Uh tell us just we've got a limited amount of time, but tell us what happened uh with regard to your lawsuit. You know, it it you know, it's kind of it's kind of weird because it was it was a power play in in every aspect of it. You know, it was so political it got to the point where what was at stake had lost his value. Um what was really at stake had lost his value from the fact that I come in out of the Paris where all this happened that way. Most cases don't even make it to the docket. Most case get totally turned down saying that prosecutor have immunity. All right. But this was a so outrageous case. And this it was not only was this outrageous, we had a former district attorney who Harry Connie had hired to oversee a grand jury investigation of his own office. Came to a conclusion that I can indict at least five of y'all, five of these district attorneys, Mr. Connie. And Mr. Conor refused to accept him or allow him that opportunity to do just that. So he resigned. We had him as our key witness and he was willing to say all the corrupt things that was happening inside of that system. That's what the jury believed. Not nothing that we said, but what he investigated, what he discovered, and what he said. So the jury said that it's nowhere in the world, Mr. Connor. Y'all continue to do this over and over and over again. There's no way in the world we going to allow them to get away with this here. We're going to show y'all who who this city is really supposed to be and what it's supposed to represent. And so when they found them responsible and rewarded us this, what was amazing from there was the fifth circuit court of appeals. Here come the first round of appeals where I went. Well, first of all, let's back up. The jury grant gave you a verdict of $14 million. Is that right? And and another million dollars to pay for the attorney's fee. So you had a verdict of $15 million. You appealed the the state appealed that to the Orleans Parish to the Court of Appeals which which divided evenly. So that was upheld. Uh and then it went to the Supreme Court of the United States. No, no, no, no, no. Slow back. Back it down a little bit. That's what I was talking about. That's where the That's where the corrupt stuff start popping up at. You got to realize what we dealing with, especially when our fifth circuit code of appeal. We got to like we I don't know what's wrong with it, but it's structured and it's messed up because this what happened. My first round of appeals, I wanted three 0 three judges was in my favor. They call a unborn hearing on them three judges. They was trying to override three of the brother judges had agreed that this was messed up. So somebody, however done, I don't know what the process is that we can override three of our brothers that made a decision on this case. Because when you call a unbal trying to do you trying to override this decision. So if that's a place for first of all right there that should be a loan. Is that a place for our criminal justice system? Is that's how our system was set up because some other judges don't agree with with with these three judges who we give a lifetime commitment to to do this job. We say oh we ain't satisfied with the decision so we going to challenge the decision. So we try to override it. Right. And then we still come with a divided coat. Right. So that's kind of crazy how you don't think think about that concept. What this mean? What other issues this play this kind of game with? That's important. That's meaning it's not the people choice. It's not it's not the will of the people. If you going to use your political power, I would like to know who had that kind of power. We need to know who them people are because if it's some decisions that really affect the people, this is how we set up the system to work. Not for you to have some other political power to pull that strength. if you want to and you just having to try to pull the string that you just didn't win. But it was 88. That's still messed up. But you still came out with the jury verdict sustained, right? So what that mean to the United States Supreme Court? They shouldn't even been looking at it. This shouldn't even been a case. Now we going to go a little higher. We go a little higher. This shouldn't be a case that United States Supreme Court shouldn't even been trying to trying to see or hear. concerned coming with a three nothing verdict as concerned. So why is it listening at this? It was a state matter, state issue itself. Deceiving a powerful opinion that you know what, we need to intervene here. Three nothing. They shouldn't even been reviewing it at all. It was it was kind of crazy that D was even reviewing this at all. Period. Let let me ask you let me ask you this, John Thompson. Uh when when were you released from uh from death row? Um in 203. um made May 5th coming up coming up next month. So tell us what you've been doing and what adjustments you've been making to going from being locked down in Angola, the notorious Louisiana State Penitentiary uh since you've been in the free world. Well, one of one of the things we do is like we was advocacy. You know, they forced me to fight the system. You know, you know, once I took on the lawsuit and and and we accomplished things that most people say couldn't be done. Right now, we got the whole world looking at wrongful conviction. Now, you know, we got them looking at prosecuting misconduct. Now, we I didn't had a panel. I didn't have panels in maybe five or six different states. Right now with the innocent project, we've been um focusing on accountability, putting um you could go to prosecutor oversight um and see um some of the um what the people that's holding supposed to be holding these people accountable what they are saying why they not holding them accountable. And you'll be shocked if you know if a judge say well I can see this district attorney doing all this bad stuff but I cannot discipline him because I know his family this is how he eat you know and and and reality is well forget about him killing an innocent man you know wor about this how he take care of his family so that is a real part of society that some issues that it got there deeper that we got to deal with we got to understand we got to learn so that been my biggest passion right now to like educate society about in most cases we giving these guys our life. We putting our life in the empty the hands. Surely we need to hold them accountable and and we can't keep playing with this premeditated thought of murder because when we going to say a person could pre-plan to kill someone and you got a prosecutor who got to use that same strategy to do that same thing. If we could prove overwhelmingly that he had information in his possession that this man was innocent yet he's still pursu Mr. Bry. You do know that sentencing phase is a totally different trial. So for you to come out of that that criminal and getting that conviction from you as a prosecutor if you don't know you convicted innocent a man you should have known by that time. Right. So, so if you going to still use bad judgment from then on because you got a conviction, you got him off the streets for you to pursue to kill him, you know, it's kind of hard for me. And of course, in your case, it was pretty clear from the start once they got those blood results that that you could not have committed that crime. So, here we got Jim Williams then prosecuted eight of us on de put us all on death row out Paris. He went from Orleans to Jefferson Parish, right? Four of us is home free, right? All them of them off of death row. All of them done received some form of reversal. So that's just one man name in seven or eight different cases. Then I look around and look at some of the other I see Jack people in all of these other cases. So you got individuals that deliberately did this over and over and over again for our higher court to look at this information and say, "Oh, this is not going on. Oh, y'all need to show a pattern." for for a higher court to reverse any one of these cases on these type of serious issues and for the bar association or the disciplinary board not to take up on themsel at that point is no complaint need to be filed far as I'm concerned the higher court just not told you what happened right so why do me that couldn't afford attorney at all why should it be on me to file a complaint against this attorney because I it's obvious that I didn't have attorneys before the court appointed me each attorney that I had so You asking me to file a complaint after all of this didn't been happen to me. It's the only way you can consider putting this person in discipline and putting this in person in check. No matter how many time he abused it, no matter how many times he tried to kill innocent people, come on. The record reflect itself that you know, however many time showed up in these reversible cases at the same name, this man had a problem. He should be still practicing law. Well, John, you you you have told us a great deal about failure to disclose and turn over evidence of innocence. You've told us about accountability uh and about just a remarkable experience, 18 years of your life being taken away uh and the work you're doing now uh to to try to hold people accountable and to try to deal with this problem. And as you say, there are a number of other exonerated people. And I know one of the other things you've been doing is working with people who've been exonerated are now released in into the community. Uh but I want to thank you uh for taking your time and being with us here today and and and and letting us know from a personal experience of someone who went through this and experienced this uh what it was like. Thank you very much. Thank you sir for having me. Good to talk. All right. Thank you s I love that y'all report too. Y'all did an excellent report on prosecute accountability here. school. I loved that, too. So, thank y'all very much from y'all help. All right.