Welcome. I'm Steve Brightite and this is a course on how race, poverty, mental illness, uh, intellectual disability, uh, affect people in the criminal justice system and particularly in cases involving the death penalty. I want to spend a little time in this first class talking about what we're going to cover over the course of this course. Uh and then we're going to look some at uh an introductory case, the uh case of Arkansas versus Ricky Rector. Uh then look at uh some uh historical uh background which is going to set us up for uh looking at these issues as they come up uh in the future. Let me just say at the first uh this class is not about uh the sort of philosophical questions of whether the moral or theological questions of whether the death penalty is a good idea or not, whether it's morally wrong or or or not. Uh those are very worthwhile inquiries, but they're not the ones we're going to make uh in this session. Uh this is really uh going to be a class uh about uh the challenges of one accused of a crime who is first poor and the consequence of poverty as we'll be talking about is that you have a court-appointed lawyer usually representing you uh and often deficiencies uh race uh the fact that a person is a member of a racial minority uh and the person that is accused or uh that people of a certain race are excluded from participation uh as I'll talk a little bit more uh later. Uh and then finally as I said people who are intellectually disabled or suffering uh from mental illnesses which present a number of question in the context of these cases. Now these issues are present in almost all criminal cases but they come into particularly bright relief or clear relief in capital cases. So we're going to look at them in the context of capital cases but they do have broad uh applicability uh to all kinds of cases particularly of poor people accused of crimes uh in our legal system. Uh Hugo Black once wrote for the Supreme Court there can be no equal justice when the kind of trial a person gets depends upon the amount of money he or she has. Uh but of course we know today that that of course nothing probably counts more in terms of the kind of justice a person receives uh than how much money they have. Uh and in our court system today uh the criminal courts uh about 90% of the people accused of crimes are poor. Uh and the consequence of that uh as we will talk about the major consequence is having a courtappointed lawyer. uh that a person who is accused of a crime uh does not choose his or her lawyer, doesn't go to the leading criminal defense lawyer in town uh and sign them up, but enormously expensive uh to have a private lawyer as we see in some of these cases in which people are are defended uh by private counsel. Uh without a lawyer, uh all of your constit without a competent lawyer, I should say, all of your constitutional rights uh mean nothing. Uh the lawyer is the person that the client counts on to know the law uh to assert the law uh to uh do the investigation of the case, investigate both the government's case to see if there really is a prosecution case against the person also do an independent investigation of whatever facts there may be. So one is completely dependent upon a lawyer for that. But we have this problem. Why would the government uh that is trying to convict and execute a person or fine or imprison a person, why is the government going to pay for a lawyer to defend to defeat that very purpose? Because of course the uh states are responsible and I should say 95% of criminal cases are in the state courts. We often think about the federal courts, but most uh criminal cases are in the state courts, meaning primarily they're before elected judges and they're handled by elected prosecutors. And as we'll see, those kind of political considerations are going to come into play uh when a person uh is is facing any kind of criminal uh charges. Um uh finally of course poverty may have an impact uh on a person in many other ways and we'll talk about that as well over the course of the term. How it is that poverty someone who grows up in poverty who's affected by poverty in all kinds of ways what legal significance if any uh that that may have. Uh race. Uh this is the courthouse in Jenkins County uh uh Georgia. Uh as you can see uh it's a quite a memorial to the Confederacy and uh people including black people who are called for jury duty who come as witnesses and of course most importantly those who come accused of a crime uh pass by uh this uh memorial. If you're in Shreveport, Louisiana, you pass by uh this memorial in Kato Parish. That's the courthouse. Now, there's been some complaints about this uh monument which ultimately resulted in the Confederate flag being taken down. Uh but still this huge monument to the Confederacy uh stands outside the courthouse uh where every person coming in to do business in the court uh walks past it with the statues of Roberty Lee and Stonewall Jackson and other uh Confederate uh heroes. uh the courts are the institutions that have been least affected by the civil rights movement. In the part of the country where I have spent the last 30 years practicing law, I see a lot of changes. Uh I see African-Americans on city councils and in state legislatures and mayor of Atlanta, of course, and and other places. But when I go into the courts, nothing's changed. I come into the court, the judge is white. Uh people at the prosecution table are white. uh the court-appointed lawyers are usually white. And even in communities that have 25 30% African-American populations, you look in the jury box and every one of the jurors is white. All the only person of color who's going to be before the rail there in the front of the courtroom is going to be the person accused. And we're going to talk about uh what the dynamics are uh when that happens. Uh race influences everything uh in the criminal justice system. We know that a person of color is more likely to be stopped by the police, the so-called driving while black or driving while brown. Uh we know that during that stop, uh they're more likely to be abused. That is, they may have a gun pulled on them. They may be put in handcuffs. They may be thrown to the ground. Uh they're more likely to be arrested uh at the end of that stop. And this continues all the way through. More likely uh to be sent to jail instead of put on probation in a in a in a first offender case. uh and all the way through to the severity uh of the sentence uh that is imposed. I want later in this session to look at the history uh that the criminal courts have played uh with regard to racial oppression uh because this backdrop can't just be ignored the the slavery uh the failure after the civil war of the criminal courts the courts generally uh to provide equal protection that is to protect the freed slaves from the Kux clan and the night riders and and and other people uh uh convict leasing uh which a lot of people don't even know about, but which really perpetuated slavery by arresting people and leasing them out to plantations and railroads and so forth really perpetuated slavery all the way up until about 1940. Uh Jim Crow justice, which we will talk a little bit about later, uh and of course today mass incarceration. uh all of these things have a tremendous impact with regard to race and and and on African-Americans, Latinos, and other people. So, we want to examine uh how it is that that happens and particularly uh in in in death sentences. Uh how does one identify racial prejudice? We're going to look at who makes discretionary decisions. Uh are there any limits? Are there any guidelines when a prosecutor decides whether to seek the death penalty or not? Are there any restrictions on that? uh does anyone review that decision? Can that one person make a decision all by him or herself and and not have it reviewed or is that going to be uh reviewed? If we find discrimination, if we find people are being excluded from juries because of race, uh if we find that uh people are being prosecuted and race is a factor, uh is there a remedy for it? In the law, we're always asking not only what's the injury uh but what's the remedy uh for that injury and then is the remedy adequate. And one of the things we'll look at in the class has been a number of remedies uh that fall far short of accomplishing uh what we would hope they would uh with regard to race. Uh we'll also talk about mental illness and in limited uh or uh limited intellectual functioning or or intellectual disability. Uh largest mental institution in any community is the local uh prison uh or jail. And there are a number of issues that will arise out of mental uh issues that come out in in other kinds of criminal cases but uh particularly dramatically sometimes in capital cases. Uh is the person um uh was the person sane at the time of the crime? Did they understand uh why they committed it? Are they competent for trial? Can they work with a lawyer and participate in trial? Uh are they a future danger? This is a reason for imposing the death penalty in many states. Is the person a future danger to the community? And we're really asking there, is this person so mentally impaired that we treat that person because we don't hold them to the same degree of culpability that we would hold someone who's not mentally impaired? Or do we kill that person because they're so dangerous? Uh which is uh somewhat of an eye of the beholder question. Uh we'll see how that comes up in death penalty cases. mitigating factors also in death penalty cases. Uh are things about the life and background the mental uh illness the mental limitations of a person something we take into account and if so how in deciding to sentence competency to wave appeals. Sometimes people who are uh sentenced to death decide they don't want to appeal. Uh they give up their appeals and and they're executed. uh are they mentally competent to make that decision uh or should uh should the courts not allow that? And then finally, competency to be executed. The courts have held that before somebody can be executed, we see this in the Ricky Recctor case, which we'll talk about in a moment, uh the question of does that person understand why they're being put to death? Uh and so all of these issues will uh be taking up. Uh and then we have the question even those without and this particularly in capital cases even those people without uh diagnosible uh mental illness may be profoundly damaged uh in terms of of their view of the world and so forth because they've been physically abused, sexually abused, psychologically abused. They've lived in a uh grew up basically in a war zone maybe within their home domestically because there was so much violence. maybe in their community uh because there was a lot of violence. uh maybe a person has been injured even before they were born because the mother uh ingested alcohol uh during the pregnancy and so they have fetal alcohol syndrome and so that affects the way their brain works and so how does that come into play particularly when we come to the question of sentencing uh and then we'll talk some about what are the challenges of representing someone uh who may have any of these disabilities that I've talked about how do we tell their story uh it's very complicated in these cases in the death penalty cases because the people of course are accused of very serious crimes. This is not question like who's denied going to school or who's denied being able to live in a certain place just because their race. Race certainly plays a factor here and is as we will see a very important factor. But also there's always going to be the argument this person committed and particularly in the capital cases this person committed a heinous crime a terrible crime. Uh and so often these cases and one of the challenges of these cases is so often uh they're caught up in the passions of the moment. Uh and often uh we don't function our best uh when we're caught up in the in the passions of the moment and we don't always make uh the soundest decisions. Um so uh we'll also examine uh the death penalty which was declared unconstitutional in 1982. We'll take that up in the next session. Uh but then just four years later, the Supreme Court upheld the death penalty. And so we'll look at the death penalty and what uh the court says is required to have a constitutional death penalty. What people can and cannot be sentenced to death, children, people with intellectual disabilities. Uh those sorts of questions. And then what kind of procedures are required uh for a death penalty case. uh and then we'll look at the different people uh who play a role in this system, the prosecutor and the discretion exercised by the prosecutor in seeking the death penalty and deciding whether or not to resolve cases with plea bargains. Most cases are most death penalty cases are resolved with plea bargains, not with trials. So, we'll explore that. Uh we'll talk about the judges and the role that judges play particularly judges who are elected uh and who have to stand for election every four or six years and how that might influence the way they look upon cases and how they decide legal issues because uh some decisions in death penalty cases have cost judges uh their jobs. Uh we'll look also at the role of the defense lawyer uh and what how the quality of representation provided to a poor person accused a crime, the resources available to that lawyer, the ability of that lawyer to mount a defense on behalf of that person. And then we'll look at the way juries function and other aspects of the system. Uh as we as we go when we look at these legal issues, we want to think about what law applies. what constitutional provision are we talking about that we say governs this particular issue? What legal standards does it establish? And and and and we'll we'll go into that with regard to to different subjects. But basically, we're asking what must a party prove in order to prevail? Either what must the prosecution prove in order to prevail or what must the defense prove in order to to win its motion. Uh who has the burden of proof and what is that burden of proof? uh and then what evidence is needed uh to uh provide uh uh to satisfy uh the burden of proof uh that has established. We'll deal with this in more uh detail as we deal with each of these subjects, but basically it gives you just some sense of how we want to look at these legal issues uh dur during the course. Um I want to talk just a minute generally about sentencing. Uh because one of the questions that we're going to ask in this course is uh what is sentencing based upon? What are the objectives of sentencing people to death or not sentencing people to death? Uh and how important is consistency in sentencing? Uh if you look at the reasons people give for sentencing one most primarily incapacitation that we want to take people out of the society lock them up so that societyy's protected from any future dangerous acts by that person. deterrence, both deterring the individual, which is certainly achieved by executing a person or putting a person in prison without any possibility of parole, but general deterrence, a very controversial subject, whether or not having the death penalty uh or other very severe punishments uh has a general effect of deterring people uh from committing crimes. Uh at one point rehabilitation uh was seen as a major goal uh of sentencing. But today we have so many people in prison in such limited prison budgets that uh rehabilitation has fallen far uh down on the list. Uh probably much higher should be retribution. Uh person gets their just results uh in terms of you did this crime uh here's what you do to pay for that crime. Others keep people off the streets. Those kind of uh rounding up the homeless people and all that. other ways in which the the criminal law is used uh and other objectives that it has. Uh but then the question who decides who decides what objective we're seeking here and how to go about it. Theoretically it's at the start at least it's legislators because they're going to decide what laws to pass. They're going to decide what punishments to uh provide for those laws. Uh some legislatores, 17 do not provide for the death penalty at all. Uh the others uh do provide for the death penalty. Also uh mandatory minimums, life imprisonment without parole. These are all sentences that the legislature uh uh may adopt. uh the prosecutor uh has a great deal of discretion in deciding which laws are we going to enforce, how rigorously are we going to enforce those laws, and we'll talk about that more when we come to prosecution, uh what sentences to seek both through trials and through plea negotiations. Tremendous amount of power uh vested in the prosecutor with regard to how cases are resolved. Uh and the judge, how much discretion does the judge have? We'll talk about judges as I said earlier uh and then we'll talk about juries and how juries are selected uh and have go about their uh decision-making. But we realize in all this that the legislature may have one purpose uh in passing a sentencing law. Uh the prosecutor may have a different purpose uh in deciding what punishment to seek in a case. Uh and then the judge may have or the jury uh may have yet another. And so if we have all these competing things, for example, we have a judge who believes in rehabilitation. This judge is going to be a more lenient sentencer perhaps, whereas the judge in the next courtroom uh is a strong believer in retribution, a strong believer in protecting the community. So that judge is going to be much more likely to impose a prison sentence than a severe prison sentence. We're going to see the same thing with regard to communities. Some communities, as as we will talk about later, uh much more likely to impose the death penalty than others. Uh and and much of it has to do with how uh the community and the culture there uh sees the purpose of sentencing uh and how it should be dealt with. Um factors to consider. What do we take into account uh when we're deciding uh how to sentence people? uh we obviously look at the crime uh the community I don't think there's much question about these injuries uh that uh are are the result uh injury to the person to the community the heinousness of the crime the and and then the question how much do we look to the desires of the victims uh with regard uh to deciding and then we look at some things with regard to the defendant what what's the defendant's prior record almost always going to be accounted for maybe age is going to to be accounted for. But then do we get into things like mental limitations as I was discussing earlier, potential for rehabilitation, adjustment to prison, uh a lot of controversy about what kinds of factors are to be considered and then of course also the question of does race, class, politics, other extraneous factors, nonextra, what I guess I call extra legal factors, not legal reasons for imposing a particular punishment, but do they come into play as well. And we'll see that very often. Uh they do