So with the current opioid epidemic, prescribers are getting worried that opioids are unsafe. Many PE providers are actually stopping opioid medications altogether. So the question for us is, is there ever a place for long-term opioid therapy? And what should we be doing for people who are already on high doses? So those are two separate questions. >> Clearly for paliative care and hospice, >> there doesn't seem to me to be any reasonable reason not to offer a person who's in incredible pain opiates if we understand that that this is going to be part of the end of their life. >> Um yeah. So in paliative care situations usually those are timelmited. Okay. >> Um >> what about chronic pain? Much of the opioid you know crisis has been fueled by massive amounts of opioids that were prescribed for people with chronic pain. Um you know they would need daily dosing for long periods of time if not a lifetime. This is not for treatment of opioid use disorder, but this is rather for treatment of pain. Um, we've done a terrible job with finding alternatives to to opioids. Um, but I guess the question then is how do we go about finding those alternatives, finding what's working, and if nothing else is working, do we think it is okay to basically put that person on a prescription for their pain for the rest of their life if it's the only thing that's working? And I think it I think Ellen can speak really well to this since this is a specific area of uh research for her, but I think it just comes back to a theme that we've been talking about a lot, which is optimizing safety. Um, and if I think there are there are systems and providers out there who've become so ophobic that they'll just stop prescribing opioids to patients and the risk associated with that is great. Okay. Um, from the patient perspective, um, you know, there's increased rates of suicide of patients living with chronic pain who are not interfacing with care that they either have been for so long or have lost. >> Um, there's I've had patients present to me at a methodone clinic asking to get on methadone and they don't meet criteria for an opiate use disorder. they just have opioid dependence, physiologic dependence on the opioids, which we know is going to happen. They haven't lost control, but they don't have a provider to prescribe it to them when they did last month. Um, and so that that doesn't optimize safety in any way. So, I think we have to think about um from a health care system standpoint, how we implement structures that can optimize safety um and decrease risk. Um, and so some of that is looking at ways to decrease opioids. Um, some of that is looking at how do payers pay for some of these non-opioid things that we do have evidence that actually work for chronic pain. >> For some kinds, >> uh, what's that? for some kinds of chronic >> for some kinds of chronic pain >> we have to be we have to be able to draw that distinction between the pains the kinds of pains for which it works and the kind of pains for which it doesn't work where it merely covers up the pain and the and and the underlying problem is not going to get any better. >> Indeed. Indeed. >> But also I think we the other thing we want to talk about is the the impact of watching a loved one in chronic pain on the family. >> Indeed. >> It it tears it tears families apart. Yep. Yeah. >> And that we need find we need to find ways to avoid that as well by treating the whole family and not just the patient sometimes. >> That's a great point. >> So Janette, you you me you mentioned just that clinically I do work in an um a chronic pain and opioid setting and in general we think about kind of two categories if you will of patients. people who were started on long-term opioid therapy when that was the thing, you know, kind of the thing to do. That's what we were taught in medical school, right? Um and then other people who were in chronic pain but have not yet started opioid therapy. And so for that second group or the people who are not on opiates yet, there finally has been some some long-term and by long-term I mean 12 month studies that actually are putting into question the actual benefits of long-term opioid therapy um showing that it's not it doesn't necessarily work better than um non-steroidals or other nonopioid therapies and that the side effects are a lot greater. So we do have have um long-term studies showing that that if if given the choice probably insaids are are better and certainly have less side effects. Now that study was done by Dr. Krebs and is for um knee osteoarthritis and and um back pain. Um but there are some people who do come to our clinic who have tried really everything that medicine you know that we have and their quality of life and their function is so low. And so the approach we take now is just to make sure that they really understand the risks um all the risks and that they understand that once you go down the road of long-term opioid therapy, it is very difficult to come off. um to make sure that people understand that there is a risk of developing an opiate use disorder and what that would look like if they were to develop that and why we're going to monitor it and how we're going to make sure that that either doesn't happen or how we would treat it if that did occur. Um so making sure that people are consented and then also making sure that we have very functional goals that we will continue this treatment um if the benefits are outweighing the harms. >> But if the harms are outweighing the benefit or if the benefit is not outweighing the harms then we're going to have to rethink treatment. >> That's generally how we're thinking about it. And kind of the same then is true for people who are already on high doses. We look at the person overall and say are the harms outweighing the benefits? Um could we get equal benefits at a lower dose and minimize the harms and um then provide multimodal non-opioid therapy in conjunction with high dose uh with not sorry in conjunction with usually an opioid taper or minimizing of harm some kind of regimen to minimize harm and um really support the person in a full mo multimodal treatment plan. Um, I think a major take-home message that you've mentioned though is that for people who are on high doses, do not just stop their opiates. >> That's when people are dying. And just like you, they're coming into our clinic too for that reason. They got their opiates last month and all of a sudden >> they're being told, "I can't do this anymore. I can't give you this medication." >> Yeah. And I just I wanted to highlight the point listening to you talk. Interprofessionalism is so key here, right? So what you're describing mo multimodal programs and Shannon's clinic that has physical therapy embedded in it and pharmacy embedded in it and talking about risk benefits. >> It's really hard as a single primary care provider to h have that conversation with a patient and have them leave the room with you both feeling like that was a successful conversation in 15 minutes. And I really do think that just as we've talked about interprofessionalism in addiction treatment and collaborative care models being um so beneficial to everybody feeling like um the treatment program is is really creating benefit. I think when we're talking about these complex chronic conditions, um, in terms of mental health conditions, chronic pain, things that oftentimes go hand inand with addiction, having an interprofessional team, um, not only helps our own well-being as providers, uh, but certainly helps the patient really understand that the message is uniform. And I think the conversation that you're having at your clinic is one that didn't occur five years ago. >> The risks of going on this medication and >> the, you know, benefits versus the harm. And you hear from a lot of patients where like, I never knew I was going to get to this place. >> You know, I didn't realize that was going to happen. I have no pain, but I didn't realize I was going to up my dose, up my dose, and have less benefit from that. So I think that's, you know, part of the education and informing our patients of this is the risk, especially if you've exhausted every other option. >> Yeah. But the doses go up and up, but they don't they do plateau at some point. >> Yes. Yeah. >> Um. >> True. >> So you just have to remind patients that we'll get we'll get to an effective dose. If we have to increase it, we'll increase it. Um and we'll monitor you. You're you're you're our patient for for the long term, >> right? Yeah, I think a lot of people um the nature of opiates are typically though that we do get tolerant to them and so many many patients come in and what used to work is no longer working. Um and the idea of tapering is as um unthinkable. It's incredibly scary. And so people end up feeling very stuck. This is a medication that worked. It's not working anymore. or I'm not functioning, but I can't stop either. And so people are in um it's a very scary p place for a lot of our patients. I think bringing a lot of empathy and trying to understand where they are and let them know that as a health care team, we're going to we're going to back you up and we're going to support you.