So now we're familiar with our goals for this video series, and we have an idea of what is and what isn't healthy. So the next step is to find some healthy recipes. So that's the question. Where can I find recipes that are delicious? First and foremost, a food first approach, but also healthy. So first of all, I know that many of you probably use websites and so do I. So there's lots of great websites where you can find healthy, delicious, cheap, affordable, accessible, nutritious recipes. One of my favorite examples is Health Meets Food. So Health Meets Food is a series of recipes that is hosted from the American College of Culinary Medicine. Yes, we have our own College Tons of recipes available on that website. As you can see across lots of different domains and you can search by those different domains. And these recipes are developed by a combination of providers and chefs and dietitians. So the recipes that you know, you can trust budget bites if you've never heard of it, is exactly what it sounds like. They're delicious food that is affordable, so they use kind of national averages for grocery prices. And you can see they have a variety of different recipes for which they give you the cost per serving or the cost per meal. I would say there's a variety of health promoting and perhaps slightly less health promoting recipes here, so be sure to keep a keen eye on the healthfulness of these recipes. Based on the information that we discussed in the last video. Old ways is a fabulous resource. If you've never heard of it, this is a long standing nonprofit organization that really says, okay, we know that the Mediterranean diet is healthy, but that's actually only one example of a traditional heritage diet. And people have been eating plant forward health promoting diets all across the world for a very long time. And the Mediterranean diet is just one example of that. So perhaps your family history lives in Africa or in Asia, in Latin America and old ways has lots of traditional heritage diets that show you how to eat in line with some more of these traditional ways of eating. The commonality with the Mediterranean diet is that there's, of course, a lot of plants. So this is one of my favorite websites to recommend to patients and to providers. And you can search not only for those different food pyramids for the different types of diets, but you can search for recipes based on each of those diets as well. The Real Food Dietitians. This is a website I happen to love. This is a really delicious, food focused recipe website, and it's developed by dietitians. So again, there's a balance of micro and macronutrients. And there's using lots of whole and minimally processed foods. Those real foods or the nolva one classification, if you remember from the last video, very similar. There's this website called Stay Fit Mom, which I heard about from one of my medical students. And so these again, are recipes that are pretty easy to make and sound pretty good when you look at them. Good news, they taste good too. And they're also good for you. And we talked a little bit about old ways. So kind of these traditional ways of eating. So here in North America or here in the United States, we have an organization called North America and traditional indigenous food systems. And very similarly compared to old ways, they want to bring back kind of this traditional way of eating. And so they have some recipes on the website for some traditional foodways that our indigenous folks here in the United States would have eaten and again, are looking to bring those back. So definitely check them out as well. Lots of websites, but I bet a lot of you also use social media. So these are, a list of social media accounts that I like to follow. They are in no way this is in no way an inclusive list. So there's plenty of other social media accounts out there that you may like to follow. I'll call out, Kat can cook fabulous recipes like very straightforward, well constructed. She's a chef. She used to work for Martha Stewart. Great photos and videos. Super helpful. She's based here in Connecticut, so shout out to her. Mob is one of my favorites. They're actually based in, in England and have lots of recipes that focus on using legumes and vegetables and really flavorful, delicious sauces, delicious sauces. Ellie Krieger she's one of my favorites. You may have never heard of her, but I grew up watching her on the Food Network. She is a culinary nutritionist. She is a dietitian, and she develops recipes that are both healthy and delicious. So shout out to her! The plant based R.D. has amazing videos on TikTok. You may recognize her. And again, there's many, many other examples of folks on social media who are producing delicious content for us to consume. I tend to look for folks who have formal training in nutrition. Then you have a pretty good sense that what they're going to be producing is going to be pretty health promoting, but just because someone has some training or claims to have some training, always be careful there. That doesn't mean we have to throw out our critical thinking and just blindly trust them. Again, use the information that we talked about in that first video to assess for yourself how truly health promoting the recipes that you see on social media are lots of different ways to take recipes from social media and bring them into your life. I'm a big fan of the save function, and then when I'm looking for inspiration, maybe later in the week I can go back through my saved recipes and be like, oh yeah, I knew I wanted to try that coconut curry. Let me get the ingredients for that and make that this week. In addition to social media, back in the era before we even had social media, of course there were cookbooks and those continue to be a great source of recipes. As you can see here. There's the doctor's Kitchen. This guy Ruby, he thinks he's a doctor and a chef. How dare he? Right. And then lots of other cookbooks here that I really like to use. Ottolenghi. Everything he writes is amazing. I highly recommend checking out any of his books. Six seasons is a delicious, delicious way of looking at produce, so if you're going to your local CSA and buying produce there, or your farmer's market, or if you're just looking to buy things that are in-season because they're cheaper and more delicious, this cookbook can help you kind of figure out what to do with those ingredients, to really elevate them and make them creatively delicious and beautiful. One of my favorite cookbooks this time of year. And then I'm going to point out good and cheap or Bueno Vibrato in Spanish, which is a cookbook that was written by Leanne Brown. We recently did an event with her in our teaching kitchen, so I can attest firsthand what a great and lovely person she is when she was doing her masters at NYU, she wrote this cookbook as her thesis. She wrote all the recipes, she did all the photography, and the goal was that all of these recipes would be simple and easy to prepare. They wouldn't use too many ingredients and that you could eat a breakfast, a lunch or dinner, a snack, a full day's meals on $4 a day, which was the snap budget at the time. So again, this is an amazing resource when we're thinking about us trying to save money, but also folks out in the community. And it's available for free as a PDF through her website and many other places online in both English and Spanish. So I can't recommend that cookbook enough. Again, this is not an exhaustive list. Plenty of good cookbooks out there for you to check out. Lots of apps as well. So if you find it hard to do menu planning, or you want to go to a single place and find the recipes, put them all in your cart. Have it create a shopping list for you. Plan out your meals for the week. These apps might be ones worth trying. And then there's of course, lots of other places to find delicious recipes as well. Family. Friends are always a great source of recipes. I or you know, ChatGPT surprisingly really good at helping you come up with recipes. And I'll show you an example in a minute. I often will eat something in a restaurant and say to myself, oh my gosh, I have to come home and make this, and one that I made recently that I'm thinking of is, a favorite from my childhood, my teen years, which is the, Olive garden salad dressing. And so you can look up kind of copycat recipes on your online or try your best to recreate them. And so just understand that just because you can eat it in a restaurant and you love it there doesn't mean you can't recreate it at home just as nicely, or perhaps even with a little more health promoting quality farmers markets. Sometimes they will give you recipes with the produce. So for instance, with my CSA, they will give us eggplant and they'll say, listen, you might not like eggplant, right? But here, try this carbonara or perhaps one week it comes with a free day and it says okay, you know, maybe you're wondering what to do with this. Freeze a try it in this traditional French preparation. So take a look at what's available at the farmer's markets, because sometimes it can be quite cheap. You're supporting local. It's delicious right. Because it's in season. And then you can also get recipes at that same source. Community centers and other places of worship can be a great place to get recipes. We have many a church cookbook at home that I can remember cooking from growing up again. Maybe not the healthiest source of recipes, so keep a keen eye on those when you're preparing those. And we're going to talk in just a minute about how to take some of those recipes and maybe make them over to make them just a little more health promoting magazines and periodicals. They've been dying, it feels like, for decades. But I love a good magazine, and I do think they're coming back. Or maybe I'm just willing that to be. But lots of magazines not only have an online presence, a website, and a social media, but it can be a really fun and kind of throwback way to get recipes. If you subscribe to one of those Reddit communities. For those of you who love Reddit, lots of places to find good, healthy, delicious, quick, easy, affordable recipes online through Reddit Substack newsletters, which is kind of a new way of conveying information. Lots of folks who are interested in sending out a weekly newsletter with healthy recipes. My friend Olivia Thomas has a really good one if you want to look her up, but lots of good options there, as well as podcasts, you know, podcasts you can't really show photos. Perhaps there's no video, but lots of podcasts available where folks are being interviewed and talking about healthy eating and provide some of their favorite recipes. So just understand that there's plenty of other places like these to find healthy, delicious recipes. You might just have to put a little bit more effort into ensuring that they are indeed healthy. But lots of places for inspiration. When you come home at the end of a long day and say to yourself, what should I make for dinner? So we mentioned a bit earlier that some recipes, you might look at them and they sound delicious and they're cheap and you want to make it, but you're worried it's perhaps not the healthiest. And so you want to take those recipes and revamp them a little to make them healthier. How might we do that? So step one if you have a meal that you want to make more health promoting, add more plants, right? It's as easy as that. So thinking about a nice pasta, just a simple red sauce on a perhaps a whole grain pan. How could you make it healthier? Add some spinach. Add some other plants. If you don't have the desire to eat a whole bunch of vegetables, perhaps. Or perhaps you have some kids who don't really have the desire to eat a bunch of vegetables. Think about blanching them or boiling them right, pureeing them and then mixing them into the sauce. So you could do that with some maybe red lentils here, right? You could cook them off till they get nice and soft, puree it, mix it into that red sauce no one's going to know. And then you're going to have this hearty fiber protein filled pasta sauce. So add some plants, replace refined grains with whole grains. And so again with this pasta you could take a refined grain pasta and use a whole grain pasta. Lots of other examples of whole grains as well. And as we talked about earlier, those whole grains have that fiber, those healthy fats and the micronutrients that refined grains don't think about a protein flip. You may have heard this before, but a protein flip is where you take an animal based protein. You take that out and instead you use a plant based protein. So I mentioned the example earlier of using lentils in pasta. So perhaps you want to make a lentil bolognese. Tons of cream tons of beef right. Instead you could use lentils. You could use an ALT milk right. So thinking about taking those proteins that are animal based, taking those out and bringing in more plant based protein to save on some saturated fat. And that leads me to point for here, swapping out sources of saturated fat for unsaturated fat. So one way to do that, as I mentioned, is to opt for more plant based protein instead of animal based protein. Another way to do that is to pay attention to what type of oil, or what type of dairy products you're using. So as we mentioned earlier, saturated fat comes from tropical oils and animal based products, things that are solid at room temperature. Butter is a common example. And instead using unsaturated fats. So a cooking oil that's liquid at room temperature, avocado oil, olive oil, canola oil, all of these unsaturated fats and decrease where you're able to fat, especially that saturated fat, salt and added sugars. And we'll talk about some examples, particularly when it comes to baking and, cooking later about how to decrease things like fat, salt and sugar without compromising too much on flavor. So that's how to make meals. Perhaps a little more health promoting, but desserts get a slightly different treatment. We have to think about them a little differently, right? So desserts. My biggest tip is to add whole fruit. So wherever you can add fruit into a dessert, you're still getting that sweet kick that you're looking for. But you're adding in some fiber and some plant chemicals and vitamins and minerals, all those kind of health promoting things. So add a whole fruit wherever you can. Think about replacing refined grains with whole grains. We talked about this strategy in the past slide. But with baking sometimes that can be difficult, right? Because you're like, okay, this calls for all purpose flour. I'm thinking about using a whole wheat flour. The whole wheat flour, it just turns out denser. It doesn't rise as much. Right. So you could think about replacing just part of it with whole wheat flour or this is actually my biggest tip. If you've ever seen white whole wheat flour on the shelf, you're undoubtedly confused about that. Well, is it white or is it whole wheat? Which is it? So normal flour, all purpose flour whole wheat flour. The normal flours that we buy are all made from a specific variety of wheat called red wheat. It's pretty hardy, has a lot of texture, has a lot of flavor. There's another variety of wheat called white wheat. And you can still make a whole grain flour out of that. White wheat still has the healthy fat, the fiber, the micronutrients, but it doesn't have as intense of a flavor or as much texture. It's still quite light and fluffy, and you can bake with it very, very easily. So if you can find a white whole wheat flour in your supermarket, it's a great way to add some fiber and some whole grains to whatever dessert you're making. You can also take full fat dairy products and replace them with low or no fat dairy products, or an unsweetened ALT milk or an alternative milk. Right? So my favorite ALT milk is soy because it has some plant based protein in it. Right? But you could do almond or oh, macadamia or hemp or whatever other type of ALT milk you'd like or another. One of my favorite tips, particularly when it comes to baking, is to use evaporated milk. Notice I didn't say sweetened condensed milk. People sometimes get it confused with condensed milk. This is evaporated milk. They take the milk and then they just kind of boil off some of the liquid, some of the water. So what you're left with is a more concentrated form of that milk. So in the instance of a fat free evaporated milk has no fat, but they burn off essentially evaporate off some of that liquid. And you're left with a creamier product that's really easy to bake with and can be really delicious. And as you can see, it comes in a can. It's shelf stable, it's cheap, it's amazing. But you can still bake with that and get that texture without a lot of that fat that you might get from a whole milk or a heavy cream, and then finally decrease where you're able to fat, especially the saturated fat, which we've been talking about here. And a couple other ways you can even do that is if you're making, for instance, a brownie mix instead of using all of the vegetable oil, you can sub in some applesauce. Actually, up to half of the oil that it calls for. You can use applesauce instead, which has no fat in it, not to mention lots of fiber. Just search for an unsweetened applesauce or this may sound crazy, you can actually use a can of pumpkin so the pumpkin can substitute for the eggs, the water, and the oil. So if you take a cake mix or a brownie mix and you just mix that with some pumpkin, usually you can get a batter that looks pretty nice, you get it into the pan, it bakes up and it tastes really delicious, especially in the fall months. Again, lots of fiber. They're saving on fat. So a couple of baking techniques. Sugar you could consider using either completely non-nutritive sweeteners, something like stevia or monk fruit erythritol, which is a sugar alcohol, or even an artificial sweetener for all of it, or half of it or a quarter of it, whatever you feel like. But there's great ways to basically cut back on the amount of sugar by using some of these non-nutritive sweeteners. Or you could just cut back on the amount of sugar. I have to tell you, throughout the years, I've really developed a taste for a not super sweet dessert. And so if it calls for two cups, that's up to you. If you want to put in all two cups, there are some other things in baking recipes I would not really mess with, like the baking powder and the baking soda. Right? The amount of flour. Sometimes those are important in the chemistry of baking sugar. That's just kind of there for sweetness. So if you want to cut back on that, feel empowered to do so. And then snacks, we're going to think about a little differently again. So for this I like to give you a formula. So no math homework required here. But the formula for a healthy snack is in general a lean or a plant based protein and some fiber. So what are some examples of that? Look like a peanut butter with an apple or banana, right. You have the peanut butter, which is some plant based protein, and then an apple or a banana, which is providing you with fiber hummus and celery and bell peppers, kind of some carrot sticks, some some celery. Again, these are some of my favorite snacks, these savory snacks. Personally, I love that cottage cheese with some whole grain crackers, a nonfat Greek yogurt with some blueberries, string cheese which is a low fat mozzarella. Quite health promoting, quite high in protein, right? Pairing that with some carrot sticks or something like a hard boiled egg and a clementine. If you want a little bit of sweet, a little bit of savory. And when I do a hard boiled egg hint I really like to do an everything bagel seasoning so you're not adding too much salt, but you're getting lots of cool flavor and texture on that hard boiled egg. So obviously this formula can be really extrapolated to lots of different types of combinations of lean and plant based proteins and fibers here. But this is a few of my favorites. So let's kind of put an example together here. So we've just talked about all these different ways that you can take a recipe and make it healthier. So let's think about a chicken coconut curry here. You see the ingredients here. Now think to yourself how might I be able to take this recipe and kind of amp up the health promoting qualities? I think one of my favorite things that I would like to do with this is just to add some more vegetables. Right? So some snap peas would be delicious here. Some kind of greens, perhaps some spinach or some collard greens. Broccoli would be delicious in this. Right. So just thinking about how can I add more plants to this recipe. You could think about doing that protein flip, taking the chicken thighs out and instead doing something like chickpeas or some other legumes. Right. Some red lentils. You could think about swapping out a source of saturated fat for unsaturated fat. So thinking about that coconut oil. Right. You could swap that out for something that's going to be liquid at room temperature like a canola oil. That's probably what I would use at home, if not a little bit of olive oil. We talked about using those fat laden milks or ALT milks, like the coconut milk you see here, pretty high in fat and in saturated fat in particular. You can instead think about swapping that out for a low fat coconut milk, where they remove some of that fat and then thicken it up with a thickener. Or you could think about using another ALT milk like the ones we discussed earlier. So lots of different opportunities here to kind of optimize. And I would say that you don't have to do all of those, you know, if you don't like broccoli, don't add broccoli. Go for the snap peas. If you really like the richness of that coconut milk, which I have to tell you, I find myself in that camp. Then perhaps thinking instead about cutting back on the coconut oil. It's a choose your own adventure. I'm just giving you some options here. So that's something that you might make for dinner. But what about your sweet treat? What about some fudgy brownies? Right, so here's a pretty traditional recipe for some fudgy brownies. Some opportunities to make some health promoting choices here. Well, we talked about my favorite, which is the flour. So you could swap out that all purpose flour and instead use a white whole wheat flour. You could think about cutting back on the amount of sugar, or substituting some of it with a non-nutritive sweetener. When it comes to the butter, there's lots of options we have there, right? Calls for 12 tablespoons. You could, I think, in brownies maybe take part of that and just do some oil instead. Or you could perhaps use one of those techniques earlier that we talked about to limit the amount of saturated fat, for instance, like that pumpkin. Right. So lots of options here. You could think about cutting back on some of the chocolate chips, and instead just amping up that delicious cocoa flavor by using some more cocoa powder. Or now this one is going to sound a little crazy, but I promise it's delicious. You can take a can of black beans, rinse them, pureed them, and mix the black beans into the brownie batter. Sounds crazy if you've never tried it, but I promise you it's it works. Somehow. The the brownies will not taste like black beans. They'll be fudgy and delicious and have this nice, like, really hearty texture. So if you've never tried that before, you can consider giving that a try to along that guideline of using more plants in our recipes. So with all of that, we have healthy recipes and we have some ideas about how to put this into practice. But now we need to make a plan for our meals using those healthy recipes. Go and get those ingredients and then eat and enjoy them. So up next is meal planning.