Hello, welcome back to the introduction to green chemistry. In this module, we'll discuss the physical properties of the elements in a PR table. The first two physical properties we can talk about are melting points and the boiling points. Melting point is a temperature at which a substance goes from the solid state to the liquid state. Boiling point is defined as the temperature at which a substance transit from the liquid state to the gas state. The physical character that determines the melting points and the boiling points is interatomic or intermolecular forces. If you look at across a period in a per table, the tendency of the melting point is not monotonous. Let's take the third period as example. As you go from sodium to aragon, the basic trend is the metal elements have higher melting points than the non-metal ones. Now, if you look across a group, the tendency of the melting points and the bonding points become much more clear. Here we have the example of the group seven elements or the hogens from florine to iodine. The melting points and the boiling points are increasing monotonously for this group of elements. The reason for this has to come from the interaction between this atoms. All these elements are forming diatomic molecules. The predominant force between atoms are London force. As you go from florine to iodine, the molecules become larger and larger and that favors the polarizability which increase the inter lender interactions. Therefore, their melting and the boiling point increase. Another two related properties are acidicity and the basicity. There are many definitions regarding these terms in chemistry. We only take the simplest ones. We define acidicity as the tendency of an anion to release a proton and basicity is the opposite. The rationale for the tendency of these two terms can also come from the atomic radi and electro negativity. The higher of the electro negativity of element is the higher tendency of the element to withheld an electron and that will stabilize the nion. Therefore the esticity increases. The same is true when the elements has larger radi. When the element has a bigger atomous radius it can help deoize the negative charge. Therefore the acidity also increases. If you put this picture onto the PR table, that means when you go across from left to right in a period, the acidicity increases. When you go from top to the bottom, the acidicity also increases. The basicity is the opposite trend. The next physical property is solubility. is defined as a property of a substance to be dissolved in a gas solid or liquid phase to form a homogeneous solution. And this property tendency can also be explained from the atomic radi. Let's take the second group as example. When you go from top to the bottom, the atomic radius is increasing. When you dissolve the cation in water that means there will be more molecule to hydrayze the cation to make them more soluble. Therefore the solubility is increasing from the top to bottom in the group. Volatality is a tendency of substance to vaporize. is directly related to vapor pressure that has a strong connection with the previous property boiling