What happens once you're exposed to a toxicant adme? Because absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion are the four key steps that are going to be crucial to whether or not something has a biological biological activity on your body and u how it's going to uh affect your your body. And these are also going to be the key intervention points where as chemical designers, as green chemists, you'll want to say, "Hold it. If I can keep it from being absorbed, then it won't be toxic. If I ensure that it's going to be excreted rapidly enough, then it might not be toxic." This is of primary importance in oral inhalation and dermal exposures. So, think of some of the ways that a a substance can enter into your body. What are some of the ways that that a substance can get into your body? Please. You can eat it. You can eat it. You can ingest it. It's going to cross your your GI membranes. How else can it get into you? You can breathe it in. And so, if something doesn't have uh any appreciable vapor pressure and it doesn't form a vapor, you can't inhale that in. What other ways can it get into you? Skin absorption. Skin absorption. Yeah. So different uh different membranes that can uh transport across uh dermal membranes across the eyes. So it's the rate of absorption and the extent of absorption uh of bioavailability. Bioavailability is crucial. Okay. One example we give is uh ethanol. it's um it's readily absorbed through the GI tract, but it's almost not absorbed at all through the skin. So, when you start thinking about how do I possibly manipulate a molecule so that it is not able to be um uh bioavailable, not able to be absorbed into my into my body. You start needing to know what are the properties of of the skin, what are the properties of the lungs, what are the properties of my GI tract is going to allow or not allow a chemical to get in and cause damage. absorption is crucial. Volume of distribution is the imparent volume of a drug uh drug or a toxicant that um that distributes throughout your uh throughout your body uh body whether it's blood plasma um and so it's one thing if say I ingest uh something so it's in me and it goes right through and gets excreted out that's not the same as it being distributed into my blood and serum and being able is uh spread throughout. So distribution the ability to be distributed is crucial. Metabolism. Okay. So once when these chemicals go through your body, go into your body, they likely have a um a very good chance of being um transformed. They're going to undergo bot transformation. they're unlikely to remain in the same form in your body. You have all kinds of uh uh enzymes, stomach acids, all kinds of things meant for digestion and and and breaking things down, right? The products of metabolism are known as the metabolites. So, this becomes important for a variety of reasons. One is if you have a molecule and you look at it and you say hm that molecule looks like it might not be bioavailable or it might not be toxic because of X Y and Z but you see that it is going to be easily transformed into another metabolite and that metabolite is very toxic, very bioavailable. Then all of a sudden saying that that the parent compound is non-toxic becomes irrelevant, becomes trivial. You've just deemed something to be non-toxic when you know that it comes in contact with uh with stomach acid. It's transformed into another molecule and that stuff is is extremely toxic. When you look at the primary uh excretion organs, you you're going to um uh want to know is this something that is going to be easily uh excreted because again one of the key things is water solubility. I'll be returning to to physical chemical properties. Um whether or not something is very water soluble and hence easily excreted. Maybe it's very fat soluble and so it will um maybe be more likely to transport across biological membranes. So making something more easily excreted um uh but also uh it can be excreted sweat, tears, milk, lungs.