What are some of the strategies to do this? You um uh modify or actually break a mechanism of action that would lead to toxicity. So when you know the the mechanism of of what has to happen in the body in order to cause a toxic effect, you um you make that greatly disfavored through through molecular design or you make it impossible. Uh change the the various reactive functional groups that you know are related to that toxicity. You reduce or eliminate bioavailability. We've talked about a lot. um you reduce the need for associated uh hazardous substances. What do I mean by that? We'll we'll talk more about it, but sometimes the molecule that you're using isn't what you're most worried about. However, it requires the use of another associated substance. One example might be paints. Maybe you've made the perfectly innocuous dye and that's fantastic. But that dye can only be used in a particular paint solvent system and that solvent system is is bad. What you've uh what you've done is you've shifted your hazard concern from uh that molecule to the fact that it u requires a different uh toxic substance. And we talked a lot last um session about the design uh of uh end of useful life u product life. So where the mechanism of action is known the the the first one um it it's possible to um to design the molecule so that electronically it can't carry out those reactions and in order to bring about toxicity. It is just not able to react. um and that is um that's always going to uh result in lower toxicity with the reactive functional groups. There are whole classes of uh of different chemicals that we know bring about toxicity. Uh we know that certain types of electrofiles those electronloving u molecules are going to carry out reactions in the body. If you make something less electrophilic if you move that electrophilic group you're going to drastically disfavor the ability for that to do it. So changing the reactant functional group a um a nitrial that's a cr bond N. uh night trials are widely used in industry are being any group widely used in industry for a wide range of you'll note that it might uh wind up being able to release cyanide by moving away from uh the use of a nitrial group substituting in another group you'll be able to um move to a less toxic alternative. Um, we've talked a lot about reducing or eliminating bioavailability since we know how to design molecules that have uh different log ks octyl water partition coefficient that we all remember uh whether or not something's going to be respable and be able to breathe in. By changing that we can get out of the zone of uh of bioavailability and I already uh mentioned that different types of uh using the example of paints that require solvents, different types of uh plastics that require particular types of additives that we have already visited that can be uh carcinogenic sometimes uh uh endocrine disrupting moving away from from those substances requiring these these other hazardous substances. And then we covered a lot of ground last uh last week uh on the end of useful life.