

=== FILE: America at 250 Podcast Episode 10： Left and Right in the 60s and 70s [fkUjCFW3Uq8].txt ===

 subjected to subjected to though you got us in at least a familiar landscape with the present. You talked on Tuesday, the lecture was titled Race, Rights, and Resistance, and then today's lecture was Reagan's America, so we got the left and we got the right in ways that maybe people watching will be familiar with or not familiar with. So I guess maybe actually my first question for you is, what did it feel like being in this moment immersing yourself in those two ways of looking at the past? Well, it is funny to be doing it with this particular class where we have such a generational divide and who's in the room. And so my sense and those of you out there who are listening can tell me if this is right or not that for the community members, who many of whom have living memories and kind of coming of age memories of these periods of the 60s and 70s, there was one experience going on. And then for the undergraduates, I think we've reached the period where they often don't get to in their history classes. And so the 70s, 80s, 90s especially in my experience teaching undergrads is really a kind of mystery zone. And so I think they were having two radically different experiences of reaching what I think is starting your right to feel like a familiar world. I mean, I think it's important about the 1960s. And this was the first thing that I said on Tuesday, when you say the 60s, it still is, you know, kind of flower power, protest, rock and roll, civil rights, rock and roll. And I wanted to make the point early on that historians really now think about this thing called the divided 60s, which is a moment when whatever liberal consensus had existed in the 30s, 40s, 50s kind of comes flying apart under pressure from the left, under pressure from the right as well, which is the piece that often gets left out of the story of the 60s. And then, you know, lots of people reconfigure their political identities and their political loyalties pretty quickly over the course of that decade. And Bev, let's talk a little bit about, let's get you to talk a little bit more about these two huge phenomena that tore people apart in the 60s. One is the civil rights movement, of course, it brought people together to some extent, but then it tore apart the country and the Vietnam War. I mean, we had a foreign policy and a domestic question of the very nature of the United States that all came to, well, came into collision in about a five to 10 year period, and we've never been the same since. How did those two huge phenomena come crashing into one another? I mean, and now we're talking about my lifetime. So, well, that's what I was going to say before. So give the antidote. This is the first, today's episode was lecture was the first one that I was alive during, right? You guys are so young. So I was having aha moments like everybody in the audience has been and been coming up to you and saying, I remember. So I did that too at the end of the lecture. But David's question. Yeah, well, the civil rights movement, I mean, it's interesting because it's very hard to say when this thing called the movement begins and ends. So historians tend to talk about the long civil rights movement and even that people mean very different things. Does that mean it started in the 30s or the 20s or during reconstruction or I lynching campaign, right? But 1940, which is where you started. There is this very intense period from about 1963 to 1968. When what you're talking about, David, these two forces collide. 1963 is the March on Washington, then the Civil Rights Act, then the Voting Rights Act, but then a surge of kind of experimentation, new organizations, militancy, conflict, fight all around civil rights. And those are the exactly the same years that Vietnam is escalating. Right. Right. The United States really gets in in a significant way, starting in late 1964. And then the peak of troop involvement there, which was, I believe, about 500,000 US troops on the ground at its peak is 1968, 69. And so those two things converge. And I think what's particularly important about the 60s is that they are movements and transformative political experiences that are highly generational. So the people who are being asked to fight in Vietnam are mostly young people. And the people who are most deeply involved in civil rights organizing also by the mid 60s are mostly young people. And so I didn't talk about it much in lecture, but I do think there's a very distinctive generational story about these decades that you don't see really at any other moment in American history. It's like a profoundly cultural moment as in addition to being generational. And it's also, and this is probably not something that lots of people think about, but this is going to come to what you assigned for this week. It's also a moment when strategy and coming up with new and different ways to speak really powerful messages becomes important. So tell us a little about Bayard Rustin's strategies for freedom, the changing patterns of Black protest. Why did you assign that? What were you hoping for people to get from that? Well, it's not a very well known book, period. So everything else that we've been reading at at least in some moment in time was quite well known. It was a revelation in that sense. I never read it. So this is Bayard Rustin relatively late in his career in 1976, looking back on his experiences and trying to make sense of the long arc of the movement. And he himself had always been sort of background strategist from the 1930s onward. There were a variety of reasons for that, as I suggested in lecture. One is that he was in the Young Communist League for a while in the 30s, and that in the midst of red scare Cold War politics meant you had to be backstage if you were allowed anywhere near the stage at all. And then he was also a gay man, which also in the politics of the 40s and 50s meant that you probably were not going to be out front as your movement's spokesman. But what he's so good at doing is articulating and mapping out the varieties of strategies and the many experiments that were used to try to achieve civil rights over the time, right, the courts, political parties, all sorts of efforts at influence. And his argument is that what makes the civil rights movement of the 50s and 60s really distinctive is the turn to nonviolent action as its core strategy. So it's a good book because it's short. It covers a lot of ground. It was a lecture originally, right, which is always a fine reading experience. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know, one thing, there's a moment where he's surveying all the way back to World War One. And then he says, you know, the 1920s for black people was one of the darkest times. That's, of course, contrary to the general conception of the 20s. Boom times, roaring 20s, prosperity, no, he said dark times. He said, we had something called the Harlem Renaissance. He says, at least we could write about it. He has a rhyme with funny, but then he says the 30s were the hopeful time. And there, which is the Great Depression, but he's referring to unions, the New Deal, the Wagner Act, and so on. The government, the government now becomes a source of organization of various sorts. Yes, all kinds of new organizations. Yeah. Yeah. So it's not a book that will just sit easily with people's expectations. I think that's one of the distinctive things about Rustin is that he comes out of this labor tradition. And that's really at the heart of how he thinks civil rights, but also economic security are going to be achieved is through this racially egalitarian forms of labor organizing as well as government action. And, you know, he's making an argument that actually wasn't very popular in 1976. So when he's doing this, he's been a little bit cast out of the movement, or people are describing him as a neo-conservative. And that's partly because of a little bit of that social democratic tradition. But it's more because he is making an argument that, you know, black people in the United States are somewhere between 12 and 15% of the population, 11%, you know, depending on your historical moment. But that what that requires is a kind of self conscious, coalitional politics as the way forward. It wasn't a super popular idea in certain circles, particularly in the early 1970s. But he is a true believer in that. And he thinks that the labor movement and kind of organizing around economic issues is going to be the thing that's going to hold that coalition together. And he never owned up to black power. He was raised a Quaker. He's a serious pacifist. And he doesn't give any truck to the, you could call it the far left of the civil rights movement, although I'm not sure that's the right thing to call it. And therefore, he's still honoring the NAACP in the middle of the 1970s, which is not what most people were into. Black power had such a cultural impact. Well, that gets us back to this question about the culture of this moment and the cultural clashes of the moment. Related to that, one of the things that struck me about it, and it wasn't a central point of the book, but it resonated so powerfully in a way because it wasn't really about strategy. It was about the foundation you have to have in place before you start strategizing. And he says at one point that you need two things to effectively bring people together in a movement that people need to understand the history of where they came from. And they have to have a clear purpose. And that resonated so strongly, right? People need to know where they've been, people to understand where you are, and you have to have a vision of where you want to be, what you're looking for. It was decades ago that he said this, but it speaks so strongly also to this moment that there's a cultural, intellectual kind of a root that you need to understand who you are and where you are and what you want to work an effective strategy. And he surveys for us as readers a whole array of leaders. And I'd ask you to talk a little bit more about A. Philip Randolph because Randolph is clearly Ruskin's hero in a host of ways. Who is Randolph? And people don't tend to know him today. Right. A. Philip Randolph was one of the kind of great leaders of the long civil rights movement. And he's someone he started out as a socialist in the World War One and early 20s period. And he retained a lot of those commitments for a long time. So I think for Ruskin, A. Philip Randolph is really this model of the person who sees race and class tied in together and wants to organize in both. He can change with time. Right. And so he's there from the beginning. His big achievements really are the creation of the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters in the 1920s, the first kind of all black and black run union. These are Pullman porters, people who are working on the Pullman trains. And then in the 40s, in the very early 40s, in the run up to World War Two, he conceives of the first march on Washington, which ends up not happening because the Roosevelt administration gets very disturbed by this possibility. And so it was going to happen. For sure. And so he remains kind of one of the great old men of the civil rights movement in the 50s and 60s leading up to the 1963 March on Washington. And I guess one of the reasons that I think looking at that march through the lens of Byrd Rustin is important is because often when that comes up in our history classes or our popular culture, right, you get Martin Luther King saying, I have a dream. And the story basically is that King was such a powerful orator and his vision was so persuasive that Americans said, wow, we really have to get a civil rights act. And there's some truth to that King is a very powerful order. And it's a very powerful vision. But it really obscures all of the work that went into creating a moment like that, the organizing on the ground, the strategy, the political maneuvering, the fact that that march was a bunch of different things. But one was a direct ask to Congress about something very particular, the Civil Rights Act. And so I think we often leave out precisely what Rustin is good at, which is the strategy. And he was good at the big picture strategy, the grand strategy of organizing. But then he was also really good at like just making sure the sandwiches were where they needed to be. We don't tend to appreciate those people, though, generally speaking, that goes that goes all the way back. I could say the same thing in early America, that the people who are not the people coming up with a big message are not the people thinking about the people but who are organizing behind the scenes, doing the work that actually puts things into place, and nothing happens without them. And then we generally don't recognize. Right. And Rustin's book before we leave him also lays out the probably the single greatest divisive element of the whole civil rights era is whether this should be a movement aimed at the United States government, the American conscience, or a separatist movement. And there were obviously separatist elements of the whole civil rights era. Rustin essentially, though tested, greatly tested, so was King, is never going to give into that. It goes back to your point about only being 11 or 12 percent of the population. But this is a story we have to keep alive throughout this course. What when does great change in this country come by pressing the government, forcing if you can, not just at election time, the government to act, in other words, through law. And when does great change come outside the law? Mass protests, sometimes violent. And of course, the civil rights movement is the prototypical question, the prototypical phenomenon through which we always ask that. In fact, it has strategies in the title of the book. It's all about organization, strategy, and then action. So, you know, that that idea of pressing and where the pressing is coming from, right? That's the story of America. You know, you go all the way back to the revolution. And what you have are people who no longer feel that they can get the king to even read what they're saying. And so they find ways to make demands and speak out in a way that, you know, for them is actually outside the system. All semester, we've been watching people sort of figure out how to make change, really bottom up, even though it requires change at the top. Well, I do think there are certain the circumstances change, the context changes, the issues change. But there are these sets of eternal questions that we I think we talked about this with the abolitionists and with others, right? Are you a movement of reform seeking to kind of save the system as it is, but improve it? Or are you a revolutionary movement that thinks it needs to be torn down? Questions about who's in your coalition? Who's outside your coalition? Are you going to engage electoral politics? Is that a viable thing? Or do you need to find some other set of tools? Exactly the story of the abolition movement. Rustin is asking all these questions to almost anyone who gets involved in politics. How do you make change? The final question somewhere in there. David, you're giving it away. No, but right, the fundamental question in a democratic mode of government is, how do you make change? Not hoping that your representatives are going to do something for you in Congress, but actually coming and speaking and strategizing in ways that are bringing what you want. I will also say with Imbaird Rustin's case, I think he was deeply shaped by the internecine battles of the 1930s and early 40s. The Communist Party had a really wacky vision of a kind of separate black nation being created in the United States. So those same questions were alive in the 1930s. I think that's the moment that really formed him. He had been in the party and then he left and for Byrd Rustin, no one dislikes the Communists like the socialists. Exactly. This is also just a story of factions. Just like in the early republic, when one learns about the early republic, you can't help wondering how in the world did this republic even survive? They thought that all the time. Oh, I know. The factions are so deep. The Hamiltonians hated Jeffersonians, vice versa. We could go back to those examples. It's the same in the long civil rights movement, that's what we want to call it. So many factions, so many different strategic groups, so many schisms, a major part of it rooted in the Black Southern Church, the Baptist especially. But then there are other radicals basically educated and trained in northern universities who don't come from that tradition. The schisms were terrible by the mid-60s and late-60s. That's what I wanted to ask about. You talked today about the rise of the conservative movement, one of the points that you made was the different factions and ideas that were pulled together to sort of create a movement. At one point in the lecture today, you said something like, I guess, was it the conservatives who believed that the parties were too similar? Everybody, lots of people, the left and the right believed that the parties were too similar. Oh, I grew up with that politics. It's like, twiddle-dee, twiddle-dum, what's the difference? But what I was thinking of, which of course I was, is that in my period, when you're beginning to get partisan alliances, in many ways they were very similar. In many ways, they agreed on a lot of things. And the part of the conventional wisdom when you're looking at that politics as a historian is, that's why it was so fierce, is because it was the intensity of small differences with big outcomes. So talk a little bit about the rise of the conservative movement and the bringing together of all of these factions. Yeah, the conservative movement was very self-conscious, particularly through the figure of William F. Buckley and National Review, which gets its start in the mid-1950s, about needing to bring together different factions in order to have not only a kind of set of political alliances, alliances of convenience, but actually trying to make the ideas cohere. And the label that they put on that was fusionism. And fusionism in particular meant you're going to have to get your free market libertarians together with your traditionalist, religiously oriented conservatives, together with your anti-communists. And so they have some things in common. And anti-communism in some ways was supposed to be the glue that held this together because you could fight atheistic communism. That's a good appeal to your religious traditionalists and your fighting concentrated power and control over the economy. And that's your libertarians. But it's an interesting story because that set of alliances and kind of intellectual working through is quite self-conscious among a relatively small group of people. And then the political story, all sorts of things come along that they did not anticipate. And so the political coalition that kind of brings these ideas to power is very much a political coalition that comes out of the reaction against the civil rights movement, the reaction against the anti-war movement, and the very fast changing politics of the 1960s. So when Richard Nixon gets elected or when Ronald Reagan gets elected, they don't have these blowout majorities because of the careful work of fusionism. That's a lot of other stuff going on. And yet the intellectual work that went on to create that vision is important to the ways that politics plays out. There has to be an us. Well, this gets back to Rustin, right? There has to be an us with a vision or a goal or something. And it sounds like that's what you're saying, this effectively. By the time of Reagan, it was, well, I should read more about Reagan and not just for a long time memory. Very dangerous for a long time memory. But Reagan ran against the 60s. And the conservative movement was a reaction to all the changes, including feminism and every movement you could think of. Nixon a decade earlier, more than a decade earlier, is a reaction to the 60s. Talk a little bit more about Richard Nixon and that particular Republican Party, he's completely wrapped up in the Vietnam War, which is what killed LBJ's presidency. But the Nixon phenomenon, Nixon's kind of conservatism is different because he goes back to the New Deal. Well, so did Reagan. And Reagan, Reagan, Reagan just, he's quite old. Which is one of the things that's appealing to me as a future Reagan biographer is that he has this huge, sweet, heavy, yeah, let's do it. But Nixon, Nixon's kind of conservatism was reaction politics to a great degree, the student protest movements, Vietnam protest. But on the other hand, it was still an old older kind of conservative. I mean, Nixon's formative period is the 40s and 50s. It is the Red Scare. And he's a slightly more moderate version of Joe McCarthy and of a kind of anti-communist politics rooted in the Republican Party. But he was a hardcore anti-communist. He made his name on the House Un-American Activities Committee. And then he's Eisenhower's vice president during the 50s. Right. And so he was sort of the right anti-communist pit bull for Eisenhower, who wanted to have this much more kind of moderate self presentation. But nonetheless, he was an Eisenhower Republican in some fundamental sense. In the lecture, I showed a Nixon ad from 1960 when he was the Republican presidential candidate and then one from 1968. And in their style and their message, they could hardly have been more different. Really effective to show one after the other like that. Yeah. I mean, just the reaction against the politics of the 60s. But I think it is important to say that the conservative movement was not just a reactionary movement, which is to say, you know, there's a form of backlash politics that's happening for sure during those years. But it's a combination of a vision that's laid down pretty early on and then that is rapidly adapting to all of these new circumstances that are coming along in the 60s and 70s. In your lecture, you used the word aspiration and the 60s, of course, is well, the 50s, too, but the 60s is such an aspirational time. America rules the world except with the struggle of the Soviet Union. And they're important. Very, very important. And the Kupino-Sol crisis almost blew up parts of the world. But it's such an aspirational time. America can do anything and it landed on the moon for God's sake. But the conservatives had aspirations. Yeah, what was that? Sometimes I think we on the left ignored that. That was precisely what I wanted to get from you is how you would sum up. You had the great passage. Was it from Buckley? Stop. Yeah. Right. They're just stopped. There's too much. But how would you describe their vision, the conservative movement's vision of what it is they really wanted other than stop? Right. Well, I think there's stop and go back is actually something that preserves tradition is quite consistent. And that means different things. Right. So that can mean precisely, as you're saying, what is a conservative? It's someone who wants to conserve. Right. So there's a there's a go slow. Don't make too many changes too fast. Respect established institutions. Respect the order as it exists. There is a version that's very particularly about the federal government and federal power. Now, I think we've said it various moments in our discussions that are you a kind of pro federal or are you a state and local person? Often it just has to do not with some abstract set of questions, but with what these different levels of government are doing. And that's true in this case. But there's a critique, particularly of the New Deal, the concentrations of power, the interventions in the economy, the rise of an administrative state, right? High ex planners. That's one piece. And then as time goes on, Supreme Court decisions, Brown versus Board of Education, Roe versus Wade, the school prayer decisions. Right. So that becomes a critique of a different kind of power, affirmative action, right? They're all sorts of. So I'd say that's that's a key piece of this. And then, of course, there's a win the Cold War, right? It's being it's centered around anti communism writ large, but it's also a much more aggressive approach to Cold War strategy. So sort of wrapped around almost everything in the 50s, 60s and 70s. I mean, the claim was always the foreign policy ended at the shoreline or what's that phrase? Because both sides would agree. Not always. It's a really effective us versus them that has obviously real roots, but it's just as many nukes we did by the intensity of it. And and in every way, right? Culturally, politically, economically, it was such a frame for understanding things that had such a power to it, right? I mean, it's been looming throughout your lectures, the power of the Cold War and cover. So did you? Yes, I had to do duck and cover. We under the desk. We had earthquake drills in California. No, no, no, no, no. For the record, I was born in the 70s. Never had a duck and cover. You know, soft fallout shelter. Funny, you should make this case about communism and anti communism with the Cold War, because next semester, I'm teaching a whole course that is premised on this idea that the politics of communism and anti communism and then particularly the cold.  alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, al alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, al alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, al and that was okay. I mean, he liked those sort of pithy things. And there's a debate, as we'll see, about whether the United States actually precipitated the end of the Cold War or Ronald Reagan or lots of other forces at work but it was defining and joining you were putting your finger on it. Again, not because I grew up then but everybody was aware of nuclear weapons. Did we fully understand what they could do? No. except from the films and well and that the doomsday clock oh yeah freaking doomsday clock movies I was obsessed with the clock and something would happen and it would move one minute closer to the end of time and you know I was little but I understood the meaning of that cinema of that idea and of course for many great Cold War movies but you really were conscious that two powers in the world now had the weapons right and if you really finally believe that it tended to dominate your consciousness how could it in a way how could it well people get all kinds of things to avoid it just as we do when you look at what something like the port Huron statement which is the original statement of students for a democratic society it's supposed to be this generational cry and a lot of what they're saying is what you know how could you have made this world for us right how could you have made a world in which humanity is about to destroy itself they say in that document you know we live with the consciousness that we may be the last generation of human beings alive on this earth so I think the current generation has a version of this in climate change right these kind of apocalyptic fears now that's going to be slower moving and you know hopefully we'll come back from the brink but it but I think it's a good analogy to that sense in the in the 60s like you're telling me that you've created this amazing thing and yet what it's produced is perpetual war the potential destruction of all of humanity and like this isn't what we want we want to make a different intensity of both of the things we've talked about right you mentioned David the the sort of intensity of like we control we rule the world we're the best where you know that's pretty intense and then equally intense is you know that it could be destroyed because you know we're sort of out there and there's the Soviet Union and then the intensity of the I guess aspiration to use the word that you used and of the sense of looming possible disaster that kind of gets it a lot of I don't know the 70s when you say well I do think one of the big stories of if you if you start in 1960 and end in the mid to late 70s one of the really dramatic things that happens and actually doesn't go back even Ronald Reagan or Cold War triumphalism is a sense of trust and faith in the fundamental institutions of the country particularly large institutions right that takes blows in the 70s for all sorts of reasons Watergate being one but not for sure the only one and then this story that we've had through most of the 20th century starting in the progressive era that with human will and ingenuity the future can be better than the past technology right and technology and that faith really starts to unravel in the 70s it is difficult to hold on to and now actually one of the I think most distinctive features of the 21st century in the United States is that many people say that they believe that the future is going to be worse than the past and that's a radical shift in public consciousness and relationship to technology or national identity it's one of the I think saddest and most difficult challenges right now and I think it happened in the 60s and 70s it did bev again I don't have any data at my hands right now but something like the moon landing I mean it has to be I mean I watched it with my grandmother so I was I was well and she didn't believe it I right I was woken up in my pajamas with the little feet and stood in front of this are you all just gonna chat about it's terrible I know but but just all right let's just be historians again in some sense all those young people God bless them who went to port here the SDS the students for Democratic Society went up to port here and and created that famous statement well I and well and I was I was a small part of that about five years later six seven years later but if they had been taking enough history I mean we can be smuggler story and zero for a moment you know they would have seen some of these continuities from two world wars from the total redefinition of the of the you know the geography of planet Earth gigantic bipolar conflict between Soviets in the United States and then this this weapon our technology finally created the weapon that could destroy everything now AI could I mean that's not new but you know God bless them they were they were angry they had all this middle-class aspirations suburban kids it's supposed to be I'm going to college I'm gonna rule the world I'm gonna I'm gonna invent things I'm gonna create I'm gonna be a poet I can be anything I want to end women now can begin to think that's gonna take you yet another decade young women can begin to think I can do anything I want anything that's that's the 60s to this incredible aspiration that anything is possible and then you get a Cuban Missile Crisis and you get one disaster after another you get terrible riots in American cities which astonished people because they because they never went to the cities and suddenly by the 70s there's that's why they had suburbs but but no I mean but by the 70s there's a turning inward like oh my god you know just one of the points that I was making in lecture today is that it is not just young people of the left many of whom were in fact children of 30s leftists right red diaper babies communist children of communists but it was also young people on the right who are organizing who are asking a whole set of questions and I think with our standard it was a creature creature of the 60s unless we forget right I mean whole generations and you know young Americans for freedom was an incredibly important organization for channeling some of those youth energies into conservative politics generally but particularly into Republican politics and into the transformation of the Republican Party and I think it's easy when we talk about the 60s to see theatrical protests and say oh that you know that's the story of the 60s or even violence right moments of conflict uprising all of that but if you actually look at the electoral politics of the 60s and where it leads certainly 60s 70s and 80s it's a very very different story coming out of that and it's a little less flashy in certain ways or it's a little bit less of the imagination but it goes back to actually the same point that I was making about fired rusted which is there's a lot of organizing going on to produce these things that then suddenly seem to come out of nowhere the victory of Richard Nixon or the victory of Ronald Reagan and let me ask sort of related to that from a different angle so on the one hand you have all of this clashing and banging up against you know of all kinds of people banging up against each other on the other hand you have these movements that you've been describing one of the things that struck me about your lectures this week is that in a different way than we've talked about so far obviously you talked about black Americans in the civil rights movement you talked about Native Americans you talked about women you talked about a number of different groups in this period coming forward and in one way or another demanding rights or recognition or whatever you know and it struck me I mean nowadays people like to lump things like that under identity politics but what struck me was the many ways in which these many groups in that moment understood some strategic ways but also in aspirational ways that this was a moment to try and have a voice you know it I ran up to after class and became one of the people in the class who runs up to you and says I was alive then but you know I you put a picture up a photo up of Jerry Falwell with a bunch of sort of happy singers behind him 1980 Reagan running and that I was a college freshman and I went to hear a Reagan speak at a rally and there were Christian singers on the stage and for the first time in my life I thought wait great religion like they don't want me to vote for them and I don't know if they really like me eat no it was like suddenly it was like this explosive brain moment where I suddenly understood that my identity my identity is plural had something to do not necessarily with the politics but with the messages and the strategizing and the many ways in which they were trying to tell a story and create a vision well I will say in the four minutes of lecture where I said and then there came all sorts of movements and started going the American Indian Lords that you know the women's movement the gay liberation movement the environmental movement the disability and all of those things that I felt like I had reached sort of peak America 250 absurdity it was good because well there is something there is a generalization there right which is right movements come to style themselves and organize themselves quite differently in a political moment now that seems very normalized to us today such that it is hard to remember that it is something that was invented at a very particular moment in time and in fact the phrase that you used identity politics is something that's coined in the mid to late 70s in an attempt to describe why this is a useful way of organizing and participate correctness born of that decade but it meant something really different than has come to me in over time the word woke wasn't around yet but I think a point to stress underline is that for every person who went to a protest of some kind in the 1960s or early 70s there was at least one other person who never got near it and hated and I think it took a lot of people of my generation quite a while to understand that didn't want to see that didn't want to understand that I don't think I understood it when I was a high school teacher but it took Regans two elections two successes landslide in the second time and then his and then Bush number one following him we had 12 years of Reagan and Bush there all of that was a reaction to this massive reform impulse of what we're calling the 60s but it was not all a reaction but it comes from somewhere and it comes from a philosophical tradition and more because you're right it's not all a reaction so put in what is well I just the same point I was making before that there is actually a lot of organizing going on there's a vision there's a so it's conservatives had their own 60s right when you say we went when people use the word reactive or reaction it often implies that there's no that it's momentary it's spontaneous and sometimes it is right events change as they go along but I wanted to pick up at something that you were saying about about the the ways that Reagan's election and the politics of the 80s and 90s actually led lots of people to narrate the story of the United States in a different way and it had a dramatic impact on the historical profession actually and on American political history because while there were lots of debates before that moment you know the basic story from the progressive era to the new deal to the great society was this story that was about liberal progress and expanding rights and you know it was never entirely true but it was the narrative that historians were still at least wrestling with and attached to and you know one of the things my graduate advisor political historian named Alan Brinkley in the mid 1990s wrote this sort of mea culpa or call to arms for the historical profession saying huh looks like we missed something and he called for the study of conservatives and right movement and it led to this huge flourishing and outpouring of historical words around that I teach them but many many others do too but it's also I think interesting to look at the ways not only that historians were forced to rethink certain fundamental assumptions but that people are constantly revising what they think the story of the United States is in adapting to well classic examples is how the Vietnam were affected the way we studied the civil war for that matter all the wars but Vietnam had a profound impact on a generation of people coming of age younger now who's wanted to study the American Civil War the American Civil War got much darker bloodier so to speak we started writing about the savagery of war we started writing about the impact on common soldiers because we were surrounded by Vietnam veterans going through trauma and post-traumatic stress there's no question about that link people a lot of people have written about that if you if you look at a decade or two of scholarship about the Civil War it's really changed by Vietnam yeah now it's interesting the revolution but you guys help me sort of fit this together because in the semi-recent past now now there's a bunch of scholarship that's on the revolution was violent right that the revolution was bloody that the revolution we're not gonna talk glorious you know propaganda we're not gonna talk outings to the United States was grounded on violence and it's interesting there was a civil war in the south right didn't well it was some people at the time called it a civil war yeah but but the idea that now in the you know present and a little bit before this point we're getting a bunch of scholarships saying that probably also in the same way that the Vietnam War changed the way people think about the civil war in this moment when we're really kind of examining pretty big founding principles generally speaking it makes sense that people are not so happy to go into a perfect idyllic civic calm founding and I do think maybe this would be a good place to end there's this word presentism the parrots of presentism and you know we're constantly telling students of history not to be presentist and what that generally means is don't see the world as it is today and then assume that the past is the same way you have to set that aside and go into the past forward in time not necessarily looking back right but there's a good form of presentism or at least an inevitable one in which present events the changing landscape around us actually produce interesting new questions about the past they allow you to see things that you couldn't see in the past ask new questions find new narratives and that is a good form of that's presentism well that I have the distance to be able to see new things but also I think along the lines of what you were just getting to to to see different narratives that might not have been so apparent without living through the moment that you're living through I love it we're gonna end on this but let's not quite end on it just yet because that's so important especially as we get into essentially contemporary history because you can be presentist in a very effective way that is your you really are aware of how you're making your assumptions of how you've even chosen your subject of how you're even considering sources in an archive and like God knows we've discovered whole new archives because of the questions we're asking on the other hand you can be the kind of presentist who just says I have an ideology I'm gonna find the history that fits my ideology and I'm gonna convince everybody that my ideology works whether that's mark that is bad just bad history what we're being accused of of course these days and that's you know I always tell my students if you have a if you want to see something in the past you can find a way to find it that's not the way to look back if you know here's the point I want to make oh look I found three random quotes and I can find a way to say it the phone be ready because the past will surprise you right exactly the whole fun part I think of being a historian is being curious and being able to move into worlds that are different from your own so if you're only looking for what you already know then where is the fun in that that's called ideological history we were all taught not to do that and yet today we're defending ourselves against people who think that's all we do you know it's interesting I mean it's immersing yourself in stuff that's an idea we might take up in that last class we're working on it folks we're trying out we're trying to figure out what's gonna happen in that last class you'll be surprised one way or another but I guess this about brings us to the end of our time thank you folks for beaming in with us again for the almost last episode of this podcast I think the next one is going to be the last one which will be what a lot of this ride we've had we have it's gonna be your last lecture and then in one way or another the three of us are going to come together and do something together in that last class about where we've been and where we are that will be amazingly cohesive and brilliant we just don't know what it is yet but anyway thank you folks for being here again and we will see you in the next episode

=== FILE: America at 250 Podcast Episode 11： The Politics of the 1980s, 1990s, and So Much More [jGAXoL6Lx40].txt ===

 subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected toward all of these podcasts. In such fine spirits and humor. And speaking of spirits, a member of our course today, whom I probably shouldn't name, gave us a great bottle of Italian wine, and we are toasting the end of our course. We toast each other. We toast each other. We toast anybody who's watching. We toast everybody. Collaboration with the Yale studio. We'll try to not spill any red wine on anything here while we're conducting today's podcast. Today's podcast is going to, for one thing, cover several parts of Bev Gage's most recent lecture on the 1980s, 90s, and into the 21st century, especially the political history of that period. And we have some other thoughts and questions we're going to throw around at each other before we leave this, all of this fun we've been having. Today was our final lecture, which we did together. Bev, you did a masterful job of flying through the 1980s and 90s of American politics, but my God, what a rich period. And unfortunately, that's all memory for me, which means it's probably not to be trusted. But let's start with Reagan's election, if you don't mind, in 1980. A pivot, like many other electoral pivots. Background there is, of course, the Iran crisis and Jimmy Carter's presidency. But Ronald Reagan comes to the presidency, this at the time anyway, right-wing conservative, former governor of California. And conservatism was having a wave. How do you, first of all, I know you are deeply interested in Reagan, and you're going to do a new biography of Reagan. Start with that, if you don't mind. Why? How do you explain Reagan now, even though you haven't done all your research and you're not ready to write that book yet? But how should we be remembering Ronald Reagan after you explain why you want to write his biography? Well, this is a lot, and I should say I'm starting. So these answers could change over the decade or so that it will probably take me to do the actual research and writing. Ask me in ten years. So these big things go. I guess there are a couple of things that seemed really interesting to me about Reagan. One is that as you're saying, he is a figure who's making this transition from memory to history right now. And so there are obviously lots and lots of people who have living memories of the Reagan years or of Reagan as a figure. But we're also beginning to get enough historical distance that all of these new archives are opening. And a lot of the people who worked closely with him are contributing their stuff to libraries. And so there's just a whole new way in. And I also think a lot of the literature, not all of it on Reagan, but a lot of it has been written by people who either really love him or really hate him. And so that's an opportunity for a scholar to come in. It makes a figure interesting to just to start with. Exactly. Exactly. My own interest, besides all the obvious things, is that I think Reagan is the figure who, to me, best gives me a way into what I think is one of the central features for thinking about the 20th century, which is the way that these battles over communism and anti-communism structured the whole century. And it makes the 20th century different from the 19th century. And it makes the 20th century different from the 21st century. And Reagan is just in that from the moment he's born to the moment that he dies in the early 21st century. And it gives you an interesting way into the 21st century, right? Because now he's being framed and reframed and used and reused in all kinds of creative and distinctive and often interesting kinds of ways. So that's a nice sort of opening for you to look ahead as well as looking past. Right. And he's a figure that even among historians, people are still debating his significance. Right. That's the fun thing. I mean, this is true of all history everywhere, every time. But once you start getting into the 80s and 90s and early 21st century, even the first draft of that history really hasn't been written, at least not in a comprehensive way. And so he's being reinvented all the time in our politics, but also in the way we write history and the first kind of assumptions that historians made was, and my lectures reflected this a little bit, that you had the period of the New Deal and this kind of period in which the Democratic Party was really the dominant organizing party, its ideas, its structures, its people from the 1930s up to the 1970s. Out of the crises of the 1970s, you get something new. And for a long time, historians were talking about this thing called the age of Reagan. From 1980 onward, you had these. You got an ism after his name. Exactly. Exactly. You had these sense of ideas that, again, love him or hate him. You were just trapped in the world that was made in that moment. And now, of course, the question is, oh, wait, have we ended? If you thought that was true, are we now in some different world? Are there continuities? Which piece of that do you want to emphasize and think about? Could I get you to reflect a little on some of those isms? He was going to end big government. He ran against government. He also ran against the 60s. Feminism, civil rights. Other isms. Pretty, yeah, pretty openly. And yet, big government grew bigger. I mean, and even though he got elected twice and the second one, a landslide, much of what he promised he couldn't do. But nevertheless, there he was. This is one of the great puzzles of politics in the 1980s. And particularly of thinking about Reagan is that he has very clear ideological views coming in. He's the product of a movement that says, you know, we're about this set of ideas. This is what we believe. This is what we want to do. But of course, it's actually very different to govern than it is to campaign or to sit around on a podcast or to write books. Those are very different enterprises. And I think that's part of that story. If you look at the politics of the 1980s, you can see that even within his own alliances, his own movement, his own coalition, people were really frustrated by this, right? I mean, the religious right guy very mad at him very quickly because he was, in fact, not delivering on things like abortion. He would say one thing, but actually not produce a whole lot else. Part of what we're looking at here, too, is the fact that he was an actor. So on the one hand, you have someone not delivering. And on the other hand, you have someone in a performative sense who's doing a lot in a successful kind of a way, right? That that component in a different kind of way. It's not to say that presidents generally aren't performing in some way, but he had a particular literally, actorly kind of way. It was the first show business president. Yeah. And that rest of them had all been professional. Paul, yeah, yeah, right. He was a professional. Paul is going to be someone not delivering being an actor who's not delivering as a way to do it, right? Because you you can culturally and performatively and ideologically represent a lot. And he understood himself to be in that role. He was not a micromanager. He was, you know, he was a he was a real delegator. And he understood himself as being in this public role. He actually had this. There's a great scene. I forget who the newscaster was, but they said something like, well, you know, Governor Reagan, you've mostly been an actor your whole life. How can you? How do you know how to be president if you've only been an actor? And he said, I don't know how you could be president if you weren't an actor. And I think that that is true. I'm very good at that sort of thing. But it is also has something to do with the way in which the presidency because of film, because of television really has become more performative over time. And then the changes in the way presidential candidates were selected that came about in the 1970s, which is to say it used to be a very inside process at the conventions in the 1970s. You start getting binding primaries and it actually then allows for people to come in from a little bit outside of the hierarchy. Reagan is one, Obama is another, you know, Trump is one as well. I don't think any of those people would have gotten their parties nominations if it had just been a kind of convention. Like these were products and movements and popular surges. And it's really different and performance in a real sense. Even Jimmy Carter, before Reagan went out and won the primary by door to door, walking around Jimmy Carter is the first candidate who came out of that new primary system, right? And he too was an outsider at the time. Well, before we leave Reagan, you know, I'm fortunately or unfortunately, I'm the 60s generation who was appalled at Reagan at first and well, at first and last, to be honest, because in so many ways he was the politics of reaction when it was reaction to whatever one thinks of the 60s and it had its excesses and its craziness. But there were great changes and they were all still developing their course in history, everything from women's rights to affirmative action to Indian rights, Native American rights on and on. He wanted to reverse all that or so the rhetoric said that the biggest joke going around about Reagan when he was elected was that there was going to be the new three baby law, you know, that all went. You don't remember that. I just every woman was going to have to confirm whether that's true. Okay, I look for it. It was out there. I mean, I'm sure there was no genuine plan for the three baby rule. But anyway, this is I was in Madison, Wisconsin, a radical town and graduate school, which means a total bubble and way out of touch. But Reaganism was reaction politics, reactionary politics in so many ways, which sets up or picks up and then sets up. What you showed in your lecture is yet to come with the Pat Buchanan and with the turn to conservatism. There was still an old fashioned traditional Republican Party. But the turn, the conservative movement was so fueled by Reagan in Reagan's years. And we're still living it. I think and I wonder, Bev, related to what you just said, being that assertively, you know, we're going back, we're taking it all back, we're reacting, reacting against seems to mean that when you're doing that, that aggressively and assertively, and in his case, he's trying to do it like charismaticly, part of the impact of that is then to inspire people to respond against it. Right. If you're going to do that and you're going to make that kind of assertion by definition, it's going to rile up opposition and fundamentally reframe and change politics in ways that, you know, that person probably doesn't intend. Is that part of the sort of unpacking of the ism, Reaganism? Well, I think one of the things to be sorted out about Reagan as a figure and then about the politics of the 1980s is this combination of reactionary politics and forward looking politics. He is the original Let's Make America Great again, which is a backward looking again in America. And then he has morning slogan they used morning in America in 1984 was was his big campaign, which is actually different because morning is the beginning of something. Right. I mean, morning is also 1984. Looking, I will say. Yeah, 1984. Reagan was not about to tell you about George Orwell. No, no, no. But at any case, I think he is an interesting figure because he's a combination of a certain kind of reactionary politics, a certain kind of sunny optimism, which for many people is the outstanding feature of his persona, his self presentation, his narrative about the United States. Right. But this is one of his big claims that it's not a country in decline. It's a country at a moment of rebirth. And even Democrats. Idea, right. Because he comes right after Jimmy Carter, who was Mr. Malaise or. But if you're not included in the we, the sunny morning, we, right? Then all your hackles are going to go up, right? You're going to suddenly, possibly in a way that you didn't feel beforehand, are going to feel outside or that you're being made to feel outside in a different kind of way. I mean, that's partly my experience of, you know, I was starting college when Reagan is coming to power. And that was my experience was, hey, wait a minute. Yeah. Like, wait a minute. You're I'm not. You can't turn around. I know exactly. Like, wait a minute. And I wasn't thinking about politics that way before, but it awakened something in me. Sure. How could it not? In a way, for the record, I was in third grade. But the election. But shut up. You know, Reagan actually swept my third grade class poll with an even greater percentage than he swept the country. Oh, well, I was in graduate school and threw my vote away. But we don't know. The third grade graduate school college. I love our generational sweep. We're going to come back. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, I have to hold up the old folk here. Anyway, but, but yeah, I would say especially when one of your outsider groups, of course, they're African Americans who have just experienced barely a decade after the Civil Rights Movement, these huge epic changes in America, in life, in law. And Reagan was I don't I don't know what the story, I'll be right now must be interesting on this. At the time, to me, there was no doubt he was the the most racially divisive president, modern president ever up until now. But yeah, he stoked racial division very openly, pushed all the buttons. And it works. Southern strategy. This is where that came from. On the other hand, and you got caught up in foreign policy scandals around Contra. But also the Cold War is going to end. Well, not on his watch, but just after his watch. So there's there's that whole side of the anti-communist side of Reagan, which, of course, is now part of the legacy, right? Reagan under the Cold War. Is that true? There's a lot going on there. So I would say one thing that actually these things are not so separate, which is to say that that was all over that decade. Yeah, right. The history of anti-communism writ large is that it became a category through which you explained your opposition to civil rights, through which you explained your opposition to certain kinds of liberationist radicalism. So all of those are tied in together. I certainly think that it's true. You know, Ronald Reagan for a long time opposed the creation of a Martin Luther King holiday. You know, I mean, there are any number of both symbolic and real ways. Now, is that right? I actually didn't know that. OK, all right. The Bush. Interesting. Had some other. You had some other. Well, the Cold War, I mean, it is all over the politics of the 80s. When we had this Brezhnev Reagan brinksmanship, remember the US was putting missiles in Europe and the Russians are building more missiles, it was terrible fear. Well, you see a huge contrast between the early 1980s in which Reagan is a very aggressive Cold War or there's lots of defense buildup and there's an intense fear in the early 80s about a new nuclear war. I played Prince's 1999 song, which came out in 1982. And as I pointed out in class, like, it's a great party song, but it is actually about, you know, oh, no, we are heading toward nuclear war. We better live for the moment. You saw a big, big anti-nuclear organizing wave early in the Reagan years. You saw terrifying films like The Day After. Oh, my gosh, TV special that was traumatized. Right. What happened? A whole entire generation. You know, I was I was an editor and when I was in college was an editor at a newspaper and my job was to do like I was graph editor, like a graph of something. And my graph that week, when the day after about, you know, horrific, you know, what happens if the bomb goes off and what how do Americans adapt or die? I had to make a fabulously popular film. It was it was popular. And that's what my my graph was, like, how did this make you feel? And of course, how did it make you feel? Everyone felt. I felt. It was pretty much my graph. Well, again, I was in my first academic job in a tiny liberal arts college where you had to kind of teach everything. And for three years, I taught a course called Nuclear War. At 1984 to 86. It was interdisciplinary. We had people from political science and people from this and people from but there was such a consciousness then of the possibilities of real use of nuclear weapons. When when was the clock at what was the time period? It goes back early. The doomsday clock. But so when what was the range when the doomsday clock, which would take a little closer to midnight every time we got closer to nuclear. We'd have to look that up. And we if we get in our phones now, we'll be violating. I remember that from being a kid, too. I watched. All right. So I just want to point out one of the difficulties of. This is your. I'm trying to write about this period is happening right here. Everybody has their stories from from all of this. But it is also true that the history just isn't settled. I mean, it's a little more, you know, I think the contours are a little clearer about the 1980s, but particularly as you begin to get into the 1990s. And this is what I was trying to suggest in in my lecture. No, in contrast to something like the New Deal, much less the Civil War or the American Revolution, you have decades, if not centuries of textured debate and scholarship about all of this. You have a certain thing to get settled, we think. Right. But not for this year, but not yet for this era. And it's it's actually great to see that a lot of people who are coming into graduate school now want to write the history of the 70s, 80s and 90s. Because I think it's so long ago. Well, in fact, I have some bad news for you. Most of the people sitting in Patel, Jepyll, we're not alive for any of this. No, they weren't. It's really history. It was a cool move to end with 2007, which is when our freshman would have been born. I thought that was a cool move. There were some kids I saw them. They're not kids. They're fully fledged adults. They're full fledged adults. But I watched a few of them when you said that kind of going. We don't. Anyway. OK, the Cold War does end. It ends actually on George Herbert Walker Bush's watch. But this idea that Reagan somehow told Gorbachev to take that wall down and it came down. It's not that simple. Is it? Right. It's not. It's certainly not an all or nothing proposition in which a great speech was made and an events ensued. And in fact, I think one of the big questions is how much influence the United States, any United States policy really had over that and how much you're talking about structural and cultural forces within the Soviet Union itself, resistance within the Soviet Empire. I mean, there are a whole host of things. So well, and Americans culturally claiming that, of course, it was their influence. Right. So that's happening, too. Won the cold. Yeah, it was us. We won. Yeah, I knew in American history, but that's part of going on. Right. There's there's a there's a phrase called Cold War triumphalism, which became sort of one of the dominant ideas, both for people who were embracing it, but it was also a critical term. That's it's a little bit of a warning about overconfidence and such. I mean, that's the Fukuyama piece kind of comes into the transition. That's segue. Francis Fukuyama's The End of History question mark, at least in the original. I found it again, fascinating to read that. I'd read it way back when it came out. And I remember I was supposed to hate it because it was all wrong and all that. Fine. But it's it's a much more philosophical piece than I thought. It's much it's much more about Hegel, actually, than it is anything else. Why did you explain first why you assigned it? Because it worked. Yeah, it was wonderful. It was great. It was great at the end of the course for what it was. And it was also 19 pages. So at the end of the semester, right, it was a fine, fine thing. That was taken into consideration, although actually when I reread it, I thought, wow, there is more Hegel in here than I had really intended as the as a final essay of the semester. But setting that aside, yeah, to me, it's it's it's a great essay because it does a couple of things, you know, it asks a big question. Right. What do you do with these dramatic hinge points in history? You know, he didn't mean that history like events were going to stop, but he was identifying a kind of hinge point, particularly in the question of the ideological and ideational framework in which politics operates, both within the United States, but he's really talking on some much larger global scale, because a lot of what we've talked about in this course is not only what happened, but what were people able to imagine? Right. What were the ideas and policies and frameworks through which they looked out at the world and made sense of it? And that's what was to come. Exactly. And that is what that essay is about. And he is one of those figures. We've seen many of them who is there in a moment of incredible plasticity and uncertainty, it's clear that one thing is ending and something else is being born and trying to define it and figure it out as it's happening. So historians are kind of always cheating in that way, because we always get to know how things have ended up before we have to go back and make sense of them. So the real challenge is to try to do it in your moment. Well, right, to look forward in time and not look back. It shows the risk of a title, too. I mean, the title is so provocative. Right. Right. But what he's saying, right? I mean, just to sort of lay it out there is that there is that there's sort of a liberal democratic peak moment that will represent sort of not the end of everything and the end of history, but it's sort of where we're headed and it's where the world is headed and that we're sort of reaching that moment. Right. That's that's part of the. And he's not wrong that the whole 20th century had been a struggle against these two huge kinds of authoritarianism, fascism and communism. Russia and China. And yeah. And it had pretty much dominated the whole of the 20th century. And now suddenly Soviet Union collapsed. China was weaker, much weaker than it is now. So he's not wrong altogether about that. In that moment. In that moment. But what I also found interesting, I hope our students caught this in reading it. He's really making the case that maybe just maybe if if you follow Hegel, history has some structures to it. It has some patterns sometimes that you don't have to believe in all the enlightenment. It is all new. You know, we like categories and patterns and cycles. And even if you don't believe in them, there's sometimes when you think, oh, that is a pattern. Well, if you don't believe in them, it's still framing. You're still thinking about the frame. Yeah. Right. So yeah, I think that that's true. Well, I was going to say one of the things that that Reagan did so well as a political figure was to lean into that story, that history has a direction, right, that progress is coming, that we can look ahead and see this. And I think it was one of the reasons it doesn't really make sense in terms of structural causation, etc. To attribute the end of the Cold War to Ronald Reagan. But what he did do, I think, very effectively was pre-establish a narrative that when that moment came, it was the story that people turned to. And that's how a lot of that moment. Well, even not a great speechwriter, Peggy Noonan, who wrote that incredible speech where he said that when you get to heaven, there will be US Marines guarding. Remember after the shuttle? Oh, boy. It was a very moving speech, even though. Come on. But think about, you know, the point of the contrast between that and what the founding folk thought, which was that there were, as you put it, structures, that there are ways in which societies and civilizations develop and that at the end is corruption and, you know, there's a horrible ending in place. And they look towards the old world, these early Americans, because they thought they were going to not end up there. But they were trying desperately to stop the progression, right? They spent a lot of time saying, well, you know what, there's a lot of land here. And if everyone gets land and this becomes agrarian, we can stop the evolution right here and we won't have to have a corruption. Yeah, somehow avoid it all. So they're thinking not that we're moving towards something that will be wonderful, but like, oh, my gosh, can we stop the progression? Can we can we be different in that way? Yeah, that's really interesting. And it is a different narrative. I think many people at various points in our course and in American history have declared that the decline has begun. People were saying, oh, it's the 1790s. The decline has begun, right? It was the 1770s and 1780s were awesome. But now everything is going to. And so every decade. Right. Exactly. You see that when I talked about Barbara Jordan in lecture today. And her identifying 1976 as a moment when many people are saying that's it. The experiment is over. It's done. It's failed. We're a nation in decline. And I think in American history, anyway, that has often been accompanied by a narrative that is about progress. Certainly, if you look at the progressive, right? Particular kinds of progress, particular kinds of American exceptionalism. And those things have just always existed side by side. I would say, you know, if anything, one of the puzzles for me of the 21st century is what's happened to that progress side, right? The fact that vast majorities of people actually in this moment when they're being pulled, think that the future is going to be worse than the present or the past. I want to offer this this quote from Fukuyama. So my curiosity was, you know, OK, given what he said and given that, you know, right, he's he's looking towards this moment where we're reaching this sort of democratic liberal peak. I was curious to see where he goes from there and found a quote of his. This is from 2016. And he said, and much older man by then, much older man. It's 25 years after he wrote this piece. And he says 25 years ago, I didn't have a sense or a theory about how democracies can go backward. And now I think they clearly can. And now we have book after book after book. Right. Again, showing and analyzing the fact that he got there and says, I didn't see that 25 years ago. Now I do. And he saw a kind of corruption and rot at the center that might bring things to a very bad place. Well, I think there were.  a lot of assumptions in the 1990s that became governing assumptions. First of all, that free markets and democratic reform would necessarily go hand in hand. That gets disproven in all sorts of places around the world, right? China being one example of that. And then, yeah, the end of history narrative in and of itself was one of these narratives that both illuminated something in the moment and then obscured a lot of what came after that. Because if you were overconfident, first of all, that there were going to be no further major ideological challenges, then you make one set of decisions. If you think the world is still a very contested place, then you might make another set of decisions. And so, I think one of the narratives that's come out, certainly on the global stage, but maybe domestically as well, about the 1990s, is that it turned out to be an era of overconfidence, of blind spots, and of only being able to see the story that you wanted to tell rather than what was really happening on the ground. But all of this has persisted with great propulsion into the 21st century as well. And part of what never dies in this country is this idea of America's used to term exceptionalism or chosenness. All the way back before we were America. Absolutely. The city on the hill. The city on the hill back to Winthrop. There's a lot of millennial thinking at the time of the American Revolution that America was this special creation. It was a pretty unusual, unusual republic they were creating here. And yet, that never dies. You can't kill it. Reagan was brilliant at appealing to that. America always solves its problems. But we live in a moment when it's so fascinating to face that, right? Because if you're saying to people, this is a different kind of moment that we're in, and that there are distinct things about this moment that we actually need to really focus on and worry about, that maybe haven't happened precisely in this way before. And getting people past the idea that, well, of course, it's all OK. It's always been OK. We're us. It will be OK. And things end up good for us because we are who we are. American exceptionalism. That what I've been fascinated by in the last kind of, you know, two decades, decade has been the degree to which that sticks around with such power that no matter what's going on, it's sort of in front of people's faces. Well, it's us. But it is something also on the other side of that is something Americans broadly speaking don't want to live without. It's terrifying to think, well, maybe this experiment has no particular end place. And then who are we has no direction? Who are we? Except would you make it? Right. This idea that somehow there's a teleological, triumphal course that our history is on never dies. Well, if we're in spite events that are so contrary to that, that we manage to process like 9 11, if we're a nation grounded on ideas and ideals, which are very vulnerable and fragile and amorphous, and it can be easily threatened and, you know, eroded. And I think that's always true. And sometimes it feels more true than other times. Yeah. Well, the 90s, though, before you get away from the 90s entirely. That's not necessarily called the era of Bill Clinton. I mean, it is. The guy was elected twice. He had an enormous impact on changing the Democratic Party. Cultural, political culture, he affected a lot. I mean, a young guy, a southerner, got elected in 1992. Boxers, you know, all that stuff. Yeah, but I mean, two white young southerners get elected in 1992. But the stuff I'm talking about isn't I'm not saying like, oh, it's really important, but I'm saying culturally, it changed how younger people experience politics. That's true. My larger point. It was definitely a generational transition. Exactly. Of great significance. It is, of course, worth remembering that he mostly got elected because of Ross Perot, right? Who was the third party candidate who came in and got an enormous vote count. And Perot is turning out to be a very interesting figure because he so he's the self financed Texas billionaire. I assume he was billionaire. So he's a very rich man who entered the race actually, you're putting opposition to NAFTA, opposition to this 90s neoliberal consensus around open borders, free trade, globalization, right? That was Ross Perot's central feature. And he had quite a lot of support for a third party candidate, mostly from Republicans. Right. And so that's one of the reasons that his presence in the campaign actually is what puts Bill Clinton into office. Ultimately, he splits, he splits that vote. But it's also interesting because, you know, for a while it seemed like, oh, Ross Perot was this sort of quirky figure with his big ears and his like chart presentations on TV. Right. But now actually a lot of the things that he was talking about are having a huge comeback in American politics. And you could say the same thing about a figure like Pat Buchanan in the early 90s. I showed in lecture a little clip of Pat Buchanan's famous culture war speech from the Republican National Convention. You know, and at the time that was seen as a little bit of an outlier, right, that this was a form of extremism. But that too has turned out to have enormous power and an enormous constituency, which is to say that in your moment, you don't always know what happens. Right. That was a moment of total confidence around this kind of neoliberal free markets, free choice individualism. This is going to be the way of the world. But there were people, even then, who were saying, actually, there are still some other ideas and those have had some legs. No kidding. They've had some legs. If people remember watching that clip of Pat Buchanan, I mean, that speech had white supremacy. It had anti immigration. It had about everything the right wing had not quite been as openly saying, but he did. And yeah. So conservatism becomes kind of triumphant in the 80s. By luck and a third party candidate, some people get back in, Democrats get back into power in the 90s. It's a turbulent, turbulent period, the Clinton years, to say the least. You mentioned in your lecture, the Bush v. Gore election of 2000. But that's a hinge too. Today, today, everyone is discussing and polling and complaining about the sheer cynicism about politics. Now, it's not possible to date the exact beginning of this cynicism. But why not the 2000? That was a that was certainly a hinge moment. We've got a lot of hinges in this course. A lot of hinges. But that is a big one, right? Because everyone, I mean, you can't attract more attention than a presidential election that couldn't be decided for 35 days or whatever. Which is really interesting because the election of 1800 was very similar, couldn't be decided. It went for, I think, 36 votes. It actually was weirdly similar. And in both cases, the question was, how now what? Like what happens next? How does it get divided? Where does it, you know, the Supreme Court? At least they didn't let the Supreme Court pick the president. No, but for 35 votes in Congress, they were trying to figure it out. Well, this Congress was doing it, which is representative, right? Which is what the Constitution says, I think. Anyway, sorry. Yeah. Well, I think, so it's obviously an election that had real political consequences. I also think it's an election that set two important things in moment. One is the fact of close elections itself. So I think it's become so normalized in the 21st century that elections are these incredibly tight races. That is actually quite anomalous. I mean, the late 19th century looked like that as well. Well, in the middle of the 20th century, right? In the middle of the 19th century, they were always like, you know, we don't know who won. No, we won. No, they won. There have been other moments, but presidents, right? And if you look at the 20th century, most presidential elections are landslides of varying degrees one way or another. And that has been less and less true in the 21st century. So I think the 2068. There were some close ones. 1960 was raised. So, you know, these are generalizations. Chicago ballot boxes. But I just want to warn some people, we've made some generalizations. One or two. Or 40. But nonetheless, the idea that we lived in a world of close elections and of bitter division around those close elections. And elections couldn't be decided. The thing not only close, but like, oh, how are we going to figure it out? That's a whole new anxiety of the recent past on a presidential level. Well, it's also in 2000 that this map, and I have used these maps a lot, right? The maps of the red and the blue, they're very quick snapshots of what's happening in a moment and of change over time. But those really became popularized in this moment of 2000. And they're convenient. We use them for lots of reasons, but they're also really, I think, quite dangerous in certain ways, because they tend to present most places as being either one or the other, right? Everyone. And when in fact, you know, in most places in the United States, you've got very mixed communities. We live in a verbal world. Right. And the ones who will, sometimes they have 45% of the voting taxes. Yeah. No. Yeah. So, the imagination of the country's politics, both the actuality, but then also the imaginative world that comes out of the year 2000, I think is really, really important. That was even my experience of the most recent election. I was sort of sent out to talk about democracy in lots of different places before the election. And, you know, we all saw and imbibe the partisanship and the division in everything that you talked about, that everyone else has seen. What surprised me being out and about in, you know, I know, Michigan, I spent a lot of time in Michigan, was that people weren't necessarily divided that way. They were curious. They had questions. They were, they took sides, but they weren't the world. There was much more complexity and a willingness, right? It was different from what we would all assume based on everything that we inhale and see from the media. That's really one of the reasons. So I've mentioned my road trip book coming out in April. You can all read it. But one of the reasons that I wanted to call this land is your land, a road trip through US history. But I wanted to kind of get out of my own space, right, and encounter and ask and have some of these more direct conversations. But I also thought that history might be a way for people to be curious about each other and to be curious about the experiences of people who are a little bit different from you. Because one of the things that I find so unappealing about our political culture in this moment is it's scorn for curiosity. And for historians, for anyone who is going to have anything interesting to say about the world, citizens, right? Curiosity is one of my highest values. And so a little bit with the road trip book, I thought, well, if people can't bring themselves to be curious about each other in this moment, maybe they can be curious about the people of the past and about the places that the past happened. You made polarization, one of your three big themes in one of your lectures, which was great. And where does it come from? Well, the 90s, although even before that, but the 90s that brought us almost all of our culture wars. We had huge fights over history standards. We had huge fights over museum exhibitions, abortion, so many other issues in the 90s. Higher education. Higher education. All kinds of ways. Many, many issues. And I actually teach a course here now called the history wars. And it turns out so much, it could be, of course, just on the 90s, because it launched so many battles over the past. But, you know, polarization is our word for this now. It does make you wonder how much of that is kind of grassroots bottom up. How much of it is sort of top down politics because our politics has become so nationalized with the media universe. It's a shorthand in its way. We really are divided. We are divided. But saying it breaks down into polarization, that there are two sides and it's easy that you can see the two sides. That is true to some extent. But I think that simplifies things in a way that makes it feel more us against them in the favor of people who want it to feel like us against them. Well, I tend to think that at least part of what's happened with polarization. Look, we've had a whole 250 years of American history we've been talking about. People have been divided about lots and lots of things. Maybe most divided right after the beginning. But certainly very. I think what is different about our moment is that some of the mediating forces and institutions that were supposed to be there to manage these divisions now are reinforcing them. And so the most obvious or either one or another. The most obvious to me is the fact that we have ideologically divided parties for really the first time in American history in a way that can be mapped on a spectrum, which is to say that all the Democrats are over here and all the Republicans are over here. And that just wasn't the case for a lot of the 20th century. We talked about some of the people who didn't like that, right? And thought that actually having these mediating forces were producing too much consensus around things like civil rights, right? Opposition to civil rights. And so there were lots of problems with that. But I guess I tend to think that we've always had division and polarization is something else because polarization is actually about the way our political institutions and processes work. But if, as you're saying, we have all of one party on one side and all of another on the other, you have to factor into that that on one side there are people who feel differently about democracy than on the other side. Oh, yeah. And that's a big part of it. We have an American who hate democracy and they'll tell you that. Or don't understand what it is or don't want it or think we can get better. Part of this current moment is actually a debate about democracy or non-debate about democracy that's pretty profound. Yeah, I'm not sure it's always such a simple division, but we'll, you know. No, no, no, what I'm saying is, I'm saying concern and debate and emotion and everything else about democracy in this moment is a big part of this. There's a persistence to this question you've raised, though, and it's in the historiographies and what historians do. I mean, one of the big debates about the 1850s, so divisive as it was, obviously it was divisive. We were polarized in the 1850s. It didn't end well. But part of that historiographical debate has always been, was this about real issues or was it, as some said, just unctuous politics? It was dividing parties, preparing election division, you know. And there was a school of historians, sometimes seen as more conservative, but not for all. I know they might have voted liberal. But they said, you know, this was just politics, run amok. And then there are others who said, no, no, no, no, no. No. Slavery was the biggest serious issue the country had ever seen. And so we kind of face that now. Are we arguing about, I think we are arguing about very real things now, but when are we arguing about deeply divisive real issues that have no reconciliation or compromise? And when are we just keeping the sides divided enough to make politics function? You know, a lot of the public thinks it's the latter. That's what they seem to hate Democrats and Republicans equally now. You've seen these recent polls. I know. It's incredible. The low rankings of all both parties, Congress, every institution, because they've all run amok. Now, I don't happen to think that's exactly true, but it doesn't matter what I think. But isn't this kind of what we always end up debating? What are the real issues here? And how much of this is just how political institutions function? Well, and the idea that you can, the idea that you necessarily have to separate those. No, right? We don't as a story. That's what I'm saying is that we don't as historians have to do that. There is the, you know, and we all are interested in politics sitting here, right? We're political historians. So we understand the framing, the political framing of everything and how it works, regardless if it's an economic issue or a social issue or a cultural issue and everything else. So there is that component. And so no matter what we're looking at, we're going to see the degree to which in some way the politics is shaping it. But we're also going to see and acknowledge in different ways at different times. There are these deeper, more profound issues that sometimes people are focused on and are acknowledging. Sometimes maybe in the time and in the moment they are not. It doesn't mean that they're not there, right? And we're, oh, they're there. They're there. And this is a really, we're not going to tell anybody out there that abortion and religion and LGBTQ rights have not been deeply personal to people because they are. Anyway, I love that old question. Is it, is it just politics? Or is it about something? Yeah, I don't think you can have just politics. I don't think you can either. Right. But you're right. It's a real question. But we, we chatted before about the fact before we run out of time. Oh, yeah. That's right. We were going to talk about, we sort of centered on the idea that we're, I don't want to say we're generationally different, but we have some years dividing all of us and we all have different memories of the bicentennial, right? So here we are looking ahead towards 250. I know how am I that old? Looking ahead towards, you know, 2026, 250. And there was that other similar like moment. It was a reckoning moment. It was an anniversary moment. It was our capitalistic commercial moment. It was, oh my gosh, it was everywhere. So we thought one thing that we might talk about towards the close of this conversation was how we experienced that bicentennial moment. You should go first. You should go first though. All right. Well, this is the only context in which I am the youngster in life anymore. But okay. Exactly. So I was four years old at the moment of the bicentennial. Which was 1976 in case you haven't even been out for a while. And I grew up right outside of Philadelphia. And so Philadelphia was into the bicentennial. So I didn't really understand all of that at the age of four, but it is actually my first sort of political historical memory comes from the bicentennial because my parents dressed me up as a peanut and they were Jimmy Carter supporters. So they dressed me up as a peanut with like a cardboard peanut front and back and some red, white, and blue. It made me march in a bicentennial parade. And so my first historical memory is how scratchy this costume was and how much I really enjoyed it. I did not like it one bit. But so that is my first historical memory. It is my bicentennial memory. It's actually the scene that opens my road trip book as you know, that there are lots of four year olds out there now who are going to have something like that in 2026. Although actually I'm a little distressed about how much of the celebration or marking of 2026 seems to be happening online instead of in person. And that will but on a local level, I think that would be different. All right, I think Joanne, you're next chronologically speaking. So I was 14 at the bicentennial and that's an age where if you're going to have a passion about something or you're going to seize an interest in something, 14 is one of those ages where you grab. So it's the bicentennial that essentially made me a historian because it was everywhere. My period, the founding period was everywhere. It was everywhere. It was bicentennial minutes, bicentennial shlok, bicentennial everything. It was everywhere. So you couldn't escape it if you wanted to and I didn't want to. But I experienced the bicentennial in two ways and one of them was sort of superficial I guess, but I wanted to somehow take part. And the other one actually, at the time I didn't understand it, but now I do is a little deeper. So the superficial one was like I wanted to do something for the bicentennial. Like I actually went to see like they had the little bicentennial train you could go and they had documents like I did everything I could do. But those were kind of musical. David, I know the entire soundtrack. I know the entire sound. I know it from an eight track tape player with the eight track clicks built in. I swear. But anyway, apart from that, I wanted to take part personally above and beyond that. And so I don't know if you remember everyone was painting fire hydrants. Oh, yeah. So I went with my brothers. We painted the fire hydrant across the street from our house in the down heights. Red, white, blue, 1776 to 1976 is a really embarrassing picture of me with like two long ponytails behind the fire hydrant. So that was like, okay, now I've done my part. But the part that that affected me then and still does is I knew that on at noon on July 4th, yeah, bells were going to be rung all around the country because supposedly that was the moment when the Declaration of Independence was signed, which it isn't. It wasn't. They made that up. Oh, I started picking it up. So they made it up. But I didn't know that at the time. At the time, what I thought was a good makeup was I thought was that there was going to be this national moment with bells ringing. And I was I went outside to hear the bells. I went outside to hear the bells. And I thought about the fact that this was a big country in a way that I had not before that point. And that so my memory of the bicentennial on a more profound levels, I did hear some bells. I did hear some bells, even if I didn't, I would have made them up. But I did hear some bells. But it was more the idea that there was something national going on that that I just hadn't thought about things nationally before, right? So that bicentennial, in addition to grabbing me by the history collaring and kink me into the profession in some way, it made me think about the United States in a different kind of a way. This is one of the things I'm fascinated. I hope it's not all online. But I want to watch and see how particularly younger people are going to experience whatever the heck is going to be going on next year and how it might be shaping them. Because that kind of thing I can attest can have a really powerful influence on how you understand your place in the nation and maybe even in the world. There may be, as there was in 1976, an alternative bicentennial. Yeah. Was it Concord, remember? It was the sort of radical bicentennial. There should be all kinds of commemorations and non-commemorations. I'll try to make mine quick. I was 26 or 7. I was a high school teacher in Flint, Michigan. I made sure that as many people as possible were wearing their 76 medallions. We did our own bicentennial minutes on the PA system of the high school. I led that, too. I even wrote the damn things. I also took 50 students on a week-long field trip to Boston, Philadelphia, and Washington, and seven days from Flint, Michigan. Most of these kids have never been out of their own state much, maybe their own city. That was extraordinary. We saw many exhibitions that were special and so on. But I'll leave you. It goes back to politics. I'd forgotten this. On the night before the 76 election, literally the night before the election, Jimmy Carter and Walter Mondale ended their campaign in Flint, Michigan. Gerald Ford, they're running his Ford's, his home state. They were going to knock Ford out in his own state, and they did. But they ended it in Flint at what was then known as the IMA Auditorium. It was this big auditorium that 5,000 people downtown. I took a bunch of my students today. You're probably getting in trouble for this. They took a bunch of my students with our green Carter posters to this event, and there they were. Happy Days Are Here Again was playing, as it always does at Democratic events, and then walked Carter and Mondale down the main aisle, and they gave their speeches. Everybody was screaming and hollering the next day. He won the presidency. But for this Georgian to end his campaign in my hometown, man, that was cool. But the last thing I'll say about the bicentennial, and it'll be very interesting to chart this at this moment, and you're out there on the road with this new book, a road trip book. The bicentennial was a very contested thing, and especially in the wake of the 60s, and civil rights, and so many other rights movements. People who wanted their stories to be a part of it, who were being prevented. But it also gave people, who were 60s people, who had been so influenced by all the rights movements and the changes, a chance to be patriotic. I remember feeling that distinctly. Hero has taken all these high school kids to Philly, the Independence Hall, and all these places, and were singing patriotic songs. I mean, five or six years ago, I probably would not have sung patriotic songs. It makes you think about your country. It makes you think about your country, and in a moment where everyone is thinking about the country, you reckon with it in a different kind of a way. There's scholarship on this now that argues that the bicentennial, and the way that it swept popular history across the country, had a lot to do with processing the agony of the Vietnam War. Oh, that makes perfect sense. And the agony of so many other things about the 60s. Not always to the good, perhaps, you know, because it made people do some forgetting as well as remembering. It'll be interesting to chart what 26 does to how we process our recent history. Oh, Lord. Before we close, could you humor me with a brief commercial advertisement? Humor you. Yes. Humor me with every part. Just because it's looking ahead to next year. Oh, okay. Okay. And one of the things that I have been doing and will be doing, and I just want to mention it a lot like in is I am honing and creating a YouTube channel that's going to be just full of pondering history and to have some politics built in. But I encourage  amlodipine, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin,

=== FILE: America at 250 Podcast Episode 9： WWII and The Cold War [xeneDJqIdEE].txt ===

 catalogue catalogue catalogue Well, hello again! This is another rendition of America 250, a history of the podcast. I'm David Blight. I'm here with John Freeman and Beverly Gage. Bev, Bev, this week, has lectured on the very tight subjects of the whole story of World War II, and anti-communism in the Cold War. In two lectures. In two lectures. But they were magnificent lectures and demonstration that it's possible to do history with such scale and with such efforts at synthesis in parts. Bev, how do you think about doing synthesis of something like World War II in one lecture? How in the world do you do that? How do we do that? Well, I would say I think about it with some despair every time I sit down to try to do it. And you know, I think the question for me is often if we're going to draw back in the way that we have in this course, how do you find a theme that is going to be part of an ongoing conversation? And in case of this course, a lot of it is about how the United States is conceiving of itself, what it stands for, what its central values are in these moments. And then it's hard, I would say, to find a balance between the sort of individual story, right? Often the way that people connect best with the past is through these individual stories. And I'm a biographer, so I'm big on that connection. We all are. If you do that, then you do that too much, then you can't get at the really big scale. So I would say of everything that we've, that I've talked about thus far, I did find these two weeks, the global scale of World War II, having 45 minutes or 50 minutes to talk about that, and then the origins of the Cold War and the Red Scare at home, those are big lifts. But I do think, and John, I want to hear from you on this. I do think it is an ultimate responsibility of historians that at the end of the day, our whole craft moves towards synthesis. The world wants synthesis at different levels and scales. This is not a graduate seminar. This is a lecture course. So I think there's an obligation we have here to synthesize. Oh, absolutely. I mean, I felt the same way about, you know, the first lecture of the course that was, you know, other than the introduction was me talking about the American Revolution and summing it up in one lecture. And I remember sitting down to do that and thinking, yeah, that's normally a whole semester for me, but I will do it in one hour. But related to what you just said, Bev, it's it's it's synthesis. It's looking for a sort of broader meaning. And in a sense, related to what you just said, David, historians are particularly well qualified to offer synthesis because we're immersed in the details and the facts. And we are the best able to step back and say, OK, now that we have all of that under control, what are the big patterns? And that's really, you know, when we first started talking about this course. But that's a muscle, too, isn't it? I mean, our love of detail, our love of the archives works a certain set of muscles. But that muscle that we have to train to generalize when when you're out speaking to a public library. And the question is, well, how did World War Two transform the United States? Answer that in five minutes because you have to when you're on the spot. Well, and when it works well, it is that synthesis of teaching and research, right? They're supposed to be complementary. And in some sense, they are almost totally different creatures. But I feel that I learn a lot from this challenge of synthesis that I then it allows me to articulate my own research in different ways. And vice versa, I learn things in deep, deep in the archives that then can resurface. And having to sit down, however despairing you may feel at some point, having to sit down and actually do that by default is clarifying, right? I remember discovering when I first became a professor and I first came to Yale and I was doing my big American Revolution Semester Long Course. And at some early point, I can't even remember, I was lecturing about like the Boston Massacre, the Boston Tea Party, or one of these like, you know, iconic moments. And as I was preparing the lecture, I actually for a moment had to stop and think, what do I actually think about this? I knew what it was. I could have talked about what it was. But the question was, what do I actually want to say about this? And what's the big so what? And it's not until my first year as a professor, but that moment when I sat down and had to do what we've been doing to prepare this course that I realized, oh, different thing, different thing, important thing. And that's part of what we give students is that kind of insight. But maybe our final podcast should be our favorite things that we left out. Oh, we might need to for that. I've had a running list. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. All the things that weren't there. Don't you feel I feel I didn't do the Andrew Johnson impeachment. I missed a whole war. I mean, I feel like a responsibility. Right. Some part of me is like, I have failed history. I talked about all of these years and like these 85 vitally important things did not get included. Can I leave this out? But lest we lose the point of why we did this course. We don't want to complain too much because we came together here around the assumption that a big treatment of American history was in order at this moment, this anniversary moment, and there might just be interest. And there was a lot of interest. Turns out the really thoughtful generalization is still important. And we're, you know, we said this when we met together before all started. And there was that video of us, right? This is these kinds of anniversaries are reckoning moments, right? And that's part of the spirit under which we came together. Let's take a World War Two for the moment reckoning. God, what a reckoning. A transformation of the world, its borders, its nations, its peoples, its culture, the very idea of loss in the world. In your lecture, you divided it by who and what and how and when. Why? Why? Why? That's the big one. Why? That's why we do this. Yeah, which I thought was very smart. But go back to that, if you would. Here's this country. The United States was pretty isolationist in the 30s for good. No, pretty good reasons. World War One was a horrible experience for everybody. A lot of Americans thought that we should just never get involved again in entanglements abroad and everybody else's problems and so on. Internally, there was an America First movement, which was quite prominent. But then within a year or two, it's the largest mobilization the world's ever seen. How can that happen? How do you explain that? The why? Right. And one of the things that's interesting about the Second World War is that we tend to tell it and for very good reason as the good war. Right. The war in which we're on the side of angels. Right. Defeated fascism brought to mind. And there's a lot of truth to that. But one of the things that's interesting is how much debate there was before Pearl Harbor over precisely this why question. Why would we do this? Who will benefit? What are the aims of this? Franklin Roosevelt is trying to define that. Lots of people in American society are trying to figure that out. Now, once the war happens, it becomes one of the most popular wars in its moment in American history. And that changes dramatically and immediately with Pearl Harbor and had been changing a little bit before that, even in that moment. Unless we forget Pearl Harbor was devastating. Most of the American fleet was destroyed. And the shock of it. Right. The shock of it. Total shock. Yeah. Yeah. And so I think one of the pieces that I find particularly true of the Second World War and then of this early moment in the Cold War is the challenge of stepping back to the earlier moment and really being immersed in that because we have such teleological stories about this. The United States was always going to enter the Second World War, was always going to fight fascism, was always going to win and was always going to come out on the other side with this immense global footprint. And I think we have a kind of triumphalist story about the Cold War, too, right, that the struggle against totalitarianism or communism or Soviet power. It all began in this moment. It was a long struggle, but then boom, you know, in the 80s and 90s, the US emerges victorious. And I think for historians and students of history, it's just so much more interesting to go back to the moments of uncertainty, which is a theme that you talked about. To look forward in time instead of looking backward, right? Because to really get at the moment, you have to. And I remember in my most recent book on violence and Congress, my trick was like to pretend that I didn't know there was going to be a civil war because I had to look forward in time. And the the contingency, you know, well, they didn't, right? And we live in a moment where it's all contingency and we don't know what's coming. And that kind of defines our experience of this time. So it's interesting. That's part of why you may have noticed. I like to assign things that are someone sitting at a moment in time, trying to look at the future and trying to figure out what's coming next. So what was your thought about assigning this book along those lines? Right. Well, I signed the. Hey, hey, yeah. So Friedrich Hayek, it's interesting because Friedrich Hayek is not an American. An Austrian economist, right? He's Austrian. He's an economist. And he writes this book while he's in London during the war. Now, eventually he does come over to the United States and becomes one of the pivotal figures of the sort of libertarian or market oriented conservative movement that takes off in the in the later part of the century. Part of Milton Friedman's Chicago School of Economics. Exactly. So this is a book that is going to go on to become a canonical text in that sense. And so I wanted something that would be in conversation with that conservative movement that would be a real classic. So that's part of why nobody nobody is going to regret having read Hayek, whether you like it or you don't like it, or you argue with. It's true. You're going to have a moment in one way or another. And what I also thought was important is that it's it's it's 44 that he writes this. So it's this moment at the end of the war. Everybody is looking around and trying to figure out what the post war order is going to look like. And Hayek has this very particular set of concerns in which he's saying all of these things that have been happening over the last, you know, couple of decades in the Anglo-American world. He's writing about Britain and the United States, other places, too. This build up of state power, this turn toward the mass experience, the the central planning that has come into being, you know, and in the United States, the sort of heroic New Deal vision, the plan is more than a decade old by then and figure this out. He's saying, wait a minute. This is actually going to lead us toward tyranny, surf, surf, surf toward a renewed fascism. And actually, that debate over whether fascism was a form of distorted and morphed capitalism or whether it was an expression of a certain kind of socialism, that debate goes on and on and on for decades in terms of diagnosing fascism. So I like the uncertainty of it. It's a classic text. And I also think it's a text that has all sorts of resonances with our moment. But he's also talking about them in a different context. So I thought it might upend some people's political categories. But what fascism is very much about the world. He talks about one of the things I found fascinating in it is his talking about the fact that part of what a totalitarian regime does is change the meanings of words. Right. He talks a lot. He starts out by saying, we all are going to mean different things with the word liberal, right? And I'm going to use it this way from the 19th century and we're using it a different way in the 20th century. So that fact in and of itself that the words and words like liberty that we take for granted actually can have many different meanings that can be deployed and manipulated in ways that really can suck a population in. I want to back up to the war, but while we're on high, it is a fierce whatever, embrace, manifesto of individualism. As a value, not just a concept, but as a way of life. And of course, it connects us back to Tocqueville, that famous section in Tocqueville where he says these Americans, they have such a depth of belief in their individualism, it becomes the habits of their heart. Hayek is arguing that that's just human nature. The 20th century had many debates. I mean, Lipman in public opinion is a manifesto about human nature. We're all irrational, he argued, and therefore susceptible to all kinds of propaganda. The 20th century caused a collision, did it not, of every idea of modernity. And it begins to collide now with two world wars and a huge depression. And then further wars to come and a tremendous fight, still not over, between ideas of democracy and ideas of communism. Just to put it in a totally dichotomous way. Well, yeah, but that's why you gave us here two works of kind of intellectual history to undergird these huge conflicts of the 20th century. At least that's what I saw you doing. Yeah, well, I assigned Hayek in part because it's such a powerful rejoinder to the central claim of something like the New Deal. Right. The something like the New Deal is claiming you cannot have political liberty without economic security. And if you are poor or struggling in something like the Great Depression, obviously you can't solve that as an individual. And security is necessary for liberty. And Hayek is coming back and he's sort of saying, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You actually cannot have liberty, political liberty, without also having economic liberty. So if you are not a free agent in a free market, right? If you are bound by the restrictions of government, the instructions of central planners, right? That's what's going to destroy political liberty. And so there are these two radically different ways of thinking about not only human nature, but actually what institutional structure allows people to be their fullest selves, to express their fullest liberties. And I think that you're right, David, in sort of thinking about the ways there are these dichotomies that emerge during this period that people go back and forth and back and forth about World War Two, certainly. But in the Cold War, and this is what I was trying to suggest a little bit in lecture, one of those is the geopolitical reality, the US versus the Soviet Union. But that geopolitical reality is situated in all of these ideological debates, capitalism and communism, tyranny and democracy, individualism and collectivism, religion and atheism. And you can go on and on and on. And and so it's a moment where I think politics and political action is is uniquely saturated with these kind of and they're all existential if you're a believer, right? It's a it's a moment of isms, these grand ways of thinking. And that's part of what Hayek gets at, right? Is that there are theoretical grand ways of thinking. And then there's actually the on the ground reality of how these things play out. And ironically, the the grandest of all was this. Frankly, utopian quest of socialism, communism through the 20th century until the failure of the Soviet Union. And then it didn't completely fail because Vladimir Putin is trying to revive it. But less, you know, spoiler alert, maybe for our students. What a marvelous final exam question that would make the relationship serious, the relationship between political and economic liberty in the wake of the American Revolution. God knows in reconstruction. And God knows here. Hamilton says it explicitly. Hamilton says, well, so did the radical republic. Right. Hamilton says if you're a people who are seeking security will be all too willing to give up liberties and they will be hard pressed to get those liberties back. It's the same kind of dichotomy. Whereas Jefferson had all that faith in common people, they would figure out a way to go the right way. As long as they were small farmers and they agree with him. I cut you off, sorry. Oh, I was just going to pick up on the on the idea of isms. And I did realize at one point that all of the seminars I teach here are are are isms. So I teach liberalism and conservatism. I teach communism and anti-communism. You're 20th century is starting. You got to do the isms. And the big isms in terms of American national identity in this moment are Americanism and un-Americanism. And that word un-American becomes so prominent. It's sort of invented in this moment and gets its political currency revived again. And it comes to mean so many things to so many different people. And you see a debate emerging about what in fact is American, what in fact is un-American. And then you get a bunch of really funny formulations later on in which once you're deep into the Red Scare, people begin to identify themselves as anti-anti-communist or un-un-American because they're anti-communist. But they're more anti what the anti-communists are doing. And so you just see these circles going around and around and around. Well, you know, another thing here. This isn't just about a final exam, but lest we forget this question of the triumphal narrative of World War Two, the good war, which, as you say, is not without its evidence. But we have a triumphal narrative about all of American history. God knows the founding era, the American Revolution, the legacy of the American Revolution. Of course, we won the revolution. Well, that's where we started the course. Yeah, with me saying, of course, the entire founding period. We see it as a series of courses. And of course, we declared independence. Of course, we won the revolution. Of course, we got a constitution. Of course, of course, of course. That's teleology. That's triumphalism. That's what used to be called the wiggish view of history. But it's all over the Civil War, too, of course. Of course, the United States ended slavery. We're all abolitionists now, even though abolitionists were never more than 15 percent, even of abolitionist towns in upstate New York. So I mean, I hope somebody accuses us of teaching against that grain at some point. You know, we've been interrogating it. We surely have been interrogating it. Now, we had a question from a member of our class about how you interpreted the coming of World War Two and why the United States enters. The reason for it. Yeah. So this is from I do have it here. It's from someone who listened to the lecture, a Tuesday lecture. And the question says, please enlarge for me. It's addressed to you on your statement that one substantial reason for us entering World War Two was that it was thought that that would stimulate our industrial base. And you seem to imply that this was a widely held opinion, not limited to captains of industry. I was dismayed, depression or not. It was hard for me to believe that Americans would gladly forfeit our soldiers' lives and treasure besides for crass industrial gain. Professor, two things to say about this. So one, talking about industrial mobilization and actually industrial mobilization as the strategy of the war is a little bit different from talking about it as the motivation of the war. And so there seems to be happening before the war. Right. Right. That is true. But it but I think there's some confusion there. And so there are kinds of motivation, right? Right. And if you watch the the why we fight. Exactly. That's one of the really interesting things. You see this variety of articulations of war aims. And then, of course, there are particular military strategies that are also pretty vital when you're winning the war. So I did not mean to present a cynical view of that. But I do think it's important to be situated in the fact that the war and the depression are just intimately tied for absolutely everyone concerned. And so those sets of questions, what is going to be the consequence of this? They last after the war. There's deep fear that once the war ends, the depression is coming back. So I think that's one thing. The other thing that I would say about this question is that it's interesting because I was able to look at it before we all met. And it goes on to say, you know, my father fought in the war. And I think we're entering a moment in history that is much more alive and personal and within living memory or people know their relatives or had actual participation in these events themselves. And so there's something different about doing the history of the 20th century for all of us around now, right? Because we have a whole different relationship. And it obviously you can feel defensive about that for really logical reasons. But I want to go back to your earlier point just for a moment because I, you know, thought to myself, you're talking about the depression moving large and all of these reasons why it made sense. But, you know, again, talking about contingency and putting yourself in the moment. If you're in that moment with the depression right behind you. Going into a war is not necessarily crass capitalism. It's also, you know, what's the best way for us to serve the general good in this moment? It's not just economic. It's bigger than that. And looking back, it looks like this for sure. Right. And in fact, Franklin Roosevelt makes the case very powerfully both before the war and then moving on, as does Henry Luce. I mentioned his famous 1941 essay, The American Century. They both make the case that what they have learned over the last few decades is that whether you're talking about global security or you're talking about economic security and the global economy, because this is a global depression in the 30s, what they've learned is that there isn't any way for a country like the United States to survive and thrive without actually engaging with playing a powerful role in the world, embracing a certain vision of US power. Because the question is here, whether people want it or not. The moment has arrived and you see lots of self consciousness about that and then lots of brainstorming about what that's going to mean and how to do it well. Let's go to the heart of that, if we could, because as before, with the Revolutionary Era and the Civil War era and the whole latter part of the 19th century, we have this paradox again that the United States could mobilize to this almost unbelievable scale to fight fascism on two fronts. Let's not forget the Japanese were more than an authoritarian regime conquering most of Asia. That mobilization is phenomenal in world history. It doesn't happen overnight, but almost overnight. American industry is nationalized. It's converted to making guns and tanks and tons of ammunition all over the country. I grew up next to an Anderson tank plant in Flint, Michigan. There were tanks still laying there in the 1950s. At the same time, we fought with the segregated army and navy. We took our racial apartheid with us all over the globe. Did it anyway? How do you explain the why of that mobilization? Was it again the nature of the enemy, an existential threat from two enemies now, one that had directly attacked us and the other that declared war almost immediately when they got the chance? Is that what it is? Is it existential threat that led to this kind of mobilization or is it something else? Or was it the clever manipulation of the Roosevelt administration, which was building destroyers and trading them with the Brits for two and three years before Pearl Harbor? Does it have to be either or? No, we don't believe in either or, do we, in history? No, we really don't. Well, and I think manipulation might be too strong a word in any case. But this question... And I'm an FDR lover, don't forget that. But the question of race and the Second World War, I think it's a really interesting one. So the United States mobilizes, as you say, as a segregated army. We have Japanese internment at home. We've coming out of this period of the 20s into the 30s, where ideas about racial hierarchy have been very prominent in American life. But the war is really a catalyst for beginning to change that in a bunch of different ways. So one, I think many Americans understood what they were fighting as these totalitarian fascist regimes that were built around visions of racial purity. And that is one of the things, right, that the Japanese regime and the Germans, they have in common these ideas. Now, they have different racial hierarchies, but they nonetheless have these ideas about racial purity and racial domination that obviously result in Germany in the tragedy of the Holocaust, in the Pacific War, take a somewhat different form. And that's really powerful and really shocking to many Americans. It goes a long way for good reason to discredit some of those ideas as they existed in the United States. And then you also had coming out of the 30s a kind of racial liberalism that you hear expressed. It's part of what we listen to Paul Robeson's Ballad for Americans today. And it has a whole section where it says, what am I an American? I'm an, you know, I'm an American. Exactly. And so you do have these visions that are about a kind of integrationism, a kind of racial liberalism that's going to have dramatic effects after the war. The U.S. Army does desegregate in 1948. And we see, of course, some of the stirrings of the civil rights. By executive order, not by act of Congress, which is another story we can take ahead. But yes, and you pointed out at the beginning of the ropes and song today that he first performed as part of the federal theater project.  which was a federal effort to employ artists, and it became a coding... I think technically it was in the Federal Theater Project, and then the Federal Theater Project got shut down, and then he did his radio broadcast, so I'm not sure the exact... Shut down for being too radical, and communist by the DICE committee, anyway. Yeah, which is itself phenomenal. The federal government began to create art, and a lot of it became edgy, to say the least, and radical. What did they expect? But anyway, okay, in the middle of this massive war, on a scale no one could ever have imagined, that will lead to destruction of city after city after city in Europe and in Asia, millions of people will die, far more Russians than anybody else. The United States is building already a national security state, because it has to. It has to. It's militarizing and mobilizing the nation state, and Washington, D.C. was rebuilt from World War II. That's an important point that I want to touch on before you go on, which is just they have to, right? So getting away from motive and strategy, it's also given... Necessity. Exactly, necessity given the circumstances on the ground and where things are, that has to happen, and that has to be woven in here as well. Oh, it does, and they rebuild Washington, D.C. because they kind of have to. They've got all these new agencies now. They've got all these new... All the alphabet soup now. They all have buildings, you know, from the New Deal on. So what is this thing called, the national security state? And of course, it's going to inform everything we learned about the Cold War. What is it actually at its heart? Well, so one thing that's interesting is that word security, which was one of the buzzwords of the 1930s and then becomes... Social security. We move from social security to national security, but they're both these big state building projects. And I think, again, it's hard to remember just how much that had to be invented in that moment. The United States had no intelligence service. They had to basically beg the British to come over and train American spies and intelligence officials in 1939, 40, 41. British were breaking codes, and we didn't know how to do it, right? Right. I mean, there is a little piece of military intelligence at that point. The FBI is trying to do this, but when you look at, as I was writing about Hoover, it was fascinating because they're all writing back to each other, sort of saying, uh-oh. We've just been charged with keeping track of espionage, sabotage, subversion, and how do you do that? And so it's this very rapid scaling up, and it's a very rapid learning curve. And I think one of the things that's interesting about the Second World War is, you know, first come, you have big mobilizations, and this is certainly one of them and lots of learning. And after earlier wars, you mostly then demobilized, and there's a little bit of that, and there are moves to do that. Certainly many, many, many millions of men moved out of the armed services, but they're really- And they had babies. That's right. The baby boom generation. Like David Blight. Yes. Had a lot of babies. But the thing that happens then very rapidly after this war is a reconceiving of this state of war as being something that's going to be semi-permanent from now on. And is that partly because, as you mentioned in lecture, right? It's partly because of the comparison and contrast with the rest of the world, right? Because we emerge from that, and we're like, oh, we're powerful. We have all of this industry. The world has been wrecked in a variety of ways, and here we are. So that's a new sort of self-conception. And at some point, not necessarily now, but at some point I want to come back to, you talked about, maybe in our last conversation here, you talked about self-consciousness or self-awareness, and that plays an interesting role in American history given our sort of deliberate start. I'm throwing that out there because I think at some point we should come back to that idea. But this plays into that as well. I will say briefly for now that this is a moment of deep self-consciousness. I mentioned that this is the moment this academic discipline called American Studies is born because suddenly the country is like, oh, we have to figure out what's American and what's not American and what makes us special and what makes us different. It is a kind of high moment of American exceptionalism, but it's also this big moment of American anxiety, and you see it in all sorts of realms. Americans are worried that actually American culture isn't as good as European culture, or that actually- It goes all the way back. Right. That's my guys. American education is not as good. We're not as smart. We're not as sophisticated. America have a real literature. All of those things. So a lot of these are security concerns and geopolitics, but it's also this fascinating moment of kind of cultural renegotiation and ambition. Right. Cold War has a whole cultural agenda. It creates the Fulbright program, which sends Americans all over the world and people from all over the world here. They created the American Studies Center in Salzburg, Austria. Right. The CIA is funding all sorts of little pro-democracy magazines. The Paris Review gets money from the CIA. Voice of America, which is, I guess, now being destroyed. Has it already been destroyed? Well, I think that it's under attack. But the Voice of America, headquartered for years and years in Munich, Germany, was an America propaganda machine, as well as a source of American culture, all kinds. Well, not just- It had a jazz station that went all over Europe. Not to jump too far ahead, but I do think one of the things that we're seeing in our own moment, and not just this year, but over the last 10 years or so, is a rethinking of a dismantling of certain parts of that Cold War state that was built, the Cold War investment in science and universities, the existence of NATO. We've seen the Department of War in the 40s became the Department of Defense and now is going back to the Department of War. So there's a whole renegotiation underway about these institutions that were born in this very particular moment. And related to that, and in the same pattern that we're talking about here, and along with it, a real reexamination delivered or otherwise about who we are and what we are and what we should be in this kind of moment. Another one of those perhaps not musing kind of moments, but a moment in which those kinds of big questions are- Well, it may be nothing. It doesn't cause that big question. Who are we? Quite like anti-communism. I mean, I grew up with that. You know, Kami. Well, you grew up with the word Kami. Maybe Bev's too young, I don't know. But okay, let's talk about that. Since it was the central theme of today's lecture, how did that come about? I mean, it's there, as you pointed out in your lecture, long before Joe McCarthy made his own shtick. What does this come from? It's come from the Bolshevik Revolution. Does it come out of the 30s? Depression? I mean, because by the late 1940s, it's the most important question in American politics, and almost everybody is anti-communist. Well, and as you just said, and it never fully goes away. It's now become like I mentioned earlier, right? Words lose meanings or words get warped meanings and then words just become buzzwords. And now, Kami has become a meaningless thing that you sort of throw off at people. But this is the moment when it emerges. Well, undergraduates who are interested in this question, I'm teaching a whole class about this next semester. It's called the Un-American Century. It is a partner to my survey course that is the American Century. But it really is to get at this set of questions. There are lots of strains of anti-communism, anti-socialism that go way, way back well into the 19th century. But what happens in the 40s in particular is that it becomes the lingua franca of American politics, right? The things start getting divided into American and un-American. And the way you know what's what's American is that it is not communist. It's not Soviet. It's not socialist. Collectivist. It's not collectivist. It's it's not all of these isms and ists. And that's something different because it is the reigning logic of American politics really for the second half of the 20th century and everything from, you know, how the FBI and the CIA are organized to whether or not we can have national health insurance to civil rights to women's rights. They all become wrapped up in this question of socialized medicine has been one of the most common epithets of my lifetime. Oh, that's that would be socialized. No, it just means you have national health insurance. That comes from the battles of the late eight in 1940s when they were actually proposing national health insurance and then failing to get it. Had a religious. You pointed out in a lecture, it had a religious element to. You can almost describe this as America's quote unquote civic religion in its own right. But it is also true that the 40s and 50s produced a huge wave of church going in order in some ways to perform the fact that you were not communist, you were not leftist. So there was a public aspect to that. It leads to the the invention of this thing called the Judeo-Christian tradition, which is supposed to bring together Jews and Catholics and Protestants, all as being within the American category in a way that we saw in the teens and 20s. It wasn't so clear that, you know, Jews and Catholics were full Americans. Well, by the 40s and 50s, they are. But one of the things that is really binding people together in that kind of logic is this opposition to atheistic communism. And it affected everything and everybody. I'm remembering, you know, Randall Niebuhr, one of the greatest theologians of American history, Protestant theologian, writes his famous book, The irony of American history about the Cold War and how the Cold War had now forced this confrontation with certain values and beliefs. Everything, a confrontation that is given mythic proportions. Right. But that's the thing. It's not just a ground level political strategic thing now. It's become a way of life versus a way of life. And according to the thinking of the time, a different set of morals, which is where religion comes in, it becomes kind of an epic opposition. Communists would make you atheist and destroy individualism. And these are not just a set of cultural ideas or political ideas. Right. The Republicans are accusing the Democrats of being soft on communism and Democrats are defending themselves and separating themselves from the Communist Party and things that are too far left. But the red scare itself is all about not only these cultural and political and even geopolitical swirls, but about the ways that these become ideas that are enforced and they are enforced through some pretty brutal mechanisms, mechanisms of public interrogation and humiliation before the Congress, prosecutions, blacklisting, surveillance, investigation. And in some cases, that was for quite good reason, which is to say that the Communist Party did take money from the Soviet Union. They did run so there was a real party. They did run real espionage networks. And many people, Paul Robes and included were real Stalinists. They really thought that stuff was great. And then in other cases, these really pretty draconian methods are targeting people who express some vague left wing idea, who put their name on the wrong kind of petition. And so when we talk about the red scare, it's about that really repressive moment of which my dear friend J. Edgar Hoover is really the architect, but Joe McCarthy has lived on as our kind of high-comer. He's the performer and Hoover's the institution man and the enforcer. And it affected millions who might have been simply a liberal professor of literature and a university or a musical performer somewhere or a Hollywood producer who were who were in the arts and their politics might have been secondary to what they did anyway. But it did affect everybody. And you know, one one lesson in this, which one of those things historians do at the end of the day, too, is that it's easy to be cynical about anti-communism now. And it was through a lot of my life. It was you could always come up with jokes about how silly anti-communism and anti-communism became. And yet it came from somewhere. And that's kind of what you were doing here, I think, in these two lectures. To the crises of the 1940s, you've just come out of a global cataclysm. Sixty million people dead. And the United States not only survived, it rules the world now, if it wants to. Right. But then new crises emerged immediately. Right. And we're still reckoning with who we are. Yeah. On a certain level, we're big, we're powerful. We came out of that crisis. We always win. Oh, gosh, Vietnam. Exactly. I think you have this great, you said, I'm not going to be able to get it here. You said there was like a string of things that came one after another, after another, you had sort of Korea thrown in there, right? All one after another, after another, that all in one way or another, still. As long as you have anti-communist fear, you're still reckoning with who we are, because that's one way of just saying them and us and drawing a line. Well, and there's a certain romanticism now actually looking back on, I guess there aren't that many people who are romantic about the Red Scare in particular, though actually it too still has many, many defenders. Joe McCarthy has plenty of defenders even in our own moment. Roy Cohn, his chief advisor, has had remarkable influence on a certain modern president. But that is true. That is true. There are direct lines to be drawn there as well. But what I was going to say is that there is for in some parts of our own discourse, a kind of romanticism about the clear dualities of the Cold War and how clarifying they were and how they gave a sense of purpose and they forced bipartisanship and they had all of these kind of virtuous outcomes. And I don't think that's a great description of the Cold War. And but there is a there is a language out there that's like actually would be great if we got into a new Cold War because it would be because it would be clarifying, unifying. But that's right. But wars do things that gets us back to Hayek, right? Wars force a certain kind of thinking. Wars cause what he would have called planning. But wars cause this kind of group manipulation thinking because it's necessary. And then when the war is over, the question is what comes next? Well, we should probably finish up. So maybe I will do what comes next. So I fear that the challenge that we started with, which is the challenge of synthesis is only going to get worse next week, which is to say there are three lectures left in the 20th century. One of them is going to look at the sort of left and liberal movements of the 50s, 60s and 70s. And the other is going to look at the conservative movements of the 50s, 60s and 70s and into the 80s. So that's all in two lectures next week. Then we're going to get one lecture on how the Cold War came to an end and the politics of the 90s and what came after. And then there's our last lecture. Well, we're almost there. I'm going to sum up the second half of the 20th century in basically three lectures. So wish me luck. There are going to be three tremendous lectures based on the last four we've heard. There's an old folk song called the 20th century is almost over. Almost. But it's not almost over. We got three whole lectures to come. And God knows we got rock and roll yet to come. We get the music only gets better. We were talking about this at lunch. No shortage of good music. And the paradoxes and contradictions only get deeper. And the familiarity will grow for people as well. Oh, the memory history. Moving into a memory. Past. Yeah. The history beyond your memory. And now it's memory all mixed up in your history. Always a risky thing. Don't trust your memory. Trust historians. Trust historians. That's why we have historians to mess with your memory. No, no, not really. Well, again, we're coming to the end of another podcast. This was great. Thank you, Bev. Thank you, Joanne. And tune in again next week, where we'll be surging into the 1960s and 70s, I think. You don't want to miss it. You don't want to miss it. Thank you all for tuning in. See you next time.

=== FILE: America at 250： A History, DeVane Lecture, Class 22 - Anticommunism and the American Way [7nXfIboU7vI].txt ===

 subjected to subjected to I believe it now, and you know who I am. Who are you? America. America. All right. That is some applause for Paul Robeson up here and famous song Ballad for Americans that came out in 1939 and was one of the last gasps of the Federal Theater Project, which had been part of the Works Progress Administration, which had not only sponsored a lot of the relief programs that are so famous during the Great Depression, but also sponsored a series of programs for writers and artists and musicians to be employed, but also to make their contributions to American culture. Paul Robeson is a really fascinating figure from this period. He is someone who was born in the late 19th century in 1898, the son of a formerly enslaved father and an abolitionist mother, and he grows up in New Jersey, in Princeton and other towns, and then goes on to Rutgers and Columbia Law School, becomes an all-American football player, a star debater, gets his law degree, and is this kind of renaissance man to an amazing level during a period when, of course, it was very, very difficult for black men, even in the North, to access this kind of public presence. He ends up not being a lawyer for a variety of reasons, many of which have to do with racial discrimination, but in the 20s and 30s, he discovers that he also has this amazing set of musical talents, and through the Harlem Renaissance and into the politics and cultural ferment of the 1930s, the 1930s becomes one of the most prominent cultural figures in the United States. He stars first in a musical called Show Boat. He goes on to star in Othello on Broadway, and when the 1930s come along, he also becomes politically radicalized and is really central to that ferment of the 1930s, to that broad New Deal and popular front coalition we've talked about, to labor politics, to civil rights politics, and anti-fascist politics, especially through the orbit of the Communist Party. And during the 1930s, Robeson, like many Americans, gets very interested in not only the Communist Party, but the Soviet Union, because at a moment when it looks like American capitalism has collapsed, when the United States is maybe not rising to the anti-fascist fight, at least not yet. To many people, the Soviet Union emerges as a possible model. Now, there are many things going on in the Soviet Union in the 1930s that are deeply problematic, and we're going to talk about a few of those, but there's a kind of romance to the Soviet Union on the American Left in the 1930s. And so when Paul Robeson comes and sings, ballad for Americans in 1939, it's at a very interesting moment. It becomes one of the most popular songs that you heard. It's ten minutes long, and it's this kind of romp through American history. It starts with King George in 1776 and moves through the Civil War and then moves up to a kind of vision of the American everyman to a kind of racial liberalism that is coming into vogue in the 30s on the American Left. And it is popular enough that it is played that year, the following year in 1940, at both the Republican Convention and at the Communist Party Convention. So that's really the only time, to my knowledge, such a thing has ever happened in American history. But it's a widespread song, and it really gets at something about the narrative that many Americans want to tell about this country in 1940. And once the war comes along, Robeson remains this sort of central figure of patriotic rallying, especially within the labor movement and especially on the Left. So our question for lecture today is how we get from that moment in which the federal government itself is sponsoring something like ballad for Americans. The Federal Theater Project, though it's worth noting, the Federal Theater Project got canceled almost immediately after ballad for Americans and that musical emerged. But how do we get from this moment to this one? This is 1949 and 1950, a moment when Paul Robeson's life has taken a very different and very dramatic turn. The photo on the right is of a riot and mob uprising that happened in Peekskill, New York in 1949, when Paul Robeson went there in order to try to give a concert, local Klan chapters, white supremacists, but also a number of other citizens, white citizens turned out to prevent it from happening and attacked Robeson supporters and audience. By the following year, the federal government had entered the story in a dramatic way, not only keeping Paul Robeson under surveillance, but stripping him of his passport and then ultimately hauling him before congressional committees to answer a question. Have you ever been a member of the Communist Party and by extension, does that mean one way or another that you are not a true American? So that's what we're going to look at today in lecture, how we get from that moment in the late 30s, early 40s, that moment of the popular front, the New Deal, this kind of big liberal left coalition, to a moment in which the Communist Party has become the central target of American politics broadly speaking, and that includes global politics as well as politics at home. So we're going to look a little bit at the prehistory of all of this in the teens, 20s, 30s and up into the 40s. We're really going to focus on the period from the late 40s into the early 1950s, which see a sea change in American politics in all sorts of different ways. The United States acquires a much, much broader role in global affairs around the world, particularly with the rise of the Cold War, that precipitates a growing and permanent in many ways security state at home that is like anything that has ever existed before in American history. It has dramatic impacts on American domestic politics. From the 1940s onward, this question of who is American, who is un-American, a term that comes into wide circulation in this period, becomes one of the central questions of domestic politics. And it's a moment when that's being defined in new ways, particularly around the question of communism and socialism, whether you're talking about the Communist Party as an organization, or you're talking about some much wider universe of ideas about how government and society ought to be organized. It's really the central question of this period in terms of domestic politics. And we're going to finish up by looking at the figure that most people tend to think of when they think of anti-communist politics in the United States. But I'm going to make the case that Joseph McCarthy, the senator from Wisconsin, is maybe a little less significant than he might, than his reputation might suggest. There are a lot of other things going on that make McCarthy and McCarthyism possible. And then there are a lot of things that really outlast McCarthy as we think about this period and the rise of anti-communism as what I would say is really the central logic of American politics from this point onward for several decades. And what I mean by that is that beginning around 1947 or so, it's almost impossible to participate in national politics, certainly in mainstream national politics, unless you identify in some overt way as an anti-communist. There are many varieties of anti-communism. There are still lots of debates, but it's almost what I would call an anti-communist consensus emerging. It is the thing that you have to be if you want to describe yourself as American and if you want to have a voice in the polity. The Cold War, writ large, is really the backdrop for all of this. It's worth noting that the term the Cold War was coined by our good friend Walter Lippman. So as in 1922 in the aftermath of the First World War in the 1940s, after the Second World War, Walter Lippman looks around the world and says, I'm going to try to figure out and define what's happening. He's much older at this point. He's much more conservative and he's a little bit crankier than he was during his utopian youth. But he looks around and says there's something interesting and really disturbing that's starting to emerge in this moment of 1945, 46, 47. He writes a book called The Cold War, a Study in U.S. War and Policy. He's troubled by what he sees happening, which is that as the Second World War was coming to an end, it was becoming increasingly clear that the alliance between the United States and the USSR, which had always been a fragile alliance and uneasy alliance, is beginning to break apart and is going to come to define the post-war order in some significant way. And he warns Americans against this. He says, this is going to cause problems for the country. He says, my objection to the policy of containment, which is the national security logic that has started to emerge, the idea of containing the Soviet Union central to the Truman administration's approach, my objection is not that it seeks to confront the Soviet power with American power, but that the policy is a misconceived and will result in a misuse of American power. For as I have sought to show, it commits this country to a struggle, which has for its objective nothing more substantial than the hope that in 10 or 15 years, the Soviet power will, quote, break up or mellow. It's going to commit the United States, he goes on to a series of conflicts that it's not going to be able to get itself out of both at home and abroad. And so when we talk about the Cold War, this is usually how we talk about it in terms of US foreign policy, really as something that began in roughly 1947, something that comes to an end in 1991. But as I said, I think we want to think about this a little more broadly in the way that we're going to talk about it today. The Cold War as a descriptor and as a metaphor suggests that there was no actual war, no hot war. And of course, that turns out not to be true. And it turns out not to be true very quickly after this moment, though we describe the Cold War as the war that didn't happen. Nuclear weapons were not exchanged between the United States and the Soviet Union. They never went to war with each other. Nonetheless, the story of the Cold War is actually a story of a series of hot wars that occur all over the globe in the second half of the 20th century in Asia and places like Korea and Vietnam, in Africa through decolonization struggles in Latin America, particularly in the 1970s and 1980s. So when we talk about the Cold War, it's worth keeping in mind that the Cold War was actually a hot war in many ways, quite a vicious and violent set of conflicts occurring all around the globe. The Cold War is also a little bit hard to define in its political contours. There's one definition of the Cold War that is about geopolitics, the kind of realist geopolitical struggle between two superpowers. And that's certainly part of what was going on. But what makes the Cold War complicated in many ways, both on the global stage, but especially at home, is that it is also framed as an ideological war. It is a war between two sets of ideas about how the world ought to be organized, about who has a right to do that organizing, and about certain fundamental principles that in the United States become defined as American principles or the American way of life. But it's a little hard to take apart what's at stake in all of this. One way of defining that is that it's an ideological struggle over how you organize your economic system, your political economy. This is a struggle between the communist or socialist model and the capitalist model. But people in the 1940s and 50s have a lot of other ways of defining what is at stake in this ideological struggle that's called the Cold War, but that is also occurring at home. One of those is a set of conversations about religion and public religiosity, that this is a struggle between Christianity in particular, religion more broadly, and the atheistic communists over in the Soviet Union, as well as at home. There's a very interesting story about American religious culture and the ways that it enters politics in the 1940s and 50s, huge surges of Americans going to church during these years. Another way that the Cold War abroad and at home gets defined is as a struggle between democracy and totalitarianism. It's about where power resides in your systems of governance. Similarly, there's a debate over individualism versus something called collectivism. What is the core unit of analysis? How political actors to act? Do they act as individuals as the preservation of the freedom of the individual, the highest political value, or is it the mass, the collective, and by extension, the state? And then finally, in the United States, as I've said, this emerges as really a debate about what is American and what the United States is all about and what it stands for. And this takes on particular power during this period, not just because of the Cold War or the Red Scare at home, but because Americans are very self-conscious about this big fact that they have come out of the Second World War with an enormous amount of power and influence. There are deep anxieties that the United States is actually not up to the task, culturally, politically, militarily, and so the 40s and 50s become this moment of deep searching over debate around these categories of American and un-American. And so, for those of you who are American Studies majors, this is the moment that American Studies is born, and it's born out of this set of questions about what the nation is, what it's supposed to be, what it stands for, and in fact, what it's fighting for as this new era emerges. All right, so now I want to take a little bit of a step back and just talk about the United States and the Soviet Union before we get to this point. We said back when we were in World War I, and it's aftermath that one of the things that comes out of the First World War and its traumas is two sets of Russian revolutions, both of which happened in 1917, one sort of more liberal democratic revolution that's followed by then the Bolshevik Revolution in 1917. And in the United States, as in many places around the world, initially the Bolshevik Revolution sets off all sorts of enthusiasm among particularly political radicals, but other people who see this as a moment when the world, in fact, might be remade. Over there, that is a pamphlet that was handed out during the Seattle General Strike of 1919, and you can see that people are thinking through these parallels, right, if something like that could happen in Russia, if you could have a revolution there, could you have a revolution here as well. Now there is, as we've discussed, a very quick backlash to that in 1919 and 1920, involving deportations, involving the crackdowns of the Red Scare, and for much of the 1920s, the question of communism, of revolution, of Bolshevism really goes into retreat. The United States refused throughout this whole period to recognize the Soviet Union, and so from the period from 1917 up to 1933, the U.S. has no formal diplomatic relations with Russia. Well, both of those things begin to change when the New Deal comes along in 1933. Franklin Roosevelt recognizes the Soviet Union, sends over its first ambassador, a man named William Bullitt, whose papers are actually here at Union. So if you're curious about that moment, you can investigate further. And then as we discussed during our New Deal lecture, the 1930s see a surge of interest enthusiasm built around the Communist Party and this kind of broad-based left that becomes very interested in not only labor organizing, but also civil rights and anti-fascist organizing. And this is the milieu in which Paul Rogueson really acquires his political consciousness. The other thing that happens over the course of that period is that in 1935, Joseph Stalin declares that you're going to have to have a new strategy if you're on the global left. And he calls it the popular front. And what he does is urge communists to get out of the factional disputes they've been having with lots of other organizations and instead begin to work together in this united anti-fascist front. And that has a dramatic impact on politics in the United States. The Communist Party itself is always at once a kind of domestic homegrown organization and an organization that is deeply tied in literal ways and in figurative ways and in imaginative ways to the Soviet Union. But as you can see from these two photos, one of the things that happens in the 30s is this shift from really a left politics, a Communist Party politics that is centered around the Soviet Union. Socialist construction in the Soviet Union says the sign at the 1931 Communist Convention versus where we are by 1938 in an effort to be part of this popular front coalition. The Communist Party also begins claiming all sorts of American images and themes. And it's really the only time in American history, this very brief period of the late 30s and into the early 40s, that the Communist Party can be considered anything like a mainstream participant in American politics. Another example here, the Communist Party in the late 30s adopts the slogan. I don't know how well you can read it there. Communism is the Americanism of the 20th century. Now that doesn't hold, right, that idea, but it gives you some sense of just how dramatic the change is just a few years later when there's such a major backlash against it. Some of that backlash began to set in in 1939 when, as the Second World War was getting started, Stalin and Hitler signed a non-aggression pact. And there's a lot of dismay about that, as you can imagine, on the American Left and the Anti-Fascist Coalition. Four years earlier, Stalin had said, we are the champions of anti-fascism joined together. And by then in 1939, he signed a pact with Adolf Hitler. That only lasts for two years because in June of 1941, Hitler invades the Soviet Union and the contours of the Second World War emerge. Throughout the war, the United States and the Soviet Union were, as we have said, allies and uneasy allies, but allies nonetheless. And what that produces in the war years is really a profusion of popular culture that is suddenly championing the Soviet Union, championing the Russian people as great heroes and allies of America. Again, the only moment in all of 20th century US history that you see this kind of culture being produced. These are mainstream Hollywood films. This is one of the more famous of them, Mission to Moscow. It's really a piece of pro-Soviet propaganda starring an actor portraying Joseph Stalin. Alright, so that is the big picture as we get to the end of the war. You've had, of course, lots of anti-communist sentiment in the United States for a long time, but you've also had this decade or so of a different kind of accord. And that collapses very, very quickly. We talked on Tuesday about the self-consciousness of planning for the post-war order that was so central to the Second World War, that it started in 1941, even before the United States was in the war, and was really built around a couple of ideas. One is trying to correct for the mistakes of the First World War, the other is trying to forward the New Deal project, and in particular to prevent a Great Depression from setting back in once the war came to an end. As the war is coming into its final years, you see a wave of institution building that is really intended to solve those problems. The creation of the United Nations, which is obviously going to be based in the United States, as an attempt to solve that post-World War I problem of global order. You see a new set of economic global institutions coming into being the International Monetary Fund, the Bretton Woods agreements, and these are some of the conversations over there being had among policymakers and global American conversations, as well as broader conversations. At home, there is before the end of the war a set of policies and ideas put in place that are supposed to kind of extend the New Deal promise into the post-war years. The most prominent of them, the GI Bill, which gives a set of benefits for anyone who served in the armed forces. It is not always evenly distributed in the end, but is a pretty broad set of commitments to, as you can see, jobs, loans, training, homes, college education, medical care for U.S. veterans. And we discussed this feeling of confidence in all of this. This is Harry Truman just a few days after the war ended, that he is confident that there is this new moment emerging in which the United States is not only going to be a powerful force in the world, but is going to have certain sets of labor, economic, and social welfare guarantees at home. At the same time that all of that is happening, there are a lot of deep worries about the post-war order. One of the first of them is what's going to happen, particularly to Germany, to Eastern Europe in the aftermath of the war. And there are a series of talks, especially about the fate of Poland and the influence of the Soviet Union in Eastern Europe that go on both during Franklin Roosevelt's time in office and then are extended under Harry Truman. And those talks and the tensions around them really come to frame a lot of what happens in the years that follow. By 1946, just a few months out from the end of the war, you're already seeing, first of all, Stalin reminding the world that the Soviet Union is still a Marxist-Leninist government that believes in global revolution, and in reaction, a set of statements, declarations, and strategies coming out of the Anglo-American world saying, okay, this is clearly the battle of the future. This is Winston Churchill in Fulton, Missouri in early 1946 declaring famously that an iron curtain is descending over Eastern Europe, becomes one of the great metaphors of the Cold War. And as you can see, you're not even a year out from the end of the World War II alliance. What happens in the United States is then a very quick turn away from demobilization, which had started to happen in 45 and 46, toward thinking about remilitarization, and toward thinking about how the government is going to be structured, and in particular, how the military is going to be structured in this new world of conflicts. And the years from 1947 through 1915 are an incredible period of institution building and remobilization in the United States that gives birth to something that really hadn't existed before, which is a permanent peacetime security state with a large standing military and with a new set of intelligence agencies that come into being on a permanent basis. The law that is most important in all of that is the 1947 National Security Act, which establishes the National Security Council, establishes the CIA, establishes much of what we now know of as our security establishment, our foreign policy establishment. And that's a set of commitments that this is going to be, first of all, a long struggle. It's going to require a new set of commitments and ways of doing business, and that this U.S.  presence around the world, whether it's an intelligence-gathering presence or a military presence, is going to be long-lasting and permanent. A series of events follow in which the Cold War begins to get pretty hot pretty quickly, the Berlin airlift, the Marshall Plan, which comes into being really as one of the first overt Cold War soft power strategies in which the United States is providing recovery aid to many places around the world, but not to the Soviet Union. And then finally, we have the creation of NATO in the late 1940s as an alliance of Western European and Anglo-American countries that are going to commit themselves to battle both ideologically and literally with Soviet power. That leads in 1949 and 1958 to a really dramatic set of events that push a lot of this politics forward, and I think it can be hard from our perspective on the other side of the Cold War to imagine just how shocking and dramatic these events of 1949 and 1950 were. First, a revolution in China had been a U.S. ally during the war, suddenly it becomes a communist country. The Soviet Union in 1949 acquires nuclear weapons, this very brief period in which the United States had a monopoly on that comes to an end, and then by 1950 the United States finds itself back at war once again this time in a hot war, the Korean War, and that's going to go on for four long years, requires remobilization, requires a new draft, and is both a shock and disappointment to many people who had hoped that the post-war order would lead to something else. There is also a set of domestic and ideological anxieties that are underway, so the reading for this week is Friedrich Hayek's famous book, The Road to Serfdom, and Hayek, like many of the people that we've looked at and talked over the course of this semester, is sitting in his office in 1944 looking out at what's happening in the world, trying to make sense of it to think ahead about where it all might be going. He is an Austrian economist, he has moved to London, but he's really looking out over the Anglo-American world and over what's happened over the course of the New Deal and then the war and saying, this looks actually quite terrible and I have a warning about the future. It's not so much a geopolitical warning, it's a warning about this whole vision of government planning, of social welfare, of military coordination, of this enormous growth of the state that has happened in the United States and other places as a result of the politics of the 1930s and 1940s, we saw lots of championing of that in our New Deal lecture, but Hayek stands in for a whole generation of people who are actually quite skeptical and think that things have really gone wrong. To reduce his argument down to its essence, I have cartoon number one of a cartoon version of The Road to Serfdom that came out to try to popularize some of these ideas and as you can see, he starts out with a critique that all of this planning, all of this government power, all of these visions of a better order are in fact violating not only good economics, but violating individual liberty and in fact are leading us down what he describes as The Road to Serfdom. Though he could have described it as The Road to Seritude, which was actually Alexis de Tocqueville's phrase and Hayek took that phrase from de Tocqueville and thought The Road to Serfdom was a little catchier. The Road to Serfdom becomes one of the most popular texts in the United States in 1945, it's distributed very widely, and in particular it's taken up by a kind of business lobby that ultimately becomes really central to the politics of anti-communism, that business lobby taking this up as a critique of these concentrations of government power and ultimately this really becomes one of the canonical texts of a conservative movement, a self-conscious one, that we're going to talk about next week. For now, I want to stick with what happens here in the United States in domestic politics in this period from 1946 up to 1954, which is a period known as the second red scare or just the red scare. So the 1946 election becomes incredibly important in this story because after these years, years, more than a decade of Democratic party dominance, the Republican Party finally wins the 1946 House election and runs on the platform of Republicanism versus Communism. And what that means is in fact that the Republican Party is trying to take up this anti-communist banner not only as an attack on the Communist Party, though we will see that that happens as well, but as a broader critique of the New Deal. The New Deal as having adopted socialistic ideas, these concentrations of power in independent agencies, but also the New Deal as having been quote unquote infiltrated by Communists going after this vision of this big left-liberal spectrum and saying that it is corrupt, it is disloyal, and it is un-American. That begins to play out in various ways in American policy. 1947 becomes the year that the Taft-Hartley bill is passed, which constrains some of the labor power that we had seen emerging in the 1930s. It's also an era when national health insurance is being proposed by the Truman administration, but that too is defeated largely on the logic that it is a socialistic policy. It is too much like what you might see under a socialist regime, and it is defeated for many generations in that moment. These are also the years when the domestic red scare really begins to get going. I wrote about that a lot in my biography of J. Edgar Hoover, and in some ways, I think that he is the more important and interesting figure for thinking about how the red scare actually played out at home because he's there long before Joseph McCarthy comes into office, and he lasts long after Joseph McCarthy is gone. Hoover, I think, is also a good representative of the central fact of the red scare, which is that like the Cold War, it was not only one thing. It was a set of cultural initiatives, attempts to control what's being produced out of Hollywood, grassroots movements that are attempting to push back against quote-unquote communism and define Americanism. J. Edgar Hoover's book Masters of Deceit becomes sort of the textbook for the grassroots anti-communist logic. It comes out in the late 50s, and he says it's not just this geopolitical struggle, it is something that gets at all of these fundamental questions about what the United States is and how we ought to live, and that it is the obligation of every citizen in the country to carry that on. But Hoover, as the head of the FBI, is also responsible for and linked to a whole set of other institutional initiatives that are happening on lots of different levels. Some of them are happening through congressional committees, the House on American Activities Committee, the Senate Internal Security Subcommittee, begins calling up people who are accused of either being members of the Communist Party or parroting the quote-unquote Soviet line, being too close to far-left politics, being too close to the Soviet Union. They are brought up, they are interrogated in front of congressional committees. One of the great spectacles of this era, those congressional hearings and the fact that they are being televised. There's also the FBI itself, which goes through an enormous expansion in its surveillance capacities during these years, begins using methods like informants and wiretapping to investigate not only the Communist Party, but many other organizations on the left. A lot of that is driven by a set of accusations about Soviet espionage, and one of the dramatic, dramatic set of spectacles that emerge in the late 40s are a series of trials and hearings around espionage accusations, accusations against State Department official Algiers Hiss that he had passed information along to the Soviets, accusations that the Rosenbergs, Julius and Ethel Rosenberg had been passing along atomic information from Los Alamos and elsewhere during the war. So these espionage trials are in many ways the things that polarize the country around this question, which side were you on in the Hiss case or the Rosenberg case, tells you a lot about where your political loyalties are in this moment. But there are many, many other mechanisms at work. In 1947, Harry Truman passes the Federal Employment Loyalty Act. It's an executive what's I guess it's not an act, it's an executive order in which he requires loyalty investigations of all government employees. There are investigations of Hollywood screenwriters. The Hollywood Blacklist begins to emerge and a lot of this is carried out through private employment as well. One of the most dramatic trials of that moment comes in 1948, 49, and 1950, when the entire leadership of the American Communist Party is put on trial in federal court under a law called the Smith Act. And the Smith Act was a law that had been passed in 1940 to attempt to contain domestic dissent. But what's interesting about the Smith Act is that it's a law about speech and loyalty. It says if you belong to or believe in an organization that advocates revolution in the United States, the overthrow of the government, then that set of ideas in itself is enough to subject you to criminal prosecution. And in fact, they are convicted and many members of the Communist Party go to jail. I'm gonna say that for a moment. So all of this is happening before Joseph McCarthy ever comes on the scene in a significant way. He had been elected to Congress in 1946 to the Senate. But he's pretty obscure until 1950, the moment that he makes this famous speech in Wheeling, West Virginia, when he says, you know what, there are a bunch of communists still in the State Department, despite all of this surveillance, despite all of the congressional hearings that have been happening, despite everything that's been going on in the 1940s, a problem is more urgent than ever. And I am here to fight it. Now, it's interesting that that speech in 1950 becomes quite as famous as it does because he's saying pretty ordinary things. By 1950, there is no one in the US government who is expressing much sympathy for the Communist Party or for the Soviet Union. And so in that sense, McCarthy is very mainstream. These ideas are in some ways not controversial at all. And so the interesting thing about Joseph McCarthy in particular is what makes him so controversial as a figure. And it has less, I would argue, to do with his ideas than it has to do with his political style. McCarthy comes in as a populist and says, look, what's happened over the last generation of American politics is not only that these left-wing ideas have infiltrated the government, but that we ought to blame it on American elites, as he says here, on the traitorous actions of those who have been treated so well by this nation. And so he engages in a kind of populist politics, an anti-elite politics that proves to have enormous power in this moment to bring a grassroots enthusiasm into the anti-communist cause. McCarthy is also important for his political style. And when people at the time talked about having an opinion, pro-McCarthy, anti-McCarthy, pro-McCarthyism, anti-McCarthyism, that's really what they're talking about. Not so much anti-communism, which is extremely ordinary, but a political style in which accusations are being made against people who have very little ability to defend themselves. And McCarthy really becomes a master of the media. He is able to generate headline after headline after headline. And the fact-checkers are kind of chasing him through this whole period. He comes out and says, you know, there are 205 communists in the State Department. And by the time ordinary newspaper reporters have gone and said, who are they? Do we really have the reports about all of this? McCarthy has moved onto the next thing, onto the next accusation, and is really dominating the news cycle. So that is a lot of what McCarthyism stood for in its moment, what people described as a kind of punch you in the face, big lie, populist politics. And that's why he was controversial in his moment when people talked about McCarthy. They were talking often less about his ideas than about his methods. But those methods turn out to be quite popular in much of the country as well. 1952 turns out to be a watershed election for the Republican Party after being really out of power for a generation. They come in and retake the Congress as well as the White House with Dwight Eisenhower at the top of the ticket. And one of the interesting pieces about McCarthyism is the way in which these battles over McCarthy as a figure, over his brand of populist politics, over his political style, really both unite and divide the Republican Party during this period. Eisenhower himself is not a fan of McCarthy. He doesn't like him much, but he does not move away from him or denounce him in 1952 because he thinks that McCarthy's brand of anti-communist politics is really what going to be, what puts the Republicans over the top. And that is really the dominant narrative into the late years of the McCarthy era. The Republican Party by 1953 has some uneasy elements, some concerns about him, but they nonetheless give him a Senate committee that he then begins to use to carry out his campaign on a much grander level. It's worth noting that television is coming into being during these years. And McCarthy, like many successful politicians in American history, knows how to use the new communications medium that is coming out. Other congressional committees are beginning to televise some of their work as well. McCarthy uses this committee to have a series of dramatic hearings and show trials that are the cycles of accusation and defense, but as he goes along, there is also a growing critique that says, wait a minute, in this debate about what is American versus un-American, maybe it's actually Joe McCarthy who is the un-American. And that comes to a peak in 1954 with the broadcast of a man named Edward R. Murrow, famous early journalist in television, radio first then television. And I'm going to show you a brief clip of Edward R. Murrow denouncing McCarthyism, a moment that's often identified as the beginning of the end of the Red Scare and of McCarthy's own career. No one familiar with the history of his country can deny that congressional committees are useful. It is necessary to investigate before legislating, but the line between investigating and persecuting is a very fine one, and the junior senator from Wisconsin has stepped over it repeatedly. His primary achievement has been in confusing the public mind as between the internal and the external threats of communism. We must not confuse dissent with disloyalty. We must remember always that accusation is not proof, and that conviction depends upon evidence and due process of law. We will not walk in fear, one of another. We will not be driven by fear into an age of unreason if we did deepen our history in our doctrine, and remember that we are not descended from fearful men, not from men who feared to write, to speak, to associate, and to defend the causes that were for the moment unpopular. This is no time for men who oppose Senator McCarthy's methods to keep silent or for those who approve. We can deny our heritage in our history, but we cannot escape responsibility for the result. There is no way for a citizen of a republic to abdicate his responsibilities. As a nation we have come into our full inheritance at a tender age. We proclaim ourselves as indeed we are the defenders of freedom wherever it continues to exist in the world, but we cannot defend freedom abroad by deserting it at home. The actions of the junior senator from Wisconsin have caused alarm and dismay amongst our allies abroad and given considerable comfort to our enemies. And whose fault is that? Not really his. He didn't create this situation of fear, he merely exploited it, and rather successfully. Caffes was right. The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars, but in ourselves. Good night and good luck. So that speech is so famous, that broadcast, because first it is a call to conscience and a call to action in this moment of 1954. Second, it's a pushback against the idea that what is American is the suppression of dissent, the suppression of certain ideas, the suppression of political loyalties that aren't very popular, and instead an attempt to say actually what's un-American is what someone like Joseph McCarthy was up to. And it's powerful partly because it goes on to be quite effective. By the middle of 1954, McCarthy is under a lot of political pressure. There are a series of hearings investigating him called the Army McCarthy hearings. And by the end of 1954, the Senate has censured Joe McCarthy and largely driven him out of political life. He dies of complications from alcoholism just a few years later and disappears off the American political scene. But I want to finish up by saying what I suggested earlier, which is that the rise and fall of Joe McCarthy doesn't really capture why this moment is significant or why it matters for the long term. The changes that happen during this period of the early Cold War and the Red Scare go on to have lasting institutional political and cultural significance in lots of other ways. That military industrial complex that began to be built in the late 40s and 50s to fight the Cold War. That is Dwight Eisenhower's term when he leaves office in 1961. He says, look, there's something new in the American land, this military industrial complex that is playing a new role in American politics. There is a new and lasting language about Americanism and un-Americanism and particularly a deepening of suspicion toward a set of political strategies and ideas that become labeled as socialistic or communistic. And in fact, every movement, every political figure that emerges after this moment has to contend in one way or another, both with the pressures of the Cold War and with this set of debates at home about communism, anti-communism, Americanism and un-Americanism. And I'll just finish off by saying that, of course, for the people who were targeted, who were under surveillance, who suffered during the Red Scare, there wasn't a lot of going back. A lot of people's lives were ruined. A lot of people lost their jobs and their careers. And Paul Robeson was one of them, ultimately. Robeson in the 1950s not only loses his passport, but he is blacklisted and really driven out of American cultural life. He doubles down on his loyalty to some degree to the Communist Party, but to Stalin and the Soviet Union, insists on continuing to defend that politics of the 1930s, long after many people say it has passed its due date, and even after many of the crimes of the Stalinist regime have been revealed. Ultimately, Robeson tries to revive his international career once he gets his passport back in the late 1950s, but it doesn't work very well. And in the early 60s, he goes to the Soviet Union for a few years, in part because he's a celebrated figure there, and in part because he needs healthcare that he can't get in the United States. And I just want to finish with this document that I came across when I was writing the biography of J. Edgar Hoover that I published a few years ago. This is a document from a couple of FBI spies who had infiltrated the Communist Party and then been sent over to the Soviet Union to confer as international representatives of the Communists and then secretly report back to the FBI. But in that moment, they go and they sit down with Paul Robeson and try to find out what's going on in his life. And as you can see, he has really a very sad end. He has a lot of health difficulties. He attempts suicide in the Soviet Union and never really has the comeback that he sought. He eventually came back to the United States and died here in Philadelphia in 1976 in the Bicentennial year, but his moment of being the voice of America by that point had of course been radically curtailed. We will leave it here. For those of you who were not here 10 minutes before class started, I'm going to replay Ballad for Americans if you want to hear the whole thing. And it's worth thinking about for those of you who were here, whether it sounds the same after hearing that story or whether it sounds a little different.

=== FILE: America at 250： A History, DeVane Lecture, Class 23 - Race, Rights, and Resistance [XAVVJgB5kFg].txt ===

 subjected to subjected to people and me. You lied to me all these years. You told me to wash and clean my ears and talk real fine just like a lady and you'd stop calling me sister Sadie. My country is full of lies. We all gonna die and die like flies. I don't trust nobody anymore. They keep on saying go slow. That's just the trouble. Peace segregation. Mass participation. Unification. Do things gradually. We'll bring more tragedy. Why don't you see it? Why don't you feel it? I don't know. I don't know. You don't have to live next to me. Just give me my equality. Everybody knows about Alabama. Everybody knows about Mississippi. Everybody knows about Mississippi. Georgia. That's it. Great. Well, as you may have figured, we are moving into the 1960s this week. Today we are going to talk about Civil Rights Movement, the left and liberalism in the 1960s and 70s. On Thursday we're going to look at the other side of that story. Look at the rise of the new right and the transformation of the Republican Party in the 60s and 70s. I think for a long time when people said the 60s, it really only evoked one part of that story. And that's the story that we see Nina Simone telling up here in her epic protest song, looking at the early years of the 1960s and the clashes over civil rights. But historians now really tend to think about the 1960s as what they like to call the divided 60s, which is to say that the 1960s into the 1970s are a period in which New Deal, liberalism, Cold War, liberalism, these themes that we've been talking about in the last couple of weeks, or really last week especially, they come flying apart under challenge on the one hand from movements of the left and ferment from below. And on the other hand from a set of critiques from the right. And so the 1960s and into the 1970s I think is really most useful to think about as part of a clash and a conversation about the meanings of the events that we've been discussing, the meaning of the New Deal and the changes that it made in the federal government. And in the way business was run in the United States. The legacies of World War Two and what it would mean to carry on those legacies in the post war era. And then the Cold War and the Red Scare that we talked about last Thursday. These really are the reference points for this politics that develops in the 1960s, which is both constrained by the politics of the Cold War in a variety of ways, and then pushed and upended in other ways as well. So as we move into the 60s and 70s, I think you're going to see lots of resonance with where we've been in the last couple of weeks. And one example of that is John Kennedy, who as president in as the Democratic candidate, first Democratic candidate, who is a Catholic who successfully wins. We had one other Catholic on the ticket earlier, Al Smith, but he did not succeed. And when Kennedy accepts the Democratic nomination, he really tries to articulate this sense that is starting to emerge in the 1960s, that it is both a moment of peril and of uncertainty, particularly in thinking about the Cold War, and a moment of incredible opportunity. And he really, like many people during this period, taps into a narrative of American history that is pulling on many of the metaphors and ideas and themes we've seen not just in the last week or two, but going back to earlier weeks. His favorite metaphor is the frontier, and he declares that the 1960s is going to be a moment of a new frontier, right, that the kind of grand narratives of the 19th century have come to an end, but that in the modern world, there are possibilities for that kind of expansion and renewal as he frames the story of the frontier. And yet, he also says that the harsh facts of the matter are that we stand at a turning point of history. We must prove all over again to a watching world as we sit on a most conspicuous stage, whether this nation, conceived as it is with its freedom of choice, its breadth of opportunity, its range of alternatives can compete with the single-minded advance of the communist system, framing this in Cold War terms. But then he asks a question that is the question that Joanne Freeman posed to us in talking about the founders at the very beginning of this course, which is the Kenna nation organized and governed such as ours endure. That is the real question. Have we the nerve and the will. And so politics is changing very rapidly in the 1960s, but there is also this constant set of references back to the late 19th century, back to the Civil War, because one of the backdrops, especially of the Civil Rights Movement, but of the Kennedy Administration, is that it's occurring at the centennial of the Civil War. And there are constant loops back to that. How far have we come? Has it been too fast? Has it, as Nina Simone was singing, been too slow? The kind of progress and transformation that was promised in that moment. And as we get into the 1970s, another big centennial begins to loom large, and that is the bicentennial. And as the bicentennial was approaching, lots of self-consciousness about what it was going to mean, an incredible number of things happen between the bicentennial, between the centennial of the Civil War and the bicentennial. That's the period we're going to mostly be focused on today. We're not going to get to everything that happens in between, but I think keeping those reference points in mind as we're continuing to develop this American story is useful. What we are going to do today is talk about a few different aspects of the politics of the left, of liberalism, of the Democratic Party in the 1960s. We're going to start out by looking at Lyndon Johnson's Great Society, this incredible moment in 1964 and 1965 that is one of the only moments in American history. So parallels the early New Deal and its flurry of legislation and its promises about what's to be. We're going to talk a little bit about the Civil Rights Movement in the context of Cold War pressures, particularly through the lens of Byrd Rustin, who is our narrator this week in the work that the students are reading. We're going to turn to students yourselves and what happens at universities and on campuses, particularly in the anti-war movement. And then we're going to finish up by thinking about what some of the consequences are as they're beginning to emerge by the 1970s. So to start out, in 1958, the economist John Kenneth Galbraith wrote the book that you see up here that's called The Affluent Society. And the Affluent Society was meaning something that was almost conventional wisdom by the late 1950s, but it's Galbraith who really distills it down and gives it a name. And what he suggests in this book is that the problems of the depression have Americans can declare been solved by the late 1950s. And that actually the major challenge of American life in that moment as a consequence of the Second World War coming out of the Great Depression, that the main problem is a problem of affluence, that the United States has become the richest society in human history. And it's got to figure out what to do with that and what sorts of opportunities, what sorts of moral obligations that might bring upon a society with this kind of advantage and wealth. He points out that this is really unusual in human history, that mostly human history has been a scramble of scarcity, but that something different has happened in the post-war world, and that that's going to be the big question of the moment. Now his argument is that what that makes possible is a reimagining of the American way of life, of a certain quality of life, particularly for the middle class, that a set of things like education and beauty and art and leisure that in most human societies over most periods of time have been restricted to a pretty small sliver of the population. And now is a moment when for the first time they can become truly mass phenomenon, something that ordinary people can access in a different way. And this really becomes a theme of almost every movement of the 1960s, everyone who's way again. In 1962, when a group of students get together at the University of Michigan and say, we're going to try to figure out what a new left is going to look like in the 1960s, the first thing they say is that the big problem is affluence. We are people of this generation, bred in at least modest comfort, unlike their parents' generation of the Great Depression, bred in at least modest comfort, housed now in universities, huge expansion of higher education underway, looking uncomfortably to the world we inherit. You see the same thing in the early years of the women's rights movement, the surge of feminism that begins in the early 60s and extends into the 1970s. Betty Friedan starts her famous book, The Feminine Mystique, with a description of this thing that is the problem that has no name, something that suburban middle class women are finding about their lives. They have all of their material needs satisfied, unlike their parents' generation. And yet there's this sense of dissatisfaction within all of that. This image of the suburban housewife doing all of these things that signal modern prosperity and yet asking is this all. Even in talking about poverty, the problem of affluence is that it has obscured and hidden the fact that there are in fact still people in the United States who are poor. That's the intervention of Michael Harrington, who was a great sort of left social theorist of this period. He writes a book called The Other America in the early 1960s, which suggests there is America, this familiar America, as he frames it, the one that's celebrated in speeches and advertised on television and in the magazines that has the highest mass standard of living the world has ever known. And yet we still have these problems of poverty and inequality. So this is one of the things I think that really distinguishes the 1960s and in particular 1960s liberalism from what we saw during the New Deal. The big problem of the 1930s is blood oppression. Like the idea that capitalism might be collapsing, the country might be in collapse. It is a politics of scarcity in some ways, a politics of desperation. The politics of the 1960s that emerges is much more a politics of affluence, a politics of aspiration, and in some ways for many liberals, a promise to finish the things that the New Deal had started but failed to accomplish. And that is really Lyndon Johnson's agenda when he becomes president in late 1963, once John Kennedy is assassinated in Dallas, one of the first great traumas of the 1960s, of an era that is going to see dramatic political violence and in some ways escalating political violence over the course of the decade. In 1964, as Lyndon Johnson is taking over the presidency as he's looking ahead to the fact that he's going to have to run as a candidate, if all goes well, pretty quickly in 1964, he doubles down on this affluence theme. He says, we are citizens of the richest and most fortunate nation in the history of the world. And he goes on to say that this makes the 1960s a great moment of opportunity. He declares a war on poverty, one of his signature ideas, and he also begins to introduce this idea of the great society and of great society liberalism, which is the theme of his presidency in terms of domestic politics. And the phrase great society means exactly what it says, that we're not just trying to be a stable society, we're not just trying to be a functional society, a livable society, that this is a moment of opportunity to become a great society. And Lyndon Johnson has ideas about how to do that. Now there are a couple of things going on here. One is that this is very broad language and a very high set of expectations and setting expectations high can sometimes be a good thing in politics. And sometimes it can be setting yourself up for critique, disappointment, and a sense of unmet expectations. The other is that while this is an aspirational politics, it's also a defensive politics that the great society, like many other movements of the period, is being articulated also as a strategy for fighting the Cold War. But one of the things that's happening in the Cold War is not just a struggle about territory, a struggle about decolonization that is going on around the world in the 1960s, a struggle for hearts and minds. This is a struggle about who can present itself in all of that as the society that most effectively yields the good life, right? It is a competition between two models of life. And Lyndon Johnson says, we're going to use the great society to show that the United States is the righteous victor in the Cold War. Johnson himself is an interesting figure because he is, first of all, a Southern Democrat. He's from Texas, and he really comes up through New Deal politics. He works in the Roosevelt administration. He gets elected to Congress in the 1940s as a true Southern Democrat. But he is also very ambitious and very conscious about what the limits of being labeled a Southern Democrat might be. If we think back about our New Deal coalition, we said it's this very big tent, but it's also an awkward coalition. You have the Solid South, which is the white South in which most Black people cannot vote. You have Black voters in the North who start voting with Franklin Roosevelt in 1936. You have this massive labor movement that has come into being and really reaches its peak in the 1950s. You have the urban political machines of the North, and then you have elite liberals. And everyone's together in this strange Democratic coalition. The South has a very distinctive role in that, and Johnson believes that no Southern Democrat can really have a national profile because the question of race, civil rights, and Jim Crow is starting even in the 1940s to become so prominent in national politics. And so he staked out a role for himself as the one Southern Democrat, there are a few others, but not many, who wants to stand aside from that block, be a little bit different. It's how he ends up on John Kennedy's ticket as the vice president. Kennedy knows he needs the South. And Johnson is one of the only Southerners that many liberals of the Kennedy bent want on the ticket. So he's been very careful, very self conscious about doing this in the mid 1950s. He does not join in the massive resistance movement for the most part, which is the resistance movement led by white Southerners and white Democrats in the South against the Brown versus Board of Education decision and the surge of civil rights activism that begins in that moment. He really stakes his claim on being a person who can get things done in the Senate in particular as Senate majority leader. And so this is who he is when he is accidentally made president in 1963 and 64. And this is the vision he's coming in with as someone who can get things done, and as someone who can particularly get things done in the arena of civil rights. And so these years of 1964 and particularly the early months of 1965, once he has been reelected in his own right as the Democratic candidate. As I was saying, are one of the only periods in American history that really rival the early years of the New Deal for their flurry of legislation. Most of it happening as with the New Deal through Congress, through the actual passage of laws, not through executive orders, in part because the 1960s are a period of overwhelming Democratic majorities in Congress. Lyndon Johnson knows what to do with that. And he really takes advantage of it in the mid 60s to push through a whole host of legislative initiatives. So one of the most important, which you can see happening here at the Truman Library is the passage of Medicare and Medicaid. And the reason that's happening at the Truman Library is because, as we said in a previous lecture, Truman had tried to bring some form of national health insurance to realization in the 40s was really constrained by the politics of the red scare in that moment of a Lyndon Johnson pushes through Medicaid and Medicare, which is not national health insurance, but is two programs one aimed at older people, and one aimed at people below the poverty line. There are a number of other initiatives that are put in place the elementary and secondary Education Act, which gives the federal government really for the first time in American history, and an over roll in the management funding and shaping of local school districts of state education. Most of that had happened at a much lower, more local level. This changes that and he's shown here with his one of his favorite teachers in Texas, Lyndon Johnson had himself been a teacher in Texas during the 1930s. There are all sorts of urban renewal initiatives, model city initiatives. There are initiatives to improve and professionalize the police. So the federal government also getting involved in crime and policing a juvenile delinquency for the first time in a really significant way. That's going to have consequences later on that in some ways are going to split parts of the liberal coalition. But for Johnson, this activist use of federal power this finishing off of what the New Deal started, it's all kind of in the same vein. Last one I'll mention is immigration reform. So if we think back to the first lecture I gave about the closing of the gates in the 1920s. Well, in the 1960s in 1965 specifically, that's the moment that that really begins to change in a significant way. The immigration reforms of the mid 1960s do away with that national quota system, open immigration in a variety of ways to a whole set of new constituencies, put other restrictions in place. And it really if you want to think about how we ended up with a situation of documented versus undocumented immigration that's so much at the heart of our politics today, looking back to 1965 as the place and the moment that really put the system we know best today in place. But Lyndon Johnson frames this not only as something righteous within the United States but like many great society laws and programs also as a Cold War strategy that at a moment in time when the whole world seems to be up for grabs, when the United States and the Soviet Union are battling for hearts and minds, as the phrase of the time would have put it. It was really important to use immigration policy as in some sense a tool of diplomacy that it's very hard to persuade people in Asia that you are their ally if in fact Asian immigration is restricted. Same thing for Africa, very hard as you're seeing all of these decolonization movements in Africa to bring people over to your side when your immigration law is not fair to them. And he uses that language of un-American that we talked about on Thursday, kind of taking it and turning it around saying it was un-American in fact to have the immigration system that we had. And here is a new moment of pluralism and opening as he frames it. And of course this is going to go on to have pretty dramatic consequences. I think consequences that were not fully foreseen in 1965 when this change began to happen. We've talked a little bit about those and of course it's going to dramatically change who is actually coming into the United States as a second era of something like mass immigration gets underway. We're of course not seeing mostly European immigration but immigration from other parts of the world. And then of course finally and perhaps most famously in 1964 and 1965 Lyndon Johnson signs two of the most important pieces of legislation in 20th century American history. The 1964 Civil Rights Act and the 1965 Voting Rights Act which he considers to be the signal achievements of his presidency. Those two he sees both as a form of justice and righteousness at home, the making up for past sins for discrimination. But he also sees that as part of a Cold War strategy and in fact this whole period of the Civil Rights Movement is in conversation with global movements and with these global imperatives around the Cold War. Not only the question of what do Americans mean when they say created equal but also what message is that sending to the rest of the world. It's also true that Lyndon Johnson recognizes when he signs especially the Civil Rights Act of 1964 which bans discrimination in public accommodations is still the law most significant in how we think about civil rights and racial discrimination in this country. He is proud of what he's done. He says it is his signal achievement and he also says what this 1964 map suggests which is that by doing this he may have lost the white south for the Democrats. He says for a generation as it turns out much longer than that. We're going to talk more about the 1964 election on Thursday. For now I want to turn to the Civil Rights Movement and the protest movements that are so much a part of what is pushing not only Lyndon Johnson but the society at large to rethink itself to rethink its politics and laws during this period. When we talked about the New Deal the big question was who made the New Deal right was it Franklin Roosevelt's and all of his fancy policymakers in the 1930s or was it Serge from below. We talked particularly about the labor movement. I think you can ask a similar set of questions about the Civil Rights Act but about the great society more broadly who actually made it and as in most cases the answer is well it took a pretty wide variety of forces you needed a political party with enough power to push it through. You needed a president who wanted to do it but even before you add all those things you needed pressure from below and that is the pressure of the Civil Rights Movement. As our guide to the Civil Rights Movement this week we're reading the 1976 book by this man here named Byrd Rustin. Byrd Rustin is a really interesting figure someone who was deeply immersed in what historians like to call the long civil rights movement. A civil rights movement that really gets started in the 20s and 30s expands in the Second World War and then by the mid 1950s with the Brown decision and the Montgomery bus boycott really begins to take root and flower as a mass movement. Rustin is someone who was there starting in the 1930s as a young man first as briefly a member of the young communist league in the communist orbit of the 1930s when the Communist Party in the far left were among the only integrated organizations that were doing civil rights work. He leaves the Communist Party by the 1940s becomes a conscientious objector in World War II which was pretty unusual wasn't so unusual in World War I but it's pretty unusual in World War II and that is sort of a gesture to his Quaker upbringing. He is a pacifist and especially a deep believer in the role of nonviolent social protest as a mechanism for change. And from the 40s into the 50s and 60s that's really his signature. He is a strategist and he is a strategist of the ways that nonviolent direct action really this new form of strategy that had been used in India that was being imported into the United States could be the mechanism that would make it possible for black southerners. .  in particular, to have political impact and to get their cause seen and realized. Because, of course, the problem that many Black Southerners are facing in the 50s and 60s when it comes to political change is they have to figure out a method for this at a moment that you cannot vote. So many of the formal institutions of government are off limits, and also in a moment where resistance, organizing, is often met with deep violence. And the strategy of nonviolent direct action, as Rustin sees it, is sort of the answer to that. It's something that can be done outside of formal mechanisms of power, and it's also a method that can take advantage of all of this violence that is so often heaped on Black Southerners who are resisting Jim Crow. It can make that violence visible by staging demonstrations, by having moments in which that violence can actually be captured, first of all, on still cameras and photographs, but especially, as Rustin says in this book, on television. One of the transformative features of the politics of the 1960s in any number of ways in how it shapes the Vietnam War, in how it shapes campaign advertising, but particularly in what it means for methods of protest. And really the fundamental strategy of the Southern Civil Rights Movement from the 50s into the 60s is to stage a set of engagements that can illustrate to the world the conditions of the South, and in particular, move public opinion in some way. The Rustin is a very canny strategist, as you will see in the way that he narrates this story in which he is deeply involved all along. He understands that there need to be direct asks, and he understands that there are very particular vehicles that the movement is trying to move. One is the federal government, that it's going to be federal power that is able to transform things at the local level, and that the Democratic Party in particular is going to be the vehicle for this kind of change. So in his mind, there are a number of audiences for what is happening within the Civil Rights Movement. There's the public at large. There's the Democratic Party, and then there is federal authority. He's also very canny in the sense of his own role. So if you have never heard of Byrd Rustin, there's good reason for that. He's actually probably better known today, because there have been a couple of movies and documentaries about him, than he was in the 1960s outside the movement because he was mostly a behind-the-scenes operator for two reasons. Byrd Rustin was his communist past, though he hadn't been in the young communist lean for very long. He was definitely a communist in the 1930s, and as we talked about last week, hugely damaging in the context of the Red Scare and the Cold War. And he was also gay. And so at a moment when homosexual activity, could you get you fired from your government job, but at also a moment in which it was widely condemned throughout American society, Rustin understood that both of these factors were going to make himself a behind-the-scenes actor rather than the person standing out front. There were lots of ways in which the push-pull of the Civil War, of the Cold War, sorry, shaped everything that's going on in the Civil Rights Movement. So people experienced organizers like Rustin, who had a communist past, were often put to the sidelines, forced to hide or evade in one way or another. It was an accusation that was made even against people like Martin Luther King, a Baptist minister, which I think we can safely say was not, in fact, a communist. But it was also a moment of opportunity, as Rustin and many other people recognized, as the world was watching. This is the Little Rock desegregation fight that's being illustrated up here. As the world is watching, that's another audience. What is the Soviet Union saying? What is the rest of the world saying? And how can that become a lever for change? And so I think when we look at the classic images of the struggles of the early 1960s, particularly the Birmingham campaign that happens in 1963, in which fire hoses are turned on children demonstrating for civil rights, in which attack dogs are aimed at protesters, many of them children. I think we have to understand these as having provoked moral outrage and political outrage in their moment, but also as being incredibly effective strategy and messaging by people like Byrd Rustin, knowing that if you were in Birmingham, where police repression and police brutality was as severe as it was, this was a likely outcome. And this was a way of showing the country and the world what Jim Crow was really all about. Two other things to note about the themes of the civil rights movement. One is that like every other movement in American life during these years, they're taking up the question of affluence. A lot of what's going on is about access to lunch counters and department stores and new forms of transportation and full participation in this affluent society that has become so much a part of Americans' self-conception. This is one of the original sit-ins in North Carolina at a Woolworth. There's a reason these are happening at lunch counters. It's about restaurants and department stores, about participation not only in political life, but in the life of the affluent society. And the movement was also very self-conscious during these years about taking some of the tropes of American history, of American patriotism, of American past and present, and putting them in conversation. So this is the Selma March of 1965 that ultimately led to the Voting Rights Act. And as you can see, it's just full of American flags, overt displays of a kind of narrative, not only about what the movement was, but about what the country was. I want to take a minute here. There's some technical problems. There's like a cloud flare outage. So I hope this video will work. I wanted to watch just a few minutes of the very beginning of King's speech at the March on Washington. So usually when you look at the March on Washington speech, you hear the famous words, I have a dream, very eloquent words, words that he had spoken actually many times in sermons and speeches before that moment. But I want you to listen to the very beginning because it starts out with a story about American history, first of all, about the fact that this is at the Lincoln Memorial and then looking back to the founding and trying to put those pieces together. So we'll see if this works. I am happy to join with you today in what will go down in history as the greatest demonstration for freedom in the history of our nation. Five-score years ago, a great American in whose symbolic shadow we stand today signed the Emancipation Proclamation. This momentous decree came as a great beacon light of hope to millions of negro slaves who had been seared in the flames of withering injustice. It came as a joyous daybreak to end the long night of their captivity. But 100 years later, the Negro still is not free. 100 years later, the life of the Negro is still sad, sadly crippled by the manacles of segregation and the chains of discrimination. 100 years later, the Negro lives on a lonely island of poverty in the midst of a vast ocean of material prosperity. 100 years later, the Negro is still languished in the corners of American society and finds himself in exile in his own land. And so we've come here today to dramatize a shameful condition. In a sense, we've come to our nation's capital to cash a check. When the architects of our republic wrote the magnificent words of the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence, they were signing a promise or a note to which every American was to fall out. This note was a promise that all men, yes, black men as well as white men, would be guaranteed the unalienable rights of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. It is obvious today that America has defaulted on this promise or a note insofar as her citizens of color are concerned. All right, so that, we're lucky that he said it and I did not have to read it. I was better than what I would have done. But I think you can see in that speech a story about American history and where Americans stand in 1963, a story about material prosperity and affluence being mobilized as part of the tale that he's telling. And of course, looking back to that moment of 1863 in 1963, a powerful example of the way that historical anniversaries can actually matter in our politics. All right, so now I want to turn to what happens in the latter part of the 1960s and particularly to what happens on university campuses as the 1960s goes on. Byrd Rustin, when you read his book, Strategies for Freedom, you will see that his argument is that once 1964 and 1965 happen, the Civil Rights Act and the Voting Rights Act, that means that the age of protest is over, that the nonviolent direct action protests that were used in the South were for a very particular purpose with the aim of being incorporated into and having access to the society and the political system. And once they were there, your strategy has to change. He becomes, as you will see, particularly critical of newer, more militant groups that start to emerge in the 1960s like the Black Panthers, like the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee, which undergoes a big shift in its strategy tactics and makeup in the 1960s. But of course, his call for the end of protest of a sort is not, in fact, the story of the 1960s, quite to the contrary. And even as the Civil Rights Movement, the classical or Southern Civil Rights Movement, is achieving its greatest aims, there are lots of other groups in American society who are then looking to its strategies for inspiration, to be copied, and to become full participants in this broader cause of transforming American society. So this is often considered the kind of original moment of student protest in the 1960s. This is in the fall of 1964 at the University of California at Berkeley, when a group of students, many of whom had worked in the Southern Civil Rights Movement, came to campus, wanted to do civil rights organizing on campus, wanted to be able to express their political opinions on campus, were restricted from doing that in various ways, and began what became known as the Free Speech Movement that took off at Berkeley and then on other campuses. At the time, Free Speech is one of the rallying cries of the left. The politics of Free Speech looked a little different in this moment than they do in ours. But it is the moment that college students really begin to think about themselves as a political bloc and one that might be mobilized on campuses as well as off of them to participate in politics. And it's worth remembering that at this moment, college students are in something of the same structural problem, not anything like what black people are experiencing in the South, but they don't have access to the formal political system either. The voting age is 21 at this point, and one of the questions that comes up during this era is why it is that you can be drafted into the Army at 18, but you cannot vote until you are 21. It's interesting to think about what might have happened to the politics of the mid-late 60s into the 1970s, both globally and especially at home, if the Vietnam War had not ramped up at this moment and become one of the real structuring forces for American politics in this period. But there is no separating from 1964 on the politics of the Vietnam War from the politics of protest and movement activity at home. These are two pieces of legislation passed by the Congress within a month of each other. The first is the Civil Rights Act of July 1964, and the other is the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution in August of 1964, which in many ways is the beginning of the ramping up of American involvement in the Vietnam War. We're not going to go into the details of the Vietnam War here, except to say that as escalation happens from 1964 to 1968, which is really the peak of American involvement, and then as it continues from 1968 to 1973, which is the moment of American withdrawal, it is one of the central questions of American politics and particularly within the Democratic Party and its relationship to these social movements that are bubbling up from below. For good reason, it becomes the center of campus activity. College students, young people are the ones most subject to the draft, but as you can see, the anti-war movement as it starts to emerge is immersed in a much broader politics that is about the conduct of the Cold War, that is about the morality of American society, that is about civil rights, that is about broad democratic participation. And so while Vietnam becomes the central factor, it's really part of a big rethinking by young people in the 1960s about what democracy is supposed to look like, how they want to be living their lives, how they want to participate in politics. Now, some of that energy becomes focused on universities themselves as sites of conflict. The photo over there on my far left is from Columbia University in 1968, a moment in which both in protest of the war in some broader sense, but also in protest of very, very particular things going on with Columbia and the Morning Sight Heights neighborhood, students took over various buildings on the campus, they occupied the president's office, occupied several other buildings, and are ultimately dragged out by the police. This, of course, has been a reference point in recent years in thinking about what's happening on university campuses, but it's an interesting moment both because it's a blend of so many different issues and also because the university, in many ways for the first time, is really the site of the activism itself. It's aimed at getting the university to change its ways as well as the nation. And a lot of that energy is aimed as well at Lyndon Johnson and the Democratic Party. And one of the analyses that comes out of the anti-war movement is that the Democratic Party has become hopelessly corrupted by the conduct of the Cold War, that the Cold War itself has acquired a sort of immorality and a momentum that young people, people who are opposed to the war no longer want to participate in. And they really go after Lyndon Johnson, who two, three, four years before this is the great champion of civil rights, the great champion of a certain kind of reform liberalism. By March of 1968, he decides that he is such a weakened president largely because of resistance to the Vietnam War that he does not want to run for the Democratic nomination again. This leads to a huge set of clashes in Chicago in 1968 at the Democratic Convention about who in fact the nominee ought to be. At the time, that was still something that was really selected at the convention. And thousands and thousands of young people show up at the convention to champion a more anti-war less establishment candidate than Lyndon Johnson's vice president, Hubert Humphrey, but ultimately Hubert Humphrey becomes the Democratic candidate in 1968. And for many people in the movement comes to symbolize the split between what's happening on the ground and what is happening within the broader Democratic Party. Before we finish up, I want to do a two couple of things. One is to just mention the most famous moment that all of this arrives at Yale and New Haven, which is in 1970, when for a brief period of time in May of 1970, the world is watching New Haven because New Haven is the site of a trial of local Black Panthers as well as the national Black Panther leader Bobby Seale, who is on trial on charges of murder. This becomes a highly politicized trial and thousands and thousands of activists from all over the country end up coming to Yale and coming to the New Haven Green. And it's one of the things, students, if you haven't already read or written your archive paper that you can explore, Yale has great materials about all of this, a few other examples of the mass mobilization that was happening in New Haven around these politics in the 1970s. All right, in finishing up, so what are some of the consequences of this moment of organizing from below as it intersects with the Democratic Party, with Cold War liberalism? As we finish up, I want to mention three things. One is that not only was Bayard Rustin not correct that this was going to be the moment to turn away from protest. Of course, as the 60s and 70s go on, you see the flowering of all sorts of protest movements that are using some of the forms, particularly nonviolent direct action protests, as their main strategy and tactic during this period. We see movements building around racial and ethnic identity of varying sorts. We have some photos here of Asian American organizing in California, of the young lords in New York, Puerto Rican organizing, as well as of the American Indian movement, which is taking off during these years. As time goes on, we begin to see the gay liberation movement, the women's liberation movement, and by the mid to late 70s, we're seeing other issue movement, the environmental movement, the mobilization of disabled people and activists, and many of them are really taking the civil rights movement as their tactical model. I think even, I would argue, making the idea of protest nonviolent direct action street protest kind of showing up in person as really part of the political style of the left that had not been true nearly as much before this moment, but becomes absolutely essential to how left movements organize themselves, how they think about themselves for better or for worse. Another thing that happens is that the political system begins to change. There's a wave of reform in response to all of this. One of those pieces is that 18 year olds in fact get the right to vote through constitutional amendment, but there are a series of other changes trying to adjust the political system to make it more responsive to the kinds of claims that people are making. We're going to talk a little bit more about those on Thursday. And finally, this movement surge of the era, both from the left, from liberals, from below and from above leads to a new generation of politicians coming into power for the first time. You can see here in the 1970s at the era when you get the rise of the congressional black caucus, when you get the women's caucus, the Hispanic caucus, because for the first time in American history you have enough people of these different backgrounds actually running for office and participating in politics. So I want to end now with one of those people making a speech at the 1976 Democratic Convention. Her name is Barbara Jordan. She is the first black woman ever to speak at a Democratic convention or I would think at any major party convention in American history. And a couple of things to note about what she has to say here. First, she's speaking in 1976, so she's thinking about the bicentennial and creating her own story about American history. And I think you'll also hear in her words the sense that a lot of those big aspirations, those big hopes, the new frontier, unparalleled affluence have become much more constrained by the mid 1970s. We're going to talk a little more about why that happens on Thursday, but let's finish up with Barbara Jordan and what she has to say in this moment. I could list the many problems which Americans have. I could list the problems which cause people to feel cynical, angry, frustrated. Problems which include lack of integrity and government, the feeling that the individual no longer counts, the reality of material and spiritual poverty, the feeling that the grand American experiment is failing or has failed. I could recite these problems and then I could sit down and offer no solutions. But I don't choose to do that either. The citizens of America expect more. They deserve and they want more than a recital of problems. We are a people in a quandary about the present. We are a people in search of our future. We are a people in search of a national community. We are a people trying not only to solve the problems of the present, unemployment, inflation, but we are attempting on a larger scale to fulfill the promise of America. We are attempting to fulfill our national purpose to create and sustain a society in which all of us are equal. She goes on to say that the challenge of that moment is not to give up on American politics, not to give up on political participation, but in fact to find a new narrative for the country that will work for a new era. So that's where we were going. We may see that at some other point. You can look it up online. For now, we'll finish out with one of the great anti-war anthems of the late 60s.

=== FILE: America at 250： A History, DeVane Lecture, Class 24 - Reagan’s America [51b2DNWiuck].txt ===

 subjected to subjected to I miss all family once again and I think you're saying yes Well I heard Mr. Young sing about her Well I heard Oni over the town Well I hope dear young will remember I'm coming and I'm getting around and around Alright good morning, good to see everyone here We were getting started up there with a song called Sweet Home Alabama Came out in 1974 with the band Leonard Skinnerd And it is a continuation of the conversation that we started on Tuesday About the meaning of the 1960s and 1970s And it's sort of a musical rejoinder to some of what we heard last week Specifically it was a response to a couple of Neil Young songs One of which was called Southern Man Which was very critical of the South's protest anthem, civil rights anthems You could also think of it as a rejoinder to the Nina Simone song that we heard last Tuesday Mississippi Goddamn, well now we have Sweet Home Alabama And so that is our entry point into what we're going to be talking about today Which is once again the 60s and 70s But on Tuesday we looked at liberals and the left and the rise of the civil rights movement And the protest culture of the 1960s and 70s And today we are going to sort of tell the other side of that story Look at the rise of the modern right as it took root in the 50s and 60s In what comes to be self-described as a conservative movement We're going to then look at the late 60s into the 70s And the significance of a politician who was controversial at the time Remains controversial today, Richard Nixon And then we're going to finish up looking at the rise of Ronald Reagan as a political figure And really as a figure who came to embody both the conservative movement Of which he had been a part since the 1950s And also a transformation of the Republican Party Last week we talked about the ways in which the Democratic Party is changing And becoming a party that's much more committed to not only a set of liberal principles But to the cause of civil rights and the ways that that started to change the Democratic coalition While we're going to talk about the Republican side of that story today But as we start out, I'm sorry, I want to mention a few things that I think both the left and the right had in common In the 1960s and 70s, at least a common set of questions And to some degree a common set of solutions We're going to see many ways in which they differed Particularly on questions about the role and size of the federal government In its relationship not only to the economy but to ordinary citizens' lives They differed deeply around the question of civil rights But there were a couple of questions that they really had in common One is that the right, like the left, is engaging in the great problem, so said, of the 50s and 60s Which is the problem of affluence And asking, you know, is this modern consumer society actually a society that has meaning and connection and purpose? We saw the left talking about that and we're going to see the right as well They had a common set of historical reference points In many ways, the modern right is born out of the reaction to the New Deal But of course, World War II and especially the Cold War are central points of reference Varieties of anti-communism are all over American politics But really central to right-wing and conservative politics from the 1940s onward And like some of the people we saw on Tuesday, they are also engaged in telling a story about American history Looking at the centennial of the Civil War Looking at the bicentennial that's coming along in 1976 And engaging in a set of debates and interventions about where exactly the nation stands in history And then finally, both sides of this debate in the 1960s have to some degree a common diagnosis of what has actually gone wrong in American politics And it's a diagnosis that will sound, I think, perhaps very strange to people today But their diagnosis coming from the left as well as from the right is that the American political parties were too much alike They agreed on too many things They all got together on too many pieces of legislation For liberals and leftists, it was the Democratic Party which has this huge conservative constituency in the middle of it Primarily but not exclusively the White South And for conservatives who are looking at the Republican Party as their vehicle Their critique is that the Republican Party has basically become liberalism-lite That figures like Eisenhower are too much within the world of the New Deal and the Great Society And that there is no outlet for conservative politics And so many people in American society decide that the thing that's going to really fix American democracy Is to have two distinctive ideological parties that don't agree on things to give people a real choice And it is one of the great episodes, I think, of unintended consequences in our history But if you look at the Port Huron statement, right, this original statement of young people trying to imagine a new left in 1962 You can see their diagnosis is that the political apparatus in America has too much similarity You look at Barry Goldwater, who we're going to talk about in a moment Really the standard bearer of the conservative movement in the early 1960s Someone who publishes this book, Conscience of a Conservative in 1960, says something very similar Which is that our voices can't be heard The political parties are too much alike Though we conservatives are deeply persuaded that our society is ailing And know that conservatism holds the key to national salvation And feel sure that the country agrees with us We seem unable to demonstrate this and to have a political vehicle that's going to realize that on a national scale And so part of our story today is looking at what happens in the party system as a result of the 60s and 70s But specifically looking at this story for the right and for the conservative movement So in thinking about the conservative movement and where it came from And this is its own designation, right, a self-conscious process of articulating certain ideas, forming certain coalitions That starts in the middle of the 20th century We need to go back to the New Deal and to its many, many opponents Friedrich Hayek is in the 1940s beginning to articulate some of the critique That's really going to become central in terms of a critique not only of socialism But of concentrated power, of planning, of government, ambition and intervention That have been so central to the politics of the New Deal and the war We then see a lot of that critique channeled through the Red Scare and through McCarthyism Which we talked about a few weeks ago And it's, I think, easy to forget in our standard narratives of McCarthyism That even at the moment that Joseph McCarthy was being censured Essentially driven out of American political life Not only by his liberal critics but by his own party, by the Republican Party He was still a pretty popular figure He had many, many supporters and this is just one hint of that This is a demonstration in 1954 at the moment of McCarthy's censure In favor of all that he had done and all that he stood for And so for many people who are on the right, consider themselves McCarthy's supporters This moment of 1954 is actually a crisis that produces a kind of rethinking The narrative being, you know, here we had a hero, we had a champion Who was doing what we needed and liked And his censure shows to us that we have no place in the American political system That American politics has been captured by liberalism And we have to do something about it One of the people who is central to that critique is this man here, William F. Buckley Students in the class have encountered Buckley in possibly two ways at this point The video for this week is William F. Buckley's debate with James Baldwin Around the question of civil rights and racial justice that took place at Cambridge University Sort of like the YPU in 1965 Yale is also the repository of William F. Buckley's papers And it's an amazing collection for those of you who want to explore the conservative movement a little bit further Buckley is a really important figure He is from the state of Connecticut Grows up in a wealthy Catholic family, lives in Sharon, Connecticut for much of his life He comes to Yale, he's a big man around campus, editor and chairman of the Yale Daily News among other things When he graduates from Yale in 1951, he ends up publishing his very first book, God and Man at Yale Which is a critique of his experiences here and particularly his Yale professors as all a bunch of socialists Thus setting in motion a grand historical tradition of Yale students getting a pretty good education and then going off and denouncing the university Buckley's lesser known second book is this one down here, McCarthy and His Enemies And Buckley as a kind of young anti-communist trying to make his way in the intellectual world of the emerging right writes this book in 1954 defending Joe McCarthy saying you might not like all of his tactics, but his heart is in the right place and the cause of McCarthyism was a good one Now that was pretty bad timing for a book defending McCarthy But that sense of crisis and that impetus to really rethink what is going on, make some different intervention in American politics becomes in many ways the cause of Buckley's life In 1955, the year after McCarthy's censure, he found a magazine called National Review And National Review is very explicit about what it's trying to do First of all, it wants to stop all of this stuff that has been happening, the growth of the federal government In some ways the push for civil rights and it has this famous mission statement as it's getting started that the purpose of National Review is to stand a thwart history yelling stop at a time when it seems that history is hurtling forward in only one direction The other purpose, self-avowed of National Review is to bring together the many competing factions of people who describe themselves in one way or another as conservative in this moment but who often aren't talking to each other And those three factions are really represented by three bestselling books of the late 40s into the early 50s One you're familiar with, Friedrich Hayek, who is one of the people who helps to articulate a libertarian tradition, a free market tradition, a small government tradition That is one piece of the story The second is a book by an intellectual named Russell Kirk And Russell Kirk is really during these years like many people trying to develop a kind of intellectual apparatus for a traditionalist view of conservatism That is about going slow, that is about respecting established institutions that in some ways has religious faith and hierarchy at its heart And then the third is the anti-communists And in fact at National Review many people who fit into the anti-communist camp were themselves former communists Like Whitaker Chambers, who actually ran a Soviet spy ring in the 1920s and 1930s before announcing that he was leaving the Communist Party and becoming really a key figure in this building coalition The attempt to bring all of these groups together was known as fusionism And in many ways it becomes the sort of overarching view at least from the top of what this new conservative movement was going to be and what it was going to stand for National Review was always a relatively elite publication, small circulation, really about intellectuals, idea people, people deep in the scrum of politics engaging with each other But there are other more grassroots movements that begin during this years as well in reaction to the downfall of Joe McCarthy and a concern that anti-communism was falling out of American life One of those, probably the most important of those new grassroots institutions was the John Birch Society just founded in 1958 to really build a national network at the grassroots Around the cause of anti-communism though as you can see the 1960s go on and the John Birch Society intervenes in other critiques of federal power, of protest culture, of civil rights, of the Supreme Court as the decade goes on And the right developed its own student movement as well during these years, an organization called Young Americans for Freedom founded almost at the same moment as students for a democratic society that we saw last week Young Americans for Freedom, like SDS, has chapters on many American campuses, has lots of students who are joining, and it too puts out its own manifesto It's worth noting the Port Huron statement is quite long, it's like 40 or 50 pages The conservative students get together at Buckley's estate in Sharon, Connecticut and deliver a much shorter and much more efficient statement at the center of which is concern about the growth of the federal government, the future of what they describe as liberty or freedom and the need to really be committed to anti-communism Young Americans for Freedom as the 60s goes on begins to sort of have parallel demonstrations to the anti-war movement These are photographs from a variety of pro-Vietnam, pro-war demonstrations that are staged by Young Americans for Freedom and others But in a lot of ways, its model and its style of politics is really quite different from what emerges on the left Young Americans for Freedom is very committed to the transformation of the Republican Party And in particular, many of the early participants in Young Americans for Freedom really learn the political trade through the campaign of Barry Goldwater, who becomes the Republican candidate in 1964 As you can see here, Goldwater presents himself very much as a man of the West He is from the state of Arizona He's actually the heir to a department store fortune. He is not a cowboy in quite the way that this would suggest But a lot of the energy in grassroots conservative politics, as well as in higher levels of politics in the Republican Party is really coming out of this huge population flow that is heading into states like Arizona, the rest of the Southwest, and particularly places like Southern California and Orange County which become big, big hotbeds of the John Birch Society and the movement more broadly Barry Goldwater becomes one of the candidates vying for the 1964 Republican nomination, which he's ultimately going to win, but it is a big battle in 1964 And the battle is really over the question of whether the Republican Party is going to commit to an avowedly conservative candidate like Barry Goldwater or whether, as that sign over there suggests championing other candidates, whether it wants to stay in the mainstream, stay in the Dwight Eisenhower tradition And the most famous quote from Barry Goldwater's convention speech is what you see here that extremism in the defense of liberty is no vice, moderation in the pursuit of justice is no virtue So we're talking about a conservative movement that is beginning to come of age in 1964, really gets behind Goldwater, but it is itself a movement with lots of different factions and the Republican Party is quite deeply split around these questions Once Goldwater secures the nomination, he runs without pulling any punches about his point of view. One example is this quote here, the good Lord raised this mighty republic to be a home for the brave and to flourish as the land of the free Not to stagnate in the swamp land of collectivism, not to cringe before the bully of communism. So he's really leaning into this set of themes and in fact, in conscience of a conservative, which was ghost written by another Yale graduate, man named Brent Bozell, Buckley's brother-in-law. He makes an even broader claim about the United States. He says quote, America is fundamentally a conservative nation, the preponderant judgment of the American people, especially of the young people is that the radical or liberal approach has not worked and is not working This is central to his campaign in 1964, but as it turns out, as we saw in 1964 America does not agree that it is fundamentally a conservative nation, at least not as far as Barry Goldwater was concerned. So 1964 is a huge national defeat, not only for Goldwater and the Republicans, but for some of the ambitions of this emerging movement. But there are two pieces of the 1964 campaign that nonetheless turn out to be very, very important over the long term. One is, as you can see here, Goldwater flips the South, Republican, for the first time, basically in a century. This is going to be a trend that continues. But that is one of the most important things that happens in 1964, and it's a big deal at the time. The other is that the Goldwater campaign introduces to the national stage a figure who's going to be pretty important in this story, a young man, middle-aged man really named Ronald Reagan. So Ronald Reagan, at the moment that he comes forth backing Barry Goldwater, is already pretty well known to a lot of Americans. He's a Hollywood star. He's been deeply involved in kind of political debate in some way. But at this moment, just a couple of weeks before the 1964 election, in which he delivers a televised broadcast in favor of Barry Goldwater that really puts him on the political map as a viable candidate and maybe the wave of the future for the movement. So I want to take three or four minutes here and watch Ronald Reagan's speech, just the very beginning of it. It's about a half-hour broadcast. Reagan himself referred back to this speech again and again as having articulated the basic ideas that he's going to hold throughout his political career. People within the movement and Reagan himself just referred to it as the speech. So this is the speech and I think you'll see in watching Reagan some of the ideas and themes that we've already visited, but also the ones that are really going to shape the movement from this moment on. The following pre-recorded political program is sponsored by TV for Goldwater Miller on behalf of Barry Goldwater, Republican candidate for President of the United States. Ladies and gentlemen, we take pride in presenting a thoughtful address by Ronald Reagan. Mr. Reagan. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you and good evening. The sponsor has been identified, but unlike most television programs, the performer hasn't been provided with a script. As a matter of fact, I have been permitted to choose my own words and discuss my own ideas regarding the choice that we face in the next few weeks. I have spent most of my life as a Democrat. I recently have seen fit to follow another course. I believe that the issues confronting us cross-party lines. Now, one side in this campaign has been telling us that the issues of this election are the maintenance of peace and prosperity. The line has been used. We've never had it so good. But I have an uncomfortable feeling that this prosperity isn't something on which we can base our hopes for the future. No nation in history has ever survived a tax burden that reached a third of its national income. Today, 37 cents out of every dollar earned in this country is the tax collector's share. And yet our government continues to spend $17 million a day more than the government takes in. We haven't balanced our budget 28 out of the last 34 years. We've raised our debt limit three times in the last 12 months. And now our national debt is one and a half times bigger than all the combined debts of all the nations of the world. We have $15 billion in gold in our treasury. We don't own an ounce. Foreign dollar claims are $27.3 billion. And we've just had an ounce that the dollar of 1939 will now purchase 45 cents in its total value. As for the peace that we would preserve, I wonder who among us would like to approach the wife or mother whose husband or son has died in South Vietnam and ask them if they think this is a peace that should be maintained indefinitely. Do they mean peace or do they mean we just want to be left in peace? There can be no real peace while one American is dying someplace in the world for the rest of us. We're at war with the most dangerous enemy that has ever faced mankind in his long climb from the swamp to the stars. And it's been said if we lose that war and in so doing lose this way of freedom of ours, history will record with the greatest astonishment that those who had the most to lose did the least to prevent its happening. Well, I think it's time we ask ourselves if we still know the freedoms that were intended for us by the founding fathers. Not too long ago, two friends of mine were talking to a Cuban refugee, a businessman who would escape from Castro. And in the midst of his story, one of my friends turned to the other and said, We don't know how lucky we are. And the Cuban stopped and said, How lucky you are. I had some place to escape to. And in that sentence, he told us the entire story. If we lose freedom here, there's no place to escape to. This is the last stand on earth. And this idea that government is beholden to the people, that it has no other source of power except the sovereign people, is still the newest and the most unique idea in all the long history of man's relation to man. This is the issue of this election. Whether we believe in our capacity for self-government or whether we abandon the American Revolution and confess that a little intellectual elite in a far distant capital can plan our lives for us better than we can plan them ourselves. You and I are told increasingly we have to choose between a left or right. Well, I'd like to suggest there is no such thing as a left or right. There's only an up or down man's old, old age dream, the ultimate in individual freedom consistent with law and order, or down to the ant heap of totalitarianism. All right. So it goes on for half an hour. I would recommend watching the whole thing, but for right now, I just want to highlight a few themes that were there because they really become central claims for not only Reagan as a political figure, but for the conservative movement more broadly. The idea that all of this affluence, the New Deal, ultimately the great society, it's been built on a house of cards that's going to come crashing down, that prosperity is not what it looks like. The critique of planning that we saw in Hayek, but that is also being articulated as a kind of anti-elitist populist politics. Those that little intellectual elite in a far off capital, do you want them planning your life, or do you want to plan it yourself? And finally, anti-communism really as the glue that is in many ways holding all of this together. We're going to come back to Reagan a little bit later in the lecture, but for the moment, I want to turn to a different figure, and that is Richard Nixon, because in the aftermath of Goldwater's defeat, as the 1968 election comes around, of course the question comes up again, what is the identity of the Republican Party, and who should be its standard bearer? And in this moment, Richard Nixon, who had in fact been the candidate in 1960, had lost, comes around again as a major figure. One of the things that makes that possible is the wave of politics, crises, confrontations that we talked about last Tuesday, the rise of protests on American campuses, especially the rise of urban uprisings, rebellions, riots that become really central and escalate very quickly over the course of the 1960s. Richard Nixon, when he was a candidate in 1960, was a pretty straightforward Eisenhower Republican. When he comes back in 1968, he comes back not only running around some of the themes that we heard Ronald Reagan articulating, but running against what he describes as the disorder, the conflict, the violence.  narylins, that is becoming endemic to American society. Nixon himself, like Goldwater and like Reagan, is from the West. He's born in Orange County. He is a pretty pure product of Southern California. He went and fought in the war and then was elected very quickly to Congress in the late 1940s and made his name by joining the House Committee on Un-American Activities, becoming the man who vanquished Alger Hiss and thereby earning his place on Eisenhower's ticket as a very young vice presidential candidate, sort of Eisenhower's anti-communist pitbull, really his rival in some ways to Joe McCarthy. You can see him here in Moscow in 1959 at an exhibition, an expo that's being put on there in which he is gone there as the great champion of American prosperity, of the American way of life, of the affluent society in that moment as part of the country's Cold War strategy. He was on the ticket in 1960, running as around these themes of peace and prosperity, continuing the Eisenhower tradition, but he lost his position in the war. He lost that election very narrowly to John Kennedy. So the 1960s in many ways for Richard Nixon are periods of disappointment, of trying to rethink what a viable Republican coalition would be and also what he himself stands for, runs for governor of California in 1962, loses that election as well. It's a famous moment in which he says you won't have Dick Nixon to kick around anymore at a press conference and he's leaving politics forever. Well, fast forward, he does not leave politics forever and in fact secures the 1968 Republican nomination, really running on the idea that the country had made a mistake in 1960. Look what it had gotten and this time you better vote like your whole world depended on it. He himself begins to embrace a much more aggressive platform that is centered around not only reaction to the civil rights movement, but a kind of law and order platform that centers protest and social disorder as the main theme of his campaign. I want to take a moment now and just show you two campaign commercials. They're both very short and they really illustrate the difference between Republican politics in 1960 in the figure of Richard Nixon and how things look by 1968, the ways in which the whole political system is in conversation with each other but being transformed. So this is 1960, if it will play. What is the most important issue confronting the American people in this election campaign? There's no question about the answer that I have found in traveling all over this nation. Above everything else, the American people want leaders who will keep the peace without surrender for America and the world. Henry Cabot Lodge and I have had the opportunity of serving with President Eisenhower in this cause for the last seven and a half years. We both know Mr. Kruse, we have sat opposite the conference table with him. We know what peace demands. We will keep America the strongest nation in the world and we will couple that strength with firm diplomacy. No apologies, no regrets. Always willing to negotiate for peace but never conceding anything without getting a concession in return. For Nixon and Lodge November 8th. All right, so that's 1960, professional management of the Cold War, foreign policy experience. Now, we're going to watch a Nixon commercial from 1968. So we'll also give you a sense of how rapidly television is changing during these years. It is time for an honest look at the problem of order in the United States. Descent is a necessary ingredient of change. But in a system of government that provides for peaceful change, there is no cause that justifies resort to violence. Let us recognize that the first civil right of every American is to be free from domestic violence. So I pledge to you, we shall have order in the United States. All right, so very different themes, very different style. And in fact, in 1968, it's incredibly successful. So Nixon wins this time, wins relatively big. He wins in many places where the Republican Party has struggled before. Those yellow states down there, the states that Goldwater had won in 1964, flipped for George Wallace, the Southern segregationist former governor of Alabama, who was running his own campaign. But as you can see, much of the country goes for Nixon. And because of Watergate, because we all know what comes later, I think it can be easy to underestimate just how significant that 1968 vote was. But at the time, there are many people who are looking at it and saying, ah, this is the wave of the future. There is something new being born. It is a new Republican coalition, and it is going to be the wave of the future. The most famous statement of that is this book that comes out in 1969, called The Emerging Republican Majority, in which political strategist named Kevin Phillips declares the election of Richard Nixon bespoke the end of the New Deal Democratic hegemony and the beginning of a new era in American politics. The new popular majority is conservative, just as Barry Goldwater had claimed. And a lot of that book is devoted to trying to make an assessment of what the coalition is that's going to support this new conservative majority and send this emerging Republican majority to success in the future. And many of the constituencies that are being identified are constituencies that have been pulled out of the New Deal coalition, at least in their ambitions and re-centered in the Republican Party. So that includes the white South, which had been a bulwark of the Democratic Party, certainly during the New Deal, really reaching all the way back to the mid-19th century. We see that transition underway. The Sun Belt West, places like California, particularly Southern California and Arizona, which are having huge population booms. These are going to be part of the story as well. And there's a group that Kevin Phillips refers to as, quote unquote, the New York City Irish. Now what does he mean by that? He means urban ethnic voters, white ethnic working class voters, who had once been really central to Democratic political machines in Northern cities and in industrial cities, particularly Catholics, now beginning to move into the Republican camp as well. And then white middle class suburbanites. The one group that he says, you know, it's time to just let them go are the Northeastern states. He says they're going to go in a different direction. And anyway, they're losing population and who needs them. And so after really decades in which places like New York had been bastions, New England as well, of a certain kind of Northeastern Republicanism, the death knell for that mode of politics is also being declared here. This turns out to be a pretty good prediction, at least as far as 1972 goes. 1972 for Richard Nixon is one of the great landslides in all of American history. Only one state does not go for Richard Nixon. That is the state of Massachusetts. And as you can see, people in Massachusetts were proud of that, particularly after Watergate. And that was a famous bumper sticker from the time. Don't blame me. I'm from Massachusetts. Now actually an office, Nixon turned out to be a much more interesting figure than his campaigning might suggest. He in some ways really governed as a big government liberal. For instance, the Environmental Protection Agency is created under the Nixon administration. House of Women's Rights Laws, Title IX I think comes in then, though I'm not entirely sure. But he also on the foreign policy stage looks a lot like the Nixon of 1960, right? Trying to manage the Cold War from a kind of realist perspective, most famously opening diplomatic ties with China. Ultimately, of course, it is Watergate that comes to overshadow all of these. And one of the real tragedies, if you want to think about it that way, of Watergate is that a lot of it was precipitated by efforts to kind of manipulate the 1972 election to spy on the Democratic National Committee. That's the Watergate burglary. But as it turns out, they didn't really need to do that. It was a huge landslide and a big blowout. Anyway, now as the 1970s go on with Watergate and other crises that begin to set in, that optimism of the early 60s that we talked about on Tuesday comes to be increasingly articulated as a set of problems and crises that this is no longer a country on the rise. It's a country in decline. There are, of course, the stories about Watergate and its constitutional crises. As the 1970s goes on, economic crisis sets in, particularly growing inflation, a series of foreign policy crises set in the oil embargo, the Iranian hostage crisis, the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, the American loss in the Vietnam War above all. So one of the things that this does is provide a new set of openings for other figures who want to make their bid on the national stage. One of those on the Democratic side is Jimmy Carter, who really comes to office vowing to be more trustworthy, vowing to be the anti-Nixon. But ultimately, many of these crises happen under Carter's watch. And so the 1960, the 1980 election becomes something of a referendum on American life and politics as they look by the late 1970s. So I want to finish up in these last moments looking at the figure of Ronald Reagan as he is on the rise during these years. We saw him in 1964, but his path from that speech to the presidency 16 years later was in some ways a little bit uneven, even though he stuck with many of the ideas and themes he had been talking about. I am now that I have finished, more or less, my road trip book. I am in the early stages of writing a biography of Ronald Reagan. And one of the things that really interests me about Reagan is the way in which his political story in the years before he becomes president really embody many of the key trends and ideas that we have been talking about thus far in this class. I should note I did also visit the Reagan Library on my road trips. So you can sit on a horse and pretend to be riding with Ronald Reagan at his ranch. So this is me and my son who was a teenager at the time. So he's there in that book as well. But what got me interested in thinking about him over this long scope of political history is as I said the ways that his evolution in some way mirrors the evolution of the country more broadly. He is a working class boy from Illinois who in the 1930s in the midst of the Great Depression sort of picks himself up, goes to Hollywood and says make me a star and they set about doing that. But so he really gets his start in the ferment of the 30s, but particularly in all of these new communications media that are coming into being. But in particular portraying lots of great stock American characters, cowboys, there he is in Bedtime for Bonzo, which is a movie in which he's partnered with a chimpanzee. And once he was in politics, lots of people loved to make fun of him as the candidate of Bedtime for Bonzo. But so he learns very early on in his career how to negotiate the mediums of film and of television. He moves on from there to become the president of Screen Actors Guild. So one of the great New Deal unions that's formed in the 1930s, but quickly turns against the leftists and particularly the communists within his unions. And the first moment that he really comes on the national stage is testifying in front of the House on American Activities Committee and to some degree naming names of communists in Hollywood. From there he goes on to leave Hollywood and become the spokesman for General Electric, really the great corporation that embodies the affluent society, consumer America. And also while he's a GE that he begins to get some of his ideological education, GE is a famously anti-union company with very particular strategies around that. He is involved in the Goldwater campaign, but he's also involved in the movement more broadly in conversation with many of the people and the groups that we were just talking about. And in 1966 he decides to take that moment and become the governor of California, running as an outsider, running as a conservative and wins and serves two terms in California as governor. During his time there, he, like Richard Nixon, comes to articulate at least some of what he's doing as being in opposition to the sort of protest politics, the left politics, as well as liberalism more broadly. And California is a really important place for all of that in the 1960s. These are two events that happened during Ronald Reagan's tenure as governor. One is clashes over People's Park in Berkeley, in which protesters are trying to hold on to a park that has been used for gatherings and kind of community events. But as you can see, results in lots of violent clashes. The other is the moment when the Black Panthers march armed on the California state capital in order to protest a set of gun laws that were aimed at, in certain ways, stopping their activism against police brutality. So Reagan comes of age in the 50s, 60s conservative movement and then really adapts himself, like Richard Nixon, to the politics of the 1960s. In 1976 he makes a bid for the Republican nomination and liked the battle at the Republican Convention in 1964. This becomes a struggle over the fate of the Republican Party. Is it going to be Gerald Ford, the sitting president considered by many Republicans to be a relative moderate, to be, quote, in the mainstream, as the Goldwater signs suggested? Or is it going to be Ronald Reagan and a valid conservative and the person who says he's going to carry that cause forward? Reagan does not get the 1976 nomination, but he comes back around by 1980 with not only some of the themes that he's talked about already, but with a refashioned story about the United States and what has happened to it over these last two decades from his own point of view. A lot of what he ends up emphasizing is that the 60s and 70s have been tragedies for the country, that they have destabilized the social order, they have led to an unstable economy at the highest levels that was then seeing its realization in the 1970s. And so he calls for Americans to come together in a coalition that will somehow return the United States to an earlier moment in which the country was prosperous, stable, where the social order was functioning, and where values, as he would have suggested, are in place. This is an image that sort of captures that. This is Jerry Falwell out front, who is a Baptist minister, one of the organizers of religious right and Christian right that begins to emerge and backs Reagan very heavily in the late 1970s. Falwell creates an organization called the Moral Majority, and it is one of the vehicles for supporting Ronald Reagan. This language of majority, the emerging Republican majority, Nixon's silent majority, the moral majority, all of these are full of ambitions for not only winning one election, but in fact transforming American politics in a much more permanent way. Reagan in 1980 comes up with a very powerful slogan that's intended to capture this historical story that's intended to tell a tale about a past that was better than the present, but also a future that might be made as good as the past. That slogan was, let's make America great again. So it's actually in 1980 that that slogan enters American politics. And I think as we think about that slogan, which might be familiar to a few of you, it's important to remember that it is telling a story about American history. It's a story about a lost past. It's a story about something that happens at some moment that corrupts American politics identity leads it to decline, and then it's restoration to come. Proves to be really successful in 1980. You know, when Richard Nixon left office in 1974 under the cloud of Watergate, many people said, oh, you know, the Republican Party is done for, for a generation because of the crises of the 70s, because of the political talents of a figure like Ronald Reagan, and because I think what Kevin Phillips noticed in the late 1960s, these broader changes in American society. Reagan wins in 1980. He wins even bigger in 1984, one of the other great blowouts of American history in which he loses only one state. When we return after the break, which will be not next week, but the following Tuesday, I'm going to talk a little bit more about the politics of the 1980s themselves, what actually happens during that period. For now, I want to finish off with a song that came out in 1984 in the midst of this election from a man named Bruce Springsteen. Born in the USA, one of the funny things about this song is that many people take it as this triumphal anthem about American life. If you listen to it, it's actually a very powerful protest song about some of the difficulties of life in the United States in the 1970s and 1980s. That's it. It's not a hit to the ground. In the block of dog, that's a beat too much, so you spend half your life to cover it up. Born in the USA, born in the USA. Born in the USA, born in the USA.

=== FILE: America at 250： A History, DeVane Lecture, Class 25 - Making Sense of the Millennium [HhBQ6j0E74k].txt ===

 subjected to subjected to I'll dance my life away Oh, big thing Two thousand zero zero party over roots out of time So tonight I'm gonna party like it's night But tonight I'm gonna party like it's night Say one more time Two thousand zero zero party over roots out of time Yeah, yeah, so tonight I'm gonna party like it's night But tonight I'm gonna party like it's night But tonight I'm gonna party like it's night Night, night, night Alright There's some applause for Prince and for one of the great party songs of the 1980s So it is worth noting that like many songs that are often thought of as being celebratory songs This is actually quite a dark song That song written in put out in the early 1980s is about the threat of nuclear war And the escalating threat of nuclear war as the Cold War was once again heating up in that moment And the message of that song party like it's 1999 was a sort of apocalyptic We might not be around for 1999 or 2000 And so we might as well party here where we are in the 1980s And then of course we did make it to 1999 2000 So that is something to celebrate But by the time we got there people were less worried about nuclear war Than about the fact that all of their computers might shut down and that was the apocalyptic vision Which tells us something that I think we've seen many times over the course of this semester Which is that part of what history is all about is looking at people in their moment Trying to make sense of the past to tell them where they might be going in the future And sometimes they get it right Sometimes they can't see what's coming So today does my microphone sound okay? It sounds very echoey up here Okay sounds different than it usually does but that's fine Today we're going to do a little bit of what Prince got us started doing there Which is to say we are going to begin in the 1980s and take a look in particular at the Reagan administration And the anti-communist politics of the 1980s We're then going to make our way into the 1990s as a period of history that I would say Is still being thought through and defined and redefined as we get a little more distance on it One of the things that people often ask historians as I've mentioned is When does something become history? And one rule of thumb is that it's about 30 years or so Which is to say we begin to have enough distance to make sense of patterns To be able to have memoirs and archives and reflections with some level of historical distance And so the 1990s and 2000s to historians just happened We're still figuring it out and what we're going to do today is look at what have been two of the competing narratives For thinking about and defining the 1990s as a decade One is about the rise of a post-Cold War consensus in domestic policy and foreign policy That seemed for a long time to be the dominant story of the 1990s Some people would call it a Washington consensus Others a neoliberal consensus but in a remarkable amount of accord around certain ideas about How the United States ought to be running its politics and economy And also how it ought to be projecting its power into the world There's also a counter narrative that is deeply rooted and also important Which is that it's in the 1990s that some of the most important features of what we've come to describe as polarization in our politics come into being So you might ask how could that be a decade of consensus and a decade of polarization at the same time? It's a good question, it's one we're going to wrestle with and it's one that I'm going to leave to all of you to wrestle with as well And I think we've seen a lot of this lecture in the 1990s talking about that debate And then we are going to try to finish up in the 21st century to get to about 2007 Which is the year that by my calculations many of the first year students in this class and at Yale and colleges more broadly were born And another way to think about what is history is it's everything that happened before I was born And I think one of the things that's been very fun in this class particularly in these last couple of lectures is to see where different people hit that moment Somewhere around the last week or the week before that members of the community started coming up and saying, yeah, I remember that either that's how it happened That's not how it happened, but I think the students have not actually had that experience yet And I'm not sure that most people remember the year that they were born But hopefully by the end of lecture we're going to be at least a little closer to the world that we all know and inhabit today So to get started I want to go back to where we left off on Thursday before Thanksgiving break And that was with the election of Ronald Reagan and we said at the time that in some ways we want to see Reagan's rise as a political figure As the product of a self-conscious movement with a clearly defined set of ideas about who they were, what they thought the United States ought to be And in particular how to govern if and when one came into power And Ronald Reagan himself often described his own political history that way, described this moment that in 1981 quote unquote conservatives finally had the White House If not the Congress and certain other areas of American political power And he says at the conservative political action conference in 1981, you know, whatever history says about our cause, it has been the product of decades of work and here we are And we're going to have to figure out what to do And that speech, if you like political speech making is a particularly interesting one because in that speech Ronald Reagan name checks many, many, many of the events and figures and forces and ideas that we have encountered over the last couple of weeks He talks about Friedrich Hayek and Russell Kirk as these big intellectual influences. He talks about William F. Buckley and National Review and Frank Meyer and fusionism as having led to that moment. He talks about Barry Goldwater. He even name checks himself and says, you know, in 1964 I made a great speech that outlines some great ideas, you know, and here we are yada yada yada And we can finally put some of this into action. And then he brings in new newer figures, people that we haven't talked as much about Milton Friedman, the economist who in many ways is one of the intellectual architects of the Reagan era. And he talks a bit about Margaret Thatcher as well and says very proudly Margaret Thatcher in Great Britain and says very proudly that he just talked to her and they agreed, quote, that the cult of the state is finally dying, that they are together going to dismantle one of the big stories of the century, which is the rise of powerful centralized states in the United States in England and elsewhere in the world. And he also positioned himself, this is a nod to Joanne, as an heir to the American Revolution. And he said, this is 1981. That means that it is the bicentennial of the victory at Yorktown. And he says, fellow citizens, fellow conservatives, our time is now, our moment has arrived. We stand together shoulder to shoulder in the thickest of the fight. So he is defining the politics of the 1980s really as a form of ideological struggle. But as most figures find, once they are in political office, governing is quite different from campaigning. And one of the big questions about the politics of the 1980s is in fact how much it's driven by these sets of ideas that are put into action and how much it's actually, you know, sort of set of pragmatic exchanges and constraints, like most political moments are. The most recent biography of Ronald Reagan makes the case that actually fundamentally, despite all of this, Reagan was really a pragmatist. And I think there are a lot of ways in which that turned out to be true of the 1980s. You're talking about an era of divided government. You're talking about a moment of constraints of varying sorts. And like most presidencies, the Reagan presidency turned out to be a whole lot of responding to crises that nobody necessarily saw coming. Among them the AIDS crisis, which begins to emerge in the 1980s, we'll talk about that a little bit more later in lecture about foreign policy crises as well. On the AIDS crisis, Reagan famously late and relatively hesitant to engage with that. But I would make the case that it is possible to see the 1980s and to see the Reagan era as really one of the moments when this anti-communist idea, which got its really start early in the 20th century, was institutionalized in new ways in the 40s and 50s, really comes to its peak, both as a way of thinking about the United States in the world. And as a way of thinking about forging a path for domestic politics as well. One of Reagan's top priorities in coming into office was to reduce the top marginal tax rate. He had been a wealthy movie actor in the 40s and 50s at those moments when the top marginal tax rate got into the 90s and never forgot that. But also acting on a set of ideas about how the economy ought to work, what the crises of the 70s had told. The notion of Reaganomics or trickle down economics becomes one of the driving features of economic policy in particular. In the 1980s, it involves tax cuts, it involves open markets, involves forms of deregulation that really become Reagan's signatures in terms of political economy. Another signature feature of the 1980s is push back against quote unquote big labor, but against the labor movement and the large labor institutions, industrial unions that had gotten their start in the 30s and 40s, reached their peak in the 50s and 60s, had a surge of activism in the 70s. But though Ronald Reagan in many ways got his political start as a labor union leader in the Screen Actors Guild, the 1980s becomes an era of deep pushback against organized labor in its institutional form. So one of the most dramatic early examples of that was Reagan's decision to fire the air traffic controllers who went on strike in 1981. It's actually a really important moment not only in the history of labor, but in the history of federal employment and how we think about federal workers and their relationship to the government and to the private sector, something that had dramatic consequences for the labor movement as well. As for some of the questions that are still being sorted out today, not only about air traffic control, but about government employment more broadly. This is give some examples of the kind of dramatic impact that that moment of the 1980s had on the history of labor. You can see on this side that the pushback against PACCO in particular led to a dramatic decrease in the use of strikes as a form of political organizing. And over there you can see that from that peak in the 1960s beginning in the 70s accelerating in the 1980s and really continuing into the early 2000s, that labor surge of mid century begins to come to an end. Now there were some unintended consequences of all of this. The theory of Reaganomics was that it was going to produce so much economic growth that lower taxes, less regulation would produce economic growth that would not only trickle down from the rich to the poor, but that would actually increase rather than decrease the tax base. But it turns out actually if you lower tax rates, you have less tax revenue and that was one of the great lessons of the 1980s. And so the 1980s become one of the most significant periods of deficit spending, something that is going to continue on for decades to come. But I think for many people who were within the movement and within the Reagan administration, that too had a silver lining. There was a theory that became very popular in the 70s and 80s that was captured by the phrase, starve the beast, which is to say the only way that you were going to make inroads into this New Deal state, this expansive federal government, the regulatory and administrative state, in particular the social worker. The social welfare state as well was simply by not providing money, by shrinking the tax base, the money's there, it's going to be spent. And so this is David Stockman, who was Reagan's budget director, who was a champion of that general idea. So I think we can see these policies as on the one hand pragmatic responses to crises that emerged in the 1970s, particularly the inflation or stagflation crisis of that era. But they're being driven by a set of ideas that are very much rooted in the world of mid century anti communism. And that is the world that in many ways made Ronald Reagan. And of course we can see that playing out in the 1980s as well. The last real decade of the Cold War, the most famous moment in all of that is of course Reagan in 1987 in Berlin, saying tear down this wall, famous speech. But in many ways his approach to the Cold War was a little more complicated and mixed the math. Beginning in the 70s when he was a candidate was asked about Cold War strategy. He had a very definite straightforward, he would say some people say this is overly simplistic, but my strategy for the Cold War is this. We win, they lose. And this has since become one of the defining features of the Reagan era grand strategy of his approach to the Cold War, but it had many, many different features. Among them was a military buildup in the United States, sort of a revival after Vietnam of what Dwight Eisenhower had called the military industrial complex, but a buildup of the military and of defense forces, including Reagan's favorite programs Star Wars, which was intended to be a missile shield over the United States that was never built. It involved extensive hot war interventions in many places around the world, most notably in Latin America, and Central America, where a lot of the fiercest conflicts of the Reagan years took place. And then it involved a set of negotiations with the Soviet Union in a direct sense, negotiations around nuclear arms reduction, negotiations around cultural exchange and political and economic reform. This is Reagan and the Kyle Gorbachev, who became leader of the Soviet Union in the late 1980s, mid to late 1980s and worked very closely with Reagan around making these kinds of political, cultural and economic exchanges more possible. So when we got to the end of the 1980s, Reagan looks out and says, Hey, what are we heading into? We're heading into a world in which the US and the Soviet Union are going to have a much more cooperative relationship. We're still going to try to achieve peace through strength. We still view the Soviet Union as an ideological enemy in some ways. But his prediction in 1989, as he is leaving office, is that the US and the Soviet Union have entered a new era of cooperation and of coming together in some way. In fact, his biggest warning when he leaves office is not about the Cold War. It's not about communism. It's about a worry he has about the United States itself that Americans are forgetting their own history and that they are forgetting what it means to be patriotic. That is his great warning, right? When Dwight Eisenhower delivered his farewell address, he said, I am here to tell you that the military industrial complex is one of the great new forces in American history. It's something you're going to have to think about and contend with and deal with for the rest of the 20th century. Reagan says that his big worry is that the United States is coming apart, that Americans don't know their history, that they don't know how to engage in an informed patriotism. Now, Reagan's idea of that was to some degree telling great heroic stories from World War II and about the heroic founders in some ways, things that we would probably not be teaching in quite the same way in a class like this. But I do find it interesting that he was naming that as something that we ought to be thinking about. And he also told the children of the late 1980s that if your parents have not been teaching you what it means to be an American, let them know and nail them on it. That would be a very American thing to do. I'm not quite sure what he meant by that. But that was his great message to the nation. All of which is to say that even Ronald Reagan, even someone who staked most of his political career on anti-communism, who said, you know, we win, they lose, pare down this wall, did not see what was about to happen just months after he left office, which is that the Berlin Wall was going to come down in the middle of 1989, that the Soviet Union itself was going to collapse two years later, and that many of the assumptions and ways of doing politics, not only on the global stage that had been the central features of the world that he had known, began to change abroad, but also at home. All right, now I want to turn to the 1990s, which as I said is a decade whose history is still very much in formation. We are in some ways not very far out from the events we're going to be talking about for the rest of lecture. And there is an active debate underway about what exactly was going on in these transitional years of the 1990s into the 21st century, in which lots of old assumptions, lots of old institutions, lots of old ways of doing business are being upended, thrown out the window. New ones are being invented, but they're meaning both then, and I think still now we're not necessarily entirely clear. One interpretation of what began to happen in the 1980s, but especially after 1989 and into the 1990s is a story about consensus, that one of the features of the 20th century was these sets of great ideological struggles, first with fascism, second with communism, and that after this moment in the late 1980s, the contours of those ideological struggles changed dramatically. And as you're reading for this week would suggest maybe even go away altogether. This is your the main reading for this week is an essay that came out in the summer of 1989 by political theorist named Francis Fukuyama, who was a neoconservative, who's one of many people kind of looking at this hinge moment in history trying to think about what's happening. And his declaration is that the end of history is nigh. Now it's worth noting that the original version of this is the end of history question mark. By the time I came out in book form a little later it was the end of history has come and that's partly because of the succession of events that happened so rapidly between the moment that this essay came out and the moment that it was expanded as a book just a little bit. And so it's going to be a little while later, an intense period of change, especially on the global stage. But the central premise of this essay is not in fact that history is going to end in the sense that there going to be no more events that there are going to be no more conflicts but that that fundamental set of ideological struggles that the 20th century in particular had been resolved and it had been resolved in favor of western liberal democratic capitalism. That this was by the 1990s the only world system that anyone could imagine anymore. Its chief competitors have been discredited. Those who were not brought under that umbrella were just exceptions or crackpots or run of the mills, strong arm authoritarians, but that in terms of conceiving of how to run the world there was only one idea left. And this became a very, very popular narrative in the 1990s that idea maybe can be described as western liberalism as Fukuyama says its critics tended to describe it as neoliberalism, a set of institutions and ideas that emphasized individual choice, free choice, open markets, forms of globalization that become really some of the dominant narratives and policies of the 1990s. The standard bearer of that change is often seen in this story to be this man here Bill Clinton, who is elected president in 1992. And in this story about the coming together of some sort of 1990s consensus, Clinton is often the chief figure because so much of what he says seems to echo a framework about markets and choice and shrinking government dismantling the 20th century state that had been features of the Reagan administration and then the Bush administration. The most famous statement of that is Clinton's declaration in 1996 that quote, the era of big government is over. We know that big government does not have all the answers right a dramatic difference from the 1930s 40s 50s, even the Great Society vision. Reagan himself came out of an effort to reform and change the Democratic Party from within through the Democratic leadership committee that became the Democratic leadership council. And in 1990 they outlined what they thought ought to be some of the fundamental principles of a new Democratic Party going forward. First of all, they wanted to be able to win elections again which the Democrats had not been very good at doing. But they employed phrases like expand opportunity, not government deter crime and punish criminals, engage in liberty of conscience individual responsibility work, faith, family, and putting an emphasis on responsibilities as well as rights. So a very self conscious effort, in fact, to shift the approach the nature the meaning of 1990s liberalism in ways that are in this analysis, you have fundamentally in the same universe of ideas as their political opponents. It is worth noting that this does in fact prove to be successful and in some ways, you know, you can see that Clinton still has some of the old Democratic Party coalition operating. He does win states in the deep south he is himself really the last great Southern Democrat to to rise to office in this way. He is also the embodiment of an essential new part of the Democratic coalition, which is Northeastern liberals college educated elites coming into being you might recognize these people you might recognize this location. So this is Bill and Hillary Clinton at Yale, which is where they met probably the single most consequential romantic meeting that ever happened in a Yale library happened there. Students this is how people used to meet each other they used to meet each other by like looking across the library where they were sitting reading books in real life and seeing each other. At any rate, we have Bill and Hillary there. A lot of this new paradigm gets expressed through a set of trade policies that become the signature features of quote unquote globalization in the 1990s. The most famous of them is the passage of NAFTA or the North American Free Trade Agreement, which when it is passed during the Clinton years is particularly interesting because it is handed down from previous Republican administrations to a Democratic administration and put into effect. And there are other areas in which during the 1990s there's.  there's a lot of accord around the sorts of reforms that are going to be implemented. It's under Clinton that we see welfare reform come in, a set of work requirements for welfare recipients, very different vision of the social welfare state coming into being. We have Clinton in the middle of there, signing the Telecommunications Act of 1996, which is largely, though not totally deregulatory and is one of the pieces of legislation that really sets up how the internet in particular, which is just emerging, is ultimately going to be governed or not governed. Another example from a more cultural end of things is the Defense of Marriage Act, which Clinton also signs on to, which is effectively a ban on gay marriage. Another area in which you see remarkable accord, both between Democrats and Republicans, but also in terms of longer term trends, is around responses to a growing crime rate and the rise of incarceration. As you can see from this graph, there's very little differentiation from the 80s to the 90s, or between different administrations. A lot of this is happening through this kind of consensus politics. And I'll just mention one more, which is growing inequality. This is a moment in which inequality begins to grow. The 90s are in some ways boom years, particularly in the first tech boom, the internet boom of that era. But it is also an era in which the inequality that we have come to know so well really begins to take off. One last area I'll mention is in terms of immigration policy. The United States, after the 1965 Immigration Act, is moving once more into an era of mass immigration, though that immigration is coming from very different parts of the world than we saw when we were there in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. And though immigration politics in our moment is a very fraught and divided set of questions for much of this period, that was in fact not the case. In fact, it's during the Reagan years that an amnesty program for undocumented people in the United States comes into being. Right, so that is the argument for the 1990s as a period of consensus in domestic policy. There's a good argument for that being the case in the realm of global affairs as well. The end of the Cold War being the thing that everyone is contending with throughout this period and many of the most dramatic moments of intervention and conflict happen in some ways in a consensus form. The Gulf War, the rise of concern over terrorism, and then ultimately the response to 9-11, which becomes quite controversial by the several years out and there are always people who are fighting about the particulars in any given moment, but for the most part emerges in a very bipartisan way. I want to take a moment now and just watch an important video of a political figure who emerges in this moment as someone who is trying to reformulate, double down on, but also speak to this politics of 1990s consensus. This is of course Barack Obama. This is his 2004 speech at the Democratic National Convention like Ronald Reagan's 1964 speech for Barry Goldwater. This is really what launches Obama. And I think it's particularly interesting to watch this speech as both a reflection of and an attempt to produce a kind of consensus politics for the 90s and then into the 21st century. John Kerry believes in America and he knows that it's not enough for just some of us to prosper. For alongside our famous individualism, there's another ingredient in the American saga, a belief that we're all connected as one people. If there's a child on the South Side of Chicago who can't read, that matters to me even if it's not my child. If there's a senior citizen somewhere who can't pay for their prescription drugs and having to choose between medicine and the rent, that makes my life poorer even if it's not my grandparent. If there's an Arab American family being rounded up without benefit of an attorney or due process, that threatens my civil liberties. It is that fundamental belief, it is that fundamental belief, I am my brother's keeper, I am my sister's keeper that makes this country work. It's what allows us to pursue our individual dreams and yet still come together as one American family. Now, even as we speak, there are those who are preparing to divide us, the spin masters, the negative ad peddlers who embrace the politics of anything goes. Well, I say to them tonight, there is not a liberal America and a conservative America, there is the United States of America. There is not a black America and a white America and Latino America and Asian America, there's the United States of America. The pundits like to slice and dice our country into red states and blue states, red states for Republicans, blue states for Democrats, but I've got news for them too. We worship an awesome God in the blue states and we don't like federal agents poking around in our libraries in the red states. We coach little league in the blue states and yes, we've got some gay friends in the red states. There are patriots who oppose the war in Iraq and there are patriots who supported the war in Iraq. We are one people, all of us pledging allegiance to the stars and stripes, all of us defending the United States of America. All right. All right, you applaud for Prince, you applaud for Barack Obama. So now I want to turn to a different speech, a speech that tells the other side of this story because despite what Obama was saying there, it turns out that there was, at least to some degree, a red America and a blue America already forming during these years. And as historians have looked back on the 1990s, tried to tell that story that is about polarization, that is not about the country coming together in this moment, but about the country flying apart. Many of them point to this 1992 speech by Pat Buchanan at the Republican National Convention. Pat Buchanan, someone who had a long history in conservative politics, have worked in the Nixon administration, have become a TV star of a sort in the cable shows of the 1980s and 90s and was a well-known figure, ran for the 1992 Republican nomination on really a paleo-conservative platform, as we would describe it, on a platform of nationalism, cultural conservatism. And this speech is, for many historians, trying to make sense of the 1990s, a moment to look to because it is a declaration of war of a sort. And you'll hear what kind of war Pat Buchanan thinks that he's raging. This party is my home, this party is our home, and we've got to come home to it. And don't let anyone tell you different. Yes, we disagreed with President Bush, but we stand with him for the freedom to choose religious schools, and we stand with him against the amoral idea that gay and lesbian couples should have the same standing in law as married men and women. We stand with President Bush, we stand with President Bush for right to life and for voluntary prayer in the public schools. And we stand against putting our wives and daughters and sisters into combat units of the United States Army. And we stand, my friends. We also stand with President Bush in favor of the right of small towns and communities to control the raw sewage of pornography that so terribly pollutes our popular culture. We stand with President Bush in favor of federal judges who interpret the law as written and against would-be Supreme Court justices like Mario Cuomo, who think they have a mandate to rewrite the Constitution. Friends, this election is about more than who gets what. It is about who we are. It is about what we believe and what we stand for as Americans. There is a religious war going on in this country. It is a cultural war as critical to the kind of nation we shall be as the Cold War itself, but this war is for the soul of America. And in that struggle for the soul of America, Clinton and Clinton are on the other side, and George Bush is on our side. All right. So this idea of a cultural war, of a religious war, a culture war is one of the central features of the politics of polarization or the polarization narrative that begins to emerge as a way of understanding another aspect of what's going on in the 1990s. And as you can see, polarization is something that political scientists have tried to document in a variety of ways, one of which is, do you believe that the people with whom you disagree are not only people with whom you disagree, but a threat to the nation's very well-being? And you can see that that kind of rhetoric really begins to escalate in the 1990s into the early 2000s, and of course, in many ways, has continued to this moment. So what is beginning to produce this in the 1990s is not only a new set of cultural issues that Papua Canon was identifying, abortion, AIDS, gay rights as they emerge as points of national contest, education, universities, campus politics, many of the features that probably seem pretty recognizable and what we might describe as the culture wars still going on today are really taking formation in the 1980s and 1990s, and Buchanan is reflecting a little bit of that. There's also a change in the structure of politics that's very important in the 1980s into the 1990s. Part of that are reforms to the primary system that began back in the 1970s and that are coming to produce more contested primary popular elections, and some would argue pushing people to the margins. These are new styles of politics that are intended to play to not only these new structures, but a new media environment. One of the leaders of that is Newt Gingrich, who in 1994 led a Republican resurgence in the House and in fact led the Republican Party to take over the House for the first time since 1954. So a big watershed moment in terms of control of Congress, but as importantly, Gingrich is someone who says we are going to have to stand together as a block around a very particular set of ideas, in this case in opposition to a Democratic White House, but also a move from House elections, which had been very local in many ways before, to the much more unified way of thinking about what's at stake in national elections that we're all familiar with today. Coming out of this is one of the first great showdowns of the 1990s. Again, something that's become so familiar to us, but was incredibly unusual, very dramatic, the source of a lot of conflict in that moment, which is the first government shutdown. A war over the budget between the Clinton administration and the Republican House that, as you can see, does not result in an unalloyed victory for Gingrich, who in many ways is really the architect of it, but does set in motion a new form of politics. The media landscape changes dramatically in the 1980s and 1990s as well, first with the rise of cable news, which matters because politics becomes more theatrical. If you know that there are cameras around you, you're going to perform for cameras. So even the seemingly benign C-span, even what was then the major 24-hour news channel like CNN, was a really dramatic effect on how we conduct our politics. Then in the 1980s, the quote-unquote fairness doctrine, which had required that most broadcast outlets, if you're taking on a political issue, you give equal airtime to both sides, as the technology of communications changes once again, in this case cable news, those old doctrines fall away. We get the rise of a much more partisan set of media institutions, which begin to shape the political discourse. Rush Limbaugh and his talk radio show in the 1980s is one example, and then the rise of Fox News in the 1990s. All of these come together to produce what then and now has been described as a kind of new culture of scandal and of media engagement in American politics. Many of those centered around the Clinton administration, but a commitment to a kind of partisan political warfare, which had existed, of course, for a long time, but now is playing a much different and more significant role. There's a rise of certain kinds of extremist political violence in the 1990s that become a real channeling point for these debates about polarization. Is the country coming together or is it flying apart, most notably the Oklahoma City bombing? And then the kind of great moment of conflict or division that seems to symbolize this polarization narrative as it's emerged over the course of the 1990s is, of course, the deadlocked 2000 election in which the country seems so evenly split in which the election results are not determined for four weeks and months. And we end up with the outcome we end up with. All right, I want to finish up here in these last couple of minutes by thinking a little bit about how we want to put these stories together. So these seem to be really at odds with each other. How can there be consensus and polarization happening simultaneously? I think one of the reasons we see this is, as I said, this is all history that's still being written. And in fact, as the events of the 21st century change, we're going to keep looking back to these moments and reinterpreting them and thinking about them. I suspect for many people here, the polarization narrative seems like maybe the more meaningful one and the one that best describes our world. But in fact, we know that history did not end in 1989. And I think that it's worth keeping in mind for all of us that it hasn't ended in this moment yet either. We're still making it. We're still reflecting on it. And we're still in it as we sit here today. I wanted to finish by taking a look at 2007 and taking up this question of how much we're still in the world that was made in that moment, the moment that many undergraduates were born or were just coming into some sort of early consciousness. This is a Gallup poll from 2007. And I think it's interesting because it reflects some pieces of the political consciousness of that moment that are not front and center for us, most notably the centrality of the war in Iraq as a concern in terms of voting, in terms of morality, in terms of how the U.S. wanted to act in the world. And then there are other hints in there of issues that are going to grow and grow and become so important over the next 15 to 20 years illegal immigration, as it's phrased there, among others. But what really struck me about looking at this is how little people in 2007 could see what was going to be happening by 2008, which is to say really momentous things that have fundamentally reshaped our own world were all going to happen within months of that poll. One, the iPhone went on sale in the middle of 2007, became widespread by 2008, changed the way we relate to our politics, changed the way we relate to each other in ways that few people could have imagined. Barack Obama ends up being elected somewhat unexpectedly, both for the Democratic nomination and then ultimately for the presidency, a landmark moment in American history, the country's first black president, which is going to have lots of consequences to come. And then the financial crisis of 2008 really takes off within months of that poll. Again, people could see little glimmers of it. They were able to contend with it to some degree in that moment. But as you can see here, one of the tools that we always have for trying to make sense of new and surprising things is to look to the past. So that's what we have tried to do in this course. We have tried to look to the past in order to give you some tools for making sense of the present. This has been particularly important as we approach the 250th anniversary of the Declaration of Independence, which is now upon us in just a few months the inspiration for the class. But I hope that as you have made your way through all of this, you find new ways to think about the past, to think about your present, and also to use the past to envision the kind of future that you might want. I feel very honored to be up here and to have gone through the 20th century with you. I hope that as we have done this, you have not only found places to critique and understand and reflect, but also some things to celebrate about the United States and its traditions, because we're headed into that as well. And so I thought that I would finish this lecture. We'll do a little wrap up on Thursday. But since this is the end of my part of the course, and we have in fact gotten into the 21st century from 1776 to the 21st century in one semester, as we set out to do. I thought we could finish up with a song from one of the great divas of the early 20th century. And it is a fun celebratory song. And David Blight promised that he would dance with me again. So we're going to finish up with Ms. Miley Cyrus 2009, Party in the USA. Everyone should come dance. David and I are going to dance. You should all come join if you want. But thank you all for a really great time. I'm gonna be okay. Like I've been on the fly. Back to my home tonight. Don't stop me every time. Every time. The DJ played my song and I feel alright. Oh, my hands up to play in my song. The butterflies fly away. I'm not in my head like that. I'm not in my head like this. It's like yeah. My hands up to play in my song. And you know I'm gonna be okay. Oh yeah. Party in the USA. Yeah. Party in the USA. Party in the USA.

=== FILE: America at 250： A History, DeVane Lecture, Class 26 - Meanings on the Eve of 2026 [N7_a60YgOyY].txt ===

 subjected to subjected to one last time. For this last lecture, you are going to hear from each of us in turn, but we're going to do something a little different from what we did over the course of the semester, which is we made our way from 1776 to the 21st century in one semester, and now we're going to move back in time and get ourselves back to the American Revolution today. So I start when you move backward in time, and I wanted to go back to a moment from a lecture a couple of weeks ago when I started to show a video of the Houston Congresswoman, Barbara Jordan, speaking in 1976 on the Bicentennial at the Democratic National Convention. And as you might recall, that video got cut off for technical reasons, but I've been thinking about it as we've been finishing up the class here. At the time, I said, you know, here we were in the 1970s, and her appearance at that convention really symbolized many of the changes that have been happening in the previous decade and a half, the entry of new people into American politics, the victories of the civil rights movement, the rise of the women's movement, the creation and resorting of new political coalitions, the changing nature of the American political parties. But she was also in that moment trying to name what was going on at the Bicentennial in that year of 1976 and where it was that the United States stood in that moment. And she looked out across the country and she saw a troubled place. She said, I could list the problems which cause people to feel cynical, angry and frustrated. This is in the moment of 1976. Problems which include lack of integrity in government, the feeling that the individual no longer counts, the reality of material and spiritual poverty, the feeling that the grand American experiment is failing or has failed. And she went on to say, we are in a people in a quandary about the present. We are a people in search of our future. We are a people in search of a national community. And as she tried to think about that moment of the present, in that case 1976, of the future, she also turned to the past. And since it was the Bicentennial, she turned back to the Declaration of Independence to say, we are attempting to fulfill our national purpose to create and sustain a society in which all of us are equal. That was a reflection on her political moment and on that moment of commemoration and memory that was the Bicentennial. And as we've said many times in this class, that's part of what Centenials or Semicwinsentenials as we're about to come to next year are for their moments to reflect, to think about the connections between the present and the past, the past, the present, and into the future. And of course, that is the reason that we all gathered here on the eve of the 250th anniversary of the Declaration of Independence. As I have been talking with people about the 250th about where we stand in American history, there are a lot of people who say, look, I don't want anything to do with whatever celebrations are coming next year. This country is a mess. I don't want to celebrate it. And that's fair enough. There are plenty of problems out there. But I would point out that that was also the case, as Barbara Jordan said in 1976, when the country was coming off Watergate and the conflicts of the 1960s and was in the midst of one of the great economic crises of the 20th century. It was true in 1926 at the sesquicentennial, which was a moment that the United States had just come out of World War I and out of a global flu pandemic, and was in the midst of ferocious fights about immigration and race and women's rights. And it was certainly true in 1876 on the national centennial, when the country was just a decade out from the Civil War, was engaged still in that moment in trying to sort out some of the most profound questions in the nation's history. In 1876, the country nonetheless managed to mark that moment in a pretty big way by hosting a major World's Fair, really the first World's Fair in the United States in Philadelphia. And about 10 million people showed up. It was just a giant city full of industrial displays and pavilions from around the world and displays from most of the states of the United States, displaying what they thought mattered about their present, their past, and their future. So 10 million people in 1876 was about 20 percent of the American population over a couple of months, all assembling in one place, the city of Philadelphia, to think about American history, its legacies, and where they fit into that story. So this was a big scale moment of contemplation, I think larger scale than anything we are going to see next year. It was also an attempt to have a little bit of fun in a dark and deep and divided moment. One of the things that you could do at the 1876 Philadelphia Expo was to mount the arm and up into the torch of the Statue of Liberty, which as you can see was not finished on time in 1876. And this was also an attempt to raise some money so that the Statue of Liberty could in fact be erected, which would happen the following decade. And I've always loved this image because I think it captures something about the work in progress that is American history, right? There's a little bit of hucksterism in there. There's some big ambition. There are some really good ideas. And then there's some imperfect execution. And so I hope that as we move into the 250th, and you think about all of those things that you might want to hold on to this image of an incomplete Statue of Liberty. I also hope that as you enter into this moment that this class has been useful to you in helping you to both think big and then think about the long arc of history. One thing that we've seen over the course of this semester is how quickly things can change and how there are certain themes and ideas and touchstones that last through generation after generation. Problems that last over the generations, dilemmas that last over the generations, ideas that last over the generations. One of the things that we wanted to do in this class was try to bring some of those generations together as well in this one room. One of the things that has been really wonderful is to stand up here. And though you there's a little bit of self-segregation that happened in the way that you all see. So you know the younger people are mostly up the stairs. But nonetheless, it has been amazing to see you all here in this room together and to be part of this conversation as it develops. So I hope as this course finishes up that this has been an opportunity to have some different conversations than you might otherwise have had about American history. I hope it has been an opportunity to be curious about each other and to be curious about the people of the past in new ways. I think it's often easy from our vantage point to sit in judgment on the past and to think we know better. And in a lot of cases that might be true. In other cases, I think we still have a lot to learn from some of the figures that we've seen over the course of the semester. For me, the greatest pleasure of this class has been the opportunity to learn. So when you're a professor, you're often the one teaching. But the opportunities to learn are fewer. And so it was just such a thrill to be able to work with David and Joanne and to learn from them as well as from all of you. And I thought that I might just finish off also by noting that that is a project that has gone on for decades and centuries within this building and within the institution that brought us all together, which is Yale. The Devane Lectures are named after William Devane, who was the Dean of Yale College from the late 1930s through the early 1960s. So if you have learned anything in this class, that means from the, in some ways, darkest parts, or at least the continuing parts of the Great Depression in the late 1930s on into World War II, and the birth of the military industrial complex through the Red Scare and the kinds of dilemmas that that posed for universities around questions of academic freedom, free speech, how to educate people for modern American society, and on into the dawn of the 1960s, when not only this institution, but the country at large went through such dramatic transformations. In fact, when he died, his memorial service was held here in 1965 in the Tell Chapel. He presided over a very different university than the one we inhabit. I know that because in that university, I would not have been standing up here at the pulpit and at the front of the classroom, but he also really believed that what education was about, what a college education was about, was being able to step back from whatever your moment might be, to take advantage of what other people in the past have thought about, the conflicts, the mistakes, the high aspirations they might have had, and to actually learn a little bit from that. And I'll quote from William Devane talking about that, we have no time for the transient or the immediately applicable and quickly advantageous, he said, of what the educational enterprise is about. We aim to give the student the solid and permanent studies of man's concerns, a long view of man's life, and a vision of the greatness to which he may aspire. I might choose a different word than man to express some of those sentiments, but in this class, I hope that we actually have given you a few things that are immediately applicable and quickly advantageous. I'm not opposed to that, particularly as we head into 2026, but I also hope that you are coming away with the long view, with a deeper understanding of where this country has been, where we are right now, and where we might be going. But first, we're going to move back into the past, and I'm going to hand things off to David Blight. Thank you, Bev. Oh, we don't use this mic, right? Okay. We are going to miss you. Why do you do history? What's the point? Probably, I mean, there are many reasons, but probably there's something in the present that bugs you. Really bugs you or terrifies you. But where else are you going to go? You're a therapist. You're pastor, you're minister, you're rabbi. You're rabbi or you're pastor might say, well, you need to read more history, but everywhere you look now, Americans are talking about free speech. So I'm going to take my 10 minutes and talk about free speech. Where's the remote? Bev, do you still have it? Oh, there it is. There it is. We have a new remote. It's very small. There we are. The First Amendment reads, this is our text today, Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof or bridging the freedom of speech or of the press or of the right of the people peaceably to assemble and to petition the government for a redress of grievances. You've all heard that. You read it on a restaurant placemat. You have it in your pocket constitution as I do. A relatively little known but extremely important part of Abraham Lincoln's presidency was his struggle with free speech. Civil wars are often not a good time for problems of dissent. The First Amendment was brutally tested during the Civil War. Go with me to 1863, actually 62, 63. The war had reached a ghastly, horrible scale of killing and death and suffering casualties, moral crisis. Civilians had caused all kinds of complex problems with loyalty and dissent. Loyalty is one thing in peacetime. Loyalty is another thing in wartime. There was the border state problem. Four of those slave states were still in the Union. There's a terrible tension between the need to have a government constrained by law. That's what our Constitution does, but also some discretionary power to respond to terrible crises. There's no, you can't just look that one up in the Constitution. Well, you can, but Lincoln will suspend the writ of habeas corpus eight times during the Civil War, eight times. That's your right to be charged and reigned in court before you can ever be detained. Otherwise, people are at the mercy of the executive power. Article one, section nine, clause two of the U.S. Constitution reads, the privilege of the root of habeas corpus shall not be suspended unless when in cases of rebellion or invasion, the public safety may require it. That person who might suspend the writ is going to have to read that in a certain way. The first was in Maryland. You may know this story. U.S. troops were trying to get through Maryland, particularly through Baltimore, to get to Washington as early as April 1861. They couldn't get through Baltimore. Secessionist in Baltimore blockaded the city, burned a bridge, and some people were killed in a riot. There sat Lincoln in Washington, D.C. with a Confederate army gathering in northern Virginia, and you wonder, well, how am I going to get some troops here? He suspended the root of habeas corpus. They arrested a bunch of people, especially a man named John Merriman, who will take his case to the Supreme Court very quickly. Was Lincoln's action constitutional? No, said John Merriman, and no will say Chief Justice Tawny on a majority of his courts. On the other side, Republicans supporting Lincoln would say, no, no, this was treason. These people were committing treason and preventing troops to defend the government. Tawny's court sat down ruling. The next part, they were Merriman, that said Lincoln's actions were unconstitutional and he could not do it. Lincoln disobeyed the court. What's that to hell with you? I got a war to fight. Seven war times, he will suspend habeas corpus. The problems got even worse, especially with conscription and the draft, which was very unpopular across many parts of the north, and then it got very difficult after the Emancipation Proclamation. We often teach about the Emancipation Proclamation as this moment, this great pivot in American history, which it is, and we celebrate it, day of jubilee. There were millions of white northerners who said, are you kidding me? I ain't fighting to free black people. I won't do it. There were draft resisters now. There were people in certain parts of the north that even started burning bridges. Even some recruiting agents were shot and killed. So there sits Lincoln, well, what am I going to do this time? Spend a bit of habeas corpus on the nationwide scale. Nationwide, he used that word. Then he had the problem of a man named Clement Vlendingham. Vlendingham was a staunch Democrat in Ohio, an anti-war and pro-slavery, and he began to make speeches all over Ohio. He was a former congressman. He began to make speeches all over Ohio, and I may have a long story short about Vlendingham. He gave a big speech in May of 63 to nearly 20,000 people. He spoke for two hours. It was like a festival of war resistance. The commander of the district of Ohio for the federal government was Ambrose Burnside, the general who had earlier failed miserably at the Battle of Fredericksburg, but Lincoln didn't fire him completely. He put him in charge of Ohio. Ohio never leaves this course. Burnside immediately put out an order without ever asking Lincoln to arrest Vlendingham. They invaded Vlendingham's house in the middle of the night, arrested him, put him in jail. He was given a very quick trial convicted, seditioned, and given a sentence for the duration of the war. When Lincoln and that protest began to happen all over the country, Vlendingham rally, all over the country, free speech. People cared about this. Even some Republican said, whoa, whoa, whoa, Mr. Lincoln, you can't do this. You can't just lock people up for their opinions. Well, they were already doing that. Almost 300 northern newspapers were closed because of their opposition to the federal government and its war policy. By Lincoln's orders, newspaper editors, I forget dozens of them, I forget the number, arrested. We think we had a bed. Well, Lincoln finally began to realize, ah, Vlendingham's winning this one right now, so he decided to commute the sentence to banishment rather than imprisonment. He banished him to the Confederacy. Vlendingham actually went into Canada. Turns out the Confederacy didn't want him. Yeah, we don't need that guy. He's not much help to us right now. So Vlendingham was banished instead of left in prison. That didn't exactly solve it either, but Lincoln put out public statements trying to defend what he had done. And in one of those public statements, he famously said, what am I supposed to do? If a young soldier, a boy soldier, he said, desserts, I'm supposed to shoot him. But a man can go out and resist the entire war effort and mobilize thousands to subvert our effort to save the Union. And I'm not supposed to do anything to him. He said, I think I'd rather save the boy. It's very Lincolnesque. It still didn't solve everything, to say the least. This problem was huge during the war. And as early as 1866, and it could part a Mulligan, the Supreme Court, Supreme Court lost a lot of authority in the Civil War, not least of which was because of Dred Scott and other decisions. But it will rule that Lincoln's actions of suspension of the writ was unconstitutional. Free speech is as American as anything we have. That First Amendment is as American as anything we have. That map I just had up is, of course, we've shown more than one map in this course, I guess, First Amendment over and over and over. But it's never easily defined or enforced, especially in crisis. All right, I want to end though with just two little points. The same Abraham Lincoln who's issuing these suspensions of the writ in 1863 which, by the way, the second one he did was on June 26, 63. Look at your chronologies of the Civil War. The invasion of the North by Lee's army in the Gettysburg campaign was in the middle. He's looking at an invading army into Pennsylvania. Oh, dear. And of course, later that fall he'll go out to Gettysburg and give a little speech. I'm not going to read the Gettysburg address. You've all heard it, but go read it. And this time, look for the pronouns. Yes, there are key words. We love to talk about key words in that speech, the testing. The fact that he used the word equality, the central metaphor of birthright rebirth. And then of course, the whole theme of sacrifice, sacrifice, sacrifice. And in the end, saving, if possible, the government of buying for the people. But look at the pronouns. Lincoln used the word we nine times. There are five uses of our and us and not once did he use the I pronoun. It was not about him. A president can make a speech that's not about him. Sorry. It was about us. It was about whether a public can survive. It was about us as a democracy and its remaking. Lastly, and I'll stop here. You're almost up, John. At the very time Lincoln was giving the Gettysburg address, Frederick Douglass was writing his second greatest speech. It's called the mission of the war. Fourth of July speech, still probably number one. But in mission of the war, which Douglass crafted in November of 63, Lincoln gives the Gettysburg, November 19th, and Douglass takes that speech on the road one week after the Gettysburg address all across the North. He gave it dozens and dozens and dozens of time. It's called the mission of the war. It's much longer than the Gettysburg address. Typical of Douglass. On the first page, he says, the most hopeful fact of the hour is that we are now in a salutary school, a school of affliction. If sharp and signal retribution, long protracted, wide sweeping and overwhelming, contigent, great nation, respect for the long despised claims of justice, surely we shall be taught now and for all time. We're in a school of affliction. What are we going to learn? And then I just want to cite two other expressions and that's it's a magnificent speech. Pull it up, easily exhaust online, digest it, read it alone with no distraction. He names free speech, very directly. And he does it in a long paragraph where his refrain is, we want a country. He does it about 16 times. We want a country that. We want a country that. It's so typical of Douglass. Genius at coming up with these refrains and you just, it's a kind of rhetoric where you just have to keep listening. What's the next example and the next example? We want a country and are fighting for a country through length and breadth of which the literature and learning of any section of it may float to its extremities unimpaired. And thus become the common property of all the people, a country in which no man shall be fined for reading a book or imprisoned for selling a book, a country where no man can be imprisoned or flogged or sold for learning to read or teaching a fellow mortal to read. And then he says the mission of the war, which he will repeat several times, is national regeneration. The whole idea is being remade in all this death that he's commemorating everywhere he goes. That's the Lincoln had at Gettysburg. And then the speech ends this way. This is Frederick Douglass's I Have a Dream speech. I end where I began. He says no war but an abolition war, no peace but an abolition.  e-colition piece, liberty for all, chains for none, the black-mannered soldier in war, a laborer in peace, a voter at the south as well as at the north, America is permanent home, and all Americans is countrymen. Such fellow citizens is my idea of the mission of this war. Accomplished our glory as a nation will be complete, our peace will flow like the river, and our foundations will be the everlasting rocks. Thank you. Hello? Okay, wonderful. Okay, well, I have to say, it is such a pleasure to get to speak to you one last time, and in a sense to take us full circle to where we began, because of course we started this course by looking at the American Revolution and a few decades of its aftermath, and throughout those lectures, I discussed a few patterns that are worth pointing out now as we end this course, and I'm actually going to highlight three things that I think are worth noting at this point. So first, we saw how fundamentally, when considering things like American independence or the creation of a new national constitution, there were debates, real debates, as well as compromise. These weren't abstract documents. These weren't just ideas floating around. They were products of real discussions and real decisions by real people. So for example, in the case of the Declaration of Independence, I talked about how discussion of that issue went on for quite some time, and I specifically talked about some Massachusetts towns where people were seriously debating the issue of independence, and I quoted one man from a town who observed independence, quote, was the greatest and most important question that ever came before this town. I find that remarkably moving. It's why I repeated it a second time. Independence wasn't abstract. It wasn't just an event. It meant something, and that was a person living through that moment and what it meant. In the case of the Constitution too, it was a product of intense debate and in more than one room full of people. The decision to have ratifying conventions throughout the states and to go to the press to argue the issues before the American people, that mattered. Having a new constitution required the people, in some sense, to buy into the new constitutional project at hand. Now of course, in both cases, the Declaration and the Constitution, people largely were not wrestling with the meanings of how their statements did or more broadly did not apply to anyone aside from white men specifically or even more broadly white people. They created documents that were very much born of that moment, flawed as it was, but they unleashed ideas and principles that would come to fruition in the future, particularly for marginalized people of all kinds in ways that those founders and framers never imagined and probably would not much have liked. Along similar lines, second, we saw how processes of government mattered intensely. I talked at some point about James Madison documenting the process of creating the Constitution. He was documenting the process of creating processes. These are people who care about process. They care about the fact that you can put down on paper a process and that people will then abide by it. The Constitution is a fundamental agreement that Americans signed on to and still do or should. A fundamental agreement about the government, what it is established on, its structure, its workings, and its founding basis, popular representation. During times of crisis, the assumption was that the Constitution would provide a way out. As Jefferson put it after the crisis fueled presidential election of 1800 when asked, wow, what would have happened if there had been violence? What would have happened if the Federalist didn't allow a President to be elected? What would have happened if something had gone awry and the whole thing had blown up? And Jefferson basically said, the Constitution. The Constitution would have saved us. Yes, he acknowledged maybe it would need to be tweaked. It might not be perfect. It might be, as he put it, like a watch run down. So they would have to rewind it in a way and then after that the nation would move ahead abiding by its fundamental pact, the Constitution. That was a given. Okay, so real debate, not abstractions, processes, and the Constitution as a process. Third, we've seen how posterity-minded people were in the Revolutionary and Founding Era. They were creating an experiment in government and they understood all too well that their decisions and actions would have a profound impact on Americans to come. They understood the historical significance of what they were doing. The history that they were making mattered. Now I'm going to say at this point we're going to have a brief commercial advertisement because I feel the need to say that if you want more of whatever it is I've been offering this semester, I actually have a podcast called History Matters that you can find on my YouTube channel and now back to our regularly scheduled programming. Okay, so history mattered. Why did history matter to these early Americans? Not because it was full of glorious stories, but because it was complex, because it taught lessons. They didn't see the past as a gold haze of perfection, not even their own personal historical past. Remember I quoted John Adams at the beginning of the semester who in his old age people kept coming up to him and saying, tell us about the founding, tell us about signing the Declaration. And Adams said over and over and over again, it's nice that you revere your father's, but we didn't know what we were doing. We made mistakes. We were improvising. And equally important he said and believed that believing in a glorious American past did the United States a serious disservice. It suggested that the time for important political work was done. It also suggested in a way that American government and nationhood would be downhill from that glorious founding moment. And that's not what Adams or the generation in that period generally wanted. They looked to Americans to continue the experiment, to evaluate the government and the nation for themselves in their own time on an ongoing basis. They understood fundamentally that democratic republics don't go of themselves. They require human effort to survive and prosper. And nothing teaches that as well as the study of history. And it's important to note here that way of thinking about history, again, wasn't grounded on a bunch of abstractions. That kind of informed knowledge of the past taught the founding generation about themselves and about their nation in a profoundly personal way. And I want to offer just one small example of the impact of that kind of realization, of the fact that our history matters profoundly and personally to all Americans. And it involves a museum, a visit by a Massachusetts congressman named Theodore Sedrick in the early 1790s. So Sedwick visited painter Charles Winston Peel's museum, which called the Philadelphia Museum. He opened that museum in the mid 1780s. Peel's museums at the time were sort of like private collections of curiosities in people's houses. Peel's museum would be different. It would be public. And according to his wishes, it would be telling the story of the newly established United States. Now, he was thinking about politics when he created his museum, not partisan politics, but rather he wanted to contribute to and bolster the nation's Republican core to give people a sense of America's history so far. Hadn't had a lot by that point, but still, there was some. And he wanted to show people what the United States was. And I picked this self-portrait of Peel on the left here, painted in 1822. He's holding back the curtain of his museum and in a way kind of revealing America's history. Right? So he's kind of showing you exactly what he wanted to do. He accomplished his goals by doing two things in his museum. He had specimens, and you can kind of see some in the foreground there of American nature, rocks and moss and animal skins and bones. Ultimately, he had some mammoth bones. He also had portraits of what he called distinguished Americans. And in the watercolor on the right, you can see along the top of the wall, all of these portraits, sometimes people call them porthole portraits because they're all like faces surrounded by sort of a round golden circle. When Peel's gallery opened, it had about 30 portraits of American Revolutionary War heroes and Continental Army generals and presidents of Congress and Benjamin Franklin and Thomas Payne. And Peel assumed he'd keep adding to that collection. Well I once found a letter from Theodore Sedgwick talking about visiting the museum. Because of course, how can you do better than to find people living through the experience of what you're talking about? Sedgwick wrote lots of long chatty letters to his wife. As a historian, I have learned over the years there's nothing better than letters from people to wives. They say everything to their wives. I'm scared. I don't know what to do. So Sedgwick says, wow, I had this amazing experience. He has a little bit of a cultural tour. First he goes to a library, a new lending library which had almost no books because this is the beginning. And apparently the proprietor of the library says, we're going to get books soon. So okay, they're getting there. And then he goes to this museum. And this is what he says to his wife, looking up at the portraits of distinguished Americans. Many of these men are now no more. The various affections with which my heart was expanded cannot be described. Till then I never so well knew the value of portraits. Sedgwick was struck by the fact that the new nation actually had great national figures distinguished Americans enough to fill a wall. And the realization moved him. He hadn't thought of American history in quite that way before. It was personal. It had a deeper meaning. In a sense, by telling the story of the nation, the museum was telling the story of him. He experienced in that moment a fundamental fact about our history as a nation. Indeed, about any nation's history. America's present was a product of its past, as would be its future. And we, we the people, all of us are at the center of it, or should be. In all of the ways that I've emphasized today, the telling of our history matters, particularly in the present, given the high stakes and intense challenges of the moment at hand. As Theodore Sedgwick experienced, American history isn't an abstract tale. It's the making of us. It's the history of us, the story of us, all of us, the community of Americans. Not always a harmonious community. Not always a particularly pleasant community, but still a community of nationhood. Now I've said that magical word community, I have to say, as I'm nearing the end of what I want to say here, we formed a pretty amazing community in this room. And a lot of you have come up to me over the course of the semester and said that. We created a community of learning. I would say that we, at this point, are something of a we. And I think that matters. And that idea, the coming together as a we, is the essence of the American experiment. We the people, the nation exists for us, all of us. That will be, should be, a big part of what we think about next year in 2026, when we consider America at 250. Never forget, America's semi-quincentennial is about us. About we the people, in all of our diversity, in all of our complexity, in all of our disagreements as well as commonalities. To me, loving your country means loving it for all of those things, for its complexity, its diversity, its ideals, and its failures. Patriotism doesn't have to be shallow or glossy or performative. It should have meaning. It should be grounded on broadly shared ideas and ideals and a bracing recognition of who we really are as a people for better and worse. And next year is going to be a prime opportunity to think about all of these things. Years like 2026 are moments of reckoning. Reckoning where we've been, where we are, where we can go, if we come together and work towards something better. Indeed we must come together and work towards something better for the sake of all of us, for the sake of we the people. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. So I have one last thing to say. I'm going to say I have one last thing to say. And then after that we have some thank yous and you cannot leave until we're done with the thank yous because there'll be one last thing at the end. But I do want to offer one more person who wants to weigh in on the importance of understanding our history as a nation. Carl, take it away. Look around, look around, the revolution's happening in New York. New York. Hello JoLan Freeman's class. If you're in this class you're already winning. I hope you are enjoying one of our best professors. I hope you keep studying history because as you know it's never been more relevant and you know it has its eyes on you. Have a great class. All right. He came through, right? He came through and he said when he sent that maybe this will keep the rumors going. Okay. This class, man. Okay. So I want to thank him for doing that but now the three of us have some other thank yous we'd like to give and then there'll be one more thing we're going to do. I'm not going to stand on JoAnne's box so I'll just do this. For those of you who do not know who that was, that was Lin-Manuel Miranda. There were a few confused faces out there but we wanted to first of all thank all of you but especially to thank the really key people who made a class of this size and this complexity and this scale and scope possible. That starts with the Yale President's Office with President Mari McGinnis who when we came to her with the idea for this course she said great let's do it. Here's some resources, go for it. And she of course brought many people from her office to our aid here especially Michael Hepp who is somewhere in the room. Who did such wonderful work coordinating the course. He's in the back there and working with community members. You have seen many people from the President's Office in the back as you've been coming in opening up, helping everyone figure out what's what. Beth Lepuma among others has been really wonderful and of course the staff of Battelle Chapel who have been here opened their space to us, made this all possible, unlocked the doors, showed us where to go. We're grateful to all of them. I don't need the box either I think. You know at one point one of you came up at that luncheon I think it was over in the library and said has the university been censoring you at all? No. I want to especially thank our media team. Carl Peterson. These people all work essentially invisibility over at the Yale studio and make all kinds of things happen here. This is my second time working with Carl. I don't ever want to even do a course without you. I don't know. I'm going to have to bribe you I guess. Guy Ort Leva who's been on the camera every day here. Guy. In fact, somebody came up before class and said I've been watching the videos. I thought uh oh. He said they were perfect. The sound was perfect. The visuals. So thanks for making a sound good and even look good. Craig Tomlin also from the, I don't know, Craig's not here today is he? I don't know. Craig Tomlin has also been a mainstay in the studio that's helped with all of this and the editing. And then Ryan McAvoy who you've not seen in here probably but he does all of our podcasts which is where we're going next. We're very lucky to have such talent around this place to make this all happen. And these are all out there on the whatever I guess YouTube forever. That's scary. Anyway, thank you all so much. We do miss you. I thought I'd be so subtle about that box but no. Okay. A few more people to thank. I want to thank Marcy Kaufman from the history department who has been amazing in making this possible. I want to thank folks at the library. Those of you here from the community have not necessarily experienced what the students have which is they've gotten the chance to see and get their hands on and study and write about things, documents from the time periods we've been talking about which to me is one of the great joys of being at a place like Yale is that those things are here and if you're students you can use them. So thanks to Barbara Rockenbach and Bill Landis who was the amazing navigator. And I want to thank our amazing army of teaching fellows which we needed an army because there's so many of you. And here they are. Atif Khan, Avery Johnson, Beck Borstein. We got particular yeas. I know. Beck Borstein, Connor Hodges. Okay. Everyone gets a who. Ella Starkman-Hines. Ella. There you go. Felix Santiago Martinez. Gabriel Mesa. I love the who's. I'm sorry. I love this. Jacqueline De Villa. You guys are the best. I know. It is. Like we're all getting our degrees. Camille Assan. Lauren Fratiman. Paul Seltzer who sat behind me all semester. Precious Mohammed. Victoria Sabate. Marta and Wolf Scholar who organized everything. Last, last but not least, I want to thank the community and the students who have made this what it was this semester. You have been amazing. This has been amazing. And I think we thank all of you. Okay. One more thing. Thank you. Thank you. Any of my box? We're in.第一第一第一第一第一第一第一第一第一第一第一 See you soon for real!

=== FILE: Lecture 10  Sonata-Allegro and Theme and Variations [3AiRyrfmLao].txt ===

 alfalfa. All right, let us begin. Let us turn down the music of Charles Isis. We'll come back to the music of Charles Isis. But let us begin with our discussion of musical form, continuing our discussion of musical form. Last time we talked really about three forms. We talked about verse and chorus in popular music, and we had a wonderful presentation by Frederick Evans. And I hope you came away with the following, that in dealing with verse and chorus, basically you have the same material, you have the same musical material coming back again and again and again. With the chorus, we actually have the same text coming back again and again and again. But with the verses, although the music is the same, the text keeps changing each time. We get new trophies, our new verses of text. So keep that in mind, verse, chorus, verse, chorus. Sometimes this can start with the chorus, sometimes there's a harmonic change in here that we would call the bridge, but essentially it's the repetition of the same material over and over again in terms of the music, but in terms of the text you get new text each time for the verses. We also talked about the simplest of all these musical forms, ternary form, right? And that was simply this idea of statement, contrast, statement A, B, A. Very straightforward. Not too much we need to do with that. Today we're going to go on and talk about theme and variations. And with regard to all three of these, I should say that all three of these forms are very old. I could go back into the Middle Ages and get a response of the Middle Ages that is in A, B, A form. I could go back into the Middle Ages and bring up an early 15th century English carol that's in verse and chorus form. I could go back into the Middle Ages and find you instrumental pieces that are in theme and variation form. So these three are very old. Now the fourth one that we talked about, Sonata Allegro form, is adventitious, is something constructed in the 18th century, adventitious to the 18th century. So it's something put together in some measure by Joseph Haydn and then passed on to his good friend Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. So Sonata Allegro form, this big complex musical form, is a little bit different than the other. It's a lot younger. It's a lot newer, beginning with the period of classical music, Mozart, Haydn and Beethoven. All right. With that, by way of an introduction, let's go back to Sonata Allegro form. We said that was the largest, the most complex of these musical forms. Why are we dealing with this? Well, next, a week from Saturday, we will go to this concert and we will sit there and we will listen to pieces on this concert. The opening piece will be in Sonata Allegro form. It will be by Mozart. Then we will have a piece by Johannes Brahms in theme and variation form. Then we will have a symphony by Beethoven in five movements. It's an exception and we'll explain why when we get to it. In five movements. But within those movements we have a couple of instances of Sonata Allegro form, a couple of instances of theme and variation form, and one instance of ternary form. So all of these forms will be necessary. We will have to understand how these forms work in order for us to really engage that particular concert. For example, you'll be asked to write a review of that concert. And I was thinking this morning, well, a kind of mediocre review would say, well, in the middle of the first movement of the Beethoven piece, and once again we wouldn't call it a song, in the middle of the Beethoven symphony, things seemed to be disorganized. What I'd like to hear there is, well, in the development section, in the development section of the first movement of the Beethoven symphony, it seemed disorganized because the counterpoint was not clear because the imitative entries of the parts was not clearly articulated. Now that would be a much more specific sort of response to the music, a much more educated, if you will, response to the music. So that's where we're going with all this, to kind of sort of get you to think about precisely where you are and precisely what should be happening and then is it really happening the way it should be. Now, as said, Sonata Allegro form is the most difficult of these, and it takes a little extra time to get familiar with it. We're going to be reviewing this in section starting this evening. And don't forget we have this model of what Sonata Allegro form is. Didn't want to put that up on the board again. Did that last time. But you've got it on page 193 of your textbook, if you want that complex diagram, 193 of your textbook. So get familiar with that and do, once again, bring your books to section this time because we'll meet them in section this time. So we've got this complex form, and I've figured out over the years the way to sort of wrap your arms around this or get into this, understand this. And it involves the fact that music in the classical period is what we would call rhetorical music. It's doing something at every moment. It is doing, as I see it, one of four things. It's presenting a theme. So we'll have what we call a thematic function. It's moving from point A to point B. Remember with the Beethoven. That's the opening theme. And then the second theme is. Well, those are both themes. That's stating something that we can sing, that we can remember. But Beethoven has to get from point A, the minor, to point B, the more lyrical major. So he writes a transition. So the second functional type here is transitional music. We want to be able to differentiate thematic music from transitional music. Then there are passages, and in Sonata Allegro form it's in the middle of the movement, that are exclusively developmental where you take the material and play with it. You can make it expand it and change it that way. You could shorten it, as Beethoven often doesn't work with just particular motives. It tends to sound very complex. There's a lot going on in the development section. It's the most polyphonic, the most contrapuntal counterpoint, polyphony sort of synonymous. The most complex in terms of the counterpoint. And as we said before, it tends to move around a lot because the composers will pass through different keys in the development section. So we've got so far three of what we call the four functional types, or what I have called the four functional types. Thematic, transitional, developmental. And now we have to talk about the last one, which is the simplest in some ways, cadential, where the composer will just throw on a lot of heavy, simple harmonic motion to slow the music down psychologically. Not the tempo actually, but psychologically sort of bring it to a close. So we can say a closing functional type. Again, to review. Thematic, transitional, developmental, and cadential. Those are our four functional types that will show up within a movement of sonata allegro form. Question? Student question. Student question. Cadential. Was that it? It's Daniel, is that right? Student question. Yeah. How do you spell that out? Well, just take cadence, C-A-D-E-N-C-E, and turn it into cadential, T-I-A-L. I don't know if my spell checker kicks that word back or not, but we use that term in music a lot. This was a cadential gesture, suggesting that we're going to get into the end of something. So I remember we had cadence being the end of a phrase. Well, it's just the end of a section here. Any other questions? That was a good question. All right. So to get rolling with this, let's listen to some music now. Enough talk for me. Let's listen to some music. And I'm going to play four excerpts here, mostly here, again, for Mozart. And you see if you can identify which of the functional types is in play here. Okay, Linda, here we go. Music Okay, we're going to stop there. Let's review just for a moment. How do you tell these functional types? Well, what are you looking for here, listening for? With thematic, you want to be able to sing it, or you recognize it as something that you can walk out of here humming, so something that you can take with you. Transitional, this idea of a little bit unsettled and lots of motion. Cadential, as I say, that's probably the easiest because bum, bum, bum, bum, bum, bum, bum, bum, bum, bum, bum, bum, bum, bum, bum, something like that, bringing it to an end. And developmental is going to be rather complex, lots of counterpoint going on. So let's go back to the beginning. I'm messing up, Linda, here, again, but let's go back to 07 there, and we'll start all over with this, with that in mind. Music Okay, so that's number one. Here's extract number two. Music And excerpt number three. Music And number four. Music All right, let's go back now, and let's hear one more time, and then we're going to ask for a volunteer to take a stab at which of the four functional types you think this is. Okay, number one. Music Okay, stop right there. So what brave soul will take this one on? Sorry. Carol, please. Transitional. That is correct. Yes, that's correct. Now, what did you hear there, and it's hard to play the whole thing again, but what were you thinking? Why did you jump to that conclusion? Okay, at the end of it, it did kind of slow down. You had a sense of arrival there. There was lots of motion. There was lots of movement, lots of movement, and then at the end, a sense of arrival. All right, we've arrived at a new, and probably a theme is going to come in at that point. So that is, in fact, a transition. Let's listen to, once again, to excerpt number two here, if we could, Linda. Sorry. Music It's an internal version, because it seems a lot of monotony kind of in the bass, and it's really leading you to the descending melodic sequence of the melody, and it's coming to a close of a very exciting line. Okay, but I think the key there is it's very monotonous. You use the word monotonous. It's very monotonous in the bass. Bom bom bom bom bom bom bom bom, or something like that, as the melody cascades down against it. But listening to the bass there, you can tell that that's just a very monotonous harmonic pattern. So harmonic patterns in cadential passages here, cadential functional type tend to be, as Frederick says, monotonous. Okay, let's go on to number three now. Music Let's just stop it right there and cue that one again. So what do you think about that name, please? Roger. Okay, far away Roger. That's thematic. Thematic, right. Can you sing it? Play it again for Roger. We're really putting Roger on the spot here this morning, but let's see. You don't have to be... Music I'll play the piano. Music Okay, so that's it. Okay, Roger says I just played it. So that is a melody. Let's cue that again. And just while we're at this, notice what Mozart does with this melody. After giving it to us, sort of does something very interesting, I think. So let's have the beginning of that same number three again, please. Music So here's our lovely melody, major or minor? Music Major, sweet, sounds delightful. Now watch what he does here. Just drops a third. Music Ooh. Music Just a little twist to minor there. Same melody, but just lowering that third degree of the scale. Okay, so that's a good example of thematic functional type. Here is extract number four. What about this one? Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music We'll just stop it there and you can go on to the next one. Well, what about that one? Yeah, go for the obvious answer here. It's going to be name, please? Lena. What? I beg your pardon? Developmental. And why? What did you... Yeah, because it's the only one left, etc., etc. But could you tell us something that you heard there that sort of backs that up or confirms that it is developmental? Many threads weaving in a... Yeah, many threads weaving in a... Then somebody else is going... Then somebody else is going... All sort of simultaneously, many different ideas happening simultaneously. Typical of the complexity of the development section. We've got some more on the tape here. We're not going to go through them quite so slowly. Let's play one more. It could be any one of the four. Here's another one. Number five. I think it's still on track. Track three, about 0.37. Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Okay. Taker's there. Okay. Name, please. I should know it. Young lady right in front of Thaddeus. You had your hand up first. Oh, Mary Pat? Mary Pat, okay. Was that transitional? It was transitional. And just the one hearing, that's awfully good. But you could hear it kind of build ya第一第一第一第一第一第一第一第一第一第一第一! Takeers there? Thaddeus. Okay, it was developmental. Excellent. I guess once again lots of things going on there. Probably developmental and transitional may sound most similar. They're probably the two that are most difficult to differentiate. Thematic, yeah, you can kind of remember that as a melody. Codential, probably pretty straightforward. So there's a tendency with, to confuse the transitional and the developmental, it's just that there's oftentimes a developmental, a lot more counterpoint going on. Alright, one last one here and then we'll stop this. So he's driving that sucker into the ground with a sledgehammer of a cadential ending there. So that should help you when we get to sections this week. We're going to be playing pieces and sort of having you track along where we are in sonata allegro form. Let's turn our attention now, unless there are questions. Any questions about that? If not, let's turn our attention now to theme and variation. We're moving on to theme and variation form, which we will also need for our concerts a week from Saturday. Here what we have is not this sort of complex, organic mixture of many different themes, first theme, second theme, concluding theme and things like that. We have one theme, usually, usually just one theme. And we will get that theme. And then we will get that theme again with something changed. Then we will get that material again with something changed. And again with something changed. So think of this as a kind of series of box cars on a railroad train or something like that. Units more or less the same size, but each of those box cars are going to look a little bit different as it goes by, because it might have a little different logo on it, a little bit of different ornamental material on it. All right, so we're going to, let's see, for time, maybe I will not do the Ives. We were going to, well, maybe we will have a little bit of Ives. Theme and variations, again, goes all the way back to the Middle Ages. And they tend to be written on rather simple themes, particularly patriotic themes. Maybe, I was thinking about this the other day, maybe because patriotic themes are pretty simple. So the simpler the theme, the more likely that theme is to become the basis of a set of theme and variations. Maybe it gives the composer more freedom to pursue. Now, I think I brought in some variations of Beethoven on God Save the King. Yeah, here we go. So here's Beethoven writing God Save the King, and here it starts out. All right, so very simple tune. And then he writes a set of variations. Here's variation one. So there's that tune. Now, in the late 1930s, 20th century, Yale's own Charles Ives. I think he was classed, you may know, 1898, something like that. He used to be the organist on the First Church on the Green here. So this is Yale's most famous classical composer, wrote a set of variations on this same tune. But they sound a little bit different because it's closer to the modern period, and they're performed here on an organ. So Charles Ives' variations on America. Talk about a long reverberation time. How long it took that organ sound to clear that church. So that was written right here in New Haven by our own Charles Ives. But again, the point is that it's a very simple idea, rather a simple tune. Here's another simple tune that Mozart used. Its original title was variations on Ah, vous, dirais-je, Maman. Ah, let me tell you Maman. And it's a story of a young woman who has gone to the big city and unfortunately lost her virginity. But we know this tune, not with that French text that Mozart first learned it with, but this way. Okay, so that's the tune. But originally it was a kind of French popular song going back into at least the eighteenth century. How many different titles can we give to this? What do you know this as? Twinkle, twinkle, little star. Anything else? What? Ba-ba-black sheep. Didn't Sesame Street used to use letters with it? A-B-C-D, da-a-b-c-d. And so it's gotten a lot of traction over the years. And here's the melody. And here's the first variation. Now my question to you is this. With theme and variation, the composer can keep the theme more or less exactly as it is and change the context around it, or he can change the theme. So which does Mozart do in the first variation here? What do you think? Thoughts about that? Is he changing the theme, or is he keeping the theme exactly the same and changing stuff around it? What do you think? Well, what he's doing is changing the theme. The theme would go... But right at the beginning instead of... I get... So there's only really one note that relates to the theme there. And then... Well, now I get... So he's sort of changing the theme by making the notes go quicker and ornamenting around those notes. So that's variation one. Now what about variation two? Does he change the theme, or does he just change all the stuff around the theme?查第一第一第一 And so on. So what's he doing there?查第一第一查第一 Changing what? I'm sorry, couldn't hear it. Changing the context. Changing the context. And the right hand stays exactly the same. Okay, here is the next one. What's that? Well, it goes with this. Music So has he changed the theme? Yeah, he's changed the theme rather considerably there. Indeed, we wouldn't know that that had anything to do with Twinkle Little Star unless we had had, given to us previously as we have, the melody. So we are hearing in our inner ear…查查查查查查查查查查查查查 Ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta. So we know that's the basis of this, and if he wants to deviate from that, we can still say, oh yeah, that's related to that. It's getting rather far away from the original, because we sort of locked in the original in our mind, in our ear at that point. Here is, oh let's, yeah let's skip that one. We don't need it here. What happens here? Is the theme changed, or is it still there, and the context changed? And what rhythmic device is Mozart using here? Ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta So did he change the theme there? Well basically no except just a little bit because he was doing what to it? Ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta Using syncopation. So he was syncopating the theme Ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta And he did one other little fill-up here, if you will, in what we might call the B section of the tune. Ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta The tune originally went And now it's going.  and then... So what's he done to the melody? Anybody hear that? Went... Now it's going... Oscar? Yeah, he's filled in the notes of a diatonic major scale with the other notes, the black keyed notes here, making it a chromatic scale. So he's enriched it a little bit by means of chromaticism. All right, let's go on to another variation by Mozart here. What's the texture of this variation? So what do you think about the texture of that? Homophonic, monophonic, or polyphonic? Polyphonic, yeah. Was it imitative or non-imitative? Here's the beginning. Immitative, right. So this is actually a kind of throwback to the sound of Bach, and this is what we will be engaging when we come to the fugue. Mozart trying to write in a fugal way here with lots of imitation. And what happened to the mode in this variation? Well, he's running it up as a scale, but what kind of scale? Minor scale. Okay. And then oddly, the final variation, what does he do to the meter in this last variation? What happens there? We were going, ding, boom, boom. So what's he done to the meter? Well, let me strip away the bass. He's changed it to triple by throwing in an extra bar of filler in between each of his basic duple beats. Then we come to maybe, let me just cut to the chase here. At the end of this, he's coming in. What's this all the way to the end now? What do we call this formally? We talked about that with regard to Sonata Allegro form. It's one of the parts that shows up also in Sonata Allegro form. It has nothing to do really with the theme here. It is a good example of a coda, right? Just something thrown on at the end to say this is at the end. And what's he doing here? What is this? How complex is this? It's just a major triad. He's just ornamenting a major triad. So it's a good, more cadential stuff, sort of very simple material at the end. Okay, our guest artist is here. I see him at the back. Ken Cho, come on up. We're going to do another piece for you. And we're going to talk a little bit about Ken Cho. A very interesting guy. How many of you know Ken Cho Watanabe? You seen Ken Cho around? Okay. Who's seen Ken Cho and in what context? He's in my biochemistry class. Oh, he's in my biochemistry class. All right. Cool. So that means he does hardcore sciences. And you must too. Good for you. You're a far better man than I. All right. So hardcore sciences. Anybody else know Ken Cho from other contexts? Yeah, Alana? He's in the YSO. What does he do in the YSO? Do you see him sitting all the way at the back? No, you see him sitting all the way up in the front. He's the concertmaster of the YSO. Anybody else know Ken Cho in a different context? Any members of Berkeley College here? Anybody from Berkeley? That's a statistical improbability. But you're the conductor of one of the conductors of the Berkeley Chamber Orchestra, right? Yeah. So he's a conductor too. Which is kind of astonishing because he's not really not a very good musician. He doesn't really know very much about music. Ken Cho, what note is that? I don't know. Yeah. What note is this? Sorry. What note is this? E and A. Yeah. E and A. So he has a very keen sense of absolute pitch, which really helps you out if you're in music. Needless to say, as we will be talking more about this, one person in 10,000 has this particular gift statistically. So he's a very impressive guy. And he's also in the five year MABA program. Right? Yeah, the BA program. Yeah. So at the end of four years here, in addition to taking all these heavy duty science classes, he's been across the street and he's going to get an MA in music at the same time. I don't know. He was a couple minutes late today and he said he hadn't gotten much sleep and I can sure heck understand why. All right. So we have Ken Cho, what are you up to this year? Everybody can come see you on what would that be? The 31st of October? I think so. Yeah. Yes. So that you don't want to miss, right? No. And you kind of have to put that together. Maybe that's why you haven't been getting much sleep. So you're putting that together and I know that you've got a concert coming up and if for some reason, God forbid, we can't make it to our concert on the 18th, our makeup concert could very well be the one on the 19th. Don't you have a concert on the 19th? Yes, we do. The Frippett College members will have their first concert on the 19th. So if you want to hear Ken Cho conduct, you can do that on the 19th of October. All right. So we've got a piece here and I don't want to get too far behind. It's a piece by Corelli. It's based on a melody and a bass pattern, melody and a bass pattern. And we'll play through little bits of it here and then we're going to play the whole thing. Do we need to tune again? Yes. Yeah, okay. Okay. We've tuned the four strings of the violin and we'll play just a little bit. We're going to take this section by section, Jacob here. He's going to point things out as we go along a little bit. Okay, that's the melody. Isn't that the most gorgeous sound you've ever heard in the whole thing? It's amazing. But do you have any idea how long it takes to produce a sound like that? I mean, how many years are you sitting there? When did you start playing the violin? I started when I was almost three. Almost three. So you were a late bloomer then. And you probably so busy with other things, but when you were really focusing exclusively on this, how many hours a day would you practice? No, I was really focusing by like three hours a day. Max three hours, you know, if you go to a conservatory, it's because you've got so many other demands on your time. Are you playing any solos around here this year? I should have asked that question. Not so much. I'll give you a little recital in a second semester. Okay, all right, we'll keep our eye out for that. All right, so that's the theme. And then in variation two, the piano will play the downbeat and the violin plays off the beat. I think for reasons of time we won't do that one though, can't you? Let's go to number three, where we get a good example of staccato in music, sort of short pointed notes. Okay, so we'll stop there. So when you hear Ken Cho playing staccato, then you know that we are in variation three, variation four. We've got, he's playing sixteenth notes, so it's going to go fairly fast here, I guess, or maybe not, but he's got a lot to do here in variation four. Okay, so he's really, this is going to be a workout for me. I hope I can keep up with this lad today. All right, then, yes, the one that sort of scares me is variation five, because then he plays the theme, and I have all of this fast stuff underneath. Let's just do a little bit of that. Okay, so that's how that, that is a lovely, lovely theme there. Now number six is sort of fun, because the interest here is in the bass of the piano. It's a good example of something we'll be talking a lot about in our course, walking bass. So the notes are all, for the most part, contiguous, and they all come in the same note value, in this case the eighth note. So here's the beat, and then he plays the melody against that. And number seven, we have the violin playing arpeggios. We've talked about that, so here's some arpeggios in the violin. Okay, that'll give you a sense of that. Number eight is a tricky one for us to keeping it together because of the triplet pattern, so let's do a little bit with that. And then nine, we have sort of an interlude, it's like a transition. Ten, we're not going to do anything with right now. The violin plays harmony while there's a kind of fast pattern. Underneath eleven, there's a lot of, oh eleven is sort of my favorite, but it's a tricky one because of the syncopation between the two instruments. So that's kind of a fun one. And let's see, we need to tell them also, I like, maybe number thirteen is really my favorite, because I got a very simple theme to play, and he has to work like crazy. And toward the end of that, he's playing triple stops, you know, it's not that the violin just plays one line, the violin can play two notes at the same time, it can play three notes at the same time, and if you really rip across and shift quickly, or just move your bow quickly across the strings, you can give the impression of four pitches, but they all four have to be in tune, so you've got to have four fingers usually in four different spots, and that's hard to do. You want to play a quadruple stop for them there, it's just any old wearer. So when you hear those chords, the violin playing chords, oh that's easy, you know, on a piano, or whatever it is, that's easy on the piano, that's hard on these string instruments because you've got to get four different fingers and four different spots there, each of those notes have to be adjusted just fractionally, just right for it to stay in tune. When he does it, you think it's very simple, right? Easy to do, takes years to be able to do that. Questions before we launch into this? Any questions? So we're going to do the whole thing for you. Now be patient, we're going to run over just a little bit today, but believe me, particularly the end, you'll like it. So Ken Cho Watanabe playing theme and variations on Corelli's tune and bass La Folia. Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Applause Thank you so much, beautiful music.

=== FILE: Lecture 9. Sonata-Allegro Form： Mozart and Beethoven [LCzBWjcGZjA].txt ===

 subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to complex of material coming at us, the sonic material, and we try to make sense of it. And we say that it has a particular form, and we say it could have a particular structure even. So we tend to use metaphors having to do with architecture and things such as this. What we are really doing here is taking all of this sonic information that's coming into our brain and getting sorted and makes us want to dance around or clap or be sad or happy and make sense of it in terms of a few rather simple patterns. And musicians like to have forms because oftentimes it sort of tells them what they ought to do next. Here I'm here, but what ought to happen next? Well, if you've got a tried and true musical form that other musicians have used over the years, you might be inclined to use it too because you know your listener will be able to follow you. Now the other day I asked early on in the course about the form in popular music, and I threw this out not really knowing what the answer would be. What's the most common form that one encounters when dealing with pop songs? And for the most part there was silence across the room. But one student, I've tracked him down, Frederick Evans gave a very good answer, really a better answer than I could have given. So clearly Frederick knew something about this idea of what he, I think, referred to as verse and chorus structure. I might call it Strophe and Refrain, but it's the same thing, whether you have it in the lead of Franz Schubert or in a piece that I know nothing about. And Frederick is going to show us, introduce us to a piece that I know nothing about. I sent him an email last night saying, Frederick, you gave a really good answer. Why don't you pick a piece, come up and demonstrate this? So this is Frederick Evans. We're going to, excuse me, yeah, Frederick Evans, he's going to come up here. I'm told we have to give him a microphone, and he is going to introduce us to this particular piece. Now you probably all know what this piece is. How many of you have heard the piece we were just listening to? Everybody knows it. Who's the one person in the room that's never heard this piece before, has no clue what's happening? Muah. Okay? So Frederick, tell me about this piece, please. All right, this is a East African sync back when I was in fifth grade. And it was a bye bye bye. And the pattern that it follows is really like the archetype of a lot of popular songs. It's half of the chorus or so and it starts. And then there's verse, chorus, verse, chorus. And then what I call the bridge, which is like an emotional climax. And then the last one is a really powerful chorus. Where does it bring home music? Okay, so it's this idea of changing text and coming back to familiar text and familiar music and changing going back to the familiar new text and then coming back to the familiar in terms of the chorus. Is that a fair shake? Yes, sir. Okay? So shall we play? What are we going to hear first? So first you'll hear from seconds 24 to 40. This is an example of the verse where they have the beginning of the plait and then you have the chorus and second it's something about 56. And that's where you get the repeating idea, which is like what the piece is based on. And then last but not least you have the emotional buildup where the background and the chord progression changes a little more solemnly. And then there's the last chorus which brings it home. Okay, great. Let's listen to the, yeah. Okay. That was the first verse. And that's when they really get you into what they're talking about. Are we going to come in with the chorus? Of course. What really interests me here is what they're using is a Baroque ostinato lament bass. We'll get on to that in another week or so. So that's, okay. Now we'll go to the bridge, Frederick. Yes, the bridge is where they really, some of the emotions that they really want to tell you what they're building towards. I don't want to be your fool in this game for you. So I'm leaving you behind. I am leaving you behind. Remember back to the chorus. I am leaving you behind. Okay. That's wonderful. Thank you, Frederick. That's exactly what I wanted. Okay. How many want? How many want Craig to continue teaching this course? And how many want Frederick? Let's hear it for Craig. Let's hear it for Frederick. I knew it. Okay. But that's a good way of getting it introduced to the idea of musical form. Let's talk about form now in classical music. The forms are a little more difficult in classical music because the music is more complex. And before we launch into a discussion of these musical forms, I want to talk about the distinction between genre in music and form in music. So we're going to go over to the board over here, and you can see that I've listed the standard classical genres. What do we mean by genre in music? Well, simply musical type. So we've got this type called a symphony, and this type of music called a string quartet, and concerto, and so on. We could add other types, ballet, opera, things such as that. In the pop realm, we've got genres too. We've got classical New Orleans jazz would be a genre. Blues would be a genre. Grunge rock would be another sort of genre. A genre presupposes a particular performing force, a particular length of pieces, and even dress and motive behavior of the auditors, the listeners. If we were going to listen to the genre of a symphony, we would dress up one particular way, go to Woolsey Hall, and expect to be there from 8 o'clock till 10 o'clock. If you were going to hear the Rolling Stones play at Toads, where they do play occasionally, obviously one would not come at 8 o'clock, one would come later, one would dress in a particular sort of way, and one would behave presumably in a different sort of way. So that's what we mean by genre, a kind of general type of music. Now today we'll start to talk about form in music, and what I need to say here is that each of these genres is made up of movements, and each of the movements is informed by a particular form. So with the symphony, we have four movements there, fast, slow, then either a minuet or a scherzo, and a final fast movement. And each of these movements can be in one of a number of different forms. And we'll talk about what they are in just a moment. So when we come to the string quartet, same sort of thing, fast, slow, minuet, scherzo, fast, any one of those can be in a particular form. Concerto, generally as mentioned before, has just three movements, and sonata, a piano sonata, something played on a piano, or a violin sonata with violin and piano accompaniment. They generally have just three movements, fast, slow, fast. Okay, let's talk about our forms now. In classical music, things go by very quickly, and it's difficult to kind of get a handle on it, and we generally in life don't like to be lost. We like to know where we are, we like to know what is happening, and this is what form allows us to do. So that if we're hearing a piece of music and all this stuff is coming at us, we want to make sense of it by knowing approximately where we are. Am I still toward the beginning? Am I in the middle of this thing? Am I getting anywhere near the end of it? How should I respond at this particular point? Well, if we have in mind what I've identified here, and we will be referring to as our six formal types, and we can think of these as templates, that when we're hearing a piece of music, we make an educated decision about which formal type is in play, and then we drop down the model of this formal type, or the template of this formal type, and we sort of filter our listening experience through this template, or through this model. So here are our six models. Ternary form, sonata allegro form, theme and variations, rondo, fugue, and ostinato. And they developed at various times in the history of music. Theme and variations is very old. Sonata allegro is a lot more recent. Now of these, the ones that we'll be working with today are ternary form and sonata allegro form. And sonata allegro is the hardest, the most complex, the most difficult of all of these forms. It's so called because it usually shows up in the first movement of a sonata concerto, string quartet symphony. And the first movements are fast, so that's why we have allegro out there. And it most is associated with this idea of the sonata. It didn't necessarily originate there. It originated there and in the symphony. But for historical reasons, we call this sonata because of its association with the sonata and the fact that it goes through the sonata and the fact that it goes fast, sonata allegro form. So that in a symphony, usually your very first movement will be in sonata allegro form, your slow movement. Well, that could be in theme and variations. It could be in rondo. It could be in ternary form. Your minuet and scherzo is almost always in ternary form. And your last fast movement could be in sonata allegro form. It could also be in theme and variations. It could be in rondo. It could be in fugue. Sometimes it's even in ostinato form. So you can see that these forms can show up and sort of control, regulate what happens inside of each of these movements. Okay. Are there questions about that? Does that seem straightforward enough? We have a big picture of genre here, movements within genre, and then forms informing each of the movements. Yes. Student conversation No. I said it's possible that it could be used for the second movement. Ternary form is one of the forms that could be used with the slow second movement. We could also have theme and variations. We're going to hear one of those later in our course. It could also be a sort of slow rondo. So it's just one of really three possibilities there. But thanks for that question. Anything else? Okay. If not, let's talk then about ternary form, because ternary form has much in common with what we experience in sonata allegro form. Let me take a very straightforward example of ternary form. It's from Beethoven's for Elise, the piece, the piano piece that Beethoven wrote for one of his paramours at one time or another. Whoops. I knew this would happen. Here, I'm going to tell you a story about this. My cell phone broke the other day. Go away. My cell phone broke the other day, so I had to buy a new one. I was really happy about that. I hated to lose my old Mozart theme. But I then had to find a new Mozart theme, and nowadays my selections are more limited. So when you go on to these things, and in truth I actually had my youngest son do this because I'm hopelessly incompetent with this kind of thing, you go on to these things and now they only have one option, one option for classical music. One option for classical music, but it's called Mozart. So good choice. Mozart has become the icon of classical music, and I think it's the individual that should be the icon for classical music. All classical music now has been reduced down to just Mozart. Okay. I had no idea what that was about, but who's calling me? All right. So we have this piece, Internary Form, by Beethoven. Internary Form is conveased to us simply the idea of presentation, diversion, representation, or statement, digression, restatement, anything like this. We like to diagram these in terms of alphabetical letters you can think, just A, B, A. All right. I'm going to pause here. We started out here. We are in this key, major or minor. What do you think? Minor. All right. So we were coming to the end of this A section. The A section is very short. But then... Major or minor? Major. Okay. So what happened there? What do we call this? It's a very quick modulation, very quick modulation. We've changed keys. And I'm going to digress here just for a moment to talk about this, which is this concept of relative major and minor. You may have heard of this before, but it's a very short moment to talk about this, which is this concept of relative major and minor. You may have noticed in music, and it's discussed briefly in the textbook, that there are pairs of keys. Pairs of keys that have something in common. The members of the pairs have the same key signature. We could take any key signature, three flats or two sharps, whatever, but there's going to be one major key with three flats and one minor key with three flats. And I think we have up on the board here an example of just that. So you can see written in here the three flats, and this is a minor scale with three flats. Now we could also have three flats over here, but we encounter three flats when we have the major scale. This happens to work out so that it's pitched on C. If we come up three half steps in the keyboard, we come up to E flat. So the relative major, the major key in this pair, is always three half steps. One, two, three, three half steps up above its paired minor. Here's another one down at the bottom. It happens to have one sharp in it. We have the key of G major here with one sharp, but if we come down three half steps, we get its relative minor down here. And the reason I mentioned this is not because we actually hear this very much. I'm not sure that I hear modulations to relative major because I don't have absolute pitch and I'm not tracking keys when I listen to pieces. My guess is you're not either. So for the average listener, we may not hear the actual pitch relationship, but we may hear that we've had a modulation, and you can kind of make an educated guess that about 50% of the time, if it's going minor to major, it's coming in this relative arrangement, or major down to minor, it's going in this relative arrangement. So this happens a lot. So here we are in the midsection of our turnary form, A, B, A. Here's the B part. And then back to the minor A. Now that's just the opening section of this piece. It goes on to do other things, but it is a very succinct example of turnary form. And turnary form is a useful way of introducing a larger concept, which is Sonata Allegro form. So let me flip the board here. And here we go on to this rather complex diagram. As I say, it's the most complex one of all the six forms that we'll be working with. It consists of three essential parts, exposition, development, and recapitulation. So you could think here, coming out of turnary form, you've got an A here, you've got a B idea here, and then you've got an A return back here. But this is a lot more complicated, there are lots of things going on. And I should say, also, in terms of fairness and advertising, that this is a model. This is also something of an abstraction or an ideal. Not every piece written in Sonata Allegro form conforms to this diagram in all particulars. Composers wouldn't want to do that. They'd have to assert their independence or originality in one way or another. But it's a useful sort of model. It tells us what the norm is, what we can generally expect. So we've got these three sort of sine qua non here, and then we've got two optional parts of this that we'll talk about as we proceed. So this is the layout then for Sonata Allegro form, exposition, development, recapitulation. So we start out with a first theme, in the tonic key, of course. It might even have subsets to it, so that we could have one A and one B and one C up here. I won't put them up there, but it can happen. Then we have a transition in which we have a change of key moving to the dominant key. Transitions tend to be rather unsettled. It gives you the sense of moving somewhere, going somewhere. That's why it's called a transition. It could also, musicians quickly like to call it a bridge. It's sort of leading you somewhere else. Maybe in that way it is similar to the type of bridge that Frederick was talking about earlier. So we have a transition or bridge that takes us to a second theme in now, in the dominant key. If, however, our symphony happened to begin in a minor key, then the second theme would come in in the relative major. So if we had C minor, as Beethoven does in his fifth symphony. So there we are there in C minor, but the second theme is in the relative major of E flat. Both have three flats in it. So if you happen to start in minor, then composers traditionally modulate not to the dominant, but to the relative major, which is up on the third degree of the scale. That's why there's a big three there. So then the second theme comes in. It's usually contrasting. Lyrical, sweeter, you heard the difference there. More sweet. So it's a little bit more of a contrast. Lyrical, sweeter, you heard the difference there. More song-like in the Beethoven. Not so much of that musical punch in the nose, as I like to refer to it, but a more relaxed sort of second theme. And there's oftentimes some filler, or what we might call an interstacy, and we come to a closing theme. That's abbreviated up here, just C-T. Closing theme of the exposition. Closes the exposition. Closing themes tend to be rather simple in which they rock back and forth between dominant and tonic, so that you can end on the tonic, and that gives you a sense of conclusion of the exposition. Now what happens? Well, you see these dots up on the board. Anybody know what these dots mean? I think we actually talk about this, if you read ahead in the textbook. Somebody tell me what the dots mean. Jerry? Okay, repeat. Okay, so that's what dots and music. We have these double bars and dots, that means repeat. So we've got to repeat the whole exposition. Didn't like it. First time we get a second pass at it in the repeat. Then we go on to the development, and as the term development suggests, we're going to develop the theme here. But it is oftentimes more than that. It could be something other than just a development and an expansion. It could actually be a contraction. Beethoven likes to strip away things and sort of play with particular subsets of themes, or play with parts of motives. Generally speaking, your development is characterized by tonal instability. Moves around a lot. You can't tell what key you're in, tonal instability. And it also tends to be, in terms of texture, the most polyphonic of any section in the piece. There's a lot of counterpoint, usually to be found in the development section. Then towards the end of the development section, we want to get back here to the return. And we want to get back to our first theme and our tonic key. So composers oftentimes will sit on one chord. What they will sit on will happen to be the dominant. So I could put that up here. We could put a five up here, because we want a long period of dominant preparation. Bum, bum, bum is where we're going, back over here. But we're going to set this up with preparation in terms of the dominant that wants to push us into the tonic. So there we are back in the tonic now, and all the first themes come back as they did before. We also have a bridge, but this time it does not modulate. It stays in the tonic key. We don't want it to modulate because we've got to finish in the tonic here. So I was thinking just a moment ago, it's kind of the bridge to nowhere. It really is a bridge to nowhere. You stay right back where you are. You stay in that tonic key, and the second theme material comes in, your closing theme comes in. And you could end the composition here. Sometimes Mozart, as we will see in our course, will end a piece right at this point, the end, right there. But more often than not, composers will throw on a coda. What's a coda do? Well, it really says to the listener that, hey, the piece is sort of at an end here. Codas generally are very static, harmonical. There's not a lot of movement. And I keep, maybe I've got to come up with a different metaphor here, the idea of throwing an anchor over, slowing the whole thing down, simplifying it to say we're at the end. So you get a lot of these, bom, bom, bom, bom, bom, bom, bom, bom, bom, bom, bom, bom, bom, bom, bom, bom, bom, bom, bom, bom, bom, bom, bom, bom, kind of things in a coda just to tell the listener it's time to think about clapping at this point or reaching for your coda. And the other optional coda, what's that come from? The Latin codus, coda, I guess, coda, Italian coda, means tail. And these can be like all tails long or short. Mozart happened to like short codas. longer quotas. And the other optional component here is the introduction. My guess is, Jacob, what would you guess? What portion of classical symphonies, you're an orchestral player, what portion of classical symphonies would begin with an introduction, would you say? Most of them? Well, we'll consider that. Let's go for 50% at the moment. We'll consider 50% at the moment. So we'll see. We'll see. Now, let's jump into a classical composition that begins with a movement in Sonata allegro form. We're going to open here with Mozart's Ina Klein-en-Nach music, a little night music. This is sort of serenade stuff that he wrote for Vienna, sort of night music, evening music. Let's listen to a little of it. Linda just started out here. We're going to start with the first theme idea. And before she does, let me play this. What about that? Conjunct or disjunct melody? Disjunct. Yeah, as long as you're jumping around here. Notice it's mostly just a major triad underneath. So if we were at a concert and we wanted to remember this, we'd probably have a lot of skippy X's here. We don't have time to get into the particulars of this, but that's why we're doing all of this diagramming stuff. So we've got a lot of these skippy X's. All right, so let's listen to the first theme of Mozart's Ina Klein-en-Nach music. A little syncopation there. I want to sort of counterpoint to this. So maybe we've got a couple little ideas in here, A, B, and C. Ah, agitation. Movement. Here goes the bass. Pause. So we had a cadence there. That would be the end of the musical phrase. A cadence and the music actually stopped. I like to think about the first theme. We've got a change of scene here. Some characters have gone off. The stage is now clear. And other characters are going to come on. So what character are you going to come on? Well, a more lyrical second theme. I'm going to play just a bit of it for you. What about this? Is this a conjunct melody? Obviously it's descending. Conjunct or disjunct? Very conjunct. Actually it's just running down the scale. Now we don't have time because this music is going by so fast. We've got a skippy opening theme going around like that. We don't have time to sort of write down all those X's. So maybe just, yeah. Da-da-da. Maybe something like that. So this is a conjunct melody. It's a very conjunct. It's a very conjunct. Da-da-da. Something like that. So this is our first skippy theme, our second theme. Da-da-da. It has a nice sort of fall to it. Okay, here's the second theme. Repeat. Now, closing theme already. Okay, let's just pause it here for a second. That's the most noteworthy aspect of that theme. Da-da-da-da-da. Da-da-da-da. What do you think? Thoughts of what would you remember about that? How would you grasp? Okay, yeah, it starts out. And then it's really conjunct, right? Because nothing is just saying on one pitch level, sort of the ultimate conjunct, joined to the point that it's a unison pitch. Da-da-da-da. So I remember that just like this idea. So our closing theme, da-da-da-da-da. Turn, da-da-da-da. Almost the woodpeck. Turn. Turn. Turn. Turn. Turn. Turn. Turn. Turn. See how it becomes the woodpecker idea? Sorry. But think of that kind of da-da-da-da-da-da-da-da-da-查查查查查查查查  lingon, whatever sort of silly analogy you want to construct to help you remember that. Okay, so here we are almost at the end of the exposition. Let's listen now to the end of exposition and then we'll stop. Okay, so we're going to stop there. Linda, now on this recording, what do you think? Well, I think reasons for time, let's go ahead and we'll advance it up to the beginning of the development section. So now we should listen to this whole complex once again. We're not going to do that. We're going to proceed here. We're going to go into the development section. And it's kind of fun the way Mozart starts the development section here. Let me ask you this. We started here. The development begins higher or lower? Yeah, lower. So he's dropped down to the dominant. He's now in the dominant. And if he continued as he had, that's what he would have done. That's not what he does, however. He's sitting here. He ends up there. So we get this sort of dissonant shift. And it's a signal. It's like the composer holding up a sign. Development, time for the development now. Okay? So something we've shifted. We are sort of slapping the face, telling us that we're at a new point in our form, a new section in our form, the development section. So as we listen to this, we'll hear Mozart move quickly through some lots of different keys. I wouldn't be able to tell you what keys they are. I really wouldn't. But I do know that he moves through different keys. Then we will hear a retransition start. But here's my challenge to you and why I started putting all these things up here. Which theme does he choose to develop here? Kind of interesting. Does he go with the first theme? Ba-m-ba-m-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba. Or the yada-yada-yada-yada-yada-yada-yada-yada-yada. So which one?第一第一第一 Music Okay, stop it right there. Now he's all the way, first of all, what's the answer to the question? Which theme did he use here? We're now at the retransition, or almost finished the short development. Which one did he use? Who thinks they know? Raise your hand. Elizabeth? He used just a closing theme.查查查查查查查查查查查查查查 That's the implied baseline. Ba-ba-ba. I'm just going to go, ba-ba-ba. Back to the tonic. And I'm going to go, ba-ba-ba. Then that first theme is going to come back in here. So let's listen to Mozart write a retransition. And I'm going to sing the implied or then-sounded dominant that's going to lead to the tonic. Ba-ba-ba. So all the first theme material coming back, nothing new. Here goes our bridge now movement. And he just cut it short. The first time he went to, ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba. It's what the bass did. This time he just cut it short. Ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba. It's what the bass did. This time he just stops the thing and stays in the tonic key. And then the rest of the material will come back in the proper order in the tonic key. All right. We need not hear that. Let's go on now to the coda. We're just going to listen generally to what happens in a coda here, typical coda with Mozart. Tonic. Ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba. It's almost stereotypical, right? You could have written that. Not so hard. But as they say, it's just a load of bricks to bring this thing to a conclusion. But it's a beautiful example of sonata allegro form. It doesn't what our model requires in all particulars in an unusually rapid rate here, about six minutes for this particular movement. Let's go on to rather another famous example of sonata allegro form. And that's the beginning of your own Beethoven's Fifth Symphony. Symphony number five. We, of course, worked with this before, and you know the beginning. But let's listen to a bit of this, and we're going to follow it through now all the way into the exposition development in terms of form, not some of the issues we were working with before, but in terms of form. So no introduction just starts off with his first motive there, our four note motive. And now the bridge is going to start. Get a sense of moving from point A to point B, from first theme to second theme. And then the bridge. Okay, so pause it there. And the horn sort of says, yes, this is the end of the bridge, something like that. This is the end of that, and then a new lyrical theme will come in. What interest always interested me here, sort of like the Jaws movie, you know? You never know when it's safe to go back in the water. You've got this nice melody up da-dee-da-da-dee-da-da-da, but underneath you a ba-ba-ba-boom, sort of lurking under there is this pernicious four note motive. All right, so let's listen to the second theme as it starts in the violins, and then we'll build up with Beethoven here. And the button. And the book-yoo-oo. Building up dynamics and kit. A little bit of interstacy here, our closing theme. Okay, let's stop it right there, a couple of points. Now to get sort of breathe the air of this particular performance, okay? It's because we're going to change to a different recording now. So Linda, you go ahead and change to that. And while you're changing, let me comment on the closing theme. Notice how in this symphony Beethoven once again is obsessed with this four note motive. We heard it underneath him. And at the end, how does he create a closing theme? Well, it's coming up. It's coming down on arpeggio, just taking that triad. Is this a major triad or minor triad? What is it in relationship to the opening tonality? It's the relative major, okay? So he's going to come up to. Chord, short, short, long. So everything's sort of short, short, long. All right, so that's how he constructs the closing theme, just a different configuration of that short, short, short, long motive. Let's go back now and hear a different recording. And tell me what you think about this recording. How does it differ from the preceding one that we were listening to? Let's start with the repeat of the beginning, if you can get there, repeat of the exposition. Perfect. Okay, any thoughts about that? Just on one playing. I know it's hard. I should have sit the two up here and play this one four times and this one four times back and forth. What about this one though? Yeah. Second one sounds faster. Yeah, it's the same music. They have the same score. One conductor thinks this is going to go, yaddi-di-di, yaddi-di-di. That's how Leonard Bernstein would do it and did do it. Another conductor, still living, conducting frequently in New York, also Bernard Hyde tanked it. Yaddi-di-di, yaddi-di-di, yaddi-di-di, yaddi-di-di, yaddi-di-di. So it gets through this exposition about 30 seconds faster than Leonard Bernstein did, just a difference in interpretation. So let's listen now quickly, because it does go quickly, to Bernard Hyde tank's interpretation of the exposition of this first movement. Okay, that's probably enough of that. Let's go on to the development now. Development. Well, how's the development of this symphony start? Which theme is he using? Well, you can imagine. Oops, I've got to get the right pages up here. Here we go. This four note motive. Same thing Mozart did in Aniklan-Nakhmuse, throws in a highly dissonant chord to announce the beginning of the development section. Then rather quickly, he modulates through different keys. Every time you hear the string sweep, moving to a new key, and then modulating to a higher key there. Then he begins to build up. Oops, I lost my piece of paper here. He begins to build up in terms of taking it up higher and higher and higher, and then we get that sort of sound. Well, first of all, let's talk about this chord. What do you think about that chord? Full attention, dissonance? Yeah, it has a lot. It's called a diminished triad, and we've put this up here. Remember, we've had major triads with a major third in the bottom, a minor third on the top, and then we had minor triads. But what would happen if you constructed a triad with just a minor third on the bottom, and then another minor third, two minor thirds? Well, you get this sort of more dissonant sound, more biting sound. So that's what Beethoven is using here, this dissonant triad. There's another thing that's quite interesting, and that is that this idea of just pounding away on one particular chord, this sound. That sort of thing. Beethoven started doing this. You ever have your CD player gets... It drives you crazy, right? Why is he doing this? And think about how the audience of that time would have perceived this. What did the Germans of 1808 think? Ludwig, Ludwig, what's this? This isn't like nique de musique, since he's Bach-like. Here is de musique. And so on. So this is a kind of thing. It's almost like they used to use old silent movies, and then they tighter up, and then they lift the fugue, and then building up tension. If you take this diminished triad and keep placing it at successively higher degrees of scale, you get this extreme of tension. And what's he done in terms of note values here? Well, we have this... It's almost as if he stripped it down to just one note, sort of reduced it to its most elemental. And I say, well, I could give you metaphors about taking matter and reduce them down to some sort of... They're dense as potential and atomic explosions and things like that. It's kind of what he's done here. He hasn't expanded in the development section. He's contracted, sort of to maximize the rhythmic energy, the almost electrical energy inherent in this particular concept. Well, all right, so then he backs off of this. And then he starts playing around with just two notes. Why two notes? Well, his original theme... had just two notes in it. And then he breaks it down to just one note, once again, reaching for the essence here. Now, this might not sound like one note, but here's what he's got. That sounds like high, low, high, low, but if you stop and think about it, they're just coming down an octave. So he's really just working with one note here. Then he changes it. And then the theme... Please let me in, please die. But the diminished chord won't let it in. It just sort of keeps repeating that one note idea. High, low, high, low, high, low, please let me in, please let me in. And finally, this sort of insistent motive almost breaks down the door. And then the recapitulation can begin. And so the recapitulation begins at that point. So that's the development section of the fifth symphony here. The first movement of the fifth symphony where it puts this electrical moment right in the smack in the middle of the development section, in the middle of the movement. And then we get to the recapitulation.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:58.479776Z ===
