So the best part of being a professor here at Yale is no doubt the students just being a part of their learning journey here at Yale to be able to help them in any way we can. Uh it's just such a wonderful opportunity and it's also a responsibility but it's very gratifying to see their progress at the end of their studies. Hi, I'm Lur Save, senior lecturer of Spanish at Yale's department of Spanish and Portuguese. I'm excited to introduce the website Yale Empire persona Yale in first person, which is a video repository of interviews with members of the Spanish speaking community here at Yale. It is a resource addressed to learners, educators, and to anyone who would like to listen or read stories of members of our community. With these clips, it is my hope that students uh engage in Spanish language in many different ways, work on listening comprehension, reading comprehension or do text analysis, but can also be used in the classroom uh for discussion or for reflection on cultural topics. And hopefully it also helps to uh increase and grow appreciation for uh Hispanic cultures. So what makes unique about this video library is the fact that those uh stories are told by 12 remarkable Yale community members. Among them they're faculty members, students, staff, also a senior administrator. They are from different countries. So you hear all this diversity in in the language in the uh accents. The stories uh allow you to see into uh everyday life at Yale. Yale summer programs or programs abroad events on campus groups like despa borqua laasa cultural hur de borgos or film festival leafy. So many of those aspects that make this library very special. I wanted to somehow showcase uh even on a modest way the diversity and the richness of the Spanish language here on campus as the presence of the Hispanic population here on campus grows. So it does as well grow that need I think of showing more voices out there. I think this is a way to do that. And I also hope that this project inspires other projects in other uh uh wonderful uh languages that are taught here on campus. So to Spanish speakers, the uh opportunities are endless in the job market. Fluency both Spanish and English is going to open tons of doors. This is the the age of globalization and so the more languages you speak the better. Fun fact is that I'm from Barcelona, Spain and uh something I've always been very passionate about is theater and performing arts. I've always been able to do that. Uh back in Spain and after I came to United States, I even had the opportunity to perform briefly in a Mexican TV soap opera. I think that there is an important aspect about performing that can be very beneficial in a language classroom. Exciting things are happening in 2026. We have a new advanced Spanish language program in Barcelona and starting in 2627 we'll be offering a new language program the Catalan language program for students to learn the uh language in the Catalan region of Spain.