So this is ex super exciting for us to get this group together. We have an interprofessional panel really to discuss the nuts and bolts of addiction treatment. So why don't we go ahead and get started. Um one of the first things I want to say as I look around the table is that um we do have somebody missing. Unfortunately, Lindseay Powell can't be with us today. um she's our our nurse who has helped us develop this course. Hopefully, we will hear from her uh soon at another time. Um but what I really want to do is open this discussion up to all of us and have us tell learners in a very practical way what is your role in addiction treatment and what clinical skills do you use the most? Um Liz, why don't we start with you and then we'll go around. >> So, I work in primary care. I'm a physician assistant and I utilize the skills of interviewing, physical exam and diagnosing patients. >> Fantastic. Rob >> um so as an advanced practice nurse, I um diagnose and uh use medicine and and psychotherapy in my treatment of people with substance use disorders. I also refer people as appropriate. Um earlier in my career as a nurse, I would do home visits as well to patients homes. I've um worked inatient on inatient units that um doing everything from basic collecting of vitals and other assessments of patients while they're in withdrawal or and um >> yeah. >> So Liz, as you hear what Rob is doing, are there any differences between what a physician associate would do and what an advanced nurse practitioner might do? I think it's kind of setting dependent. So in the primary care setting that I work in, we do actually do screenings. We have uh people that are trained in ESPERT, which is a screening, brief intervention, referral to treatment to kind of help us identify people not only with substance use disorders or people at risk. And in that setting, you know, we have a team of licensed clinical social worker and addiction specialists that we can refer to. >> Fantastic. And both PAs and APRNs, y'all prescribe medications. >> Yes. >> In Connecticut. And in different states that that that can vary a little bit or what what we're able to prescribe or not, but in Connecticut, yes. >> So, state laws impact addiction treatment and different Yeah, without a doubt. >> Yeah. >> And Shannon? Well, as um an addiction psychiatrist, I've worked in a detox setting and a residential rehab doing evaluations and management of um detoxification from different substances and I um have worked in a primary care setting teaching and consulting with regard to general mental health and psychiatric coorbidity and substance use disorders and I have a private practice. So in that setting do pharmicotherapy and psychotherapy both for general mental health and substance use disorders. >> So you work in both primary care and in mental health settings. >> Yeah. Thank you >> Robert. >> Tell us what you do. >> I I am I am the I am the non-clinian at the table and I come from the public health world. What I do is really look at um the epidemiology of substance use and addiction. Um people who are in and out of treatment. uh try to understand and work with practitioners, clinical practitioners, to improve their ability to keep people in treatment, to get people to want to go to treatment in the first place, and to try to figure out what the barriers are that prevent people from getting access to the treatment they might need and might benefit from. >> So, a lot of prevention. >> Well, it's both prevention and care. Um, some of the work we do involves evaluating programs of care as well as programs of prevention. So, for instance, we do a lot of work with looking at the benefits of treatment uh for opiate use disorder in different settings. Some of the work we're doing now is in prisons um in the community in different parts of the world even. Uh, and it all depends on what, you know, who it what group of people we're interacting with. If we're interacting with people who aren't in treatment, we want to find out what's preventing them from getting the care they need. And if it's uh people in treatment, we want to find out what is associated with keeping them there and having them uh reduce their risk of of relapse. So you look at health care systems and try and see what works and try and make it better. >> Both both the systems and the individuals >> and the individuals. >> Um most of the time um you can't do one without the other in public health. >> And Janette. >> Yeah. So I'm an addiction medicine specialist and a primary care provider. Um and I spend time clinically uh in two different settings. One is a primary care clinic embedded within addiction treatment and another setting is a addiction treatment clinic embedded within primary care. Um, and similar to Liz, I think um a lot of the same skill sets in both of those settings, but they're adapted differently depending on um sort of how we're engaging the patients in those particular settings. um and then spend time similar to Shannon teaching and uh trying to evaluate curricula around addiction um treatment and prevention. >> So you work in academic addiction medicine. >> Yes. >> So one question that comes up a lot is what's the difference between addiction psychiatry and addiction medicine? >> Can one of you maybe speak to that? Certainly for um I mean the most obvious part to me is with addiction psychiatry spending a lot of time on the evaluation of the psychiatric coorbidity because there's such high rates of mental illness that are handinhand with the substance use disorder and really needing to tease those apart and treat both simultaneously. But I I think addiction medicine does a good job at that as well and and knowing that you have to sort of collaborate in in that way that it's it's not something that's um overlooked. But I don't know can you >> Yeah. No, I I totally agree. I think uh addiction medicine we uh many of us have trained in family medicine, internal medicine, preventive medicine, maybe even emergency medicine, um obstetrics, gynecology. Um so recognizing that patients in any field um may experience uh complications of their substance use and present to different providers. Um but if we don't really have some degree of skills to diagnose, assess, evaluate, and either treat on site or refer to treatment, um we are really, you know, it's a huge missed opportunity. The other thing um as as Shannon was saying, you know, recognizing that interplay between mental illness and substance use disorder and um being able to treat both simultaneously is vital. Um that happens a lot on the medicine side as well uh with serious chronic infections and acute infections related to substance use disorders as well as other uh acute and chronic medical conditions. So I think um it's almost like a ven diagram where you know we we have some um skill sets that are very similar I think amongst everybody in the table um and then sort of specific things that lie outside a little bit >> because there's a lot of overlap. Yeah. >> People with addiction have a lot of other things going on. >> Right. Right. And as Robert said may not access treatment for that particular issue. Right. So you have to be able to capture them when they access treatment otherwise we're missing an opportunity. So, I think you're speaking to the fact that we need people to know about addictions no matter what field of health care they're in because people come in lots of different doors.