Adrien, thank you so much for driving all the way from Staten Island to speak to my students in a little bit and to the Corsera students as well. We're so excited to have you. Um, I want to talk to you about this week's theme, which is talking to people. This module's theme is talking to people and what we've covered in this module is stakeholder analysis and asset mapping and how do you figure out who you to talk to and go about engaging with them. So I thought you'd be the perfect person to ask this question. So can you just start off by introducing yourself telling us about your organization and what it does and then let us know how you navigated talking to people. >> Sure. So I'm very happy to be here. It was my pleasure to take the trip up from Staten Island. I am Adriana Abati. I'm the executive director of the Staten Island Partnership for Community Wellness. We are a public health nonprofit that's been around for about 20 years. Uh really working with the community to address emerging public health issues. Our tagline is building more equitable uh systems to address health and well-being one partnership at a time. So, it's really appropo that you invited me up to talk about talking to people, partnering with different folks because that's really the core of our work at uh the Staten Island Partnership for Community Wellness. And we go by SIPCW, so I might use that when >> SIPCW, the Staten Island Partnership for Community Wellness. Got it. >> It's a mouthful. >> Yeah. This is honestly one of the things that's that doesn't work in public health in general is that everyone's working in their silos and no one's talking to anyone. So traditional public health programs, they hire someone like let's say SIPCW hired you. You would sit there and draft up a plan and then go tell the community about your great plan, but that's not how we want to do it in social entrepreneurship. So is that what you did? And then you realize that that's not what you should do or how did you figure it out differently? >> And I also want to acknowledge that public health is moving in this direction of cross sectoral partnership in general, right? because there's this understanding that public health issues and other social issues are so complex that you need to have different sectors at the table thinking about the issue coming at it from different perspectives bringing different strengths. Uh when I came on board we were focusing specifically on prescription drug use and alcohol and really thinking about who should be at the table, right? So, I was working with lots of different partners in doing this this formative work. Um, and what we did was we set up key informant interviews with people working on this issue and really thinking about a young person and how they're navigating the world and all of the the different levels of so we call it the socio-ecological model. like there's a person in the envir in their surrounding environment like what are the conditions that would impact a a young person in in making a choice about using substances and that's how we started to bring in the partners. Um we wanted to honor the work that was being done not duplicate any efforts and to build on people's existing programming and strengths by aligning efforts. Right? So it wasn't like oh we're going to come up with a new program. It's like what are you doing and how can we help like how can this person sitting across from you take your program and scale it or rethink it in some way if you're experiencing some sort of issue. So it's a really nice way to look at the assets of the community and think about how we could work together to to address complexity. >> And you said you started with key informant interviews which means just reaching out to people doing work on this topic and asking them questions. Right. >> Right. What kinds of people did you reach out to and how >> uh so we were working with and and we've used this model for other other initiatives within the agency like thinking about who are the players who are already in this field what are they seeing who should we be talking to um talking to people who navigate the systems. So, you know, really thinking about like bringing partners together and then having an amalgam like a story of a person who who is navigating all these different aspects of the of the issue. >> So, it's a mother and how is she getting to her appointment? Is she taking public transportation? Does she have child care? And then then that's how you start to map all the different sectors and people that influence whether or not that that person will in this case like get to her appointment for health care or um you know receive receive counseling and a treatment program. And >> we talk about systems mapping but usually it's a system of systems like whatever systems surrounding this person. It includes the health care system, the transportation system, the education system, so many other systems. right? We touch so many different systems and it can feel overwhelming sometimes. So then we would also use that frame of well what can we have some control over or and you know like so we might be able like the the head of the MTA but we could have the local DOT like commissioner thinking about transportation in our bureau. Um so really using some some criteria lens in terms of who we bring because you're right everything is is interrelated. That's the beautiful thing about public health and that's also the overwhelming piece of it is how do you kind of narrow it down and really figure out who who are the most impactful people and what we found in the beginning when I was first working with the partners on this was that it was very grass tops you've heard that expression but like >> I've heard grassroots >> the grasstops is is we were making conscious decision decisions about who do we invite in and it was like oh can they exert power within their organization and system to change policy or programming >> and that was powerful but it was missing the grassroots the people who were impacted most by the issue. You know in the beginning we had some youth but it almost felt like tokenism and that they were not involved in decision-m now we've radically shifted the way that we're doing the work. There's still grasshops involvement like you need to have both the grass tops and the roots in order to to shift the system. That's the challenge is getting them to talk together. >> Yeah. Um because lots of folks who who head systems have big ideas about what communities need. Um but they're very far removed and and the communities really have no interest in having people roll in to tell them what they're doing wrong or um so it's it's been a lot of learning and unlearning among some of the leaders in the coalition um and even leadership within the the backbone. So what are some examples of people that joined this collective impact initiative? You used the word coalition. What types of individuals and organizations are now in the coalition? So we've been pretty thoughtful about making sure that we have representation from different sectors. So I mentioned the district attorney's office. So we have a a law enforcement kind of component to it because people are intersecting with with all different systems. So we have folks from law enforcement, the DA's office, also the police department. We have people from higher ed, we have the local colleges, we have the treatment providers, we have the schools. So we work with the public school system which is a huge system in itself, right? >> And trying to figure out how to respond to behavioral health needs especially postcoid. So what we bring to the schools is a whole network of partners who are thinking through this and trying to connect with the families and the students. Um so and schools, hospitals, government um agencies, elected officials and then young people, we've created this this kind of pathway where we we pay young we call them youth consultants or yokos um where we pay them for their lived experience and like does this strategy make sense? How would you how would you frame it? Are we off track? Um and they've helped with social media. They've helped create scenes. They work with other youth. They they've come up with ideas around just social events that don't include alcohol um or that just focus on self-care. So, it's like painting and mocktails like because there's so many >> events that pop up where you're there's alcohol involved with some sort of self-care piece, but they don't really go together necessarily in a healthy way. So, our youth our youth consultants are kind of helping guide that work. So, yeah, just lot lots of different sectors. Um and then they are working in workg groupoups and it feeds up to our our northstar of improving um substance use and mental health outcomes among youth and young adults on Staten Island. >> What kinds of changes have you seen on that north star about improving youth mental health and substance use on Staten Island since you started bringing to people together in this different way? >> Yeah. Um, so we saw really significant declines in prescription drug use. Um, and our binge drinking rates came down and we were feeling um, pretty good about ourselves as partners. But then we started to disagregate the data and that's when we saw that it was not really impacting all demographics and communities the same way. And we were seeing that there there were actually increases in in opioid or prescription drug use and stimulant use among bipox student uh youth and young adults. >> So we shifted gears. So like we felt really good. We were we recognized that there were some improvements but we needed to do more. Um, and that's actually when we started to to to really focus and center the experience of black and brown youth in in developing strategies um, and LGBTQ plus youth. So, that's been great. And I feel like we're getting we're doing a lot to build infrastructure around these groups um, and having them lead the work. And that's really important I think because we talked about Staten Island as a community which it seems that there is a sense of community at this location but Staten Island is a location and within that it can be community but there are many different communities right like you just mentioned the LGBTQ plus community um and you know there's so many other subgroups within that group so I think it's really important to think about what are the different groups of people within any community or within any location, >> right? And there's so there's a lot of complexity and I and I think that we have been um I was going to use the term lucky, but we it was very intentional like our focus on on collecting data and disagregating data and understanding what are the trends in our because to your point there are so many different populations and communities like how do we know who to who to focus on. So we've been trying to follow the data um but it's involved an investment in data collection too. Mhm. >> Um you could do it like higher level surveillance data from the city or state and you can also do community conversations and focus groups and we've also like built up that arm of the work like doing more um participatory action research with youth in the community with stakeholders from different neighborhoods having them be part of the process of of developing the whole you know research piece to it and then participating. And we call them, we don't call them focus groups anymore, but community conversations because we want to, >> you know, because it really is a dialogue, right? >> Yeah. Exactly. That's why just like talking to people. No one's going to be an expert on any type of research like a focus group, which is a specific type of research, but anyone can just create a dialogue. There was an event that happened and it's almost an example of qualitative data and it was just a one-on-one conversation, but I was out I think it was about 2015. I was doing a presentation uh in the community around opioids and prescription drugs and the local president of the NAACP was at the meeting. So, he pulled me aside after the meeting and he said, "It's great that you're here, but where were you when our kids were dying of the crack epidemic?" And um it I I was like, "Wow, you're so right." Right. This was this moment like there's so much attention around opioids because people are felt like it was a white a white person's issue. I said, "I'm here now and let's think about ways that that resources can get to your community because we know that there's still need um across every group." But I felt like that was like the light bulb moment. And then when we saw the improve like the the declines, we started to be much more intentional and and although we work across the entire county to really think about like the the populations that are most impacted and in this case it was black and brown youth and young adults. So, it was it was like a powerful moment that really from a community conver like a community presentation and just a one-off conversation and and and it kind of goes back to our tagline about like systems changing one partnership at a time almost one conversation at a time. It's just so important to go out there and have those conversations with with people. >> Okay. So you serve as a backbone organization and then you bring together several different organizations that work together towards a shared goal so that the whole is greater than the sum of its parts. So you have a shared agenda, mutually reinforcing activities, constant communication and shared metrics, right? To to figure out if you're reaching your goal together >> and a dedicated backbone >> and a dedicated backbone. having an entity that's that's somewhat neutral um move the work forward. >> What do you wish was different? Is there one thing you you wish you could do differently or aspire to do in the future? >> I wish that we had more community voice when we were forming, but it's it's it's we we've course corrected. Um so I think that it's informed the way that we do the work moving forward now. Um but I I it I feel like we it would have been stronger if we started with that that model in the in the beginning. Um and also in terms of building trust and and really reaching into all all areas that that should have been at the table. So >> thank you so much Adrian. It >> was my pleasure.