Camila, it's such a treat to be sitting here with you in Havenly. This is one of my favorite coffee shops in New Haven and it's so special because it's a social enterprise and I know that you created it as part of training refugee and migrant women to have jobs in the food industry, right? And this is like the place where they work in the kitchen as part of that. So, thanks for inviting me. Thanks for the delicious tea. Um, you're the director of impact and mission, right? Yes. >> So, your organization has three directors instead of one executive director, which is awesome, and we'll talk about that in a future module when we get to organization. But today, I want to talk to you about how you measure outcomes because you're one of the few like-minded organizations I've been able to connect with that thinks like me in terms of it's not just about how many people you reach. It's about actually how are you changing the world. And sometimes, not always, but sometimes those two things aren't the same. So when you're describing what success looks like to you for Haven Lee, like if you imagine 5, 10, or 20 years down the line, what would success look like to you if Haven achieved its mission and desired impact? M well um I love that question and I think that the first thing I'll say is um you know you kind of you mentioned how we have a job development um component of this organization and I think that's something that uh we've really worked hard over the years to articulate the difference between our ethos and the ethos of sort of workforce development um the realm of workforce development um organizations because Um, our our mission is a lot broader. Our mission is to build the community power of immigrant and refugee women. And we do offer a job training program and help women secure jobs where they might make a higher wage than they would have before our program. But that's um that's one component of what we consider is part of helping a community to um to become more powerful over time because it provides in this country. it a higher paying job can mean more economic security, mean a more a little bit more freedom of time, a little bit more um just uh security. But um but our our goals are so much broader. Our goal is to when we talk about wanting to build the community power of immigrant and refugee women, what we're talking about is wanting to um kind of facilitate this community being able to over time affect change um in their in their community, meaning New Haven, West Haven, Greater New Haven, where our um participants live. being able to um organize and come together and have strong interpersonal ties and strong feeling of self-confidence and agency to be able to um change some real material injustices that affect their lives and and all you know um poor and working-class people in the US and and in this area. Um and so for us what success looks like over time I think is um one one component of community power is having um like I mentioned a group of people who truly care about each other who come from who might not have otherwise um gotten a chance to meet or build relationships. So at Havenly we work with women from all over the world who speak different languages. Right now we're working with a cohort of women that um span they speak Farsy, Pashto, Arabic, Spanish um and Portuguese and um and you know many of these uh they they have different stories of migration, have different uh backgrounds but are living the lives of you know immigrants and refugees here in New Haven. So have a lot of shared um circumstances and and conditions of their lives right now but might not otherwise have a chance to meet and connect over those and exchange kind of um and and become friends and really um learn about each other's communities and the shared struggles there. And so um that's one thing I think in the future we would love to see that every cohort we're a cohort-based program. So um we run three cohorts of 15 women per year >> for now. Who knows what it'll be in the future. >> Exactly. But we would love to see that um that 100% of our alums are continue to be really engaged with Havenly. Um we want to see that our alums um attend the dance parties that we have here at Havenly every other month. You're invited. Um you know, and um attend our political organizing meetings with a a group of alums that does organizing with us called the Sisters and Diaspora. We want to see that those alums continue to build their friendships and sort of that ecosystem of support among themselves um and you know with Havenly. And um we also have a our our board um we have a mission to to be a member-based organization which means that um we want a women who go through our program to become the real guy you know the people who guide the direction of this organization and the strategy at a board level. Um and so another version of another you know one kind of branch of success for us would be that many of our board positions uh that over half of our board positions are occupied by alums of the program. Um so you know a strong community that's really that and feels agency over the resources that we have at this organization and feels agency kind of to to direct the strategy. Um and I think success would look like um having you know we really believe that um transformative change that we need in this country will happen um with you know at the hands of people who are you know really facing um experiencing the uh the effects of injustice and poverty. Um and so you know we want to see our the alums of our program feeling you know you know feeling really uh kind of the agency to be pushing for change. And I think that's something um something that I really care about is ensuring that yeah part of how we measure change and this is this is kind of hard but in a beautiful way to measure is is just I want to see that the women we work with know that it is their right um to you know to have more to have better to um you know we we really use the language of housing as a human right because this country does a really good job at making people feel like it's their fault. fult um that they can't afford a better home. It's their fault that they're not making more money. It's their fault that they can't get out of um you know the the situation that they're in. But um it's really important to us for the emotional well-being of our community members and the participants of our program and also for that um kind of you know for the sake of the political work that we do for our participants to know that um and and for so many this comes really naturally um but just to know that that it is a right. it should be a right and it's actually a huge failing of the system not of themselves as you know not their characters or their um not not them as individuals that they're in this in these positions >> that is framework change like even in in even if you were doing like you know the typical lame like pre-post surveys to measure direct service like what changed before and after the fellowship you could even ask like or try to find out how they think of housing like if it is something that they consider a human right or that should be provided or like >> should be assisted for them to access or should be reasonable for them to access by the state that could be measured. >> So I'm sure some of our students are are asking themselves now like okay how does she measure that? Um so any advice to them on how they would if they wanted to share that with stakeholders like how would you go about measuring something like that? >> Yeah so I think I have two two things come to mind immediately. One is the evaluation that we really worked and are currently still working on with you um that you're really supporting us in implementing where we're doing these um pre and post evaluations and then also um I don't know the term but uh after six months of our cohorts graduating. So it's like a post post evaluation. Yes. Followup. Um we have these evaluations that are very conversational um that where we're working with um one person who is doing these over the course of time building kind of getting to know the women that they're evaluating um over time. And um and that the questions on that evaluation are um you know pretty open-ended and ask things like um do you feel like you can work with the people in your community um when you're confronting a challenge? Um that might not be the specific wording, but we ask questions like um really getting at um whether women feel like they can uh if they if they have an idea of what they want for themselves um uh in the you know in the short term or long-term future if they feel like they can achieve those goals. Um, so those are some ways that we um that we try to measure that. And then also I think another really important component is just we are very very relational at Havenly and it's something that's really important to us and is like at the core of of what we do is just um you know I mentioned in the beginning that one of the our metrics of success is just how many alums stay engaged and really continue to consider this their community. And so we're able to see just in continuing our relationships with women, where their lives go over time and how they're um the way that they they speak, the things they talk about, the things that they're excited about, the things they're doing, um how that changes over time. Those are, you know, very concrete things that we can see as um their their friends or people that follow up with them. And so um you know we have a couple of women who have started their own businesses um that before talked about feeling really really afraid to do that and talking and really describe that process as a very emotional one and one that um you know indicates a lot of like emotional well-being factors um and there's a lot of examples that I could give there um but you know and then seeing women who um get involved in the sisters and diaspora and kind of seeing um you know women go from a place of of talking more about uh you know how they are willing to work and work really really really hard in order to earn their right to be here to exist in this country and to um have you know um better quality of life. I feel so um it's the most fulfilling thing to watch that type of discourse move to a place of more you know than going and speaking in front of city hall and saying this is not right we deserve better. >> So those are things we can see and hear and and measure in a way. Um, >> so it sounds like there's many different ways you can measure it, right? Like you can do the pre-post survey with the, you know, on a scale of 1 to five. You can do um the number of businesses opened and um things like that. And you can do also like quotes and storytelling in terms of changes in how they feel. >> Yes. Yeah. And I think we do we do use a lot of quotes and storytelling like on our social media or just kind of um I think that that is actually a way now that you say it that we sort of mark change over time. >> Yeah. And is there like a hallmark metric that I hate to try to boil down this huge beautiful vision into a hallmark metric. I actually feel bad asking the question, but when you when you're talking to people who don't get it and you're trying to get them on board, like a >> yeah, >> you know, a more traditional foundation type thinking person, what do you start with? Like what do you how do you >> does it make sense to to communicate it as a bottom line in terms of like this is the change we're trying to create or is it too multi-dimensional for that? I think it's it's pretty it's pretty multi-dimensional but we might give a set of things like I think you know it it does depend on the type of person that we're talking to or the type of foundation um and kind of uh their understanding of the world and how change happens. But we do often give we do give a statistics of h a statistic of how many women go on to kind of long-term employment. Um so that job component is very important for a lot of people to know um in order for them to see this as successful. So we give that statistic often and also numbers of um you know businesses started. I think it's it's interesting to bring that up because for some people who have a more, you know, really conservative mindset, it's it's exciting to see businesses start because like this country loves businesses. But for us, it's exciting because it means that women feel are are able to be self-employed and not have to work in an exploitative um work environment, but can really see their own dreams in like um come to fruition. And so um for us that is a metric of success from that angle. Um and so but we talk about that like when you know women who are able to kind of um move into their own entrepreneurial space and kind of um start their own projects and and um pursue visions that they have that are really creative or um and so that's that's one thing and then um I think you know we we do um I think one concrete statistic or number that we give is is number of alums who join our board. Um, you know, that's something that that that we're proud of and that I think comes across. Um, >> cuz you're trying to build power, >> right? >> And there might be people who study how to measure power, but I don't know how to measure power. But it sounds like you have tangibles and intangibles like number of women trained, number of businesses start, not not trained, trained is an input, number of women in long-term employment, number of businesses started, and then also these other indicators of what may seem more intangible like knowing their rights and um feeling that they have agency and becoming advocates and activists. So, you're finding a way to make the intangible tangible. >> Yeah. >> Awesome. Okay. That you've given us a lot to think about, Camila. Thank you so much. And thank you for your amazing work. We're truly grateful for everything you're doing. >> Thank you. Thank you so much. I'm grateful to you. >> Thank you.