Thank you, Sally, for being here with me. Usually, we spend all our time talking on like WhatsApp video when you're in Lebanon, and I'm here, and now you're here at Yale. So, I know the main reason you're here is to attend the Yale World Fellows reunion this weekend, but as your best friend in the whole world, I'm just so excited that I get to spend four days with you and that you get to come hang out with my students and me this afternoon. So, thank you again. So, the reason I want to have the last and final campus conversation with you is that this module is about expansion. And so it's all about like everyone wants to make a huge difference and some people start want to start something new. But at the end of the day, no matter how great your idea is. It's not just you that's going to make these big changes, you have to grow beyond the walls of your organization. And you have to think about like how you can partner with others and use your work as a platform to contribute to change that's much bigger than you. And so I know that your work has spanned like actual social enterprise and also policy and advocacy and a whole bunch of other grassroots NGO work. So I just wanted to get your thoughts on what are some of the different ways that social entrepreneurs can use their work as a platform to contribute to policy and advocacy. >> So a few thoughts uh for me and obviously I'm speaking from my experience that it's solely based in the Middle East. Um so it's a very specific context but some of these learnings um would apply to other context in other regions but obviously you always have to be contextually sensitive. Um so specifically in the Middle East in certain countries in Lebanon for example we don't have legal frameworks for what is called social entrepreneurship or social enterprises. So you you know you have to adopt specific frameworks either for the private sector or NGO work to be able to um to have a legal entity to operate. But that does impact your scalability and how you make impact because you because you're bound by frameworks that don't actually um uh you that don't actually make sense for your own entity. Um, so one way to make change, and that's happened in Lebanon and is happening at the time, is to coordinate and cooperate and engage and work with like-minded people and organizations to really push the system to adopt some form of policy change or legal framework that makes sense for what entrepreneurship is in Lebanon, for example, and make that a legally bound framework that all enterprises can operate. That not only offers you protection, but it also gives you the ability to think within a specific legal framework, a protective framework on how you want to make impact, how you want to scale, and what that means for you and enterprises within the context that you're trying to to, you know, to influence specifically. Um and when it comes to policy and advocacy, it's really about um you know there's a lot of power in numbers. And so the best approach in such a scenario, not just for you know if if you're trying to influence policy within entrepreneurship but in general um is to have critical mass. And to do that you need to network. You need to um cross fertilize. You need to um uh really be you know connected to people who are thinking like you who want to you know sort of make an impact like you who see or those who just see value in that particular work. They might not be in the same you know field necessarily but see the value in your field and want to support you. Um and only then can you really sort of be able to apply the necessary pressures um with particular stakeholders to start a conversation around okay what does a formal policy or legal framework look like? How can we make that happen? Um you know and and and start that dialogue and debate because it t and and it takes a really really long time. So patience is extremely important in such a scenario and you need to be in it for the long haul. >> And I think another thing that you said really resonates about like you've got to be in this for the long haul >> cuz this is whatever change you're working on is probably going to take longer than you or your organization. Definitely. >> It's like people come in and out but the movement goes and so you you have to be bigger than >> you have to be part of something bigger than yourself. >> Yeah. And it's not about you as an individual and you know one person isn't isn't ever going to be able to to make that transformative change that we're looking for. um you know and and it's it's about you know each individual contributing what they can or each entity or enterprise contributing to what what you can and somehow become although you're all unique um um but you you become more than the sum of your parts and and and be able to because it's about it's about system transformation right and and like no one person can transform >> yeah the whole has to be greater than the silver and also So another distinction I want to make is that a lot of entrepreneurs or even entrepreneurs think of growth and expansion as growing the organization right like now I'm going to make more money I'm going to hire more people I'm going to reach more end users but that's that's one thing that definitely helps you grow your impact but then like true like actually thinking about expanding your impact what I'm trying to get at in this module is growing beyond your organization like yeah you can grow your work But that's not the same as growing your impact. And sometimes in order to grow your impact, you have to look beyond your organization. And the two are not mutually exclusive. You can do them at the same time. >> Yeah. Exactly. And you know, I think for me at least, it's about looking at it from what kind of, you know, sort of just society or just economic model do you want to be a part of? And so within that space therefore you you know you focus on on you know your own entity and and how you succeed in in in in making that a successful entity and one that is sustainable and then grows. Um and then but yet that is part of a wider context for you to transform that like you know just economic or social model that you envision. >> Yeah. Yeah, and I love the example you gave about how in Lebanon, if I understood it correctly, it's like, yeah, different people are trying to build different social enterprises, but also they're all trying to come together to build a social enterprise sector and advocating for new legal forms and frameworks that enable social entrepreneurship. And that's huge. >> Yeah, exactly. And that's specifically important for you know social enterprises because one of you know sort of the risks in operating in an environment that maybe doesn't give you that type of you know legal framework or legal protection is you fall into the trap of either being just an NGO um and then therefore be operates like an donor dependent and um uh you know just becoming like a charitable organization. so to speak and focus on the service delivery component but not so much you know less on the transformation maybe if you have enough funds to do that >> um or you know to operating like you know purely a private sector enterprise which you know also removes the social from the enterprise if you if you do that as well. >> Exactly. Uh, one of my colleagues here at Yale says that a lot of people want to be superstars, but in order to create true social change, you have to be part of a constellation. And I love that cuz what you were saying earlier about like find the like-minded people. It's like you can have you can be so much bigger if you're a small dot that's part of a big constellation than if you're trying to outshine others. >> Absolutely. But it's I did say if like-minded people and that's especially necessary if you're working on specific you know policy changes and you're advocating for specific policy asks but at the same time it's also important to be able to talk to and discuss and debate with non-like-minded individuals as well because >> you know we don't also want to only be preaching to the choir especially when it comes to advocacy. It's important that we're able to message, you know, to people and and individuals that don't speak the same language as us or don't understand the concepts that we're trying um, you know, to to pass on, but we're able to to to bring them on board, right? We're able to convince them of the value of what we bring and why this specific sort of policy ask is or policy framework is important. So we we want to h to be surrounded by the like-minded but we all need to be singing the same song as we say and speaking the same language to be able to convince you know whoever it is you know we are trying to to advocate towards of you know what we bring to the table and why this is such an important mission to do that um uh is is also equally important. Yeah, that I'm really glad you brought that up because you have to build bridges and break boundaries otherwise you're not going to change the status quo. >> Exactly. Yeah. >> So, I've been like witnessing your really impactful career for 25 years and I'm really curious about what advice you have to give to students in terms of um any limitations or pitfalls that they you would want them to look out for when practicing social entrepreneurship and social change in general. I patience is key and always hang on to the the idealism that you have when you first enter it. Um you know the world is getting much scarier um by the day. Um and um you know that that sense of idealism is you know towards you know a better world is what's going to keep you going and you know to keep fighting that good fight. Um so so patience and idealism that you know that hope that the world can be better and keep getting better. Um and yeah, don't fall into the traps of you know frustration um or despair. Um and I think yeah self-care is also very important um because you're going to have you know you're going to be working very hard um and you know you're fighting the good fight and that comes with its own also frustrations and emotional drainage. Um so just you know take care of yourself while doing it. Um and yeah and never sort of underestimate your own contribution and and and your power. >> Thank you for helping me circle back to the main point of the course that we started with in terms of thinking beyond your venture and your own endeavor and being part of something bigger than yourself to create true social change. You're welcome.