Caroline, thanks so much for coming to speak to my students. I think we've got the most beautiful day of the year. Absolutely. It's so nice to be out here with you. And today we're going to be talking about pitching and communications plan. And I know you work with that so much with collab. So, first tell us a little bit about Collab and then I'll ask you some questions. >> Yeah, I mean it's it's very special to be here and it's very special to be here seeing this gorgeous landscape of like the city that we both love so much, New Haven. >> Um but yeah, more about Collab. So, uh Collab is a community accelerator based right here in the heart of New Haven. And you know our core um philosophy and mission is we believe that every single individual in every single neighborhood in the city deserves the chance to take a risk that is entrepreneurship be able to fail safely and really be able to bring success to their neighborhood. And and so for us, we try to, you know, reduce the barriers to allow more individuals to use the pathway of entrepreneurship to be able to build wealth for themselves and their families and um really be able to make an impact on the neighborhoods and communities that for so many of them they grew up in. And I think the last thing I'll say is we have um we particularly focus on individuals that have a lot of barriers to entrepreneurship. So, folks with lower incomes, women, people of color, um folks with different immigr immigration status, um um to make sure that everyone has that fighting chance to be able to build something for the community that they love. >> And I'm so grateful you do that because it's basically pretty similar to what I do with my students here, but you're doing it for the rest of the city, which is so important. >> So, what kinds of patterns have you seen? I know that you hold these pitch nights when people can come listen to the entrepreneurs and that they have to pitch for funding and other reasons. What kind of patterns have you seen as these entrepreneurs are trying to share and communicate their idea? I think a couple things come to mind. I think one is that you know part of our a big part of our curriculum and um the way that we teach entrepreneurs is about confidence building um and is about you know entrepreneurs leaving the experience of the program um centering their own experience and realizing how much that they have to offer. And so one thing I noticed in pitches um and in communication um for some of our entrepreneurs is we we really try to say hey you're you bring a lot of expertise to the table. you know more um um about your customers, about their needs and their wants than a lot of the audience members that are listening to you listen to you pitch. Um uh and so bring that level of confidence to the table when you're pitching. And um and I know for myself when I'm an audience member, I I love to be led by the individual who's pitching. Um and I love to learn um from the individual who's front of the room. And um and so if entrepreneurs see themselves in that position as hey, I'm I'm uh I bring a lot of expertise. I've talked to dozens of customers and um I think I think that that's I think that's a powerful stance and obviously there's a caveat um um that you know pitches are also an opportunity for permeability. It's an opportunity for the entrepreneur to learn from the the the bevy of expertise in the audience as well. And so seeing uh pitches as an opportunity for kind of mutual learning both that they have a lot to share to the audience member or to the stakeholder in front of them and the stakeholder has a lot to offer them. Um, I think both creates sort of a they're both on mutual ground and also just a really nourishing space for for both learning. >> Yeah, that is such great advice because what I'm hearing is I mean we talk about entrepreneurship especially social entrepreneurship as a very humbling experience where you need to have humility and know that you have to talk to others who know more than you and collectively we have we can form a picture together. But once you're in an opportunity to pitch and share your ideas, you really need to bring confidence about like you can be humble about yourself, but you need to promote the work and the people and the ideas and say like this is all the work we've put into it. This is what we know so that you're leading the audience >> and at the same time making it a two-way conversation where you can use it as learning experience. I love that. Thank you. >> Of course. >> What about you as an entrepreneur? you started this organization Collab. How tell us how you developed your communications plan and what role it played over the years and how it's evolved. >> Yeah, I would say you know when we first started out and this continues to this day um we sort of had three main customers or stakeholders that we were um and have been really attentive to. One entrepreneurs, you know, two donors and potential supporters and three the broader New Haven community. Um, and I think one thing that I've really learned about communications, um, through my experience with collab is that communications ultimately is about building trust. Um, and it's about building trust with a diversity of stakeholders, um, in a way that's authentic, um, to the product or service or organization that you're trying to build. So in the case of those three stakeholders for entrepreneurs is it was you know can we in our communication strategy um show that we are a welcoming front door a welcoming front porch for entrepreneurs in the city um for investors and potential donors. Um we're trying to build trust with them to say hey we can be good stewards of your funds. Um and that and that the values that they have in giving can be aligned with the values that that we're going to bring to our work. And then three with the broader community that that that we're a friend and a neighbor here in this city and that um we are going to you know be a trusted organization that they can refer their friends and um refer their um their network and neighbors too. Um and so ultimate ultimately is about building a lot of trust um with a lot of different individuals. The other thing I'd say and happy to get into any specifics um is I think probably the one of the biggest pillars of building trust is being an organization that's worthy >> of being trusted. Um and and I think that's something that I I hope to some degree we've achieved and certainly was something that we were very attentive to was can we build a a a curriculum a program that we believe is is really at the service of the entrepreneurs that we're trying to work with. Um, and can we feel confident about that? Um, and I really think I think we can say that. Um, in large part that's a testament to our entrepreneurs. Our entrepreneurs really help us to shape our curriculum and programming. They give us incredible feedback. We have lots of different inroads for our community of entrepreneurs to be able to make sure that our program is always as close as it can be to a high standard of excellence. Um, and that allows us to when we do stand in front of a donor, we do stand in front of an entrepreneur to say with confidence, hey, we can be a front porch that you can sit on. Um, we can be an organization that you can contribute to and and we know we're going to be good stewards of your resources or your time. I love this. I mean first you thought about the different st stakeholders like who you need to communicate with and then the goal like why you are communicating with each one what action you want them to take and then the what like what is the messaging um that you want to get across and I love that you're thinking about the entrepreneurs as your customer and how the communications is a two-way like you incorporate their feedback into your work >> and we talked about all these things in in the module but one thing we didn't talk about what you said which is so beautiful is like the work itself >> is the strongest form of communication like the actions you take the work speaks for itself and I love that that's beautiful thank you >> yeah no I I I mean you said that that was beautifully said and I think you know if um some part of communication is building trust I think I sometimes view digital communication as building trust at scale um because you know luckily for us we're such a placebased organization we're doing work in this city. And so our entrepreneurs are are actually our neighbors, you know, and and and our donors are actually our neighbors or live in our neighborhoods. Um and so we can have those one-on-one interactions. But um I think what's so powerful about thinking about social media or the other different platforms or a pitch in front of a group or a larger audience is that because one-on-one communication takes time, as it should, it's I it it affords you to be able to, you know, build that trust at a at a larger scale, which I think is very special. and have lots of thoughts about um how we've you know tested that out and tried to do that well and you know tried to imbue the feeling of a one-on-one conversation you know through a picture through a video. um can't say can't say that we've done that perfectly, but that's that's what we've tried to do in our kind of broader digital marketing strategy is can we create that kind of like intimacy and connection and trust building moments um even if we're not physically there in >> That's amazing because now you're speaking to the how like you have these one-on-one conversations and these community meetings and all these things and then you're trying to replicate that experience digitally for the general public. Do you h tell us more like how would you replicate that feeling digital? Yeah. So, a couple things um come to mind in terms of communications at a broader scale than a one-on-one conversation. One, we have a very um uh we we attempt to have a very relational um relationship based and nodebased approach to outreach. Again, because we are doing outreach within New Haven and with within Connecticut. Um and so we have we have something called the collab access network where we have we sit down with different organizations um who are trusted institutions in their neighborhood or individuals who are sort of trusted nodes in their neighborhood um and and they have become our big champions to be able to spread their word um to their communities and the people who trust them. um that's been really helpful for us um uh because those individuals have have have built trust in um in with their different stakeholders and constituents. I I think another thing I would add on to there is that going back to that sort of per permeability and mutual learning in having those conversations with neighborhood nodes, they also teach us a lot about how to make sure our programs are accessible. So, for example, I remember in the early days sitting down with the amazing folks at Iris um and we said >> Iris is an NGO in New Haven that focuses on refugees settlement. >> That's right. Um and they gave us some really really great feedback about how do we make sure that our programs and our marketing and our communications um um are amendable and exciting um for the constituents that they work with. Um and so that's one way that we've scaled is building this access network such that when we launch a program we have you know about 60 70 or so folks that we email we reach out to we call and then they spread the word in a kind of nodebased way um which I think has been really special. Um, and then second, digitally, yes, we you know, we use um social media, we have um we have our we have our website. Um, and you know, I don't think we're we're experts, but I think um by any means, but I I think we've really prioritized using video and pictures um and particularly I think going to the events of our entrepreneurs to one as a moment of celebration for them, but also to kind of see kind of uh be able to take pictures of their work in action >> to take people there. >> That's exactly right. that's, you know, taking selfies, you know, um, showing showing the care that our team has for our entrepreneurs, but also showing our entrepreneurs being incredible. Um, and I think that, um, I I'd like to think, and I think I've heard this from, um, from our supporters and our broader community that it's that it's special, um, to to see our entrepreneurs be celebrated and and and also for for the individuals in our audience say, "Hey, I know that person um, or I've been to that place." Um uh and so that's allowed us also to to scale. >> What was your top top moment in your communication implementing your communications plan? Is there anything that stands out as like the most well-received email or social media post or one-on-one meeting or town hall or anything that we can extract some lessons from about what works really well? >> Yeah. U something something that something that stands out um is we're pretty attentive to our annual reports. We really enjoy creating them as this moment um uh moment in an organization. >> You're the first person I ever heard you said you enjoy creating your annual report. >> Yeah, I mean it's an opportunity. I mean I I I I personally just love design and I think design is an expression of culture. It's an expression of values. Um and and so annual reports are this kind of uh big large moment in in in the year of an organization. Um to be able to catalog, archive and and also talk about how you've evolved or failed or changed. Um and I think that's really special. And so we've taken great care with our annual reports every year um as a as a means of transparency for our for our donors and stakeholders and entrepreneurs and also moments of celebration. And so I've enjoyed many of our annual reports. We've we once did a book uh like a bound book uh which was which was really fun and uh and kind of I think there was a certain kind of intimacy there which was great and I think it's also just such a great opportunity to celebrate the progress of not just us as an organization but each of our entrepreneurs to talk about whether it's a a large revenue milestone that they've all collectively hit or whether or not one of them's opened a storefront or a food truck and featuring their pictures and I I I have gotten some feedback from entrepreneurs that that's special to see themselves in print um to see it on a physical copy to see that you know around coffee shops in the um in the community and that's something that we've done before is you know definitely give our annual reports to donors but also sometimes put them in coffee shops and I love that >> um uh and and and sort of increase some accessibility to us as an organization in that way >> and beyond that that specific example of the printed annual report I also think what I'm hearing that's generalizable is like whatever it is if it's your annual support or a social media post or a meeting or anything. Just put a lot of fun and joy and love into it and share your successes and also share your learnings and failures and and share your work. >> Exactly. >> Okay. Thank you so much, Caroline. >> Yeah. All right.