Okay, Kendall, thanks so much for coming back to school. I know you did your masters at the Yale School of Environment. Now you're here to talk to my students um at S Soom. There's so many students from the School of Environment, from the School of Public Health, undergrad. I have an architecture student, lots of Divinity students, so they're from all over campus and they're so excited to meet you. So, um I want my Corsera students to meet you as well and for you to help us um to share with us your experience in growing your organization. So, first tell us a little bit about what the organization does. Oh, yeah. So, um I work for a nonprofit called Greenwave. We are based right here in New Haven. Um, we are a nonprofit that supports regenerative ocean farmers. >> What does that mean? >> So, we're working basically with people who grow crops in the ocean that don't deplete the ocean, that actually have positive benefits um that take up carbon and nitrogen and filter the water um and grow plentiful food without having an environmental impact or much of environmental impact. So, we're working with people who are growing shellfish and seaweeds. Um, but a lot of the work that we do is focusing on kind of seaweed and bringing um kelps, brown macro algaee's to kind of the domestic market here in the US. >> Nice. Okay. So, you were the first employee, right? There were the two co-founders and then you were hired to help get it all started. Yeah. >> And now, how many years has it been? I've been with Greenway for five years >> and it is a very different organization or different looking organization than it was when I first came in. >> So, it's not Do you feel like it's not a startup anymore, but now it's more professionalized? >> I think we're moving out of that startup zone. Uh there's still a little bit of a flavor of that. We still are sort of transforming and growing um and adapting our programming and approach. Um, but it feels less like a startup than it did for the first 3 years or so. >> So, tell us what does it look like now and what are the main differences from the beginning and anything you want to fill in in between? >> Yeah. Well, there's a lot to fill in in between. So, I don't know if I'll be able to catch it all, but um, you know, as you mentioned, I was the first full-time hire for the organization. So, we went from two directors and one real staff person to now I think we have 19 staff across six states. realize across six states. >> Yeah. Um so we're really spread out in different areas. Um and the team has evolved um pretty substantially since I came on board. Um from just uh the training and support staff to now u market development, training, infrastructure um and our programs have just expanded pretty broadly as well. >> So your core program is training ocean farmers. >> Yeah. Well, at least that's where we started. Okay. Um, >> and is the idea that ocean farming is good for the environment and for the farmers and so that's why you want more people to do it? >> Yeah, we're really trying to catalyze growth across the industry because we recognize this is a type of farming that really does have a lot of benefits and it doesn't use fresh water, doesn't use fertilizer, um, doesn't use arable land. And there's so much ocean out there that we could farm and farm responsibly to grow food for people as well as to uh you know look at other market opportunities for the kelp that we're growing. Um so when we first started I was building training programs for a small handful of people right here in southern New England. So I was working with prospective farmers in Connecticut, New York, Rhode Island, and Massachusetts. And I could only bring in 8 to 10 farmers a year to work with them really intensively over a two-year period from, you know, concept to implementation of their farm. >> And we still work with people in this really hightouch way. But we realized if we wanted to catalyze growth AC across the industry and really helped to scale and expand regenerative ocean farming and the impact of regenerative ocean farming that we needed to reach more people. Um, and so we've done that by creating new opportunities for sort of self-directed learning through our online platform that we launched this past April. >> Oh, wow. >> Um, we also have a number of um like a market uh development program which focuses on value chain coordination. So, we're looking at connecting the growers to the buyers and processors to help to build that value chain here. >> Yeah. Because these people were not ocean farmers and then totally changed their life to become ocean farmers. So you want to make sure there's someone buying from them at the end of the day. >> Exactly. And so rather than our, you know, we still have lots of technical programming and things like that for farmers and for hatchery operators. Um, but a lot of the hight touch programming has really evolved to serve the people who are trying to start the hatcheries and build up seed supply or do processing and uh create new products um and tap into that domestic supply. >> Okay. So, what it sounds like one of the ways that you were able to grow was to go from a one-on-one training program where you worked with individuals to make it online so that you reach more people. >> Yeah. Do you feel like anything was lost there in terms of you know sometimes when you grow there's trade-offs like less things you can control? >> Yeah, that's a really great question. Um I mean there was a lot that we learned through that process working very closely with farmers and with hatchery operators to understand the needs. We farm ourselves and we also grow our own seed. So, it's a little bit of we're sharing what we know and then by working with other people and helping them start the process, we learn about some of the bottlenecks and different ways that we can address that. Um, and so we continue to work with people in this hightouch way and to try to provide that technical programming. Um, but yeah, there's a bit that's um a bit that's lost when you're scaling from working with eight to 10 people to working with a thousand people over the >> That's great. There's so much that's gained, too. Yeah. Yeah. One of the things like that we're trying to do in recognizing that the like that relationship that interpersonal connection um that community is really important as a part of the online hub that we launched back in April. We also created a community space where people can start to connect with one another and solve technical questions and issues right there. Um so help to facilitate I guess um coordinate those conversations. um and bring people together but help them to relate and solve solve issues. >> So what does the team look like? It was three people and now it's 19. Who are all these people? >> Yeah. Who are they? Um so we have a pretty big leadership team now. The two co-founders, one was executive director and a deputy director. They are now co-directors. And >> that makes more sense. Co-founders, >> co-founders, co-directors and they oversee the leadership team. So we have um you know I was program director for several years. Now I'm director of partnerships and new programming. We have an infrastructure director. We have director of market development and director of training support. So basically um the the director level uh people are the ones that are overseeing those core program areas. >> So that's the executive team. Rather than having one executive director, there's two co-directors. Then there's you're kind of like the ex director of external stuff, right? You had strategy and partnerships. Then there's internal stuff which was what did you call it? >> Training support, market development, >> market development and infrastructure >> and infrastructure. But then we also have development director. So making sure we have the money to carry out of our programming over the long term >> because it's mostly fundraising, right? >> A lot of fundraising. Um and then a communications team. Um and then the whole team that's carrying out a lot of the work on the ground. um that you know inspired our organization in the first place. >> So you make it sound so easy that you went from three people to 19 people, but I'm sure there are a lot of nuances in there. What did you learn in this process of creating this team? uh so much. I'm not sure if I can really boil it down, but um I think I mentioned a bit ago that um the way that the team evolved was a combination of strategy um and uh sort of iteration. Um, as we built out the team, we identified, you know, some of the core hires to help us to scale our programming and ex scale our impact. Many of the other people on our team though kind of came in not exactly through the front door >> like more organically >> more organically as consultants to the organization um as project managers. Yeah. So they they came in to manage certain projects where we had an area of need but weren't quite ready say to build out a team around that area of need um or that program. We didn't have a program yet and wanted somebody to help us to articulate a vision, identify the broader needs across the community um and work with us to develop that strategy. And so we did have several people particularly our our new director of um market development um who has been working with the organization for about four years as a consultant um but finally is on board as a part of the leadership team and now is building out that market development team. And I think we're just in this incredibly unique space right now because the regenerative ocean farming industry and the seaweed farming industry here in the United States is so new. Um, and there are so many opportunities and we have I think the biggest opportunity is like shaping the direction of the industry. you're shaping a whole field, not just individual farms. >> And there are not people that were really >> able to there not a lot of people who have done this before. And so, um, you know, we have, you know, I have a background in commercial fishing. >> I never knew that. >> I have experience working on the water. I worked on fishing boats in Alaska for 10 years. I worked on research boats in Antarctica. I understand a lot of the hands-on dimensions of the work that we're doing. And so I think that in that way I was a really critical first hire for the organization. I could relate to people who were getting started in this new industry. I also had an interest in doing it. >> Um but we couldn't really, you know, pull other than from the academic community from people with experience doing this exact work. And so for a lot of our programming work, we've pulled from people from, I'd say, maybe similar industries or that have some sort of hands-on experience. Um, our director of training and support has started her own ocean farm in Alaska. >> Um, our market development director um is, you know, was the the um CE COO of a craft butcher. um and she has a lot of experience in landbased agriculture um and uh supply chain coordination. And so we are trying to take this kind of mix of skill sets um from different industries and apply them to our own and really define what we need moving forward. >> So it sounds like it's really role dependent. >> It is. It is very >> about like the skills and knowledge that that person needs to fill that role. >> Yeah. And a lot of it has been like, okay, not does this person have specific understanding of seaweed biology. >> Yeah. >> Um and the seaweed life cycles. Now, does this person have experience working in a lab? Um do they nerd out on Excel spreadsheets? Like are these are the kind of characteristics we're looking for in a person and everything else is trainable? Yeah. >> In some, you know, >> find out about the biology online. It's more about like what environment do they thrive in? >> Yeah. Yeah. So, it does really depend on the um nature of the position, the sort of level of the position within the organization. And there are some that I would say are um kind of entry level all trainable all fully trainable and others that we need to bring in skill sets. We need to top um kind of people from other complimentary areas and then sort of reshape what we need. So I think it's a good thing to for your role as an organization to evolve as your work proceeds because it's not that you want to do more of the same and grow linearly. It's that you want to like catalyze something that then grows without you. >> Yeah. I think you know we'd like to see at minimum by 2030 that we've um had a direct impact in kind of training and supporting 10,000 people. >> Wow. and hoping that many of them become farmers or start to engage in this industry in one way or another. Um, as an organization, I'm not sure how we will need to grow to support that. I think we're all hoping that we kind of stay around where we are for a while. Um, and then as as our programming transforms, we identify new needs and we can kind of build a team around that. >> Okay. any closing words of wisdom you want to share with the you someone who's in your shoes five years ago or maybe even before? >> Uh just that growth isn't linear so much as it's kind of this zigzag. It goes up and down. Um >> it's like the whole entrepreneurship process. >> Yeah. And it it's it's growth. It's also kind of the structure of the organization. Things expand and contract. things move from over here to over there and then back to over here. >> Um, so it's definitely a process. You have to have a bit of, I'd say, endurance. Um, but it's also really interesting and fun. >> Thanks so much, Kendall. Thanks for taking the time to share your experience with us. This is great. >> My pleasure. Thank you for having me.