Ruchett, thanks so much for hanging out with me and for speaking to my students in class. And now we find ourselves in the secret room in the library where the Yale Center for Teaching and Learning has this awesome studio. They're the ones that are doing the Corsera course. And so I wanted my Corsera students to also meet you because I always love how you share your work with my class. And I thought maybe you could start by telling us a little bit about who you are and what you do and then I'll ask you some nerdy questions. >> Sure. I mean thanks so much for having me. This is a very cool and unique uh opportunity. So I'm really glad to be here. So uh I'm Ruchett. Uh I am a CEO of Kushy Baby. Kushy Baby is a digital health tech nonprofit that works in India and uh my other part of my job is I'm also a resident at Eel New Haven Hospital. >> That's just like something you do, you know, in your spare time. >> In my spare time. >> Most people can barely handle residency or being the CEO of a startup. So, I don't know how you do both. Knock on wood. >> Yeah. So from what I understand, Kushy Baby started out in a class at Yale that you took where students were asked to come up with innovations, right? And I from what you told me, the professors actually gave you the topic to work on and they said you need to work on childhood vaccination. So how did you come up with this idea in the classroom? >> Yeah. No, it was a really interesting course because the objective of the course isn't to take some final exam. it's to come up with an actual product and take it from the bench to the field. So we walked into the course the first day they said you know a million and a half children are dying from vaccinereventable disease come up with a solution and solution in their mind meant both some kind of innovation but also a way to get that innovation um into the real world. So both a technology and a business plan if you will >> and it was a structured process. Uh so they didn't leave us completely out in the dark. Um we first formed groups and we did a very large literature review to understand what what are the opportunity spaces um in the vaccine field. >> I like it. Starting with the research, >> right? So we we we did this big literature review and we identified some opportunity spaces like the cold chain or you know data and accountability or logistics and packaging um as places where there was you know opportunity for disruption and potentially new innovations. Then the second phase uh of the course was focused on rapid ideation. So now that we had found the opportunity space um we were put in an environment where we were supposed to generate hundreds of ideas. They didn't have to be very wellformed, but the whole point was to put things out there and see what we could come up with. And in that environment, we we were able to generate lots of ideas and then group them together and then vote on the kind of clusters of ideas that made the most sense as a class. Um, so for us specifically, we had picked data and accountability as our space and then within that our specific ideas started revolving around how can we make a digital portable health record. Um >> so in terms of linking this the stages in my class you took a big challenge of vaccination broke it down into one pain point which was data and accountability and then your how might we question was how can we make a digital wearable device that might help with data and accountability. >> Exactly. >> But you skipped the part where you talk to people. In my class I make people get out there and talk to people. >> Right. So in a way you know the class was really focused on human- centered design with a a very big limitation that we weren't able to do a lot of the human- centered design where the real humans were that we were trying to design for you know so uh in a way we had to use the literature search as a proxy and try to reach out to NOS's on the ground to get some sense of what was happening but the real design thinking started once we were able to um you know we We made a prototype initially. So we took our idea of a portable wearable medical record and we we then developed that idea into a prototype. >> What was the prototype? >> The the prototype was basically a wearable um band that had an NFC chip inside. And instead of using the NFC chip to scan into a building, that one kilobyte of space on the NFC chip could be used to store a vaccine record in a digital format. And the the the interesting piece about this is that, you know, NFC technology, near field communication, doesn't require batteries or internet connectivity to work. It just requires a phone that can scan this chip. And when it scans the chip, it can both read the information. So the health worker can see what vaccines you received previously and also by scanning the chip, you can update the information. So you can update the vaccine record with what vaccine was given today. So in this way we were trying to have a portable wearable child vaccination record that can work in offline settings and that was the prototype that we had developed. >> And so tell me about like the brainstorming process in the class with the group like how did you come up with this idea? Were there a lot of other ideas you explored? >> Yeah so I mean we through our literature review we were looking at you know other kinds of prior art in the space. So there are a lot of mobile health technologies, mobile applications made for for health workers to enter in the vaccine details. There were other kinds of analog forms of collecting vaccine information that were more directed for um the patients, the mothers, the beneficiaries. So um so we were kind of looking at how we could get the best of both worlds where the patient could have something that was physical and tangible but at the same time it to also be linked into some kind of digital ecosystem where data can be better traced. Um and we we had this very specific design constraint that we understood we working in rural areas where connectivity is not guaranteed. >> So if we want this to be digital it really needs to work in an offline setting. So, how do we make something where it works in an offline setting, but we have to update the data? How would that even work? Uh, and how can we use the health workers phones as part of that platform? So, from from those specific design requirements, we saw that NFC was something that was being used but just in a very different context. And if we could reapply to this context, then maybe we might be able to get some benefit. >> Okay. So, that was the first seed of the idea that came out of the research and brainstorming. And then tell us about the iteration journey because I always tell students like you start with a seed of an idea and then it changes once you take it out and test it. So how did you test it and how did it evolve? >> Yeah. So so like I said the real human- centered design process started once we went uh to work with our partner NGO in India and once we actually went to the field we saw how vaccines were being uh delivered how care was being provided. >> So you as a student actually went to rural India. >> Yes. So I think if I were to do it again, ideally I would start directly with the users and kind of save save the three months or four months that was spent in the class. >> Um but it's interesting. I mean I think the journey is a little bit of a zigzag journey and each zig and zag you learn something new. So when we went there with our prototype, we we had a wearable silicon band that had an embedded near field communication chip that we had designed to fit on the wrist of the baby. >> Okay. >> And you know, this was our initial prototype, but we didn't know if that was going to be accepted by the communities or how they felt towards that. So we we didn't just go with that prototype. We actually went with five or six different versions of wearables that had NFC chips embedded. >> That's cool. So that was like your testing experiment like let people react to different options. >> Exactly. And and some of the things were bought off, you know, Amazon, Alibaba, etc. But other things we we thought, can we kind of do a DIY makeshift um wearable by taking in some of the local jewelry and just modifying it in a in a way where we could, you know, super glue even in some cases a chip to the front of of that local jewelry. >> And through those observations, we actually realized that the kids are wearing these necklaces um with a black thread similar to the the one that I'm wearing right now. I think you showed me a photo of like this traditional thing that that babies wear in India. >> And the the black thread is symbolic in the nature that it's supposed to protect the child from the evil eye. >> Um uh so we saw that we had this opportunity then to tie the tradition with this new technology. And when we put that out there, we got very positive feedback. And that was really our aha moment that hey, this is this seems to fit kind of what is culturally acceptable and what the community wants. >> Let's see the necklace. >> Yeah, here it is. So, >> so that's the like the fob key. >> So, this was a a key fob that we took out the the key ring and then we we put a black thread in between. >> Cool. >> So, >> and that's how it all started. >> That's how it all started. >> And when I asked you after class what's next, you said, well, I'm hoping by next year we can be in all of India. >> Yeah. I mean that's that's really the goal is to make a model that can be scaled up across multiple states. So we're in India's largest state right now and um you know we've basically had to focus on how do we look at the government's requirements at the India country level um which all states are somewhat following and then how do we make a platform that incorporates all those requirements into one unified platform so that any state in the future can decide to take it up and customize it and then use it on their own. fast forward to what you're doing now and then tell us how did it evolve from that one object to what you're doing now seven years later. >> Yeah, so right now we have definitely um broadened our scope. So we are really focused on developing mobile applications for community health workers to cover all of primary healthcare. >> So that's your end user, the community health worker and they're still working on vaccination but also in in the context of all the other things they have to do. >> Exactly. So you know the more that we worked with these health workers the more we realized it wasn't their job wasn't just um limited to providing kids with vaccines they are doing maternal health child health non-communicable disease infectious disease surveillance all these different health programs by the government of India they have to carry out in parallel so if we're just making a solution that addresses one part of their workflow um that's not really addressing their overall need where they have to balance different paper registers and balance a phone. We want to make a unified kind of platform for them so that way the technology can be used in its most effective way. So that's really kind of where our our focus has shifted. And at the same time, we've also scaled up. So um in the process of working with the department of health in Rajasthan and and kind of working at a much bigger scale with tens of thousands of health workers now certain elements of the solution have to be made more flexible. So you know before this would be like a unique kind of uh aspect of our of our platform is that we have this digital necklace that other platforms don't have. But now if you think about the challenges related to procurement the the requirements that are placed on what kind of phone you can use and the the price points around that >> for the community health >> for the community health worker um it actually limits your ability to scale. So the keeping those things in mind we've had to make some of our unique features more like optional and flexible whereas prioritizing how we can make the system as a whole more scalable and then our >> and by the system you mean like the primary health care system in Rajasthan the state you're working in >> the platform that is going to empower so our thesis is now you know not how can we make a digital medical record that is portable for beneficiaries >> for the babies >> for the babies or for you know the amilies, parents. Yeah. >> Um our thesis is now how can we digitally empower the community health workers to do the best version of their job. Um so that they can kind of impact each each health worker can impact up to a thousand people in their own community. >> I love that because it's not just the idea you come up with that's going to iterate, but you might even circle back to the design question and take it to the next level. It's like you have a design question, you come up with an idea, you take it to the end user, and then when you really understand the end user's journey, you might go back and be like, "We were asking the wrong question. Let's start with a new design question." And it sounds like that's what you've been doing over the years. >> Yeah, that's exactly I mean, this was like this digital necklace is like the ripple in the pond. And then you start to have all these waves that are generated and then you get to see really what is what is happening on the ground and what are the real pain points. So then each wave generates a new set of design questions, a new a new cycle of iterations and then it's just a constant process. >> So it's your venture is called Kushy Baby, which means >> it means a happy baby. >> Happy baby, but now it's like expanded into more like healthy family, healthy >> Yeah. So like you know the the saying it takes a village to raise a child. So it takes a healthy and happy village to raise a healthy and happy child. So really we need to take care of the whole community and the community health worker is the person that can help do that. >> So innovation and design thinking means iterating, experimenting and failing. So tell us and people always ask what was your aha moment when you got it right. But I think failing means sharing your own no moments. So share your own no moments with us. >> Yeah. So when we first did a an experiment um a randomized trial with 200 mothers, we didn't have any improvement in infant immunization rates um which was a little bit of a setback because without evidence, how do you go to funders? How do you go to the government? How do you try to scale it up? There's no proof that it's actually working. Um but we didn't stop there. it gave us more kind of energy to iterate on the product and to try again. And we actually did a a much larger study uh a second study that had over 3,000 mothers that we were following in a randomized trial. And that second study actually was successful after two years of not knowing how the how the needle would swing. So I think you know just because you have a setback or a failure doesn't mean that u you need to stop and doesn't mean that your idea was necessarily wrong. Um it it probably means that you need to go back and tweak things or you might need to collect more data or you might need to look at it from a different perspective or with a different set of users and you might be able to find success in that in that regard.