So Tristan, thank you for driving all the way down from Boston to talk to my students today. It's so fun to have you here. >> Thank you. And you're the perfect person perfect to talk about this topic today about financial viability because I know that you as an entrepreneur have been driven by changing things and improving things and yet you believe very firmly that you need to have financial viability to do that and that you have to find a theory of change that someone's willing to pay for. And so I'd love it if you tell us a little bit about your experience as an entrepreneur as as a and your journey in finding financial viability for your ideas. Yeah. >> The way I've explained financial viability in this module has been um finding a revenue model like who's going to pay when, how, why >> and also like a distribution model. Are you going straight to end user or through a partner organization? And then regardless of your model like internal operational efficiencies like how can you design this in a lean way so anything that comes to mind in terms of how those played out in your journey or other stuff am I missing anything? >> No no no I think that's that's an excellent question. So so there's a lot there right so I think you know my experience here is um uh you know so I suppose in two parts so there's two problems that I experienced of the nature that you're describing. Okay. So first kind I mean the first like decade of my career is spent as a clinician and you know we're running clinical services and the thing that we found >> you're a primary care physician right in the UK primary care physician in the UK and so you know like a lot of the issues there is that well I think in the UK we've done a lot of work around protocolizing care task shifting getting more team based care you know stuff that's like fairly kind of common place here now um just because of the way that the um health system was set up. We were doing a lot of that a while ago. the operational stuff, right? How can you >> all the operational stuff about how you get like Yeah. you get Exactly. So you so you kind of get the most leverage you can out of the clinical team that you've got. >> So even as a doctor, you were like an entrepreneur like how can it improve outcomes, lower cost, >> I guess. And and I was certainly by no means unique in doing that. So like the the there was also a lot of people doing it. But the thing that I found that was problematic is that none of those things really scale. And I remember when we were like looking at all of the practice uh accounts and seeing how we've done this year and projecting for the next year and we you know we were in a federation of um of doctors managing about 100,000 lives in London um at the time and we had like a set of that that was just um our practice was responsible for for managing um and it was very clear that if we wanted to increase that number say from 10,000 that we were managing to 20,000 we would have to have double the amount of buildings and double the amount ount of staff and >> right >> there'd be some efficiency but it certainly would still be like a large amount of capital outlay to like keep increasing and there was effectively this linear function of like if you wanted to serve more patients which was the aim we have something that a care model that we believe works but so surely we wanted to get it to as many people as possible we would have had to like you know scale the resources in exactly the same way that we look to scale the impact >> so you needed to change the model >> yeah exactly So, so, so that was challenging. So, so we knew that like um uh whereas like in-person care or like visit based care or you know the traditional health system there is a reasonable kind of revenue model or like business model around that. Um but it's actually very difficult to scale it. So even though it's like financially viable arguably it's actually very difficult to get to any scale. But then the second half of my career I suppose was in um uh has been in technology. And in in that situation I started off working I'd study public health and I we set up this um nonprofit student group at MIT. We were developing technology for community healthcare workers in developing countries actually open source free software to upskill community healthcare workers and put them into like a virtual network using technology. And there we found that like we had something that could definitely scale. We could take those same protocols that I'd used in in clinical practice, put them in software and now if we wanted to go from 10,000 to 100,000 patients, we could do that just by having more servers and you know there there was some costs associated but very very modest compared. So we could increase the number of patients like this and increase the cost like that. Really really attractive. But the problem with that that we found kind of speaking to your point is that um we didn't have uh a model whereby we were creating more resources than we consumed i.e. like you know this was a totally is free software it's still running actually it's still available okay >> um it still run as like a student group um at MIT and there's a board it's called Santa santa.edu edu and there's been you know I left many years ago and there's been many people working on it subsequently but um because we because we didn't have that thing we were creating a bunch a ton of value we we felt and the software was going out there being implemented with patients and clinicians around the world but that value that was being created was not in any way kind of flowing back to the organization. So we were getting grant money to like keep creating this value putting it out there in the world >> but none of it was kind of coming back to the organization which actually was the intent this explicit purpose >> of what we were doing. I guess the third act what led on to wellframe and all the other stuff I've done subsequently is what we really experienced in a very tangible way. If you have a model like that you can get things to scale. So it's like be better quote unquote than the kind of typical clinical way of doing things. You can get to many more patients. you going to have a much greater clinical impact. Um, however, the problem is like unless you have like some kind of business model or revenue model or some way of that value that you're creating and putting out in the world, some of it flowing back to the organization, >> you can't keep the t the kind of talent that you need to run these kind of organizations >> because they're also, you know, they have to pay rent and they've got certain expectations of their lives. They want to go on holiday. So they're going to go and work in the tech industry or go and work in finance or go and work in consulting or any number of things that like highly skilled people do. So you're the the problem that you're bringing up here like that's how the rubber meets the road very tangibly. So the set of work that we've been doing subsequently is like trying to figure like the synthesis of the two former kind of approaches I suppose. >> Yeah. trying to find what works clinically, trying to use technology to scale it, but then having some way where out of that value created, some of it is like captured and shared between like the clinic, the patients, the clinicians, the organizations that they represent and also some of that flows back into the company such that we can reinvest it to generate further growth and from >> and that was the idea for wellframe, right? That was the idea for frame. Okay. So before we talk about welfare, I want to just press pause and say one thing >> or two things like because you've already talked about two different financial viability models. The first one is like how can you improve >> government outcomes or existing outcomes of existing health systems? Like it's >> you can improve them but it's not really innovation like there it's a linear >> path. Well I mean I think it's innovation but it's not necessarily that scalable. >> Okay. So it's not scal it's less scalable when you're doing it in that linear correlation like more buildings more doctors whatever and then the second one is a more scalable innovation but you're but there's no um >> like revenue model coming back to you so it works in a nonprofit model and that's how it survived in university it's grant-based there's students working on it and the third one is a for-profit model so tell us more about how that worked >> yeah so so then I mean we felt really strongly after having worked in their research context and seeing like really world-class talent and you know like household people have gone on to lead technology um groups at like household name things for people watching this they would definitely have used the software made by the people who were originally working in this group they've gone on to lead the tech the the the engineering teams at leading technology companies but like we wanted them to work on these healthcare problems and it was very difficult there was just no way we could like >> there was no proposition that you know there's only so far you can get with relying on people's MIT students. >> Yeah. Well, they were students at the time but like um >> so um uh so we felt with frame that like well we wanted to create something whereby the value that we wanted to create was pretty clear. The clinical need was clear. We were interested in chronic disease management. It's a key source of like variance in long-term health outcomes. We basically leave it to patients to do it themselves. So, so it was those people that we we felt they the ones that had the most acute need and where there was like the clearest financial value proposition to the sponsoring organizations. >> And who are the sponsoring organizations? >> Uh so we started off working with provider organizations so hospitals and then we shifted into moving working more with payers um with health plans >> like insurance companies. >> Insurance companies in fact all the leading insurance companies in the country. We all of the commercial plans, ones that people get through their employer, um and the Blues uh Blues plans and the Blues Venture Fund actually invested in the last round we had before before the acquisition. Um and um a large network of um of Medicaid plans. Um uh yeah and so we were kind of working with them to so they were ultimately bearing the financial costs of ill health and they had staff who were tasked with uh providing services to patients who had these complex needs that we described because if you helped those people you could really make a difference to their lives and also some of the health care utilization. So um there was kind of a financial incentive for them to engage with this kind of work and push it to patients. So it was always free to patients. That's we were kind of free to patients and clinicians. So then there had to be a sponsor, right? >> So you're designing this for the end user who's the patient, but then they're not paying their insurance company. >> Yeah. Exactly. It's paying on their behalf. So the patient and the clinician are like the end users. So there's kind of two parts to the software. There's a patient mobile app and there's a clinician dashboard. And so they so they have like two end users, but neither of those end users pay even though both of them. So there's three stakeholders, the healthcare provider and the patient and then the insurance company. >> Uh yeah, effectively. So yeah, exactly right. Yeah. >> And how does the insurance company convince the health care provider like the clinician to use it? Like who's the decision maker? >> Yeah. So there's so there's basically two kind of models for that. One is that uh most people don't know actually but health plans have their own staff of nurses doing care management for these very complex patients. >> Okay, got it. >> And it's kind of the way insurance works in general actually. like you have a few people with very complex needs. A lot of people who are very well and don't, you know, really need that much and you're basically cross- subsidizing, right? Like the all of the people who are better off are subsid are paying premiums and then there's some people who are paying premiums as well, but they're having many more their cost of care is much greater than their premiums, but it's subsidized by the other people. That's the general insurance model. And so health plans understand that those people who have the very complex needs, they probably just need more help. Kind of like a concierge almost. And so they so that model exists >> and they'll save money and the patient gets healthy. >> Exactly. So that's the plan. But the the they were using kind of I guess the last generation of technology, >> the telephone basically to like to phone patients up. So we were just really kind of taking that and bringing it up to date. Um that's amazing. >> Yeah. Yeah. So I mean that was it. That was 10 years of of work. So I I have to say, you know, like for the record, like I'm no longer at at at Wellframe. We sold the company and I don't have any kind of >> congratulations. >> respons Yeah. Thanks. But I mean, it's still going on. We're still It's still growing, but >> um I guess Yeah. >> How did you start up and get the funding and all that? >> Yeah. I mean I mean I think there's like, you know, you have to have a bias towards action and I think that's kind of just a core part of the DNA here. Um and of course yeah there's some things that require like for example I don't know if you had an idea for like a vaccine it's very difficult to get very far without like some serious funding whereas the beauty of software certainly is that like theoretically at least anyone can learn to code to a degree or actually using a lot of no code tools tools that are available these days no code or low code which is like a movement that's really only taken off in the last five years >> um you can get very far without any f financing yourself. Um I think the the kind of the really implicit in this question though is that I I feel you know both on the investment side as well as kind of doing it myself is that um people who like are doing what they would do for free anyway uh uh are much much kind of better entrepreneurs or better people to back than those who are kind of looking and waiting till there's like some kind of funding or compensation. to do something. So like I think like you know what other test is there of like someone's motivation around like sticking with an idea for 10 years and like pushing to get it done than that they'd be willing to do it for like free themselves and do whatever they can with their time. You know they call it hustle and all these kind of things. But that's basically what it is is like well all I've really got the only resource I've got to like invest into this is like my own time and skills but I mean I believe in it so much that I'm just going to do that and see how far we get. So I think the best ideas and the best teams will do that. Unfortunately that for some reason I don't really fully understand is the minority. Maybe the reason is just the opportunity cost especially the more educated you are is just higher like you could get get a normal job that will pay you some money to do some stuff. >> Yeah. Or you have to like hold down three jobs to feed your family and you're off time. But I do see examples of it even in like low resource grassroots movement like the people if >> if an investors whether philanthropic fund funders or venture capitalists are looking for the people who are already doing the work even if it's in low resource grassroots setting like you have community leaders who are doing the work working for change and like >> that's who you invest in whether it h whether it's financially viable or not. Oh, that's right. That's right. That's exactly what you're looking for. And I appreciate the stuff I'm saying is coming basically to be blunt from a very like privileged point of view, right? Where you can have these different choices. For many people, they're like if they're choosing between like immediate survival or like coming up with some like tech idea that's going to take 10 years to develop, >> you should definitely focus on the former. It's not >> and yeah, the world is not fair in that regard. And there's some broader kind of asymmetries that need to be addressed to get >> for sure. But the bias towards action is totally in line with the theme of this course. Like whatever you can do in the context of your own life and that resources you have access to, just do it and like get the movement started. Yeah. >> Thank you so much. Oh, no worries. Thanks for the conversation.