At its core, data science is about transformation. Data comes in, insights come out. I'm Eli Fenell. I'm the Knoblock family professor of natural resource economics at Yale School of the Environment. As someone who spends most of his time working with data to connect environment or natural resources with economic outcomes, to develop new research, and to advise governments and organizations, I know the importance of organizing and drawing insights from data. I see how the environmental field needs people who are equipped to work with data to address challenges. I'm Jen Marlin and I'm a senior research scientist in Yale's School of the Environment and the executive director of the Yale Center for Geospatial Solutions. Geospatial data provides critical insights into pressing issues like water management, biodiversity loss, and agricultural productivity. These are essential for adapting to changes in population, land use, weather, and climate. I am Simon Quimbra, senior lecturer and research scientists and the Musa Director of the Tropical Resources Institute here at the Yale School of the Environment. I use data to understand how forests all over the world work. I work a lot with professors, students and local people from the global south as well as those here at Yale. And I think it is very important that everyone has the knowledge, skills and technical abilities to collect, manage and understand data. That's why we created the Yale Certificate in Environmental Data Science to provide the skills and knowledge needed to solve the critical environmental issues with datadriven solutions. We emphasize the interdisiplinary nature of environmental problems. Solving today's most urgent challenges requires more than just technical knowhow. It takes collaboration across economics, ecology, public policy, and data science. In this program, you will learn how to define environmental problems, how to identify reliable data sources, and how to use software to explore and analyze data, create compelling visualizations, and develop strategies to communicate your findings. At Yale, we want to demystify the process of working with data. Our team of educational leaders breaks it down, making the complex understandable and the seemingly impossible achievable. This program is perfect for those passionate about using data to address environmental challenges. Because we believe anyone can learn the skills to harness the power of data. We'll teach you the fundamentals, laying a strong foundation in data basics to support your work. Whether you're analyzing small data sets or tackling some of the largest and most critical data challenges in our world, you won't just learn how to crunch numbers, you'll learn how to think critically about the context of the data. Who does it affect? What assumptions underly it? And how does it connect to on the ground realities in diverse regions, especially in the global south? The program includes both synchronous and asynchronous learning, providing opportunities to collaborate with peers from around the world and engage in dynamic discussions, your work with a variety of environmental data sets, developing skills tailored to the unique challenges of data critical to this field. Whether you're breaking into the field or enhancing your current work, this is your chance to be a contributor to datadriven environmental solutions. You'll walk away not only with technical skills, but with the mindset and tools needed to turn complex data sets into actionable insights that inform just sustainable solutions. Ready to turn data insights into action? Apply now.