Here is an exercise to practice the use of antecedants in an effective way. When no one is around or when you are super comfortable, go to a place where you can look into a mirror. A bathroom mirror would be perfect. Now you are all by yourself, no child around. Now practice making a request as you look at yourself in the mirror. This prompt could be something you normally might ask your child. Maybe say, "Come down for breakfast." Now, say this request in three ways while you look into the mirror. Remember, how you say something greatly influences the likelihood that your child will comply, which is why you are practicing. First, give the request in your usual way. Just say what you normally say. Come down for breakfast. Okay? Now, do this in the second way with negative setting events. That is say it again with a frown. Make it sound like an order with your tone of voice. Maybe add you have to do this or you should do this. Maybe point a finger. In short, say it. You have to come down for breakfast. Now, we want you to act here. This could be the start of your acting career. Really go for it. Make the request a little harsh by your look, your tone, and your gesture. Of course, we do not want you to develop this habit, but it would be very useful for you to see what prompts look like with negative setting events. Remember, these events decrease the likelihood that you will get the behavior you want in your child. Finally, practice the third way to say the prompt. State the request again, but with positive setting events. Say the same thing, but this time mix in a very gentle voice. Be your usual sweet self, but slightly more exaggerated. Add a very calm tone. Smile a bit. And put please right in front of the request. Please come downstairs with me for breakfast. Okay, that was clearly the best of the three. Now, one more time. Say it again with positive setting events, but even do a better job. How would your favorite actor or actress do that? Say it this one more time. Calmer, use the word please. Smile and maybe add choice. You might see this as a silly exercise, but the use of positive anticedants does not come naturally to many people. And when it does, it can still be made much more effective as a tool to change child behavior. In my work, we actually bring parents into the room and practice giving antecedants. We go back and forth several times because practice is so important. We use antecedants to help parents by prompting them to add this or that and to make their voice just a little less harsh. And of course, we praise and provide feedback for both children and parents. A key to change is practice. You will see this theme throughout the course. Now that you practice by yourself, practice in your home tomorrow when you want your child to get ready for school or to put on clothes or to put something away to play nicely with siblings, whatever. Whatever the typical requests are that you make, be sure to try out our different anticedants like being calm, being close, smiling, saying please, offering choice, and giving a playful challenge. See what works. Remember, praise the child's behavior after the anticed gets that behavior. Praise is needed to lock that behavior in. Feel free to share your experience practicing in the mirror with your fellow learners in the discussion threads. You might even be able to find an acting partner. Good luck. There are more tools to learn in upcoming videos.