I'm going to change tracks a little bit. So, there's as we've put together this course, there's actually been a lot of debate about the use of the term addiction. we have very differing ideas and we thought it would be really kind of fun or interesting to let the students know about that debate and the differing opinions around that. Um and so I am actually going to ask Rob to get started. I um probably asked me to get started because I was very vocal about my um concern about the word about the use of the word addiction as the overall um guiding idea for the course. My concern about it is is that um the word addiction itself is I think at times stigmatizing. When patients use the word um addict or addiction, it often it in itself comes with extremely negative connotations that I am unable to change. I am powerless over my addiction as AA might say. And um so I I I think that even the the DSM has has refrained from using that term anymore and prefers instead substance use disorder specifically to avoid that kind of stigmatizing porative language. Um so I think that was uh the biggest part of my my concern with >> was the stigma surrounding it. >> The stigma surrounding it. um you know and and perhaps also I think that that the that the word addiction um might be too limiting and too focused on on a particular I think it is has again the connotation of a redu reductionist biologically driven understanding of of of a process where I think that we in general would like to think of it um in a broader broader context that that it it isn't simply a problem that's located within an individual person, but it's a social and cultural problem as well. And those and that context is important for how that manifests itself. And the word addiction seems to I think make it very individualized. >> So it kind of makes everything small for a very complex >> very complex thing >> problem. >> It makes it small and puts the onus of the problem on the individual and not on the social context that it where it presents itself. I have another problem with the word addiction and that is that we often conflate the word addiction with with drug use in general and there are lots of people who use drugs who don't need addiction or substance use treatment services >> who are then because of the the confusion of use and addiction are forced into treatment that they neither want nor would benefit from. Right. >> Robert, can you expound? I want you to be very clear about this to our audience. Can you just give us an example? >> Um, sure. Um, and all of these things are are have have shades of gray, but uh, vast numbers of people are mandated to get treatment for marijuana when there's probably no need for it. people are who whose whose problems with with drugs are are um only that they've run a foul of the law and not that it's other than that it's not causing them any social problems. um are forced to are forced into treatment programs that that if they fail um they are going to be harshly penalized for. And none of that makes any sense from the standpoint of social benefit. From the broader point of view, uh criminalizing people, putting them in jail, breaking up families is incredibly destructive. And we've destroyed whole communities by doing that. Uh and uh if we continue to do that, um you know, the the price to pay is is the continued uh lost disenfranchisement of large swaths of the American public for reasons that have nothing to do with evidence, science, or medicine. >> So, and and also in an addiction, you know, we have such a scarcity of resources. It's it's a waste to treat people who don't actually have a diagnosis. >> Yeah. >> Right. >> Um >> I think this got to one of the questions that I recall us thinking about if substance use disorder sort of is across a spectrum from low, moderate to severe and and addiction sort of has the image of more of the severe substance use disorder. I don't know that that's right or wrong, but in some ways it does, as I think you're saying, it it creates a particular image of a severity that doesn't capture the the full spectrum. >> And there there's even drug use that is not disordered in any way, shape, or form, but is in fact individually therapeutic. some of which is allowed by law. The the cocktail we have at night to relax or the you know whatever else is legal these days depending upon where you are. Um but uh but certainly um even even the use of some of the the stronger drugs may have medically valid purposes for which people can't get prescriptions for them and use them at their peril um but are not doing themselves or their community any harm. >> I think I totally agree with this conversation. I guess um and I 100% agree with Rob about you know the term addict right and we we should never define a person by their disease or by their substance use or anything so you know avoiding the word diabetic and serotic and you know schizophrenic exactly um thank you you saw me struggling there with finding the word um so totally agree with that I guess in my mind addiction as defined really captures the idea of loss of control um which I think um is an important term in contradistinction to substance use disorder which is very diagnostic right um there's specific criteria you have to meet there's levels of severity um and quite frankly there's you know um differences in in the way your substance use disorder presents where you are in your recovery or your treatment and addiction gives it is a term that allows for a little bit more colloquial conversation. Um, so that's why I've been a proponent of keeping it. Um because I think while I agree that there are some clearly stigmatizing ways the term can be used, if used appropriately, it sort of gets at that loss of control piece which I think in my mind really spans between those folks who are using substances in either, you know, periodic or an unhealthy way but not necessarily meeting a substance use disorder. Once they start losing control, that's when we're starting to slip into that really concerning area where I think all of us would agree treatment of some form is necessary. >> Thank you. And um I think I won't add to that because that's kind of been my my opinion as well. But what I'm hearing is that there's an enormous amount of stigma that certainly some words that we turn we use are very stigmatizing like addict used in certain ways addiction can be stigmatizing. Sometimes it kind of pigeon holes people and it it doesn't distinguish between the continuum of a substance use disorder, nor does it allow for the difference between substance use and a loss of control or an actual um substance use disorder or diagnosis.