The standard of review is the amount of difference given by an appellet court to various determinations made during an earlier part of the adjudication. There are three basic review standards, clearly erroneous, denovo, and abuse of discretion that grow out of three different kinds of lower court determinations. Questions of fact tend to be reviewed on what is called a clearly erroneous basis. Questions of fact are for the jury to decide. But you should keep in mind that all bench trials that at bench trials judges can also decide questions of fact. The trier of fact can assess the demeanor of witnesses and hence has an advantage over appellet courts in deciding factual questions because the appellet courts only have before them the paper record because the tri of fact is better placed to make factual determinations. Appellet courts will only set aside a question of fact determination if it is clearly erroneous. Thus, even if the appellet judge believes that she would have found differently as a trior of fact, she as an appellet judge may be forced by the clearly erroneous standard to uphold the finding. A related but less differential standard of review, substantial evidence, calls upon an appellet court to uphold a jury's question of fact determination unless the determination is not supported by substantial evidence. But if you wake me up in the middle of the night and ask me what's the standard of re of review for questions of fact, I'm going to tell you it's the clearly erroneous standard. In contrast to questions of fact, lower courts also make determinations about questions of law. At an initial trial, questions of law are for the judge to decide. Whether the defendant sold synthetic marijuana would be a question of fact for the jury. Whether selling spice violates a criminal statute is a question of law for the judge to decide. In contrast to questions of fact, the lower court is deemed to have no advantage. evidentiary or otherwise in deciding questions of law. Accordingly, appellet courts gives absolutely no difference with regard to lower court determinations about questions of law. Questions of law are reviewed on a denovo basis, meaning that the appellet court should decide th those kinds of questions as if it were deciding the issue from scratch. Denovo. The reason the reasoning of the lower court's analysis should only be deferred to to the extent that it's persuasive. Uh appellet courts as a theoretical matter should treat the reasoning of the trial court as though it were an additional brief from one of the litigants. Something to be considered but not deferred to. Because of the stark difference between def the difference given to questions of law and questions of fact, it's crucial uh for appellet courts to be able to distinguish between what questions fall into which categories. The problem of categorization is made all the harder. Uh it was made all the harder as there uh is also an intermediate category of determinations called mixed questions of law. In fact, the treatment of these intermediate questions are annoyingly complex. But if I had to summarize while standing on one leg, I'd say appellet courts give clearly erroneous review to mixed questions when factual issues predominate and give denovo review when legal questions predominate. or the realist in me suspects that courts might apply a sliding scale of difference depending on the extent to which factual questions or legal questions predominate. There is one last important standard of of review and that is the abuse of discretion standard. When a judge is given the discretion to do something such as issue an injunction, an appellet court will only overturn that action if it determines that the original act was an abuse of discretion. Somewhat surprisingly, for most of our country's history, there was no well-worked out juristp prudence of what constituted a question of law or a question of fact, much less what constituted a mixed question of law and fact. But then in the 1980s, the judges on the seventh circuit court of appeals decided informally to include in each opinion an explicit discussion of what standard of review they were applying with regard to each issue on appeal. This informal circuit court rule had a dramatic impact on the law. Suddenly, there were hundreds of cases explicitly grappling with what was the appropriate standard of review. The West key number system, which you'll learn cataloges under different key numbers which cases address which specific issues, suddenly saw an explosion in the number of cases discussing the standard of review. Now nearly all the circuits have adopted the practice and appelt litigants explicitly brief the standard of review issued that should be applied to uh in each appeal. So the tool here as as you're reading appellet decisions is to especi and especially older decisions is to pay attention to which standard of review the court applied to particular issues. In the older decisions, they won't tell you which one they are applying. So you're going to have to infer it. More specifically, when you're reading an opinion, you should ask, did the court give adequate difference to jury determinations of factual questions? More generally, learning the standard of review uh reviews uh allows you better to appreciate how our system limits and narrows the grounds for appeal. If if you've won below on a factual issue, you're in a much better position than if you've won on a question of law. And now for discussion. Should uh appellet difference be as great now that technology is providing HD videos of witness demeanor?