So, at this point, I just really want to go through all of the options that we have of specifically related to medication that can help you with the opioid use disorder. Okay? >> Mhm. >> And then from there, you'll tell me I'll kind of go into some detail and you'll tell me what you think works best for your lifestyle. All right. >> Okay. >> Okay. Okay. >> So, the first medication that I'd like to talk to you about is a medication called methadone. Have you ever heard of that before? >> Yeah, it's for addicts, right? >> Well, it's not for addicts. I mean, again, we try not to use that word because like you were said said, it's can be very stigmatizing, but it definitely um helps people who have opioid use disorder and it actually uh is very useful for pain as well. Um, I think in terms of really thinking about the way that methadone works, um, it's very helpful to consider this light bulb metaphor. So, I'll just explain that to you if that's okay. All right. >> Okay. But, but I'm not standing in line at any uh, uh, clinic. I mean, I'm just, you know, I'm not I'm not going to be seen in that kind of situation. I mean, that's not that's not me. >> Yeah. Well, I hear you because methadone does come with some really intensive monitoring. You're right. Um, >> people talk, you know, I mean, >> yeah. Well, what happens is, Mr. Campbell, for the first 90 days, you're right, that you have to go six times a week for the first 90 days in order to get the methadone. And then after that, for the next 90 days, you can go down to five times a week. And then after that 90 days, you can go down to four times a week um for 90 days. And then when you hit the year mark, you can go every week um and then up to two years you can do every other week and then after that it's every month. So you're right, there is a lot of u intensive monitoring, but I said it's one of the best medications that we have. Um, the other thing that I really want you to know about methadone is that it really helps to increase retention. So, it helps people stay um in treatment. It also decreases the use of nonprescribed um opioids and it also really reduces the rate of opioid overdose death. So, I know you've heard or maybe seen a lot of bad things, but I did want to make sure that you have a understanding of um of that medication. Okay, so that's just one option. Okay, and I'll get on to another, but I just want to make sure you have an understanding of all the options. But in terms of this light bulb um metaphor, just so you know, if we think about the opioid receptor as as a light bulb itself and then these medications that I'm describing like methadone and I'll talk about buprenorphine and nrexone as controlling that light bulb. Okay. The way that methadone works is that it turns that light bulb completely on. So it's like a on switch. Okay. The next medication that I want to talk to you about is called buponorphine. And if we think about that light bulb, we said methadone turns the light all the way on. Buponorphine is almost like a dimmer. Okay? It turns it on, but it's not as bright as methadone. Does that make sense? Have you heard of that medication at all? >> I haven't heard of that medication. No. >> Okay. All right. We'll talk a little bit of more about that, but I think um that'll be one good option for you as well because it doesn't have the uh intense oversight like the methadone. And you can get it uh from your physician in a in the office setting. And then once you and your physician feel like it's agreeable or you're comfortable, you can actually receive it on a monthly basis. So that's one option. >> Does does it uh help with uh managing pain too? >> Yeah. And I I appreciate that. Um because not only can buprenorphine work with uh treating opiate use disorder, managing cravings and withdrawals, it absolutely um in certain instances can be used for pain. certain formulations of the medication can be used for pain. So, you're absolutely right. Thank you, Mr. Campbell. Um, I do want to make sure that we get to the last medication that's an option as well. And that is the Nrexone. Um, that's a medication. Again, if we go back to our light bulb, um, it totally turns that light bulb off. So, it's a off switch. All right? it's uh antagonist, meaning that it totally blocks the opioid uh receptor. All right. Just from your story, I don't think that's the best option for you uh in terms of pain management, but I want to make sure that you have all of the options in terms of managing opioid use disorder. Okay, any questions about that? >> Well, why can't uh oxycodone continue to be one of the options? I mean, that's, you know, pretty uh effectively helped me with my pain o over these years. I mean, if I could just, you know, maybe find some way to maybe taper the dose down a little bit, I wouldn't be having any side effects from that. I mean, why why can't I just go with that? >> That's a great question, Mr. Campbell. And I will definitely say I think just from what we've talked about and what we've discussed today, you have some insight to already know that the um oxycodone is really not a good option. Over time, your body has really built up tolerance and it's not really helping for you anymore. You have to get larger doses in order to get the same pain relief. And then also, you're spending lots of money. you've tried the taper that hasn't worked for you and you still have the cravings for the opioids even when you're you're taking the oxycodone. So, there's a lot of reasons that um oxycodone is not a good choice on top of it's not managing your pain. You're not being able to meet your goals like you talked about. You want to take your wife out, you want to do tennis, you're not able to do any of those things. So again, I want to be honest in terms of really thinking about options that are available that can help you with your pain, but at the same time get you back on track where you're not spending so much time managing the opioid use. Does that make sense? >> Yeah. >> Well, what about that second one you mentioned, the buprenop? >> Oh, the buprenorphine. Buprenorphine. >> Yeah. And I think honestly I think that's a good choice for you. Not just because of the way that it works in terms of your work and your lifestyle, but also like you said that it helps manage your pain as well. >> That's important. Yeah.