So, some people think harm reduction means condoning drug use. They might ask, "Why would I give you a clean needle when frankly I don't think you should shoot up drugs at all?" Or they might think that giving a nlloxxone kit is actually a permission slip to overuse or to to um put themselves at a risky situation. So, what do you say to people who think like this? >> I think that um that my my job or our job as treatment providers isn't to isn't to police other people's what people do and do not do, but my job is to reduce the suffering, reduce the impact that it might have for them. And harm reduction is a strategy to do just that. It's to meet the person where they are. If a if a patient comes in and says they are going to use heroin IV, then how can I help them mitigate the risks that are involved with that? How can I help them understand what the risks are, mitigate those risks to themselves and to the people around them? That seems to be my ethical duty. >> Would we ever tell a patient with a beasting allergy, don't go outside, right? We would of course arm them with something that could reduce their risk if they come in contact with a bee, right? We'll give them an EpiPen before they walk out the door. Um, >> it's a great analogy. >> It just seems uh it it is what we do. We are our whole goals as providers in the health care system is to keep people safe and healthy through assessment, evaluation, education, and treatment, right? Um, and so harm reduction is part of that. And we do it all the time. I mean the beasting analogy is a extreme one but we do it when we're talking to patients about ma self-management of diabetes and hypertension and depressive symptoms. Um we talk to them about you know manage managing their symptoms and keeping them safe. Um and that's what harm reduction is. >> Almost all chronic conditions are treated in a harm reduction kind of model. We try to reduce risk as much as possible and if we don't get the blood pressure perfect doesn't mean we're going to stop treatment. We we continue to think about other alternatives etc. >> I think that speaks in part to um the judgment that is is often a part of substance use disorders or the jud criticism of it. So the stigma attached that that the provider whomever is sort of uncomfortable with harm reduction there would have to be the question of why are they uncomfortable with this? Is it a criticism of substance use in general or of the individual and a discomfort with the person continuing to do something that they don't support them doing. So not being comfortable with the other person being autonomous and choosing for themselves what they'll do. So the clinician's loss of control. I mean they're not in control in this situation which is uncomfortable often. >> So it's not just for the patient loss of control in terms of how we talk about the substance use disorder but whomever is involved in it sort of not being able to control what the individual is doing. I've had fellows say to me, "I can't believe they did this to me. Their urine has opiates in it and I'm treating them with they didn't do anything to you." Um, and I think that really gets at that control thing. And back to an earlier point you made about, you know, if you know what the patients goals are from the beginning and although they may be very different from your goals, um, you can always come back to that, right? you can always come back to what the if you have functional goal setting with the patient throughout treatment and and reassess those along the way. Um patient's goal may not be absolute abstinence maybe reducing their harm from risk and that's where um using some of the techniques that we've talked about in this course to um really organize the information when we're doing assessments and evaluations. We know we we're on the same page with the patients about our concerns of risk. Um, and it may not align with their goals, but we can bring that back as we're talking about their goals. I'm sorry I interrupted you. >> Okay. Um, I mean, I've been involved with harm reduction for for 30 years or almost 30 years and uh I' I'm growing increasingly unfound because it seems to our conversation so far has been all about all of the the negatives about the risk. about this. I think our job really is to improve people's quality of life and therefore any positive change that we can help a patient or an individual who's not even necessarily a patient make at any given time um should be considered an improvement. Now maybe the the physician who feels betrayed because a patient is on buprenorphine uh and and has it you know and also is taking an an opiate on top of that. You know that might be true but maybe he should realize that what he has done by giving the buprenorphine is probably reduce the likelihood that he's going to be using as much opiates and reduce the likelihood that he's going to die of an overdose. um or or the likelihood that he's going to become infected with hepatitis C or HIV. Um so so we have to think of this as as a positive and and not just think about you know this is harm reduction is prevention. It is it is not necessarily primary prevention of drug use but it is certainly prevention of of avoidable medical and social sequ that that can be catastrophic and um uh you know I want to continue to do this work because you know it's very gratifying when it does work and even when it doesn't work you at least realize that you're doing something that that has the potential to do something. It's not all or nothing. It is it is very much on a scale. >> I have a colleague who has been trying to reframe the term harm reduction to optimizing safety rather than calling it harm reduction in that same vein. >> I like that. >> I'm really glad you said that. Optimizing safety.