I think that really speaks to the benefit of integrated care. Yeah. Where if the person has to go off to some other building that's hidden somewhere on a campus or it has it's in a different neighborhood entirely, then then a patient's going to be more reluctant than if you just can bring someone in to them or it's right next door. You're not having to separate these pieces off. Yeah, I was just at a research, you know, listening to a research talk and people said we we set it up right next door and even that's not close enough. >> Yeah. >> So, it really has to be >> colloccated. >> But I also think we have to be careful and flexible, right? Because I think there still are treatment systems that say, well, gee, even though it was right, you know, we had this behavioralist in our clinic setting and you had an appointment yesterday and you didn't show up and now you're here for your buprenorphine. I can't possibly prescribe that to you now because you missed this, right? This idea of non-adherence being a new medical problem for this patient. Um, you know, maybe they were at their housing or DCF appointment, which, you know, they had to do some priority setting, which is actually a a higher level of thinking. They're actually, you know, they're actually we want to encourage that. We want to encourage that. Um, and so I think this inflexibility that has perpetuated um can be challenging. So whereas I think that uh medications and counseling can be incredibly powerful in many patients for substance use disorder treatment, I think as a as a system, we have to be careful about being punitive. Um if those things don't always line up with what we think it should look like because patients may have different needs, >> we need to offer patients treatment options, >> right? >> But if patients don't want one treatment option, there are other options, right? We're flexible. >> We have to be flexible. >> The problem is that some of the rules don't don't allow that. And and certainly the best case of that is is methodon treatment where when you start, you have to come every day. And certainly there are people who have figured out that, you know, if I get if I get a dose to take home on the weekend, I can actually make that last for, you know, three days rather than two. I don't have to come in on Monday. And that but there are some programs who would penalize people for being you know that that thoughtful that that careful that that creative with how they minimize the burden that the that the system has put on them. The the provider hasn't put it on them the system has. >> And so we need simplified uh more humane systems for delivery of care.