So, we're all in the addiction treatment system. When you all hear the term prevention, what comes to mind? >> I can talk a little bit about that. At the clinic I work at, we have um someone that's trained in espert, which is screening, brief intervention, referral to treatment. So, we screen everyone. She walks around all day and just randomly. We don't identify people. So I think it's just asking asking everyone what their use history is >> and with that there's a component of education. >> Yes. >> So that if they're screening positive then >> right >> you would intervene in some way but if they're negative then there's room to let them know right sort of provide safe drinking >> right and it's not people that have substance use disorders that's not the point of it. it's people that might be at risk >> before they know >> identifying those substance >> use disorder >> and then Shannon said you know that education part of it or the referral part of it that we need to do >> I was just thinking um the at risk knowing who's at higher risk of developing a substance use disorder and being able to address that with them certainly through screening but also if there's sort of some flag for them to know to be talking with them if there's a strong family history of alcohol use disorder, for instance, to let the person know that they're at higher risk even if their drinking is at lower levels right now >> or to think of certain populations that are at higher risk. So, you know, physicians, medical health care professionals have higher rates of substance use disorder, higher rates of suicide than the general population. So, speaking to people just as groups that are that you've identified and letting them know their risk. I think education is prevention um and treatment is prevention, right? Um and and again, I um really think that changing the culture around the way that we talk about substance use so that if people are using substances at lower levels but are concerned about their own risk, feeling comfortable asking how to prevent things from from getting uh a little out of hand and and I think that comes with culture change. I can't answer this question. This so this is a question. What is the role of since since these disorders manifi often manifest themselves in adolescence we don't have a pediatrician here what is the roles of pediatricians in making their adolescence feel comfortable to talk with them about their their you know incipient drug use. >> Yeah. I mean I think part of it is again uh universal screening. So every every child and adolescent that comes in for a wellchild visit um making it routine um making it routine to talk to that individual without a parental figure in the room. Um >> and um really uh sort of leveling the playing field and letting them know about what can remain confidential and what can't. um that that you know can can be really important. I think again we've talked a little bit about how hard it is just to get people into treatment doors and so um I think there's there's a huge opportunity for community prevention as well and so um you know I think there have been uh uh educational interventions to arm coaches and guidance counselor and spiritual health providers and uh spiritual providers etc with um screening brief intervention referral to treatment type techniques as well. So I think really thinking about the broader public health outside of the health care system is an important component of prevention. And there's the the prevention of the substance use disorder, but there's also the prevention of all the associated complications or risks that come along with having a substance use disorder. So infectious disease or sort of drinking and driving or you know whatever other negative >> consequences >> overdose overdose >> right >> so I think that that's kind of uh you know in framing this question it was you know we we do addiction or substance use treatment right but as you said treatment is prevention and preventing things is kind of in a way it's providing a treatment whether it's an educational intervention or providing a Narcan kit or an aloxxone kit to prevent an overdose. Um much of what we do is actually prevention and getting comfortable with screening um of adolescence. I also had a colleague who recently said, you know, when a patient comes in with new onset depression, I absolutely check to see if their thyroid is appropriate. I get a serum level of their thyroid. Why aren't we also just checking a urine drug screen and making sure? because we know that depression is highly co co- occurs with substance use disorders but that's not something that we do. We don't necessarily monitor routinely but but we probably should. Perhaps we're not identifying things we should be. So this idea of kind of screening and just making it more universal um is in and of itself prevention and treatment. Although I wouldn't necessarily condone urine drug screening being the the way at that, right? Right. I mean, I think the, you know, questioning should be first line, right? And we want to avoid um sort of unless the the the patient knows you're screening them for that. I worry a little bit about again this idea that we're looking for something or we're on some kind of a witch hunt and just being careful around that. Um, >> right. So, if you're going to screen for a thyroid, you would let somebody know that you're going to be screening something and get their consent for that. And I think it also does get at being able to interpret these things, right? As Robert has already mentioned, >> just because there is a urine that's positive for cocaine does not mean somebody has a cocaine use disorder. Exactly. >> Um, and so what is that context? And so it shouldn't be used in a vacuum. But I would pause with pediatrics. You know, if someone's if a pediatric patient is depressed and you start doing urine drug screens, that could open up a Pandora's box of conversations between you and the parents and the patient. So, we have to use caution with that kind of screening. >> Absolutely. So consent and patient autonomy, >> right, >> gets at a lot of this and the ethics.