What positive uh changes in the addiction treatment field are happening right now that you are rooting for? What are some things that are getting y'all excited about our field? this [laughter] >> courses like this awareness of things of treat the greater awareness that treatment is possible and recovery um or um care for people with these conditions is possible and effective. That's hopeful, >> right? some legislation that's changed rules around um advanced practice providers like PAs and APRNs to be able to um administer suboxone, you know, in outpatient settings. >> So more more disciplines can treat. >> Exactly. Exactly. And I think as the, you know, opiate crisis, epidemic, whatever you want to call it, has come to public attention, there is more legislation that's opening up access. Um, finally, there's some political will. And so, insurance companies are getting involved. We have the Affordable Care Act. Um, that's that's increasing access to treatment. And so, the addiction treatment system really kind of grew up outside of mainstream health care. um and now it's becoming integrated and and I think that's super super exciting and we're going to see more evidence-based treatments coming um coming to our patients. >> Yeah. About 15 years ago, the first laws were passed mandating parody between mental health and physical health care delivery. Um insurance there was no there was there was no teeth in that legislation, no enforcement teeth. So basically not much happened. But all of a sudden now we're beginning to see legislations that's trying to enforce that parody which will mean that um the resources that we currently think of as insufficient may be increased to the point that when insurance companies are forced to provide proper ongoing long-term care for a chronic disease that they have neglected treating properly and paying for in the past. >> Yeah. No, I I couldn't agree more that policy uh playing a role. I think um three other things I'm excited about. Um I'm an eternal optimist, but um first of all, treatment being more flexible. Um I think treatment used to and in in many of the sort of uh peripheral treatment settings, treatment was pretty rigid and if you continued to show signs of this chronic disease, you were kicked out of treatment. Um and again, we don't do that in other chronic diseases. we don't pull people off insulin if their sugars are high. Um we throw more resources at those people, right? Rather than take away the resources that are there. So I think treatment flexibility and and being um uh more open to meeting patients where they are and opening up access through um both creating more providers and uh more legislation around that access. um research and development um and and really looking at novel delivery systems of existing pharmarmacothotherapies um as well as thinking about new you know phicotherapy targets is really exciting technology and models of care um and implementation of models that work in different settings and that's really exciting and then >> I think quite honestly um you know uh lots of educational systems being open to educating folks about this not just in health professions education but at the undergraduate level um and you know media attention on this and and media uh folks being uh educated in this area so that we can again really be mindful of the way we talk about this disease to see a culture shift over time. I think there has been. I've been talking to some colleagues who say, you know, 10 years ago, you kind of couldn't pay schools to incorporate this into their curriculum, but now they're interested, right? And we have people who want to know more about addiction and addiction treatment because I think honestly speaking to your optimism, it is hopeful, right? We have something to offer and our patients do get better, >> right? >> The jails and the prisons in our country are because we've criminalized drug use. are full of people with uh with untreated uh substance use disorders. And um we're beginning to see the expansion of care within the correction system to actually treat people while they are incarcerated. Um the trick to a successful program like that is getting them linked to care when they come out and keeping them in care. But certainly diagnosing them uh treating them while they're incarcerated is um a a a strong possibility and a wonderful way to go about this. The only people in this country with guaranteed health care are prisoners. We'll let that [laughter] >> and yet we're not treating them >> for their substances. >> We have we have we have some places have been for for many years but it's increasing trend to do that. In fact, our state here in Connecticut just passed laws to expand uh agonist treatment for uh opiate use disorder throughout its entire system. Now all we need is the money. >> Just very progressive policy. A few states are doing this. >> Yes. But more and more of them are and and um it will be AI'm it's like Janette I am an optimist and I'm not eternal [laughter] but I am but I am optimistic on this one that we're seeing more and more people because the people who have been pushing it in places like Connecticut and Rhode Island and Utah um and and New Mexico are seeing them themselves being called and asked to to advise other states. But again, we really need, as you said, we need resources. We need workforce development. We need people who are trained to do this in a quality way. Um, and so, um, I think that needs to back up the legislation as well. >> Yeah. I mean, corrections officers and even people higher up the, you know, the hierarchy within the correction systems have seen have dealt with people with substance use and seen them as a problem all along. and and having having seen it in that way has made them very reluctant to try to help them um rather than just manage them as a security problem. Um if we can re redirect them to think of these as manageable problems, um then perhaps we can even get the the people who seem to be reluctant within the correction system to to participate u not just begrudgingly but willingly. >> It's very exciting. Do other people have other things that they're excited about other policies? There were two other thoughts that came to mind as you were talking about the expansion of suboxone prescribing to PAs and APRNs. >> Um, Nlloxxone being able to be written for by pharmacists, which I think is >> sort of lifesaving and and for people to be able to walk in and just ask for it. Not all pharmacies or all pharmacists can do that at this point. But I think that's quite >> to remarkable to >> overturn overdoses to treat overdoses, >> right? To treat overdoses and that anyone who is using opioids sort of is more often now being offered nlloxxone to have at home. But for those who aren't in treatment or aren't speaking to providers about it, to know that they could walk in and get that just by asking the pharmacist um is a big change. >> Um the other thing is um in terms of access some um increase in tea mental health and we're even doing tea addiction now. So being able to prescribe uh Suboxone to patients in rural areas who otherwise might not have access to any local providers or for transportation issues or weather whatever it might be to in limited ways for reasons that you can't make it. If you're in a rural area and there's no no clinician nearby who's a prescriber to potentially have access to someone who is um you know through teles psychiatry or tea addiction >> which is an expanding field of medicine and healthcare >> and not only prescribing but it turns out that the tea tea counseling seems to work very well at early stages in suboxone uh treatment. Mhm. >> So if you can do both prescribe and counsel over the phone um you can keep people in care. >> Yeah. [clears throat] I also one thing that's coming to my mind is just this in my training I would have patients come in and we think of addiction or we used to think of addiction as an acute issue right it's send them to treatment 28 days you should be good you get out right so that's a myth that is not true for the students out there but what's interesting so that is changing which is a huge positive change as we think about chronic illness but I remember being in an ER and literally having patients come in and ask for help and I would hand them a number and I would say you need to call every single day >> and get on a waiting list but you're going to have to call every day to express your motivation. So even though we thought of it as an acute illness in some ways we didn't even treat it as an acute illness. There was really no access and so we're really moving to this model of more and more. We still have a long way to go, but more same day access, catch people when they're interested and when they come in and when they're seeking treatment and then maintaining that treatment for a long a long period of time or as long as that chronic condition requires it. So just an entire frame shift I think is is very exciting.