It's interesting. So, we have lots of different fields here kind of coming at addiction treatment and also um working in different settings whether it's um predominantly a mental health setting or a primary care setting or a public health setting. Um, and so I think that's just a very interesting observation that lots and lots of different ways to to access care or to be seen and to need treatment. Um, one of the the I can probably obvious to some of the students watching is that not all fields are represented here um at this table. And so I wondered if somebody could speak to what are some of the other clinical services or disciplines that you work with in providing um addiction treatment to your patients? >> Psychologists and social workers first come to mind as as very key uh persons in in treatment of substance use disorders. Um both of them can do therapy. Um, social social workers also um focus, I think often on a lot of the life issues that people may come with that need networking as far as getting services, being part of an programs that are out. And I I feel like they are they really specialize very well in in that area of of care. That's really vital. Um, psychologists um are very important with uh testing and also with therapy. So they're quite expert at those and I often refer people uh for for to psychologists for those needs. >> So psychologists often provide our evidence-based psychotherapies and treatments. Um >> yeah, specialized care >> and specialized care and then um social workers often it sounds like can can really address the structural issues that that we will touch on in this course as well. But some of those barriers to accessing treatment if a patient's homeless or >> um >> getting services >> getting services etc. right and also social workers often provide therapy. there's many licensed clinical social workers who are are pretty expert in in psychotherapy >> and I had I just um I had worked at previous primary care on a mobile medical van um and a lot of times we used outreach workers they can't treat but they can definitely screen and identify and we also had uh substance use counselors on site which are a little bit different than psychologists and licensed clinical social work. They're trained specifically in helping people with addiction issues. to assess and help them come into treatment. >> Yeah, that's an excellent point because what we've talked about in the beginning of this this conversation was waiting for people to come in the door, >> right? >> And of course there's great reluctance oftentimes to for people to come in that door. And so the question is how do we not just open the door more widely, but how do we remove the room and bring the room out to them? Uh things like mobile caravans, outreach workers, harm reduction programs are all designed to meet people where they're at uh rather than waiting for them to come to us. >> Yeah, that reminds me of some some work being done here where we're actually taking addiction treatment into black churches around New Haven, just trying to get get out there where people are. Does anybody here work with um >> pharmacist? >> Pharmacists. Yeah, I was going to say there's one key one we're leaving out. Um, in the um at the VA in the primary care setting that I was working in uh that was an interprofessional model, there was a pharmacist and pharmacy students that were there and um that was hugely helpful in talking about um certainly different medications that they're on polyfarm pharmacy um but thinking about smoking sessation especially for teaching purposes. they were just their presence people could um bring them in even to speak with the patients and to provide patient education. Um so they they played a really integral role with the team and another um provider that was present in this interdisciplinary team in particular which I don't think normally comes up in thinking of substance use um treatment was a physical therapist and and someone who might be seeing someone for chronic pain or might be seeing someone for you know claudication that they get from their smoking that they by sort of working with other people on the team and and thinking about their substance use could come back and bring something like I think this is what needs to be addressed or they could educate the patient and sort of help the patient think about how their smoking might be contributing to something they're having or their chronic pain how are they using their medications and and so it it's not a specialty that we normally bring into this discussion but I think they absolutely >> there's a lot of relevance be quite relevant. >> Yeah. >> And at our VA, we've also expanded into um chapency. Oftentimes, people who are struggling with issues around addiction are are dealing with purpose and and values and what brings meaning. And so, um chaplain have also become interested in this in this topic of addiction. And so, there's many disciplines, it seems like, that can benefit from further training, but also have a lot to bring to our field.