Why should a local, state or national government invest in we'll change it from harm reduction to optimizing safety when they could invest in a treatment facility? >> Why is it either or? Yeah. >> Well, well, with limited resources, um, you know, you can you you could answer that question economically and say which one is going to cause the the the the the most optimization of benefit. Um, but I don't think that's how we how we do it. I think we have to understand that one leads to the other. that um you know we we know from from our experience that having a a a needle exchange or syringe exchange program in a community leads people to seek treatment for their for their drug use. We know that having a a treatment program uh in their community reduces the burden of infectious diseases in that community. So these are all linked in a way that we have to think of it as again as as not these are not separate pieces. The the issue is is resource allocation and and when do we decide to take if we don't have an unlimited pie? uh wh what does the current circumstance suggest we ought to be focusing on? Like right now when we have an increasing opioid overdose problem in many states in this country, um do we want to throw money at ineffective treatment programs or do we want to throw money at um primarily preventing the overdose and hope that keeping people alive long enough will allow them um to to want to seek care um later. um you know, if they're if they're if so long as they haven't died yet. >> Um >> I and I think I'm sorry to interrupt you, but I think like needle exchange programs are inexpensive. They're not as expensive as putting up a therap, you know, an outpatient treatment place. and you go into the community and when you go into the community and you give out clean needles and condoms, you can provide education, you can provide resources as opposed to just building building a place where people can go when they're ready to go. And I think the all I mean there's you could probably tell me more, but like the studies have shown how much needle exchange programs and condom um distributions have decreased HIV and hepatitis C. is such an inexpensive way to do it. >> I mean, just just very quickly, you know, when I started doing this work in, you know, in in in 1990, there were probably, you know, 6,000 new HIV infections every year in in New York City among people who are injecting drugs. The last few years, there have been like 35, >> right? >> I mean, this is a success. >> Yes. >> This is not this is not even a question about that. here in Connecticut um there used to be six or 700 cases a year when we started New York last couple years for which there's data there've been 12 and 15 you know I mean we do stand on the threshold of eliminating uh HIV in drug users with the exception of outbreaks in places where there's insufficient harm reduction inadequate underfunded or highly stigmatized >> proper harm reduction with that I think should also be including PREP so that people who are IV drug users should be given prep to prevent >> Can you explain what is >> well um um preexposure pro prophylaxis for HIV so trouvatada um being given to patients who are I um IV drug users so that they won't either acquire HIV infection and they won't pass it on um and reducing the blood level to to zero has been shown to be very effective at stopping HIV Yes, the the the new phrase is you equals you. >> Undetectable is untransmittable. >> I think um your question from the beginning in response why do these why either or sort of um there's resource allocation but it I think it also gets to harm reduction. Why can't that be built in as part of treatment? And some places do I mean within the same facility you can be treating people who are at different levels of engagement or have different goals. And so it and maybe it's splitting hairs a little bit but how do we define a treatment facility in some ways >> in some ways what Liz is talking about you're you're basically going out and it's a prevention but it's potentially the initiation of treatment. Right. >> Right. It's almost it's part of a continuum. >> Right. in the mobile medical van I worked on had needle exchange, condoms, rapid HIV, rapid HEPS screening, and the ability to treat HIV or hepatitis C. >> Well, I think we've gone through a bunch of questions um and really heard heard a lot of different perspectives and also kind of fleshed out a lot of things that have come out in this course. Are there any things that are left unsaid that people feel a burning need to say or to get a get across? I think you've covered it pretty well. >> So then I'm going to come back to my original thing which is I think um this is a very optimistic time to be involved in addiction treatment that we have a lot of research. We have policy changes. We have interest among healthc care providers. We have collaboration that we've never had before. And um this is just a really exciting time to be a part of the addiction treatment system and a very hopeful time for patients and for families who are struggling with this disorder. Um >> so thank you all for being a part of this. But we need we need others. That's right. So to those of you who are out there, join us.