Do people have other areas of research that are exciting you? We've we've talked about some in the health care system. You talked about implementation science. Um other areas of research that might be exciting. >> There is some research being done using psychedelic medicines to to decrease certain addictions. There's been a study out of um John's Hopkins using psilocybin. Interestingly, it seems like uh it seems counterintuitive to some degree, but using psilocybin to help uh to tobacco um dependence and um and given the the the relapse rates for tobacco use, this was actually extremely effective um for for I believe it was in the like 70 or 80% still did not relapse after a year of if I remember exactly. So, it was so that's very promising. There's some there are some places that are using that are looking at ibo gain although not so much in the United States for the treatment of opiate dependence. Um there's a schedule one drug United States not not prescribable. Um there's others that are looking at things like um um IUSA um and psilocybin for other addictions. um generations ago um um LSD was used very um extensively for alcohol um treatment and there are literally hundreds of publications that are about 30 40 years old about that >> kind of went underground for a while >> kind of went underground and it's so there's a resurgence in that research lately >> so novel phicotherapies that are coming out >> but those um those are always um um medicationass assisted therapies it's kind of a different approach where the medicine and the therapy work very actively to create a a change in how people see themselves in relationship to the substances. >> So the medication is actually used to enhance psychotherapy. >> Exactly. And and and it's very limited. It's no unlike suboxone you would take it every day like the ibo gain treatment would be once or twice and along with the therapy can show to be quite quite helpful. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. And I think the importance of all that and and even thinking about cannabis as a a treatment for certain conditions um you know the bottom line is allowing us to to research these things in meaningful ways so that we can create an evidence base and and really be able to um think about um you know if the evidence is there how we how we really roll it out in clinical care. >> Since you're bringing this up do you mind talking about why it's difficult to research cannabis? So, as Rob mentioned, it um cannabis like some of the the uh substances he was mentioning remains a schedule one drug um in the eyes of the federal government. And although states um allow different uh varying legislation within their states, um at the federal level, cannabis is a schedule one substance, which really means there's um no therapeutic benefit. um and risks uh clearly outweigh any potential benefits that may exist and so it makes it really hard to study this. Now with that said many of the um national institutes of health are are really taking this headon and and funding research in this area. So I think that um you know stay tuned. There's also some methological problems with with with a lot of the um natural remedies like cannabis or iwaska ibagane that that each each preparation is can be very very different. >> So so it presents a problem for researchers to study even if it were permitted to study. And while we think well we've thought for a long time that cannabis for instance the active ingredient is THC it turns out there's a dozen other compounds within it that may be more effective or in certain combinations may be effective. So it's a so studying some of these things is really a complex >> and effective for what >> and effective for what yeah some for effective for anxiety some effective for pain management some effective for >> right seizure. >> Yeah. I and I am optimistic that we may see more cannabis research because the Drug Enforcement Administration, which has put the hammer down on on all kinds of drug use in this country, has actually said that next year they're going to allow more marijuana to be grown for cannabis uh experimentation, medical medically controlled experimentation.