How do you talk to patients about the chronic nature of addiction? I mean, I think for those of us that work in primary care settings, that's our bread and butter, right? Um, we talk about chronicity of disease a lot. Um, I've had some patients push back to me and say, "Well, that makes me feel then >> I have it that I have an okay if I if I use again, right?" Um, so I think that that that does create some some tension between the the provider and the patient. Um but I think you know sort of bringing in the neurobiology, bringing in the plasticity of of systems, bringing in um how what [snorts] treatment can do both from a neurobiologic standpoint and uh sort of broader um uh sort of regaining addiction or excuse me, regaining control, regaining life circumstances standpoint. um but really letting the patient know that there aren't going to be punitive consequences if they still continue to have signs of their disease and that our our goals are to then you know give them more resources than less I think is is a big part of it. And you know, I [clears throat] think the most important thing and and Shannon um sort of alluded to this earlier is as you're engaging in treatment with the patient, find out what their goals are. Um and that's the same that's the way we approach >> any new chronic condition that we're engaging a patient engaging with a patient, right? What are your goals? What are your limitations? How do how are we going to set up a plan that's going to work with you on this? And I think we need to think of addiction in the same way, substance use disorder. >> I often um so I think um to go off what you're saying um I personally want compassionate speech with them and I will understanding the stigma that that they're carrying with it about themselves about what's going on. um I'll I'll help them understand that that this is a chronic condition and there may be periods of time of relapse and using again and the one thing that you want to be careful about I'll try to express to them is that um just because you use a little doesn't mean that then you have to use a lot that what happens is that they say you know I'm not going to use I'm not going to partake I'm not going to drink I'm not going to use and then then the voice or whatever will help will will tell them, "No, you can just have a little bit." And as soon as they do, then the self-punishing voice comes on top of it saying, "Well, gh, I did that, so now I'm off the wagon and I'm going to go do it again." And helps them understand that, yeah, you did use yesterday. You did drink yesterday, you did, but that doesn't mean you need to today. >> Rob, I think all of us can be familiar with that. I'm not going to eat an Oreo today. [laughter] and then I do eat an Oreo and then it moves on to the entire bag, right? And so because it feels like I've violated my own >> that's that's and I use an example often when I'm talking about ice cream. Maybe that's my own [laughter] that I'm not going to have it. But no, but just because I have it, I don't have to have the whole pint. >> So what what flavor would make you go through the whole pint? [laughter] >> Oreo cookie. You don't have ice cream. Yeah. But um but yeah, exactly. And and it's that sort of compassion to help them understand that this is that and that negative self-punishing thought that they're going to have that oh I'm bad because I used that doesn't mean that then okay now I have to just throw it out and just and just jump in alto together >> and to stop it like okay yes I did use I'm not bad because of that. Can I just capitalize on something that that Rob just um >> uh suggested is is identifying with your patients even if you know I think I think this is where peers um and peer support can be vital because it the lived experience that you're talking to somebody and and certainly that's where self-help groups can be really important. But I think as providers, if we can talk to patients about things we struggle with sometimes, um, and I think again that's a that's a very primary care modality that that we implement all the time. Um, I think it can be really powerful for a patient to see, okay, this is a person that I'm coming to for help, but they have their own flaws, they have their own struggles. Um, I think that can be really powerful for a patient >> being a couple other thoughts about the um, chronic nature. Um, it [snorts] goes in both directions. A person who's been doing well for a while who says, "Well, now I want to get off buprenorphine." And I we'll maybe talk about that more later, but sort of we don't have guidelines that say specifically you should be on this treatment for this duration. And so, um, having the discussion about sort of things changing in their life, do they have a job? In their relationships, are they more stable? Are their finances more stable? Is their housing more stable? Sort of how is this picture really changed? And how do we decide when it might be appropriate to reduce a dose, change to a different medication, come off of medication knowing that it's sort of a chronic disease. And so helping a person not to just get off of something quickly at some arbitrary date because they feel like they've been abstinent a year, for instance. The other is when a person's trying to engage in treatment often the idea that this is a lifelong disease is so overwhelming >> and to help people just keep it to the moment and so AA has that one day at a time and I think that can be really helpful that while you're thinking of it in the longer term also staying in the moment to make it feel more um palatable or digestible.