 600 mloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloul 671 milligrams. 21 males who already strength trained, on average 5.1 hours per week, volunteered to participate. Inclusion criteria included being actively engaged in at least four hours per week of strength training for a year prior to the study. Absence of any pathology or injury that would alter muscle biology and performance, be a non-smoker, and have a habitual daily intake of less than 150 milligrams per day of caffeine. One rep max on bench press. After taking eight milligrams per kilogram of caffeine, one rep max bench press strength increased by 7.3%, going from 94.2 kilograms, 207.68 pounds, to 101.1 kilograms, 222.89 pounds. Almost an entire increment of going from a 35 on the side with the plate to two plates almost. Pretty impressive. One rep max on deadlift. After taking eight milligrams per kilogram of caffeine, one rep max deadlift strength increased by 10%, going from 120.7 kilograms, 266.1 pounds, to 132.8 kilograms, 292.77 pounds. One rep max on squat. After taking eight milligrams per kilogram of caffeine, one rep max squat strength increased by 9%, going from 119.4 kilograms, 263.23 pounds, to 130.1 kilograms, 286.82 pounds. Pretty damn significant jumps. A recent meta-analysis took 10 studies, meeting the inclusion criteria necessary to evaluate the effects of caffeine intake on muscle strength and power. The meta-analysis showed significant ergogenic effects of caffeine ingestion on maximal muscle strength of upper body and muscle power. There are several other studies covering sprinters, swimmers, other strength tests that further illustrate significant strength and performance benefits. When it comes down to it, caffeine is included in pre-workouts because it reliably increases energy levels, provides CNS stimulation, and there is promising data supporting that it significantly improves performance. There are very few things that you can take that are as rigorously studied, have as favorable of a safety profile, and produce instant and significant results and performance.