He lost 55 pounds within five months to reach 159 with a 9% body fat. He lost 30% body fat to go from there to here. What's up guys? Derek moreplace.com. Today we're going to be talking about Air K's body transformation. whether I think it was natural, what I think he did in particular to uh complete that really insane body transformation. Amir Khan's body transformation in 2016 is nothing short of incredible. Before we get started, let's not take anything away from this guy's hard work, regardless if you take gear or not. the amount of time, energy, just overall adherence, and willpower to stick to a strict enough calorie deficit, and cardio and training regimen to burn off this much body fat in a 5-month time frame is just insane. And you can't take away from this guy's hard work. Anabolics don't shred fat off. If you eat too much, you're going to stay fat. You can't get shredded without actually putting in the work. So, regardless if he did or didn't, let's just make that clear off the bat. this is, you know, an incredible transformation regardless of what he did or didn't do. So, assessing his baseline, a lot of people look at the before picture and they look at the after picture and they, you know, it's such a staggering transformation and they're just completely astonished at this guy's progress. The first thing we have to give context to is the fact that this guy is 52 years old during this transformation. So keep that in mind as we go through this that this guy is 52 years old and looks better than 100% of the guys at your gym within a 5mon cut. So regardless if he, you know, bulked up before and then did the cut down, like let's just give some context before this. This guy's 52 and he looks better than every single role he's ever done in the past where he was much younger. Now moving into his past roles, it gives us a better baseline rather than looking at his before and after of this transformation and trying to speculate. We can see what this guy's actually capable of achieving with the most strict adherence and diet and training protocol again because this guy has done many body transformations in the past and has given us a very very you know insightful look into what his baseline actually is. And this is we can see how much of a difference he's uh made in this one. What the kind of commitment was to create this transformation and then it gives us a better baseline of what he is actually capable of achieving within certain time frames. So he started from here in December of 2006. This was the beginning of his transformation. As you can see here, he's just he's not fat necessarily, but he doesn't have any muscle. He's basically the, you know, quote unquote skinny fat physique. You have to keep in mind here, this was in 2006, so this is 14 years ago. This guy is much younger here. He has superior endogenous androgen production. He has basically everything in his favor relative to the most recent role in terms of actually having the natural ability to pack on muscle and burn fat. Everything gets harder as you get older, especially after you pass kind of that 30, 35 year old mark, I would say. So, I'm not trying to say it's not possible, but let's just use this as a gauge here to kind of make a more informed decision about uh what this guy can actually achieve. So, as we go through this transformation, apparently he took 13 months to achieve this transformation. He worked out for several hours a day for 6 days a week for 13 months straight. So, just very very strict, very regimented, and really committed himself to this process to make, you know, a really staggering transformation. and he definitely accomplished it. At the 7 month mark, he has already achieved visible abs. He's really packed on a lot of size on his chest, his delts, his arms. Basically, his entire physique has, you know, clearly progressed significantly in the first 7 months. As we get to uh the 10-month mark, this guy looks great. He's already looking better than the majority of guys at the gym that you see. We were there all the time. And at the 13-month mark, this guy has peaked for this role. And he looks this the way he uh did in the movie scene that I just showed you from 2008. And again, this was done from December 2006 up for the next 13 months here. So, he's uh much younger than he is in the 2016 role, like I said. So, keep that in mind here. He looks awesome. He's gained a ton of muscle. His arms have went from 12 in to 16 in, apparently. His chest from 38 in to 44 in. So, this guy just completely recmped. He gained a ton of muscle, lost a ton of fat, and looks awesome. This is what I would consider the, you know, peak of newbie gains, if you can even call it that, and a very good reference point for what this guy can do in a 13-month time frame of just completely busting his ass. So, moving forward to the movie Doom 3. I don't know if that's how you pronounce it, but it was released in 2013. So, this is a few years later when it was filmed and his body composition looks pretty similar than it did in the uh 2006 preparation where he peaked his physique at uh you know late 2007, early 2008. He looks very good here. Very similar to the body composition he had in the uh last movie I talked about, but still nowhere near what he looked like in the 2016 role, which we're going to get into now. It's called Don Gaul in 2016. I don't know if that's how you pronounce it, but that's what we're going to go with. So, he gained 28 kg for the initial shoot, and then he lost 25 kg in the subsequent 20 weeks to portray the younger 25-year-old version of his character. So, he basically had to do a ridiculously dirty bulk to get as fat as humanly possible and then shred and get as jacked as humanly possible and as shredded as humanly possible for the uh portrayal of his younger self with, you know, peaked muscularity, you know, just really, really impressive physique, body composition. So, this is the transformation everyone's seen, everyone refers to. The video has 41 million views at the time of recording this, which is just absolutely insane. And it just goes to show this is probably one of the most, if not the most staggering body transformation in the history of movie transformations. Obviously, there's things like Christian Bale where he goes from like emaciated to like fairly muscular, but just in general, somebody going from literally like morbidly obese to shredded and jacked simultaneously. This guy's physique is more impressive than Christian Bales was in Batman. This guy looks great. This guy could arguably step on a men's physique stage if he just cut a little bit more. He looks nuts. Like, let's be honest, even by, you know, fitness industry standards, this guy has a very admirable physique. And he's 52. Again, keep this in mind. So, Jeff Cavalier actually did a video on this covering the truth about Amir Khan's body transformation. And he gives some statistics on the baseline of Amir and like if this is uh reasonable to expect and uh if you have insane commitment to diet and training and whatnot. And Jeff outlines the before and afters here. The first thing you have to understand is that this is not the first transformation that air has made. As a matter of fact, back in 2008, he went the opposite way. He went from skinny to jacked. Okay. Now, fast forward a little bit in his 20145 time. Okay. Prior to this recent movie, this is what he walked around at. Okay. 150 lbs. He's not a a tall guy. He's only about 5'4, 5'5. So, this is what he walked around. I think we all would agree that he's in pretty good shape. So when we view this, we can see this is, you know, a very reasonable body composition. It's not, you know, jacked. It's not shredded, but it is somebody who looks fit and actually does, you know, go to the gym, eat a reasonable diet, has a healthy lifestyle in general. Is it anything impressive like the end result of the 2016 role? No. Is it also as impressive as its 2008 prep where he peaked? No, it's not. But it's still, you know, a good baseline nonetheless. But the way Jeff kind of views this insane transformation, I feel like is skewed in that he thinks that just because a body composition is reasonable looking and it's not, you know, absurd that it must be achievable naturally, he doesn't even allude to the fact that the guy is 52 years old and has gained more muscle than is otherwise possible for somebody natural who has already got all their newbie gains. Let's just go into it here. Okay, 150 lbs. He's not a a tall guy. He's only about a 5' 4, 5' 5. So this is we watch. I think we all would agree that he's in pretty good shape. In the same movie, he made a rapid weight gain and then a rapid weight loss. Meaning he lost all of this that he gained in 5 months. And that's rapid when you consider how much he had to do. He started here. He gained 64 lbs uh to 214. Actually started where he was the last picture. He gained 64 lbs to hit 214 lbs. Then he went the opposite way. And this is what everybody is infatuated with. And rightly so, because this is pretty damn incredible. He lost 55 lbs within 5 months to reach 159 with a 9% body fat. He lost 30% body fat to go from there to here. Now before you start getting discouraged by the fact that you can't make the same transformation in 5 months, number one, air Khan was in shape before. Okay, so the first thing I want to point out is yes, Amamir Khan was in shape before, which pretty much reinforces the fact that he has already completely exhausted his newbie gains. The guy has, you know, been working out for however many years. He's peaked in the past for roles. He's committed himself to the point where his entire life revolves around diet and training. And he's essentially exhausted the significant majority of what would be achievable naturally. Anything above and beyond this is going to be, you know, 5 to 10% of what your entire life's gains are over the course of several years. and really just milking out whatever kind of additional progress you can make as a natural. And again, this guy's 52 years old. He's not getting any younger. His indogenous androgen production is declining by the year. Upwards of 2 to 3% of his bioavailable testosterone is in the gutter each year at this point. You're not going to convince me that somebody at 52 years old doing a suboptimal form of weight gain via this ridiculously dirty bulk has somehow managed to pack on what appears to be 15 plus pounds of fat-free mass at 52 years old and retain all of that tissue in an extreme deficit. So this guy went from 150 lbs as a very, you know, acknowledged by Jeff and Amir Khan, a trained individual with experience in the past and has shown to, you know, blatantly commit himself to this process, very very strict and regimented over the years, and has somehow managed to squeeze out an additional 15 to 20 lbs of muscle, something like that. Like at 150 lbs, he only got up to 159 at the end of the transformation 2016, but look how much leaner he is. and bigger simultaneously. This guy lost fat and gained muscle in this process. Obviously, the muscle acrruel phase occurred in the surplus. However, I think the enhanced portion he perhaps even gained more tissue in the deficit. I think just based on the amount he recmped, he probably actually gained muscle in the deficit because he went from even at the fat, you know, before picture where he is, you know, obese and is representing the older version of his character. you can kind of tell that the baseline foundation of muscle mass isn't as significant as he was at the end of it. Now granted, obviously it's kind of hard to see when it's shrouded in all this fat, but you know, from what I can tell in the before and after, this guy just, you know, it it is not indicative of natural progression based on somebody who has years of training under their belt. And I'm shocked that Jeff isn't even commenting on well actually I'm not shocked because Jeff is like the natty king but I mean like come on this guy is 52 and has trained isn't for probably decades at this point. There's no way this is achievable naturally in my opinion and I think he wants to give him the benefit of the doubt in addition to the fact that he is his trainer currently I believe but obviously Jeff's you know realm of expertise is not in the uh performance-enhancing drugs. I think he wants to believe that many transformations are natural that just aren't achievable just because he's, you know, has one of the best physiques on YouTube probably and is obviously shown that age is not necessarily a factor. But you have to consider Jeff's physique is built over years of, you know, perfect being completely on point with everything and never wavering once. This guy has basically gained, you know, after he's made the majority of progress, he's basically milked out another 1% progress for years. He didn't make a drastic transformation from 150 to like gaining 15 lbs of complete lean tissue. Like this is blatantly performance-enhancing drug use in my opinion. So, moving forward though to 2019, he actually did an update video with Amir Khan here where they go over the actual statistics behind the transformation and kind of give some insight to make it seem more reasonable, which I don't believe is, you know, representative of something that's realistic at all either. So, I was very surprised when you did that video uh on the fact of faith and and uh so when I was here, I thought I should look you up and say hi. And um and the thing I wanted to tell you which I told you uh the other day is that uh you know a lot of people think that I changed my body entirely in 5 months but as I mentioned to you earlier I actually built the muscle over 2 years. Mhm. And even before that I was training for doom 3 and PK. So I wasn't training for very long but I started building the size of my muscles uh you know specifically because I was playing a wrestler but I was also putting on fat. So, in that five month transformation, it's actually me just cutting the fat, not building muscle. One of one of the things we were talking about that I I just thought would be super valuable to anybody watching, you said something about one of your approaches and mentality that you have when you're looking at a transformation down the road, right? Because you you you know where you got to get to from where you are right now. And and even though I'm saying you're I think you have a capacity to do it a little easier because of your past, it's still it's a long way out there. Yeah. So, what do you what did you do? Tell everybody what you were doing. That sounds good. It's too difficult. I was fat. I was heavy. Because when you're also overweight, everything you do, it becomes much more difficult to do. So, I was so disheartened. And I was thinking, I'm never going to do it. And the one thing that saved me, Jeff, and kept me on track was I told myself, don't look at where you're supposed to get to in 5 months. Because right now, that looks so difficult. It looks so unachievable. And we're saying deflating almost that you you get deflated. You get disheartened. You you you you don't want to give up. So don't look at your goal. Just look at what you're supposed to do today. So if you're trying to climb Mount Everest, don't look at the peak. It's too difficult. Just look at just look at your path. Ask yourself, where am I supposed to put my next step? Just put your next step forward and look down. Yeah. Don't look at your destination. Just keep just keep going. Just just don't give up. Just keep going. What am I supposed to do today? I'm just going to do that and suddenly before you know it and if you look up much later you're like you know I'm almost there. You know so just focus and finishing becomes so much easier because once you're when you look up you look back down and you realize you climbed half the mountain already. Yeah. So they basically go over the mindset needed to achieve you know an amazing transformation. Basically, it could be related to anything in life realistically. Setting micro goals to achieve that accumulate over time to one, you know, major goals essentially, which obviously is a good concept to internalize and to apply to your own life. I'm not going to argue with that. That's uh, you know, just good knowledge in general and good wisdom. But again, trying to make it seem like something that can be just done by, you know, strict adherence and mindset is just unrealistic in my opinion. And when we actually look at the transformation from start to finish, the guy has easily transformed his physique to the point where you couldn't achieve this progress within like most people are never going to achieve this in their lifetime. I wouldn't say this guy has, you know, like Mr. Olympia caliber genetics or something insane like that. But how many guys do you see at 52 who look like this? Like it's just not reasonable. The guy looks like he's like mid30s at most. And you know, sure, you can attribute that largely to genetics as well, but I mean, and he obviously has like top trainers and blah blah blah. We've all seen how, you know, credible some of these top trainers are that train celebrities who have them eating chicken and broccoli and training for 4 hours a day. So, that doesn't hold much weight for me. At the end of the day, I look at the before and afters. I see what he's achieved in the as his uh reference point in the past and relate it to his current transformation. He did this cutting phase in five months. And regardless if you want to claim that, oh, I accumulated the muscle mass over a two-year time span, you've already been training for years prior to that and have the baseline that Jeff showed in Jeff's 2016 post where he shows uh before Dong Gaul at 150 lbs, just looking reasonably fit, nothing crazy, nothing not shredded, not you know, completely muscle bound, not less than 10%, nothing, you know, really significant. And then all of a sudden you do a ridiculously dirty bulk and then you somehow cut down to the point where you're holding what appears to be 15 lbs more muscle. Like that to me looks like a 15 lb actual contractile tissue gain, not just, you know, inflated with water. This guy is, you know, much leaner, visible abs, rounded 3D delts, traps are popping, impressive back. Like the guy could literally step on a physique stage if you just cut a bit more. So again, I don't think this was achieved naturally. Um, what he took to do it, you know, that's just speculation at the end of the day. Probably had to do something with testosterone, maybe a DHT derivative thrown in there, especially, you know, based on the fact that it was wrestling, you could argue that maybe he wanted a more uh, you know, water retentive compound like a nandrallone or something like that. But regardless of what he did or didn't do, you know, maybe some HGH2 just considering the age that he is for this preparation might have been seen as beneficial at the time for some more, you know, intracellular water, some more uh bit of extra fullness. He definitely has, even at this lean body fat, he's not flat. Even though he's been eating what is apparently a 1,800 to 2500 calorie cyclical diet for this entire cutting phase over the course of the 5 months, this guy looks great. And I do not think it was natural. I think it's uh pretty, you know, I don't think it takes a rocket scientist to see that if this was newbie games and this guy just had an amazing baseline, sure, I might say. If he was untrained at the starting point that Jeff kind of outlined in his video, then sure, I might say this is something that might be a bit more realistic. But again, this is after years of training and peing for roles in the past. And in his youth, much younger years, doing intense 13-month preparations, lifting almost every single day for hours, he did not get anywhere near he did for his transformation for dong. So, without a doubt, in my opinion, this was enhanced. And there's, it's funny, there's even clips on the internet of like his trainer. I don't know if this is actually his trainer, but it sounded like it was based on the comments I read. He's just trying to justify, you know, all the all the reasons why this was natural and how everyone's just, you know, being unreasonable when they're saying that it was probably enhanced. Amir Khan has not used steroids in his transformation. He's highly disciplined, uh, patient, very exceptionally hardworking man and with advancements in in, uh, in supplementation and the correct training uh, ideology and methods, we've been able to achieve it. Let's be honest, there's been no, you know, developments in supplements over the past decades that could possibly justify a 15 plus pound lean gain of pure muscle tissue in somebody who is 52 years old and has been training for several years prior and has peaked his physique many times for other body transformations in the past and has completely exhausted all his newbie gains and is, you know, far over the hump of achieving 90% of his natural natural results in my opinion. And let me know what you guys think down below. Do you think the transformation was enhanced? Do you think it was natural? Do you think this kind of uh just objectively looking at it? If you go to your gym, you look around, you see all the guys who've been there for, you know, years on end training and, you know, dieting, taking all the correct supplementation. Even you yourself, if you're a natural, is this, you know, something you think is realistic based on all your years of commitment in the gym where you hit your macros every day, you go to the gym 5 days a week, you train hard, you train, you deploy progressive overload, you track in a log book, you do everything by the book, you get your 8 hours sleep, and 5 10 years into your lifting, are you making gains like this? Like I don't know anyone who's been able to create a resurgence of their progress to the point that's even better than their newbie gains basically after decades of lifting. So I don't know just objectively to me it seems kind of insane that anyone would believe this was natural especially at 52 years of age where everything is just working against you. But you know your guys insight is appreciated much below. It helps the algorithm when you guys comment. So regardless if it's you know you think you did or you didn't love to hear what you guys think down below. It helps uh push the video to a new audience as well as liking the video helps a lot too. So it's very much appreciated when you guys do that. Please like, subscribe, check out my blog more plates more dates.com. Follow me on Instagram more plates_dates. Facebook, Snapchat, Twitter, Bitshoot, Tik Tok, Apple Podcast, wherever I am. Thank you guys for watching. Talk to you soon.