I would say we live like [\h__\h] Um, okay. And I say that and I say that Caleb's cracking up, but like I mean I'm just being real cuz like at some point I'm like I just said it like these are the four things you can spend money on. Like what else are you going to spend like and so it's you know um like we go out to eat we probably spend $12,000 a month on on food. We're here with Alex Hermosi who is a highly requested guest. I don't know if you saw on the Graham Stefen pod that you recently did. I made a comment just cuz I was interested in watching and then it got upvoted to the to the top and everyone was like, "Make it happen. Make it happen." So, yeah. Oh, sweet. No, I didn't know. It's a good That was a fun pod. Those are good guys. No. Yeah. I like the fact that it was uh they really got into more of your I don't know vision of I don't know like worldviews and kind of things that were above and beyond like general surface level entrepreneurial advice and stuff. It was like really really insightful and I think a lot of people definitely resonated with it a lot. Well, I appreciate it. After I got after I got out of there, I actually got in the car with Leila and I was like I was like I don't know if I stuff, you know what I like they just asked it and I was like well here's what I think you know and um I you know honestly the the response was I would say overwhelmingly positive. Most people were like dude I feel the same way and I feel like you put words to it or you know what I mean things like that. Of course, I had plenty of people who were like, you know, you know, you're going to go to hell and all that kind of stuff. But, um, yeah. So, a lot of I don't know how many people have seen your stuff already to kind of, uh, you know, already have an idea of who you are, what you're about, and stuff. And I don't want to get too in the weeds on your entire upbringing to acquisition.com because that could be a whole pot in itself, and I know you've talked about it multiple times. So, as far as like what I found from your channel, like how people might, you know, why I align with your content so much, like I found you to be Alex is one of the only channels that has like experience in the trenches and actually documents practical advice that got him from zero to 100 million in annual revenue. I don't know if that number is like, you know, big or whatever, but just in general, like he's a very accomplished entrepreneur and I find a lot of his content very applicable to my situation. And it's unique in that it's not like there's any secrets held back where you have to jump into like a master class or something to kind of like find out the real answers to things. You just like lay it all out there and it's very unique entrepreneurial content. So, I've found it extremely valuable myself and I feel like a lot of you guys might uh find interest in some of the stuff he talks about too from entrepreneurship, worldviews, bodybuilding stuff, which you haven't really touched on a whole lot these podcasts. So, I'm looking forward to not at all man. I haven't I that was by I mean as you can imagine it was by design. I mean I just I uh you know I had you know I had a chain of gyms first and so everything I had was about fitness. Um, and then I think I mean the day I started my gym was the day I realized that I liked fitness. Sorry, I liked business more than I liked fitness. And so fitness became my second love the day that I started my business. Um, and so that was definitely a significant switch. Um, but then once I went full into like talking about gym business, which was gym launch, and that started like 2016, um, I pretty much stopped talking about fitness alltogether because I didn't want to be like a AI didn't want to be a fitness dude. I wanted to be a business guy and then to the same degree I already look the way I look and so um I mean I'm sure you deal with the same thing but um I didn't want to get you know snap judgments are how people make you know navigate the world so I can understand that and so everything I could do to try and not emphasize that is what I've done up to this point. Um Caleb and I have had some conversations about whether I will uh you know maybe show like 5% of the the fitness stuff because it is a part of my life. Uh but I just haven't spoken about it much. So, like obviously gym launch, you know, hugely aligned with the fitness, you know, industry and whatnot, but more of like like I don't even know if people realize what goes into like getting people in the doors of gyms or how these gyms are scaling and like how you've kind of like built this infrastructure of not not necessarily like having your own gyms, but you found a way to not only take your experience in gyms yourself, but then transition to helping Jim scale and bring in a shitload of customers and just like that process and how you built up the companies from scratch. Um could you just give like a sweeping overview of like you know when you started you built this company, this company and this company, your recent exit and like where you're at now with acquisition.com. Yeah, I'll give the the the business highlight reel. Um so I um I started one gym Southern California. It was in Huntington Beach. Uh that was my first gym. Slept on the floor. Figured it out. Um at month 15 up in my second location. Uh opened up three more after that in Southern California. Uh two of those were corporate locations uh that were actually merged into Yamaha. So we actually did a corporate contract with them, which is actually pretty profitable deal for us. Um ended up selling uh all five of them uh to different people. So, I sold uh one no I sold three to a partner, one to a competitor, and one to one to a client. So, I had uh and I did I had a an asset sale, an LLC sale, I had uh an allcash deal that was financed, I had a seller finance deal. So, I had like every type of deal it and it's funny because in retrospect, I'm like, "Wow, that was actually amazing experience, but at the time I was like, why can't these all just be clean, you know?" Um, so anyways, I I did I had those five, opened up a location um on the East Coast cuz I thought I was going to do this kind of launch and go model and ended up not being a good idea. Um, and then I went back to doing what we were doing, which was doing turnarounds. So, we kind of would fly out, fill a gym up in 30 days, go to the next one. We do that for about 2 years. We did 30 30 something gyms. I think it was like 32 uh turnarounds. And um then we had the brilliant idea or I failed my way into uh maybe we should just show people what we're doing rather than physically flying out to their locations and doing all this work. Um and so we switched to licensing and that's when everything really blew up. And so that was really Jim launched the licensing business which is like they would have I'd be like here's the ads, here's the copy, here's the videos, here's the pages, here's the headlines, here's you put your stuff in, this is the follow-up sequence to get them uh to show up. This is how you set up your lobby. This is the script. Here's white labeled versions of our meal plans, our grocery list, our food prep instructions, eating out guides, blah blah blah. Put your logo and all that stuff. Um, you know, then once you sell them, here's the script for the halfway sale. Here's the script for the supplement sale. You know what I mean? And then here's how you convert them into memberships. This is the price point you should do it at. Here's how you discount it. Like all that stuff. So, we just handed that that system over. Um, and we got a we it exploded, you know? I mean, I think we did 26 million in our first full 12 months of business. Um, which is pretty pretty nuts. Uh, from a grow and that was like I mean it was nuts. I have no it was it was we you know I I don't it's funny because like the the further I get from it the more I the more I don't take credit for it. I think there was I think there was a confluence of events that h that happened together unbeknownst to me behind the scenes that ended up creating an outsized return. Um and so uh you know that's when Jim Lynch blew up. Uh two years after that I started Prestige Labs which are a supplement company. Um at that point I think we had a few thousand locations that were licensing our business model. Um, and so we sold through that distribution base. So basically, you know, if a gym has 20 people who come in per month to sign up for, you know, memberships or trials or challenges or whatever, we just say, "Hey, after you sell them the service, just sell them supplements, right?" And so, you know, if you have a,000 people selling 20, it's 20,000 customers. And that's how that business, you know, grew pretty quickly. Um, and then, uh, we started Allen, which is a leadworking software because the next constraint that most of them had was that they wouldn't work the leads that they would get. Uh, and so, you know, I saw where messaging was going, where machine learning was going, and I was like, you know, I bet you we could automate a big portion of this. And so, um, we were able to do that and and get twice as many people in the door compared to the average front desk person, um, for about a fifth of the price. So, they were like, awesome. And so, uh, we grew Allen. Um, and then, uh, and then all in 2021, uh, we exited all three companies. We exited, uh, the software company in I think June, uh, and we did that to a strategic partner that was an all stock deal. Um and the other uh deal was a c all cash deal um which was uh prestigious gym launch we sold as a bundle um to APG which is American Pacific Group out of uh San Francisco. So the Allen automation like not working on leads, how do you use the software to automate that process or to maximize the leads so to speak? Is there like like automated Facebook return messages or like how like what is it exactly? Yeah. So there's a lot of So we we really lucked out because we got um the guy who won the machine learning contest out of Russia. So there's Google in Russia. It's not Google, it's like their version of Google. And they hold this like machine learning contest every year for coding. And we got the guy who won it. Uh really really bright guy. So so English, uh but super bright. And so he basically just applied machine learning to every component of of the funnel from click to show. Um, and so like there's lots of things that you're able to figure out where like it would be better to get 100% of people scheduled and have 50% of them show than it would be to get 90% of people to show and only get 30% scheduled because your throughput there would be 27% versus 50, right? And so, you know, we started looking at the total throughput of a marketing campaign from click to show. Um, and we found out some pretty interesting stuff. And so a lot I would say like twothirds of it came from optimizing kind of best practices that we were able to to discover which is like the more hours per day you're available the more shows you get which sounds silly but people don't do it you know um the sweet spot on throughput is having 30-minute time slots even if it's an hourong session having the ability to choose on 30-minute time slots gave you more we actually thought it was 15 and we would get more people booked but then they would overlap so there'd be more gaps so we'd actually have fewer people able to show up because of the inefficiencies in scheduling. So having it on a on a perfect 30-minute cadence allows people to have more. So ideally you'd have as many time slots 30 minutes a day. It could be hour, it could be whatever. And you'd want it to be seven days a week ideally. And um just as a side note, like with one of our companies, we actually just all we did was change the way they were scheduling and we increase sales by 50%. Wow. And so it's like it's just a thou, you know, a 100 golden BB's that you apply to a business to make it grow. And so we're really fortunate that we had that for the Allen. Um but yeah, with the sequences is, you know, uh uh what's the intonation of the of the messages? What's the cadence that we do? How quickly do we respond? Um how many times do we message somebody before they show up? Uh are video images are videos better or images better? Should we keep it pure text? Should we send a map link? Um and you know, how many is the right amount? What's the how how many is the right amount before you bug the [\h__\h] out of somebody, they don't show up? Um and so it was really just testing all those different variables and just using data to tell tell the story and then just optimizing towards it. Hm. And in hindsight, you're glad you did the software company or was it like a huge [\h__\h] hassle? Okay. I am incredibly grateful that I did it for how much I learned because I've I apply everything we learn in the software companies to every other company that we use. Uh because like I didn't I would say I didn't understand customer success and the quant side behind success and LTV and things like that until we got into the software game. Um but in terms of my reward on that business is delayed because it's really depends on how the strategic uh rolls you know rolls it into their into their company and that's going to be delayed for another 5 years. So I mean in terms of when I see the the fruit of that they had 4,000 businesses on their platform. We had I think like 500. So you know they're just plugging that into all their whole distribution network. So, as far as where you go after that, you sold the companies and then you started acquisition.com, which is your essentially like big mega corp that's going to hold a portfolio of minority stakes and other Yep. companies that have, you know, a startups or whatever that have 3 million a year or more in annual revenue up to a certain limit and you try and grow them from 3 to 50 or 100 or like what is the general range again? And by the way, acquisition.com is it a CC Corp and it holds LLC's or No, it's an LLC. Um actually um but I have we have gone I'm actually looking at anyways doesn't not to get into legal jargon. Um but uh it is currently an LLC and uh it holds LLC's. I think we have a couple escorts but it it it does it does have interest in LLC's or that's that's the way it's structured right now. So uh deal size, you know, the smallest companies we'll take on is doing 250,000 a month. the biggest company we have right now yesterday did 320,000. So like there's a range, you know what I mean? In terms of of size of company. Um so we take them, you know, I would say where we feel very comfortable is going from like 3 to 50. Um that that feels very good to us. Um you know, going beyond that, the entire portfolio does over over that amount. And I told you that company specifically, but they're not, you know, they're not doing 300,000 every day. They're probably closer to 200 a day um right now. And so, you know, that's like a $6 million a month company. Um, I don't know even what is that 72 whatever. Yeah. So, uh, yeah. So, we feel we feel good in that range, which I would consider low mid-market. Okay. Yeah. And is there like a net profit target you shoot for too when it comes to like I know you in general you talk about 3 million annual revenue is like your minimum, you know, if if you're under that kind of like that that's the ideal minimum scenario, but net profit like what do you I know these are e-learning companies, so the margin I'm assuming is a lot higher. So is there like a target you shoot for in general? Yeah, the minimum. So, it's 3 million with a million bucks in profit is kind of like the the minimum that we start with, but like I'm less picky on how much margin they have coming in because we know what we know what we're going to do to to move it. You know what I mean? So, it's like I'd rather have all the the other things in place so that they have the potential, you know, they like, well, at the end of the day, we we're looking for an entrepreneur who's who's got, you know, unequal character, sincere cander, and competitive greatness. We want to see a marketplace where we see the potential to provide lots of value to and we want to see depth of experience in in their ability to fulfill on those promises. And so a lot of times people are, you know, when I see somebody who's like, hey, here's how I made 10K a month with an agency thing and they never scaled their agency past 10K a month, there's very limited value that they're going to be able to provide to the avatar because they never really like did it. And I think a big part of why, you know, Jim Lynch was so successful is that like we always knew what the next like 10 steps were because we didn't, you know, and if you've ever had this from like a mentor perspective, I I I used to think I had heard when I was coming up that you should have somebody who's only like one or two steps ahead of you because, you know, it's been more recent for them, blah blah blah. But I would say like the more I've had some weather, you know, or some time under the belt, the more I prefer to have people who are a few steps further ahead because if you take two steps ahead and then you realize that you should have you have to take 10 steps backwards because you did everything wrong, that sucks. And I think that that's a lot of the advice that's given out out there today, which is why I made the YouTube channel to begin with. Um, so we look for the depth of experience so that we can figure out a way to have uh to create a premium brand that can command higher profits or prices and then translate to higher profits. But to answer the original question, which is what kind of uh profit we're looking for of the companies or what we think we can get to, um I would say the most profitable company we have right now is about 60, you know, 60% net margins. Um Jesus, I would say we Yeah, usually we target around like 40 H. So like when these companies are in growth mode though, too, if they're all LLC's with flow through taxation structures and they have 60% net margin or 30%. Does that mean that you and Leila just take that hit personally because it flows right up to you and you're like I don't know how much active distributions you take from them as they're growing presumably. I don't know if it's is it like just enough to offset your tax burden or like how does that play in cuz I'm thinking you have no active income from cash cow companies like a gym launch anymore. So now I have these LLC's under me all like siphoning up net profit that I'm responsible for but no other income other than my you know so these businesses are much more like you know the Berkshire Hathway businesses they are cash cows and they and we optimize for net free cash flow um obviously we want to grow the companies but because of the nature of the companies that we choose or that we work with there's virtually no capex so there's no capital expenses that we have to reinvest to grow the businesses So we don't have to buy new inventory. We don't have to buy new machinery. We don't have to buy really anything. The only thing that we have to spend more money on is is talent. But anything that's in this type of business, the talent is getting amplified by the fact that they have some sort of digital products or services or tech enabled services that enable us to get 10 times more for that person anyway. So anytime we're adding somebody, we're getting 10 times the return to begin with and you know to start with. So they can cash flow as they grow very well. Okay. So is there like do you take distributions at the early stage to offset your tax burden essentially and just Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We take distributions like owners would. Okay, cool. And as far as like like I know you've mentioned you take on e-learning companies preferably because that's kind of like your bread and butter. Like for me prior to seeing gym launch I my experience of seeing e-learning was stuff like Alex Becker how to make money online stuff like that. and you know those like big master classes of how to like start a Shopify store or like whatever. That was my concept of e-learning modern. And then I also saw some of those like I don't know I think there's like masterclass.com or they have some expert teach you how to like play the [\h__\h] piano or like whatever they're an expert at. Like what do you guys I've heard you mention hair salon as an example. How to scale a hair salon. I feel like like dentist chiropractor. Yeah. So was it sort of just like spinning gym launch into each different type of business essentially or like So I would say that there's three I've never actually talked about this so this is fun. So um I would say there's three subcategories within like education. So you've got education for a specific skill that would be like violin or whatever right I would say there's uh mass market education around business or income generating skills. So I would say non-income non-income skills which would be like a B2C consumer uh education thing. Uh and then there's uh B to I would say like B2B TOC which is kind of like biz op uh how to make money doing something. Um and then there's I would say uh kind of niche down expertise which are more like improvement offerers. So it's you already are a wholesaler, you already are a auto mechanic, you already are a hair stylist, you already are a massage therapist, whatever it is. And if you just do these 22 things, you can make five times more money, right? And uh there are advantages and disadvantages to each of those. We have all three of those types within the portfolio. Um I think that a lot of reason that the space so right now the space is getting more I would say institutional attention. I mean it's it's super young still. Um because they are seeing the tremendous amount of cash flow and scale that these companies are achieving. It's just not it just hasn't been it's still wild west. It's still early days. And I think that you know the demand for skills is not going anywhere. And I think as formal education is has failed many people in their desire to you know have skills that can equip them to make money um these things aren't going away. And so our bet is on the fact that the players who are who are the best at their specific skills uh in terms of teaching and the monetization model that they wrap around it are going to be I think it is a winner take all model um which is if you are the best math teacher the best math teacher should teach math to everyone and with technology they can. And so that's kind of how we're structuring what we're making our bets on. So like hypothetically, if I'm a hair salon or something and I'm looking to like teach people how to scale their business, do I was I assume if I'm looking for a business, for example, locally, I'm going to go I'm probably still going to go to Google and be like, you know, sushi place near me or hair salon near me, like do you stay up to date on like Google algorithm changes yourself? So then when you come in you can be like these are the current SEO strategies or this is the gray hat tactics that you want to be aware of like like how do you kind of like finagle that because obviously you probably don't have the time to stay on top of that [\h__\h] too. So no no of course not. Um no I don't have that. Uh and so when we're so I'll kind of walk through the process. So if we're we're taking a company on who's at 3 million usually they have some level of product market fit which is why 3 million is the cut off. Like if they're below 3 million like they're still kind of figuring their stuff out. they still don't even have a core team yet. So, usually at 3 million, 250 a month, you're doing, you know, you got a core team of like 10 to 20ish u people, you know, you have a a consistent acquisition channel. It might not be as high as you want, but it's consist. It's reliable, right? You're getting customers, you know, month in month out, right? And so, usually at that point, this is where I think a lot of people at that level will make the mistake of saying, "Oh, I need to just do more marketing." Um, and that's usually not the answer. Usually, they need to increase their lifetime value per customer. So we need to, you know, stop losing people in the back end, get the the customer experience we need to be, make sure that we're tracking the right metrics, get, you know, customer segmentation in place so we can match, you know, the product suite to the desires of the customer and make sure that we're selling the right things to the right people. Um, and so we, you know, pair all that things in, you know, we might have to add some element of recurring to the to the business. We might peel off things that are consumption versus, uh, you know, continuous and then price accordingly to that. And so we'll do those things first. And a lot of times we need to hire a handful of people who have experience in those arenas and then put them into the business, right? And this is a big part of formalizing it. And so that that alone without even increasing acquisition will usually do the first triple. So most times we can triple the first business without even without even doing anything to the acquisition. The second triple and we think in triple. So it's like first triple is typically uh going to be the back end. The second triple will be um adding channels of acquisition. And so um now at this point because we have fixed the back end we have significantly more gross profit per customer that allows us to go uh go to these other channels far more profitably and acquire customers. And so we have more room to make mistakes. we have cash flow to fund the growth, all that kind of stuff. Um, and so if if we were helping uh hair salons, I'm not going to help hair salons. I'm taking somebody who already is the expert in that. So, they're up to date on the Google blah blah blah blah blah, you know, the map stack and, you know, the best referral strategies and how to partner with uh, you know, chiropractors send you hair to to send you hair clients um, and you know, paid ads and whatever, right? So, is this the sort of thing where you would have like if you had Facebook ads, whatever it is of your acquisition channel, you're trying to drive them into like a ClickFunnel where you then teach them how to scale their business via expert that's at the top with like that's the the whatever business you have is like the gym launch but for like I feel I'm just trying to make sure I understand completely like Yeah. Yeah. So, so with this hair stylist example, right? So, if there's a if there's a hair stylist who let's say her name is Sarah and she's making 4 grand a month and that's her life, right? And so she sees an ad for, you know, Tammy who's making 20,000 a month cutting hair too and she's like, "Well, hot darn. I'd like to make $20,000 a month instead of four." And so, you know, she clicks the thing, she watches a video that's like, "Okay, it's because they're they're doing way more, you know, extensions and colors than they are cuts because that's more profitable per hour. That makes sense. But how do I sell that stuff?" Well, you can schedule a call and they can walk you through. Cool. Okay. She schedules a call, walks through it. She says, "You know what? It makes sense for me to spend $5,000, which is one month, to get to $20,000 every month. The exchange makes sense. Cool." So then they would walk her through the strategy, which is like, "Okay, from here on out, here's how you schedule your time slots. Here's the scripts that you use to get new customers. When you make your Instagram post, this is how you do it. When you set up your maxep, this is how you do it. When you get your referrals, here's the referral script. Here's, you know what I mean?" And so, you go through all these things, and then piece by piece, they implement each of those kind of golden BB's into the business, and then the business incrementally grows. Okay. Hm. Okay. I think I understand. So, it's basically taking existing experts in their space who are trying to teach but teaching them how to scale their teaching essentially. Correct. It's an education. We're an education company. Okay. So, it is it's almost similar to like the Alex Becker of like every random niche of, you know, hair salon, whatever whatever niche it is. Okay. Got it. So, I can see how that would be like exceptionally profitable. I've considered that model before back in the day when I was trying to look at ways to make money, but like I don't know. Have you ever considered that yourself doing master classes on entrepreneurship or is that just like Well, I have a YouTube channel. That's my master class and I don't need to charge for it. Yeah, that was why I identified with your stuff so much is because it was the first time I've seen somebody not try to push you into one of those things. It was just like here's all the [\h__\h] info. take from that way you will sort of thing. So yeah. Yeah. It's a it's awesome, dude. Yeah. Really? So like as far as when you first come in and find holes to fill and like you specifically, what do you have like a meeting every week with each company or portfolio or like how do you allocate your time to filling those holes? Well, we have a team. So it's not just us. So, you know, we've we get people from, you know, Harvard Business School and private equity groups who are growing portfolio companies and we bring them in. So, they already have tons of trench experience from what they're doing beforehand. So, you know, one of our big things is we try and hire people who've already won an Olympic gold, not who are who say they can win an Olympic gold. So, we want you to who have already won a gold medal and just say, "Cool, just run that race here." And so, then they just can recreate the things that they already know. Now, we already have our playbooks too for specifically this size of company. And so the nice thing is that a lot of businesses ha often have especially because we're so specific in the types of business that we that we work with. They they have the same problems at the same points. And so you know just creating the the paint by numbers or the money by numbers playbooks for like okay here's how we remove the founder from the marketing. Here's how we set up the customer segmentation surveys. Here's how we you know create the creative cadence for organic. Here's the creative cadence for paid ads. Here's how we pick our messaging buckets on the marketing perspective. Here's how we do compliance so we can actually make sure that we're not being scammy weirdos, right? And that would just be like marketing for example. And same thing with sales. It's like all right, here's our speed to contact. This is how we track you know utilization per rep. This is how we do our call reviews. This is what our uh you know monthly cadence needs to be for the sales director. This is how they these are the ads the sales director needs to run to get the best sales guys. This is the interview cadence. Like it's just it's just business. It's just like this is how you build it, you know. Um, and so in terms of how we allocate it, we look at the whole business and we say just where's the biggest lever here cuz all those things need to get done between now and which of those things need to be done first. And so a lot of times we only pick three big rocks that we're going to focus on and that'll probably be the first year and making sure that we truly execute those things cuz a lot of times if you think about probably even you know your business or your businesses you're like if I just did one of these things for this business by the end of the year we'd triple. And so it's really being ruthless in our prioritization and just keeping the founders and the leadership teams focused on that one priority because if you get that right, you can usually mess up a ton of other stuff and still turn out okay, right? So like obviously you have a lot of people on your team who you've vetted and had headhunted or whatever it is who are capable of fulfilling these things on your behalf. So where you plug in yourself obviously right now a big ROI on your time is building social presence to then establish you know the perspective that you're the guy to go to to grow these three to whatever million dollar companies to the next level. As far as how you plug in directly with the portfolio companies though, if you have this team under you that is able to facilitate, are you oftent times trying to find more people that are of that same caliber of your team and you're like interviewing people yourself or how do you plug in with the portfolio companies? Exactly. It's a combination, you know. I mean, it's it's what what constraint are the majority of them dealing with that we if for some reason we cannot handle, which most of the times we can, but we might say, okay, we're, you know, Leila and I are spending a lot of time on this particular thing. Uh, so I think we need somebody who's going to handle this particular slice, right? And so, I mean, the benefit so most businesses go from generalist to specialists over time, right? So, it's like it's harder to find the jack of all trades in the beginning, which is usually why the owner does a lot of that in the beginning. And then over time you know we replace the you know the the the head hunting function which is something that you know we replace if we replace the you know the consecration function we create the replace the the sales directing function like all of these you know all these pieces and then in terms of how we interface with them directly they they very much are treated the same way the companies that I owned before selling are treated which is we treat them like we own them. Quick side tangent to bring you a note from one of our sponsors. What am I saying? Side tangent interruption. What am I saying? I don't know. This is seed daily symbiotic. This is what I use on a daily basis as my uh gut support supplement essentially. So for me, I had been spending a bunch of money on I Herb, Amazon, buying a bunch of different formulas, um strains, random stuff, and kind of just uh you know, taking shots in the dark. Frankly, don't really understand the gut microbiome. It's an area of research that heavily interests me, but I just don't understand it very much. So, I try to educate myself by watching um podcasts, uh science-based creators, actual like people in the trenches who do this stuff and like look into the gut microbiome, the gut brain axis interactions and try and learn more about it. And it seemed like this formula was the one that had the most reinforcing data behind from a human evidence perspective, had the most people I respected in the industry talking about it and actually saying that they used it. And this included people who weren't just sponsored by the product, too. people who actually had digestive issues that were using it, people who had Crohn's, for example, that were um looking for any kind of support they could get of their gut. Um, so for me, that was enough to kind of get on board and put my own money down and see, you know, what it's all about. Fortunately, since then, they've actually sponsored uh the channel, which is super cool. Anytime there's an alignment like that, you know, I get super thrilled about it. And obviously if you guys are looking to optimize yourselves, you know, in the same way I am, you know, I'm always trying to eek out extra performance from a mental clarity standpoint, from a digestive health standpoint, whatever it is. Um, especially time efficiency standpoint, too. So, this is something I use as a reinforcement essentially of my digestive health, gut barrier integrity, gut immune function. Apparently has interactions with cardiovascular health, dermatological health as well, and micronutrient synthesis, which is obviously, you know, of high interest to a lot of individuals here. So, for me, again, this is my like insurance policy of sorts for my gut. And, um, if you want to support me, you know, you can check it out, too. It's linked in the description below, and you can save 15% off your first month supply of Seeds DS1 daily Symbiotic by using code Derrick at checkout. Thank you to Seed for sponsoring today's video. And back to our regularly scheduled programming. So, you know, I I do everything that I would do for Gym Launch. I do everything that I would have done for Prestige Labs while being the owner, which means that like I'm I'm not going to write ad copy because it's not a good use of anyone's time because if I write the ad copy, the business dependent on me, right? But if I can usually help make or guide strategic decisions, then it absolutely is worth the time. And so for us, you know, we have we review all the company's data monthly, which is exactly what we do when we own all the companies. We review the data monthly in terms of their financials. We are interacting with them usually on a daily or semi- daily basis from a from like a messaging back and forth uh perspective. We have open office hours all the time during the week so that we can hop on to solve you know specific issues um you know for the portfolio companies um and at the end of the day like we just make ourselves available like the as much as it appears that I am extremely active on social um a big part of that is because uh Caleb and the team make me look a lot cooler than I am. Uh, and so the vast majority of my time I'd say I would conservatively 80 realistically 90% of my time is spent growing growing like the portfolio companies because they grow I make more money. So it's like I don't need more companies like Zuckerberg didn't need a side hustle. You know what I mean? Like I can just get a handful of companies that are really good and that's that's the Bergkshire Hathway, you know, way is just find really good companies and let them grow. So, how many do you have at this point under acquisition.com? And then how many hours do you spend on each one kind of per day? We spend eight. And then per day, it varies dramatically by what season the business is in. And do you have like a consolidated communication medium? Like I at this point, I have so many [\h__\h] threads, dude. There's like a Slack, there's a an Upwork, there's, you know, group threads, there's text, there's Signal, there's WhatsApp. And I'm like, holy godamn [\h__\h] dude. Like, so everybody everyone plays our play our way. And that's part of coming on to acquisition.com. So everyone uses our tech stack for for CRM because it pipes into our tech stack. So we can see the data and it gets pushed in real time. So we don't waste all this time aggregating, cleaning data, which is a pain in the butt. So that's a huge one that gets that's streamlined right off the bat. Uh the second thing is from a communication standpoint, everyone's on Slack. And so that's it. Everyone's on Slack. That's the way it works in terms of communication. So in terms of systems, we only use three. You know, we use Zoom, we use Slack, and we use HubSpot. That's it. Huh. Never used HubSpot. You'd recommend it presumably. Okay. Yeah. It's I mean honestly it it's more it's more important that you have deep expertise within a CRM than I think the particular CRM you choose like a massive company you know massive companies use Zoho massive companies use Salesforce massive companies use HubSpot it's I think it's less important which one you choose more so that you are really good at the one that you choose. Yeah. Yeah. As long as you have everything consolidated and you don't go insane in the process. Yeah. So for you, if you have you guys have eight companies, you said under acquisition. Was that before you started like your really aggressive rise on social media? Was that at zero or were you already had No, I had um I had three or four. I can't remember what timing wise was. It was either three or four. And how many more applicants do you have now relative to that? Uh I mean I didn't even really have I mean the applicants before were just people who reached out to me that you know from okay from from the sale or just from no you know industry stuff whatever they had heard of what we had done. Um oh you know what it's four so we had four we had four we've only taken to four more since since this rapid rise. Okay. Um but the thing is is it's kind of like what I was saying. I mean our our quote acceptance rate right now is 02% of companies that that apply. Um, and it and it's just because we're not in a rush. There's no there's no finish to the race. It's much more like, do we think that we can add a lot of value to these businesses? And if we don't, we just say like, hey, here's what we would do. Not sure if it's a perfect fit. Wish you the best. You know what I mean? And hey, that's why we make all the free stuff. So, like, hey, like, go use all that if you know if it's not a fit. And how many companies do do you actually end up on a call with to screen versus because if you have a 0 2% acceptance rate or whatever? I talked to every one of them. Really? No. God, no. I I couldn't. I just Yeah, that's what I I was thinking. That's [\h__\h] impossible. Even if I even if I took one minute per Yeah. It would it wouldn't make sense. Um so do you have like one seuite guy who just like has a front line? He's like the gates to get through to you or Leila sort of thing. Yeah. So, HubSpot um has automated rules in terms of decision-m. So, there's lots of black and white metrics that we can apply for decision- making to the applications that come in and that'll automatically screen, you know, probably 80% of them. Um, and then from there, the 20% that's remaining, he will probably visually screen another 20% out. So, probably get it down to 60, sorry, another 80%. So, there'S4% that are left. And then from there, he'll probably talk to those 4%. And then um of that 4% he'll probably push 1%. Um to like a second call um and then at that point we'd kind of talk about um you know it's it's a it's not a it's not a sales process. You know what I mean? It's a 90-day process. We do diligence on the company. We talk to their entire leadership team. Uh we we want to get a good we want to get a pulse of the company because otherwise we can't figure out what value we can provide. like if you know what I mean like if I don't know anything about the company then how am I going to say here's all the holes I can fill when I they might not have those holes. So it's only when we very clearly understand all these things together and it checks every box that we then move forward and that's kind of the I mean right now the the average portfolio company that we have triples their profit within the first 12 months. Wow. So, like it's if and to be fair, we we pick a tiny itty bitty sliver of a box, which is if you fit if you can sing the a ABC backwards in Arabic, you know, sitting on on one foot and rubbing your head and patting your belly, um you know, and you're a $3 million plus education entrepreneur, uh you know, in a niche or, you know, teaches an income skill. Um then then you're, you know, we're your huckleberry. Um, and that's just because I looked at the the people who have really good um uh private equity funds and they they niched down for good reason because you learn a ton and the more times we do it, the better we get at it. Uh, and so then we could the more paint by mer numbers this becomes so we can just say with more and more confidence and increased certainty and faster decisions that we can get them from point A to point B. So you mentioned you have screening criteria that screens out 80% of people in HubSpot but like on your on your website for example you put in your name, your website, email, phone number, annual revenue, annual profit, book a call when you when you book a call like how do you get screened above and beyond like couldn't do you have a bunch of people just lie on this form and then how do you Well the button says book a call uh because it converts better than submit but the second second screen there if you were to submit you know, click book a call. In order to book a call, you have to fill out the company intake form, which is like 20 questions. Okay, so that's the next thing. So, there's 20 questions there um that are much more in depth, which is like how many acquisition channels do you have? What percentage are they attributed to? You know, what is your churn right now? What's average price? How many, you know, what's your sales velocity? How many units per month are you selling? And so, we get a much better uh, you know, where are you incorporated out of, how many founders do you have, what's the, you know, all all those types of questions that we would want to um normally figure out. And those are usually questions that we would ask on a phone call. We just ask them beforehand and then from there we can get a really good pulse on the company because if we look at somebody's website and you know on and we know what platforms they're advertising on, we can look at their advertising which is what we'll do. We'll go look at the advertising, we'll look at the stuff. Um but oftentimes a lot of people apply and don't meet the black and white metrics. You know, they're like I'm going to be at 3 million. We're like, well, you know, yeah, it's not good enough. Yeah. I mean, yeah, it's and it's not. And I and I and I I love the community and I and I and I root for everybody to do it. Um but it's just because of the nature of it's just it's a time constraint, you know what I mean? And so there's a reason Warren Buffett has a hard time allocating his capital. It's because there's not that many hundred billion dollar fish that he can spend his money on. Like he could double his money if he bought million dollar things, but then he would still have 149 billion 999 million left to spend. He just couldn't do it time-wise. So, you know, so with the current market and stuff crashing, you know, crypto's down, stock market's down, presumably you're pretty thrilled that you are liquid right now. Like I I think you if I recall correctly, you're like out of everything right now, right? Like just sitting on Okay, so you timed that pretty well obviously. So, so for you being like futureminded about what your overall vision is for acquisition.com and knowing that your ROI for an investment on a $3 million annual revenue company or whatever is exponentially better than at best a 10% return on a good year in the stock market. Like, are you at a point where you're just like, "Fuck, real estate, stock, crypto, none of it. I can just invest in myself in my own like uh you know acquisition structure. Yeah. I mean that's AI mean sure we own a few buildings and things like that but um acquisition.com is 100% the wealth vehicle and it's I mean and you probably know this. It's just um all the all the people that I see that are the wealthiest have found games where they can create unfair advantages. You know what I mean? Where they have something that's in their favor. And so, you know, we the nice thing with acquisition.com is that we spent 12 to 18 months really thinking through how we wanted to build it, the structure, just everything uh to put to put into place. Whereas every other company up to this point has been a little bit more reactive. You know, it's been like, oh, there's, you know, this is what everybody wants. Let's go make it, right? Um, this one was like, what do we want? Um, because the people that are the wealthiest that I know have things that took them 20, 30, 40 years to build. And so I was like, well, if this thing's going to be a billion dollars plus, then it's gonna take time, you know what I mean? And we're not tech, so it's gonna it's, you know, we're not gonna, you know, I mean, it's not going to be, you know, a single tech explosion of some adoption of some thing. And so we have to be really methodical about how we approach it. Um, and so it's probably going to take 10 years or or 20 years, which means that I and Ila both have to enjoy it. Um, it has to be something that we find meaningful. um and that we can that we are excited to do every day and that we don't that we continue feel challenged and stimulated from because the other thing is I know that I can I can do any business for 3 to 5 years but I know at that point I start to get itchy um which my tracker shows I start to get itchy and so with this business part of the reason we designed it this way is that I can go all in on these businesses get exposed to different industries and if I want to say let's say I see an opportunity in um uh shoot you know, sales recruiting, whatever. I can say instead of me starting a sales academy, I can say, well, why don't I go find a sales academy that I think's awesome and then get exposure to that opportunity. And so that way I can do all the stuff that I want to do and help that company kind of execute those things. And then that way, uh, I still stay focused on my main thing, which is acquisition.com, without being distracted, but I get to participate in kind of some of the upside. H. And when you go from minority stake, like obviously this varies on situation to situation, but there's is there like a minimum of amount of equity you look for to have enough skin in the game for it to be worthwhile? Yeah. So, it's a it's it's a really good question. By the way, I'm loving this interview by just letting you know. This is great. I love to talk about this stuff. Um, so it has to be enough that we care, but it can't be so much that they stop caring. So, that's the balance. There's like a fine line there, right? And so we found that to be like 20 to 30%. Um is enough that we are really we're meaningfully invested and the founder is still meaningfully vested in the outcome. So everybody is just charging full on uh you know towards towards the goal. Okay. And that's our sweet spot. I feel like I probably know the answer because you have enough of an infrastructure team-wise to kind of like carry out the objectives you have seemingly. But is there like you have eight companies under you right now. Is there like some capacity limit where and obviously you haven't got there so maybe you can't put like a hard stop on this but is there like a breaking point where it's like holy [\h__\h] we need more team to support the amount of companies we want to have under us right now like for sure for sure yeah we would we we run a pod structure so you know we'll have a handful of people who are specialists over a specific pod cuz even if you're doing a weekly meeting with each one and you've like really really dialed it in to a point where you're like super just basic oversight mode of them. I feel like that still adds up to where you're like in a monthly oversight meeting with like 20 companies or something. It's like you're doing a big [\h__\h] meeting like every day to a point where you have no idea what's going on with anything essentially. Well, it depends on what the type of the meeting is, right? And so if it's, you know, if if if we have a cadence to check in on how they're doing on a playbook that I'm not required for that, like the playbook's documented, this is what we need to implement. Here are the ads to get the person in place, you know, to to run this play, etc., right? Um, from a monthly perspective, me reviewing the numbers, we already clean the data on our side so that we can see it just the key the key numbers that we care about. Uh, because at the end of the day, I'm sure like when you read financials for your own company, it's like I'm not looking at everything. I'm looking at the handful of things that matter to me. Um, and so I'm looking at net free cash flow. I'm looking at growth. I'm looking at sales units. Um, I'm looking conversion numbers and that's about it. You know what I mean? That's and you know the turn is kind of factors in for all the customer lifetime value stuff. Um, in terms of to to circle back to the original question which is like is there a cap? There is a cap for the current capacity but right now we have more employees than we have portfolio companies for context. So this isn't like uh but again this is the this is a type of business model where like um for example APG American Pacific Group who's the the private equity fund that that purchased majority shares in gym launcher prestige uh I think they have like 13 people you know what I mean um you know what I mean and so it's you know Berkshire Hathway has 19 employees and they have you know 500,000 employees through their you know portfolio companies or whatever it is some enormous number um and so I talked a lot about leverage. Um but like finding opportunities where your inputs have the discrepancy between inputs and outputs is high. And so you know in this business uh the goal when we were structuring it was like how can we how can we provide tremendous value um to companies without um without being limited in that way like you were like you were saying. Yeah. And so that was the goal but for us because of the nature of how our things work um we can we can attract talent that they cannot attract. we can have people work on their company that they would never have access to. And in that way, the only people who would get access to those things would be funded companies. And so, in a lot of ways, we're able to give entrepreneurs who are bootstrapped an advantage that they would never normally have. They would never have access to this level of talent um to help them grow their company. And then in so doing get such a huge multiple on the equity appreciation that happens from what when they start with us is usually valueless. And I don't say that as a slight, but more so just the reality is that if you have a personality b, you know, driven brand and you're doing three million bucks a year, a million bucks in cash flow, like there's not a lot of people are going to want to buy that from you and let you walk away. Like it's just there's the buyer market is minuscule. Now if in five years it's doing 30 million topline you know uh 10 or 12 million in IBIDA and you're completely removed from the face of the business and it's really become hairstyle academy rather than you know Sarah Lee's hairstyle you know secrets or whatever um that does have enterprise value and that absolutely can be sold for 50 80 $100 million and so for us it's like that equity appreciation for the founder they would it would be unlikely that they would get that kind of personal wealth increase without having just tons of experience doing it and we can just shorten the curve. Now, when it comes to valuations, I've seen drastically different numbers when it comes to one times revenue, three times IBIDA, this that and a lot of times you'll have like an expert value it and it's like way the [\h__\h] off from what you expected or like when you're is there a certain strategy you use where it's like these companies, they're a good opportunity, but their valuation model is just like way off from yours and if so, how do you kind of like reel them back into reality. Well, none of the companies that we're working with are coming in with the idea that they're going to like this isn't a liquidity event for them. You know what I mean? Like they're coming presumably some of them want you to put skin. Oh, like do you ever have to buy into companies though or is it more just your value? Sometimes but not always. Okay. Sometimes but not always. So again, it just depends cuz like my payroll is higher than some of these companies entire revenue. So, like the amount of time if I were to bill hourly for what we're going to front before we even receive our first dollar is usually more than I would put into the company for the the appropriate amount of equity. And we're purely based on the fact that we're going to make it up on the back end. So, those companies you do buy into though, how do you quantify what that buyin is? Like some sort of calculation that you defer to presumably. Yeah, 100%. But like it is it's much more important like it's not a big deal negotiation point is my is my thing because like many of them the cash that they're getting if they if they get cash Yeah. is not material and so it doesn't matter to them and it doesn't matter to us. And to the point that you said about like having skin in the game, if a $3 million company that's doing a million bucks in IBA, right? If if we valued it at a million bucks, let's just say we valued at a million dollars, which I don't think anyone would buy it for a million dollar, but let's just say we valued it at a million dollars, and I bought 20%, which would be 200 grand, does is that's not going to like change anything in my life. And I say that and I I hope that comes off the right way, but it's like that's not going to get me that's not skin in the game for me. You know what I mean? Like the skin in the game is the fact that we can take this thing to here, right? And that's what I'm that is the that is the thing that drives me, not the 200. So like the 200 grand would mean no make no difference to me and likely this person if they're making a million dollar a year, it wouldn't make any difference to them either. And so it's that's kind of where this comes cuz we're taking them at this stage. At that point, I see even the negotiation process, you end up losing more money just talking about it than whatever amount you could gain otherwise. But once you've taken it to 50 million and you have your guys on your side saying it's this and you have their guys on their side who wants to buy your company saying it's that do you have like what is like the deferred to Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So I want to make sure that I'm answering the right question. So are you saying how are these companies valued at exit or how are these companies valued at purchase on our on Yeah. I kind I kind of changed the question in the middle. Sorry. But yeah, once you once you build it up, like how do you cuz that delta can often times be substantial. Oh yeah, that's that's the whole I mean that's that's that's our whole game. You know what I mean? Like the whole game is that we that we're taking something that doesn't usually have a lot of intrinsic value. It's usually just a guy or a gal who's got a thing and they're selling it, right? But as soon as they stop selling it, money stops. So there's not a lot of reliability to the revenue stream which is why the value is almost nothing right if we're doing the example I said so 30 million top line 10 million bottom line we'll just use that as the as the as the number um they right now it depends everything depends on the churn within the business so how reliable the future so I would say there's two big pieces one is how big is the market and slash how likely are they to capture the market uh multiplied by how much are How sticky is the revenue? So, if we're gobbling up market share and it just keeps compounding and stacking on itself because everyone keeps loving the thing that we sell, then it's going to be tremendously valuable. If it's a much more transactional company, uh, then we're going to get a much lower multiple. And so, I would say, you know, the range is huge there. I would say it's probably like 6 to 12 is is kind of the multiple range there. Uh, for a company that was doing 10 million, it probably be like, you know, maybe 8 to 12. Uh, but again, it also will depend on the terms of the deal. So you'd have, you know, a certain percentage that'd be rolled in equity, a certain percentage that would be seller finance, certain percentage that would be, you know, consulting back, um, and then a certain percentage that would be cash. And so, you know, all those things added together might be the 8x, but you maybe cash portion might only be five or whatever. So, we're talking a multiple of IBIDA right now or Ebida. Yeah. Okay. For these types of companies, it's going to be on IBIDA. So, you're saying a company that has a net of 10 could be worth like 80 is what you're saying? Yeah% huh if if they have if if there's a if there's a story of growth that is believable that has a high likelihood of occurring if they have multiple channels of acquisition if they are not dependent on the founders's face um if they have low churn or you know lower or negative MR um you know high gross margins um you know low capital expenses like all if they have all of those things then yes and I don't know if this is something you can even disclose so feel free to you know not answer But when you were selling gym launch, Prestige, Allen, was there like a number that you thought you should get versus what they thought they should get and then you met in the middle and like what was that range? I think we still gym lunch for what it was worth. Okay. Like a fair valuation. I don't think I don't think we got I don't think we got paid. Um and I don't think we got destroyed. I think it was a fair value. And because of also the terms of the deal, we got, like I said earlier, like it was an all cash deal. So we we could have. So here I'll tell you a side note. So if I wanted to, and our bankers even said this and I was like, I just can't do it cuz I would look at myself in the mirror. But they were like, if you want to like jack this value up for like the story, they're like, we could paper this deal to get to 100. Like we'll just we'll just load you up with earnouts that are like, yeah, if Jim Launch does a hundred million in IBIDA the year after, then Alex gets a $50 million bonus, right? Like cuz the likelihood that happens is zero. And if it did happen, they'd be [\h__\h] thrilled, right? And so then I could say, "Hey guys, I sold for $100 million." And that would be really sexy. It would also be completely false. I mean, it would be true by the letter of the law, but I would I would not feel legit. And so the number that I shared is the actual number, 100% cash, no consulting, no earnout, no no anything. Um, that was the that was the deal. And what were what were the percentages you guys sold again in the total amount? 66. We sold 66 of two and we sold 75 of the software company. Okay. And then you retain equity in that and do you have to be like oversee it with the same capacity that you do your other portfolio companies or like We do though. We do but we don't have to. We have zero contractual obligation. I just love the team and I I talked to because I mean we spent six years together. So like it's like hey man I can't help you anymore for anything that you have cuz like even if it wasn't a company at this point if they moved to a company that I didn't own at all I would talk to these people the exact same amount that I do. Um but we have no contractual obligation to do so. I do it cuz I love them. And what was the amount again? Sorry. So 66 and 70 46 total or what was it again? No, that was just for the that was just for Gym Launcher Prestige. Okay. And then Allan was what again? Uh I that one's on India. Okay. Don't worry. And the thing I had to and that's standard normally you have normally it's it's standard boilerplate to have an NDA for the uh total amount of the agreement. Um but I knew I was going to build acquisition.com and so I was specific up front. I was like I would like to be able to to say this partially to prove the point that you had which is like these companies are sellable and they do have value if you build them the right way. Right. And as far as like strategy and tactics for taxation on that exit, I know your I I had tax as like a separate topic for later in the conversation, but I feel like I should just jump to it now because it's relevant. But like your your strategy on it, I've heard you say multiple times how you've taken tons of, you know, consultations and this and that trying to learn about all of the different ways to save on tax and then in hindsight you're like, "Fuck it. I wish I just like paid my [\h__\h] tax and didn't even try any of this weird exotic stuff with corporate exits. Do you feel the same or how did you guys structure that? Okay. Yeah, I I feel the same. I mean, there is a clear tax structure that we could have done to pay no taxes. Um it's it's it's called like a cascading um disregarded trust uh structure. So it's basically there's a $5 million exemption per per disregarded trust and you have to have a different person who is in charge of each or who's a benefactor of each of the trusts. It also gets around estate tax later if you're going to you know donate not donate pass it on to your kids or whatever. And so um you know we could have basically done a you basically multiply the amount of money that you have times $5 million or divided by $5 million and that's how many trusts you have to set up um with different benefactors in each of them and you have to trust whoever you're putting as the benefactor um and all of them. And if you do it that way and you wait 36 months so that it can't be unwound like there's a whole bunch of hair, right? And so I was like, dude, this isn't how I'm getting to a billion. Like I'm not going to save like the 20% here is not going to get me to some people like, hey, pennies add up. And they do. I agree with you. But in terms of like there's one thing I because I could see both stories cuz like here's story one. Alex gets to a billion and didn't pay any taxes and did a bunch of stuff to get there. The story that I would say there and I would defend is like, hey, I played by the rules of the game and don't you everybody should play by the rules of the game and be good at it. And I don't think there's anything wrong with that. Um, on the flip side of that, there's like we got to a billion and we paid full boat the whole time. H, it's cuz we love the game. Yeah. So, and I think that that's and again, not to say like do do I, you know, do I expense a dinner if we're going out? Sure. You know what I mean? Whatever. But is that going to make a material difference in my taxes? No. So, um, you know what I mean? Uh, but big picture stuff, like if anything's gray, I just if it's gray, I just I've just over time I've just stopped. That's not how the richest people do it. The richest people do it by get by equity appreciation over time building businesses and they get a multiple in those businesses. That's how they that's how they do it. And that's all taxree. Yeah, it's all taxree. When do you expense dinner? By the way, you it just popped into my head. Do you literally take a picture of your receipt and like categorize it when you get home? Okay. I mean, I don't, but I mean the team does. Yeah. So, you just hand it to your team when you get home or like how's that? No, I take a picture and I send it to building. Yeah. Okay. Got it. All right. And you always take pictures. You can't just go buy a credit card statement. Does that not work? No, I take pictures cuz you want to show it's itemized. M That way it's not like it's by the Damn. For a while I was doing that and I was like, "This is a [\h__\h] hassle." And then I started just going by credit card statements. And now I'm I realize I should probably have been taking pictures that whole time. So well the thing is like if I'm signing it with my hand, my phone's right there. So I can just take the picture. It's not too bad. And I just literally just text it. And that's In Canada, you don't sign anything. You just like get your your cards. Yeah. It was weird cuz I was in the States recently for a business trip and then I totally forgot that they don't have uh the card scanners that just like auto charge you. They make you like sign a receipt still and like add the tip and stuff. Here it's just like they give you a machine, you type in the tip, and then Okay. And then it that's it. Yeah. Yeah. There's some places that do it here now, but it's still mostly signed. Yeah. Okay. As far as the uh challenging aspects of scaling companies now for you that you're in this position with acquisition.com, do you find the challenges are largely the same that faced the companies you built like gym launch and stuff or is it like a whole new unique set of scaling problems where it's like, you know, headhunting enough people that are on your team that are going to carry out the work at the quality you need and then overseeing that team to make sure their quality is spot on or like what are your big challenges now like existing problems that you're like actually dealing with finding good people is always a constant you know what I mean whether when we had gym launch and prestige labs and acquisition or the portfolio companies you know and I would say that that's the thing that we invest the most time in is how do we because the thing is is like from the from the private equity perspective it's like you can buy or you build that's kind of like the age-old thing it's like do we want to buy this thing or do we want to build it ourselves? And I think if you chunk down one level within a company, you can buy or you can build. So you can buy the talent or you can train people who don't have the talent to have the talent. And so we tend to be buyers on the micro level and builders on the macro level. Does that make sense? So like with companies, I mean obviously we're buying into these companies, but the the vast majority of the equity value we're building rather than buying, right? So we're not doing lots of roll-ups. We're actually organically growing these businesses. But on a micro level within the businesses we prefer to find I mean if there's the opportunity to to promote with from within we'll obviously do that. Um but a lot of times the companies that we're working with the founder is the most experienced person in the business and the I it's my belief that a business is limited by the total intellectual capity of the entire company. And if every person has a subset of the knowledge of the founder then it means one man is the cap of the business. And that is typically what happens when they're at three, five, 10 million. Whereas when you see a $30 million company, usually there's three or four people that all know a ton of stuff about different things and that's why they are that big. And so I see it as like a Christmas tree where it's like the bigger the the top amount of knowledge is, the wider the base is, the bigger the company grows. Okay. And as far as so we spend all our time up there right now. When you find these people, it's a lot harder to find really good like seauite level employees and whatnot and executives than I don't I don't know what it if it used to be better in terms of talent pool cuz I'm just kind of like into this for the first time now of hiring like really highlevel people and often times trying to figure out how to compensate somebody who's like an A player. It's very very uncharted waters. Often times it's like how do you determine somebody for like I'm like an influencer sort of who runs a company that does like disproportionate traffic and has like a unique kind of product offering or services and then bringing in people who can reflect the quality of work I need and oversee like 50 people and do this and do that. And it's like where do I type in on Google like what this guy gets paid like How do you determine pay structures for top guys? Yeah, guys. It's come to my attention that some people are not manscaping, disgusting pubes, hairy backs, butt crack hair. What are you doing? You got to take care of that [\h__\h] This is where support for today's show comes in. Manscape, the best in males below the waist grooming. This is the package for the performance package 4.0. This is something that basically has everything you need down to the last butthole hair bro. This is um the lawnmower 4.0 is included. This trimmer is the future of grooming and perhaps the greatest ball trimmer of all time after going through four iteration changes. This is the fourth generation trimmer. Features a cutting edge ceramic blade to reduce grooming accidents. It's also waterproof so you can say goodbye to mess on the floor. Pubes on the floor. Not a good look, bro. And in addition to that, taking your grooming to the next level with the Weed Whacker nose and ear hair trimmer. Also not a good look. Having either of those things popping, bro. [\h__\h] bad. In addition, their crop preserver ball deodorant and crop revor ball toner will change the way you approach your hygiene regimen. Your balls will thank you. as said on the inside of the package. In all seriousness, I think individuals should all be manscaping because if you're not, that's like a such a [\h__\h] ridiculous like disadvantage to have over other males in the dating marketplace, bro. Like, imagine a girl goes down on you and you just like have done absolutely no hygiene. You have done you have no hygiene. Like, that's not a good that's terrible. You know, you want to feel clean. You want to feel confident. You want to just not be a disgusting uh [\h__\h] woolly mammoth, bro. It's not good. Take time to take care of yourself and go to manscape.com. Get 20% off plus free shipping with code Derek. In addition, if you're a fitness guy, the difference in how lean you look when you Manscape versus not when it comes to your abs, chest, vascularity on your arms, especially even though you don't have that much arm hair or you might, I don't know, like some people are way worse than others. But even when it doesn't seem like you have that much and it's fine, the difference in vascularity, if you've been, you know, very lean, you know the [\h__\h] difference. It's literally like a few percent body fat seemingly instantly pulled off of your body when you shave properly and Manscape. So anyways, you can check it out link in the description below. 20% off and free shipping code derek at manscape.com. Thank you for supporting today's video and back to our regular scheduled programming. So I'll say right now I'm I'm going to be putting my Leila hat on because this is 100% all the stuff that Leila does. Um I'll give a couple general statements and then a little bit more weeds. But at least as we see it, we see compensation as the ticket to get in, which is we have to have it at a point where A players would say yes. We believe that A players do A-level activity because of who they are, not because of what they're getting paid. And so it's like you have to have the bar high enough that they're going to want to work for you. But most people like salesmen sell because they are salesmen. the comp has to be enough that they're going to want to start working for you, but they're not going to sell less hard because of the comp. That's at least our our compensation philosophy. We also tend to pay very well for that, but for the reason because we want to attract the best talent, you know what I mean? And so that's like big picture number one. Um the second thing is that I think from a tactical perspective and I learned this from lay this is not mine. Um you learn a lot about the role by interviewing for the role. And so you learn a couple things. One is you learn what the act like you can go to payscale.com and there's you know glass door things like that to try and figure out how much someone's going to get paid but there's so many unique natures of like a role in this type of business blah blah blah that it's it's more useful to just talk to everybody see where everyone's at and then you'll get a real pulse for what the market is right um and then in terms of like figuring out the the job role and who's right for it I think a good litmus test is who am I a excited to talk to and b who am I learning from because the way that it should work in my opinion at the C level and above is that we get on the call and they're telling me what should happen at this stage for the business. If I'm like, hey, these are all the things I need you to do, then they're not the right person because the right person would say, totally understand. I would do it like this. It's because two other times I did it the way you said it and it didn't work. So, we tried it this way and it's been working a lot better. I was like, oh. And so what happens is as these interviews stack up, you take notes and then you get a really good idea of all the best practices and you can start seeing who's, you know, who's got game. Now, when you said when you're trying to figure out pay structure, you ask around like who who are you asking exactly on the interviews on the interviews like you're asking them what they Well, you could put a hu you could put a big range depending on experience. You say boom, you know, from here to here range with variable comp and most that's a negotiation anyway. So, it's really again what you put on the ad is just like the ticket to get someone to respond. Uh, and that's again if you're doing an ad, most like true executive positions are head-hunted. So, you're saying you're literally asking the person you're interviewing what they want to make is like is what you're saying. Yeah. What do you think is right for the role, right? Okay, that makes sense. Okay. Yeah, that's sort of like what I arrived at, too. I was just like, what is what possible other way could I figure out some random pull an answer out of my ass when it's like I have no idea personally to be honest for a lot of these roles. So yeah, I mean you look at Paycale, you look at Glass Door, you have a rough idea, you have your idea of what it is and if everybody you get on the phone with is like well you know I'm currently making 200 and so for me to leave I'd probably have to make you know at least that. And you hear that over and over again and people are like and you could you can ask it different ways. You can just say what are you making now? That's a that'll give you at least a litmus test of what they're leaving. And if they're unemployed, then they're probably not it's it would be less common for the type of level of person you're looking for because most of those people who are a players and are good at the thing usually do have a job. Do you ever fact check when somebody's like, "Oh, I make 250." And you're just like, "Okay, yeah, you do." I don't think we have a way to do it. You know what? I mean, if someone if someone doesn't have that, then they're going to be out really quick anyways. Makes sense. Um unimpeachable character. It's one of the values. Yeah. your skills that got you to a 100 million versus when you were at like 10. Do you find that a lot of it was just hiring the right executive people or like what has changed about you and your skills and thought process over the last few years? Yeah, it's all people. Yeah, it's so boring. I mean, I remember being in the audience and seeing these big guys speak and being like, "It's all about hiring a great team. You got to hire people smarter than I was like, this guy's full of it. He just doesn't want to tell us the secrets. Yeah. But like but like that is the secret. You know what I mean? It's simple, not easy. You know, and so I think the the the the billion-dollar skill is being able to accurately judge, discern people's talent, and know how to lead a team of A players. Because I will say this, from a demandingness perspective, A players demand an even better leader than B players do. So, I think I I did this tweet the other day, but it's like I think this is this is deeper than it's going to I feel like hit most people, but like I think you have to be worthy of the team that's going to get you to where you want to go. And so, if you're like, I want to get to 100 million, I want to get to 500 million. It's my belief that there's a team that can get you there. Absolutely. The question is, are they going to want to work for you? H got it. Yeah. Yeah. No, I feel like I kind of knew the answer, but sort of just wanted to hear you say it, too. But by the way, how did you how did you get uh how did you get verified on Twitter and you're not on Instagram? That's weird. I'm verified everywhere except for Instagram. Yeah. Like I don't understand it. Like that seems so odd. I got a guy connect I can connect you with him. Oh, really? Okay. They did it in like a week. That was actually like the easiest one. Really? Damn. because that's like one of the ones I don't I don't have. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. If you got to catch them all. Got to catch them all. Yeah. Yeah. Literally, that's what it seems like. Have you ever had to Oh, sorry. You were like cutting out here. Is my connection okay, by the way? It seems kind of like glitchy. Yeah, I think we're we're it's all good. Um I Anyways, go ahead. Go ahead. Um so, circling back to the executives, have you ever fired any? And if so, what were the reasons? Yeah. Um I I to be fair, I haven't f fired many. Uh Ila has done the majority of the firing. Um because most of the team rolls into her. So Leila very much like runs the businesses. Like she is she is really functional co CEO. Um she just makes me look good. Uh but it's ve it really is very much her. She doesn't get nearly the credit that she deserves because she really does run these things. Um, and she's a she's a phen she's I mean she's an unbelievable operator. Um, but the question was why did we fire them? Uh, usually it's because it's variety of reasons. You know, it could be a culture fit. Um, it could be that their skill set got us to where we are and you know they haven't been able to adapt to what is required for the next level of growth. Um, usually at an executive level it's going to be or it's going to be one of those, you know, one of those things. I mean we've had the quick early fires that are like a week in, you know what I Those are like, "Wow, missed that one." You know, I mean, there was one time we paid a a head hunter, I think 100 grand or 140 grand, something like that, to headunt a CTO for us. And um I think we fired him two days in. Wow. Jeez. Just wasn't worth it. It, you know, just we could tell right away he was late to three meetings on the first day and he said he couldn't figure out how to use Zoom. And I was like, you're CTO. How can you not figure out how to use Zoom? Yeah. Like that's that's literally Like that's what you're supposed to be, right? Yeah. Exactly. I was like, I don't know. We've got frontline, you know, customer service that's able to figure this out. No problem. So, what what am I missing here? And so, it just seems we're like, cool. Like, I'm sure you have a story. We I just don't care. You know what I mean? Like, at this level, I would in the comp that, you know, this guy's probably a $500,000 employee. Like, you're expected to bring it, you know? And uh if you can't do simple things right, then you're not going to do the great things, right? Right. And as far as your finding an executive assistant, you mentioned, have you gone through eight to find your current one or I'm on number nine and yes, I've gone through eight. It's actually something I'm very like ashamed of. So that like process, did you have to do every interview yourself because it's your own assistant, so presumably you're more involved in that. I think I've made basically every mistake you can make with a personal, you know, with an executive assistant. Um, even the way I thought about it was wrong for pretty much all of them until this one. Uh, so first off, many people call themselves executive assistants when they are in fact administrative assistants. I was looking for an executive assistant and we said executive assistant, but I didn't even know what an executive assistant was. I just that was the term everyone used. And what I consistently got was administrative assistants. And there's nothing wrong with administrative assistants. It just wasn't what I was looking for. And so, um, that was number one. Number two is that I was not involved in the interview process until like the final interview. So they would give me like two people and be like pick these are the two best and I would basically just pick from those. And um I just you know and and I didn't know what right looked like. And this is like this is a really good like analogy for for like acquisition.com. I didn't know what right looked like. And so as a result I had to hire again and again and again until I got lucky and I found what right looked like. Now, for the rest of my life, I know what I'm going to have for an executive assistant. I know exactly what it looks like at my level, what I do, what my life looks like. I know exactly what they need to do. And I will be able to always have that for the rest of my life. And the same thing goes for how do I find a sales director at, you know, a million a month? How do I find a sales director at 2 million a month? How do I, you know, what does that look like? What does, how do we transition from staff accountant to controller to CFO? What does it look like? So, like we know what those look like and that's how we fasttrack this because we just eliminate the the the fuckups for lack of a better term of of of going through it because I haven't I've basically not had an executive assistant for 5 years. I mean, I've had one, but I haven't used one. They weren't really executive assistants. So, that was number two. Number three is that I actually uh well, I guess with the interview thing, that was three. So, uh number four is um I didn't have tremendous rapport with the assistants that I had before this. Nothing wrong with them, great people. I just didn't have I I didn't look forward to speaking with them. And if I don't look forward to talking to you or want to talk to you, I just don't. And if you don't talk to your assistant, they they have a really hard time assisting you. And that's on me. That's my fault. Um, but that was a huge thing. And so, and I think part of it was that I I was like, that shouldn't matter. I can be a good, you know, I can be a good leader. I don't have like that's it felt petty that I would have to like like the person. Um, but it was really dumb. And so like you absolutely should like the person because you want to talk to him. If you want to talk to like you know with Melanie it's like I I'll send her I'm like hey I just wrote this bio for a speech. What do you think? And she's like ah I think it sounds good. Or I'm like hey what do you think about this paragraph from the book? Like I I want I want her feedback and I'm like hey what do you think about this t-shirt design or whatever you know and she gut checks it with me and I I I trust her judgment because it's supposed to be an executive assistant which means that she has to be able to do executive functions which means she has to work on my behalf or in mystead in a lot of places. So, she has to be able to read emails, know what I would say, and go for it. And that develops over time, but that's how she can really give me my time back, which is why in some ways it's the most valuable, you know, hire in the company. H, as far as like, again, I don't know the difference between administrative assistant, executive, like this is my first time hearing the disparity. Like, how do you determine the compensation structure for EA? Do you ask them in the interview, too? It's the same exact thing. Like, what do you think this is? Well, the range is going to be much smaller. You know what I mean? So um so it there was two questions there. So the administrative assistant versus executive executive is like they're assisting at the executive level. They sit on executive meetings etc. Right? Administrative assistant typically just helps with administrative tasks which means like paperwork, scheduling, correspondence. That's it and that's usually where their skill set stops. Uh an executive assistant can have probably elements of project management that are in place. They can drive initiatives. They can have their own um you know quarterly goals that they're driving. You know what I mean? So they they're they're much more involved and they act like mini operators on behalf of the CEO rather than or the whoever they're they're working for rather than just like hey can you get me coffee and things like that. So there's just that there's just different levels. So that was that the compensation that you're asking about. Um I think it depends on you know on on the the company. I mean I've got a friend who has two executive assistants and and she pays them both 200 grand a year. So like there's there's that level right. And um she runs a really lean company and she runs a lot of stuff through them, right? And they run everything in her life. Uh and she has a very big business. Um on the other side, you know, I would say if you want a really good, you know, executive assistant, it's going to start at 70. It's going to start there and it can kind of go all the way up to what I was saying. So like that's the range and it really depends on past experience. Uh, and ideally a similar type of business and CEO to you. So Melanie, I was very fortunate, worked for another CEO of a company who's very public facing. Um, and so she knows what the demands of like podcast and writing a book. And sometimes I just need quiet days, which is like I just need to write all day or whatever I'm going to do. And she gets that. So she just clears everything for me. if I if like Ila's relationship with her executive assistant is entirely different than mine with Melanie. I one of the other issues I had is I kept comparing my relation like what I thought I should have to what Ila had with with Yasm mean which is her executive assistant and um I basically just kept failing because I kept trying to recreate something that didn't need to exist. Huh. And is she have your life scheduled out to like the minute for months in advance or something? Cuz like when I was trying to for example scheduling this podcast, the two options were like today or like two months from now. And I was like, "Holy shit." So is it like that intense where it's down to the minute for weeks in advance? That was pretty good. I mean I mean I'm I'm I know I mean if I have a blank spot on my schedule, I'll just text her and be like, "What am I what should I be doing right now?" And she's like, "These are your priorities. this is this like this is probably a 30-minute task and I'm like all right then and I'll just do that. So, in a lot of like she helps me do more, right? And also she's a huge gatekeeper, you know what I mean? A lot of times we I mean probably like you, I'm sure you get a ton of requests. And so, you know, and so we also help the decision-making criteria, which is like, okay, uh what's required for a speaking engagement, what's required for a podcast, what's required for in person, what's requ, you know, like what are what are all the things that we're looking for? And this is how I would make the decision. And so she just does it again again. And now I just trust her her her decision-m. And is she expected to be in house like 40 hours a week or how does it like cuz you guys are in We're all remote. We're all remote. So where's where's she from? Is it she in the states or She's in Idaho. Yeah, she's in Idaho. Okay. Badass Boise. Yeah, that's where uh one of my companies is actually. Oh, really? Oh, nice. Yeah. Yeah. I might uh buy a place there in the future because I'm I live in Canada. So, it's kind of odd cuz both of all my companies are US- based, but I live in British Columbia. So, yeah. But Idaho looks awesome. The cost of living is good. Housing you can get good. It's pretty chill area. It's where Clickfunnels is. Clickunnels, clean, safe, all that stuff. So, with acquisition.com, obviously the grand goal, you know, you guys want to get to a billion, but do you have like a do you segment it by like you're always talking about like long-term goals, you know, the best entrepreneurs or guys who are thinking like 15 years ahead kind of thing rather than short term, but do you being mindful of that? Do you still segment that 15 years into like micro one-year increments or is it more like billion and like that's where my mind is or is it like 2022 I need to get this done by the end of the year also. Yeah, I think the big picture is like the heart, you know what I mean? It's like you have to have something that's going to pull you. Um and to be and candidly the billion doesn't pull me, you know what I mean? Like that's more like I think that's going to be something that will happen if we do these other things. Um, the thing that pulls me is the mission, which is to document and share the best practices of building world-class companies. Like me writing like there's not there's there's truly nothing that I get more enjoyment out of than writing the books. Like writing the books and making like and when I when I have the time when I cuz I try to do it like when I make those slide presentations and I put them on YouTube like there there are very few things that bring me more joy in life. like I really really like it and it makes me feel like some of the the mistakes and the lessons that I learned like it feels like it's going to help somebody else and to me it feels like those even though I messed up I'm like well someone else doesn't have to and so I feel like I'm getting credit or like I'm like you know what I'm saying like somebody else doesn't have to [\h__\h] this up and so it doesn't feel like it's in vain and so that's why I think I enjoy doing it so much. Um, but that's the thing that like really drives me. The the billion is just like I think we'll have even more credibility for the lessons that we taught and I think that it'll be cool because people will be able to watch the videos from when we were at, you know, 13 million a month or 15 million a month uh compared to when we're at 100 million a month. So, I'd be like, so I think that'll be coolest. I I wish Bezos and and Musk had done that. So, this is like me hoping to fulfill that dream for somebody else. Um and then uh in terms of the micro, so the the the longest actual planning time horizon we have is 36 months. So 36 months and then 12 and then quarters and then you know we've got you know weekly and monthly stuff. But that's that's kind of how we break things down. The big planning is uh 36 12 and quarters. That's the that's the real big stuff. Everything else is kind of blocking and tackling. So, what's your end of Q4 goals? Do you have any like set out right now or is it waiting until what happens in Q2, Q3 to figure that out sort of thing? Um, I would like to double I mean, for me, if we doubled the portfolio revenue by the end of the year, that'd be great, which we do by just growing the businesses, which right now we're on track to do. So, I'm pretty pumped about it. You don't set like hard deadlines on like book completions or anything? It's more just like a hobby for free time or Yeah. Like Yeah. I mean the books the books the books if anything acquisition.com does not need the book. Like the book is for me. Um if anything the book if anything the book makes acquisition.com less money because there's stuff that I should be doing right now that I mean literally Leila and I were having conversations about this last night. I I was just saying like I just wanted to say thank you to her because um I was like I know that there are things that I should be doing right now that I'm not doing because I want to write this book and I'm doing it for me. And so I just like was like thanks for giving me the space to do this cuz like this is like why do you have a business? You have a business so that you can have the freedom to have options. And for me writing the books is something that I just derived tremendous joy from. And so I just it's selfish and I really like it and so I do it. Even like there's so many there's there's a handful of big projects I should be pushing right now that I'm basically just saying until the book's done I'm not going to be able to do it. H Have you ever tried efficiency tactics to like I guess if you enjoyed writing then maybe you haven't but something like dictating the book and then having somebody format it and like rewrite it in a more professional way or something. No, I love writing. I love writing. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, some of the things that people don't know about me is like when I was in high school, I was the vice president editor of the newspaper. I was the uh I was the editor-inchief of the creative uh creative the literary magazine. Um I got a full ride to TUS uh which is a pretty good college here in the United States for writing. And they they like the writing professor like wrote me a personal thing was like we love your writing. So I'd done tons of writing samples because I just like I love to write. Um, and so it's cool that and I I pretty much stopped after college and I I I kind of refound it um with the first book which was gym launch secrets. Um, and then you know obviously $100 million offers and now $100 million leads. Um, and I I just really love it. So I wouldn't I would it would it would it would rob me of the joy and I don't think I when I see it in front of me I think better. I process the information better and I think I get more disciplined in my thinking when I write. So, do you does that apply for reading for you too or do you listen to podcasts more and how do you consume content or do you even consume content? Yeah, reading is the probably the biggest thing that I consume. Um, yeah, I'm not a big I'm not a like I don't consume a lot of content which makes me like a lot of times I feel like behind because like I don't I read but like I don't read that much. Um, and you know, I watch videos from now and then, but like not a lot. Um, Mhm. I think a lot of my like progress has been trying to like think through problems and just solving them in the real world. And that's where I've learned the majority of my stuff. Okay. And and like mentors, mentors and adviserss for sure. That's helped me a ton. Like that's where I would say like I get a lot of my guidance from. Right. Do you have like a certain cadence of meetings with them or do you no just like hit them up when you have a problem? Okay. Yeah. We're just like, "Hey, let me bounce this off you. This is what I'm thinking about this deal structure. Here's kind of the variables. Like, give me your two cents on it." Yeah. No, that's seems in line with what I do, too. So, that seems to be the easiest way to make it happen. It's just unorganized on my end. I have like 57 different threads all over the place, unfortunately. I think if you maybe if you ask them to uh all join one, it might be just like this is requirement to work with Derek. Yeah, maybe. So taxes and investing. I got to talk about this because you're I don't know if you're one of the first people to like lay out in clear practical terms how individuals with high net worths take out loans against their assets and their portfolios. So for me thinking especially as somebody who has a a corporate structure where a lot of my money gets tied up in the companies and if I pay myself personally I eat a [\h__\h] ton on the taxation side of things. So often times I'm looking at you know ways to leverage debt to fuel the you know whatever my lifestyle is which whatever bare minimum I need you know against the assets and whatnot. But for me, I always wondered cuz for you, I know that are are you're not planning on having on kids, right? Like you and Leila said, no kids 100%. I would say we're we are in the no kid camp. I'm not saying we're going to say anything forever, but like I don't think we'll have kids at current. So, if you're taking out loans against your assets and you've accumulated all of this debt by the time you die and they're coming to collect on it, does that debt get deferred onto your if you had kids, your kids or your family members, or is it simply that the collateral that you have put up to get that debt, they they just pull it out of your company and you've essentially circumvented the tax structure entirely? because I've heard differing differing answers where it's like on the one hand the idea is that when they like uh call the debt it's like let's just say I have my wealth management portfolio and they're like okay you owe $3 million on all this debt you've accured for your lifestyle they go in and they pull it out of my company and I've essentially died and beat the tax system or is it that they go into my company that exists and then like take a chunk of equity out of Yeah. So, okay, couple things. First, some disclaimers and then I'll I'll go into it. One, not tax advice. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Sure. This is not tax advice. Number one. Number two, I did not make my money investing. I made my money in money. So, I consider myself a very novice investor compared to at least on the like my business to investing knowledge is far outweighed towards business than investing. So, that's second. Yeah. Third thing in terms of uh what happens when we die. So most people, especially high net worth individuals, are going to have some sort of very big life insurance policy. So like when I die, there's a big nut that's going to go to Leila or in the reverse, right? Um and that would more than cover any kind of uh debt etc. that's that's happening, right? The next thing is that uh it depends on how the debt is being taken. So, if you were doing an asset backed loan, uh, which is like a collateralized loan, then they, as long as you're continuing to make the minimum interest payments, which if the company that you're taking it against can make off the cash flow from that company can cover the the minimum interest payments and it's growing at a faster pace, uh, then you indefinitely basically defer and then I think that's more or less the goal in a private company setting. So like for you right in in a company that's not publicly traded or the asset would not be considered like liquid um you would have to go through a more formal process of getting getting or putting debt on the company and it and especially if you want to take it as um as you know like as personal stuff for you'd have to go through something called a dividend recap uh recapitalization um of the business. And so uh that's the like big picture if it's a public it's a publicly traded equity or it's a real estate asset something that's a very well understood asset then you could there are plenty of lenders who will lend off that because they can uh adequately value the risk of the asset with a privately held company you basically have to pay for all of them figuring out a custom debt solution for you given the asset that exists. So for me, the the way it works for me is I have a bunch of companies under me and then I get dividends or distributions depending if it's a CC corp or an LLC. I pay a corporate tax at my like hold level and then that money that company sits on a bunch of cash and I either put it into a wealth management portfolio or redeploy it into new LLC's or whatever. So that wealth management portfolio is in the market and is being in invested and is cash. It's not person it's not personal after tax cash but it's corporate after tax cash. So but that amount I can get a personal loan against that amount equal well within reason. So I'm thinking at a personal level to circumvent the corporate butt [\h__\h] that happens when I take the money out of the company. I can basically take loan against whatever my portfolio is to whatever extent I want. and get this debt accumulated, but then when I die, I don't know that they just one for one like you owed $5 million at a personal level. So, let's go into your company portfolio and take out 5 million and that's satisfied. Like, I don't know that they don't charge a personal tax rate when it hits that barrier again. Do you know if that happens? I I don't know. I don't know. I think it also depends on how the debt's structured. I think it's all going to depend on how like what type of loan you are getting and the terms of the loan. Cuz I'm wondering how people justify doing this when they don't even know what happens when they die. Because I'm thinking if you've taken out all this personal debt against your corporate funds, like even if the cash is there, like there's no guarantee that you're not getting hit with a personal tax at death. So, if I owe 5 million and let's just say there's 5 million in the wealth management portfolio and they take out five and that was all you had, does it get chopped in half and then your family owes 2.5 million or something like I don't well to repay a debt there wouldn't be a there wouldn't be a taxable event. So, you do circumvent the personal tax even though it you have to pay the you might have to pay the debt back but it wouldn't but there wouldn't have been right you would you would took tax against an asset. Okay. Canada may be different, but like in the United States, if you take if you take a loan, like I have asset worth 100 grand and I take a loan of 50 grand against that asset and I have to pay $1,000 a year for that loan. Yeah. Then as long as I make the minimum interest payment or someone is making the minimum interest payment, then I then that loan might never get called and that's cool. Great. Good for them. And if it does get called, then it either gets paid through my life insurance policy because there's cash that happens there and that could pay off the debt and then the company's fine. um or if for some reason they did call it uh then then they could go grab the assets that they collateralized the loan with to begin with. Right? So you would essentially be circumventing personal taxation at that point because you're using collateralized liquid cash that wasn't that was in the company to pay off personal debt without incurring tax. Okay, that's good. If I take my company public, if I take acquisition.com public, I can take a loan against my stock personally, right? And they know that they can secure, they can grab my stock from my thing whenever they want. That's how it works from a fundamental level. And do you guys not do that at all? Like you just use I don't and and that was the last caveat. I don't do any of it. Yeah. But that is that is how it works. I don't do that because that's just again I have I have I I have tons of cash flow. You know what I mean? Like that's not my that's not my my issue. I have very high cash flow companies. We have asset likes asset light companies like we are built to cash flow. I'm a very big you know proponent of of uh you know Warren and Charlie uh in terms of school of school of investing like we're very much like we buy companies that make money. Mhm. You know what I mean? Like we're we're not in the like let's see what someone will value this in the future as or this could be really cool. Like we buy stuff that makes money and we can see the money today and we have a a reasonable expectation that it's going to continue based on XYZ factors. So I don't do that stuff. I don't do any really crazy tax things. I don't do any really crazy loan things. And now that everything just went to [\h__\h] and probably will continue to go to [\h__\h] for a little bit. Um I'm happy about that. All right. Because all of this other stuff, let's say I had taken all these loans up to this point, I would I would be overlever. I wouldn't be able to do anything. And right now everything's down 50%. Maybe it'll go down another 50%. And then overnight I'll just take that cash and I'll just buy something and then I'll have quadrupled my money, right? It's just like all these 10% things don't like at least in when I see how like the richest people made their money, they're looking for like 10x 100x returns in games that they cannot lose. They're looking for the obvious play. Like Charlie's like you should never have to do a calculation to figure out whether it's worth it. He's like it should be obvious, right? Like this thing was trading at 10 million. It's worth 1 million now and nothing has changed about it. Okay, this is probably something worth buying today. You know what I mean? So that's kind of like Yeah. Sorry. Go ahead. to play devil's advocate to that like you said that high net worth people do this to avoid tax but then people who have high net worth probably wouldn't be concerning themselves with that to begin with is that only so like which individuals are oh there are absolutely people who who obsess about tax stuff right absolutely I am not one of them right okay and I think that basically I don't think it is required to become high net worth to obsess about this stuff and I that many people will be better served not wasting 30% of their time trying to do all these things. Like I got a message after I made that tax video and somebody's like, "I have a personal friend who's extremely wealthy and he counts his days of when he's in New York versus not in New York so that he can avoid the New York tax." And I'm like, "Well, that sounds like a miserable." Dude, will you tell me about how many entrepreneurs you know who've gone to like Puerto Rico or like a tax-free place and how many of them regretted it versus didn't regret it? Do you know? Well, I I know personally a lot of them have come back. Yeah. And I say this as somebody who I moved to Puerto Rico. Oh, you moved to Puerto Rico in 2017. I moved to Puerto Rico in 2017. To be fair, I was only there for 4 days cuz the hurricane came the next day and then we didn't go back. Um but but yeah, I mean I had a friend that I uh that that he went there and he did the whole thing and uh I was like and he was traveling back and forth to Florida every weekend. Every weekend he flew to Florida and back. there was a flight two flights a week every week for the whole year so he could keep his his thing and I was like do you think if you didn't have a 100 flights a year you would be able to make up the 30% that you're paying in taxes and he was like well [\h__\h] and I was like and you'd be able to just live where you want to live cuz like this is the thing that Ila said and it I say I I I kind of get really hard on selling this piece because I I there's a part of me that just loves making more And I would and I would prefer to pay fewer taxes. Like I would, but I think that her logic is sound, which is why have all the money in the world if you can't live where you want to live in the world. Mhm. And so that's that's kind of the big picture, you know, um at least at least for me, you know, and but I the kind the devil's advocate argument I would give to me is like at what point does taxation become too much? If they if you were in an area that was 99% tax and you and you really wanted to live there, would you say, "Oh, you have to make a hundred times more." Well, I'd say like how reasonable is it that I can make 99 times more than I can and at what point does this materially affect how I live? Because then I wouldn't be as wealthy because I I don't have all the money in the world. But like the difference between, you know, I think at this point paying 40% uh versus paying 30 paying 4%, there's a 36% difference. you know, it's A-50% increase in your take-home, uh, which is material, but the qu it's material in terms of the number, but is it material in terms of how it affects my life? And so, the math that I did on this was, am I going to care if I die worth 10 billion or 15 billion? Yeah. I don't know. But I do know that if I talked to my 85-year-old self, he'd be like, did you really spend your entire life where you didn't want to live because you wanted me to have five billion more dollars? Yeah. And then he looks at me like I'm an idiot. So then I'm like, "All right, got it." And so that's that's like how I play this out of my head. So earlier we were talking about your how Acquisition.com is an LLC and then you sort of made it sound like it might become a CC Corp. Was that is that something that's planned or did I just like misinterpret that? No, I'm looking at the structure of that apparently. I mean, I was told by a friend of mine that that Warren Buffett espouses, which is like a combination of uh of CC corps that are structured through like an ESOP, which is a US thing for employee stock ownership plan. Um, and ESOPs have some particular things where there's there's no taxes um associated with the cash that you get from the loan for the ESOP. So, I actually literally just sent it to my lawyers to take a look at. Oh, okay. cuz I But again, this might be another thing that I tell people not to look into. Yeah. But Warren does it. So the thing that hooked me was that Warren Buffett did it. So I was like, "Okay, he's legit in terms of like his ethics and the fact that he doesn't do shady stuff." And so I was like, "Okay, if it's if there's no shadiness or there's no hair attached to it, like the trust thing that I was telling you about before, you know, I had to find 10 people that all had to represent, you know, $5 million and I have to like convince them to do this, then I can't touch the money and then the IRS could unwind it." I'm like, "Yeah, no." But this is like if this is 100% letter of the law, this if I can structure it in a certain way and it benefits the employees and we also don't have to like cool, I'm in. So Birkshshire Hathaway is a CC corp just to clarify, but it has this special employee thing. I think they have a they have they have a setup. I'm having her look into it. I I don't want to speak on it cuz I clearly didn't know enough. That's why I said it's her. And this would circumvent the 21% CC Corp tax on any dividends you receive. Is that Yeah, it had a it had there's there's thresholds and things like that and there's holding periods. It's like after five years the certain certain amounts of money it's over $10 million. There's a whole thing to it. What is it called? But if you know you're going to hold for a long time, that's the big thing is if you know you're going to hold for more than 5 years, which we are, then that's that and that's what made it believable to me because I was like if it's just like oh just move some papers around and then you don't pay like that's too good to be true. I don't believe that. But like the US the the the the US government incentivizing entrepreneurs to not sell and to grow corporate enterprises that that make jobs and reinvest the money in the corporation which goes into the economy. That makes sense to me to incentivize. So that's why I was like look into this. Wow. Yeah. This looks good. I'm just looking at it right now cuz I have a CC corp and I paid what 21% on all my dividends and then personally if I want to get that money in Canada I have to I have a withholding tax of 5% over the border then it gets into my hold co in Canada and then I have to pay a personal tax too if I want to get it out. It's just like it's [\h__\h] ridiculous. I mean you double tax here too. It's like 44 if you pay. If I took dividends from a CC corp, um they would be qualified dividends, but the net net would still be uh 44. So, it's better to do LLC if you're if it's a flow through, right? Yeah. Like my this is not this is not my specialty. This is just, you know, I paid this is like the HR question like how do you set this up? I'm like I pay people who are much better than me at it and I asked them to do it. Yeah. For me, the CC Corp, the idea of it was always sort of, I guess, enterprise value-minded where I figured I make enough I have enough to sit on where I can survive just fine. And I guess worst case scenario, I could always take out loans against my cash or assets and then if you could retain all the money in your C corp, you can just redeploy it. And I I assumed that was like at a high level what most of the top companies were doing, but never even heard of this. Yeah, cuz what do you need the money for? You're not because like there's nothing. I mean I you got you've got shelter, you've got clothing, you've got food, you've got transportation, four big costs, right? And so like if you know what you drive, you know where you live, you know what you eat, you know what you wear, what else are you going to spend the money on? Everything else you spend money on is to make more money. Yeah. So it's like what would these cost? And then everything else can stay in COP to get redeployed to make more money. And again and then at that point it's what? I can make more money so that I can make more money. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. To do what? Cuz I already covered my big four. Yeah. How much do you spend to maintain your current lifestyle? Uh I think about 50 grand a month. Damn, dude. And is that cuz you have like a what? Like a penthouse in Vegas right now that you're renting or what is that? That's with us that's with us like really actively trying to spend money. Like we I would say we live like [\h__\h] Um Okay. And I say that And I say that Caleb's cracking up, but like I mean I'm just being real because like at some point I'm like I just said it like these are the four things you can spend money on. Like what else are you going to spend like and so it's you know um like we go out to eat. We probably spend $12,000 a month on on food. Okay, which is a lot. It's a lot of money, you know, but we live we live in a place that has lots of good restaurants and so we go out. Um on on the flip side, I spend no time preparing food. We don't go grocery shopping and we don't we've never used our kitchen. Not once. So lunch is delivered and we go out for dinner. We do that every day, right? The only thing I have in the morning is I have a bar and a shake and I do that every day. So I do a bar and a shake. I have a bunch of ground beef and and sweet potato for lunch and then I have and I go out to dinner and that's where I have my dessert and I have everything else. Right. The the rent here I think is like 15 grand a month, you know, whatever. Um, and then I saved, you know, 20 grand for miscellaneous. You know, if Ila wants to buy a purse or whatever, you know, she shea likes Ila has expensive tasting clothing. Um, I obviously have very expensive tasting clothing myself. Um, dude, your flannels I've heard are pretty expensive. They are they are pricey, but I mean, even if I have 10 of them, it's like two grand and then what else do I do? Um, but that's it. You know what I So there's there's not a lot else that we um that we spend money on. And that's that's when I started getting into it where I was like, man, our our passive distributions far outweigh even our active like so that's where I get into the whole like that's where I get into the whole worldview stuff because I was like why am I even bothering to do this to begin with? And it's like we're just making money to make more money so that we can make more money to make more money to to what you know what I mean to nothing. It's just to eventually disappear and go back into the system. So whatever it's but we make more money because I enjoy the process of making money and I love documenting it which is why that's the mission of the company and we spent a long time like what's a what's a mission we can get behind. I want to document and share the best practice of building world class companies. Like it's I draw pictures of business. I write books about business. I make videos about business. Like all I think about is business. And when I go to dinner with somebody and they don't want to talk about business, I am really awkward. I have realized this. Like I dude and my my friends too and like mainly my business partners, we've become like increasingly more hermit to the point where I actually used to be like pride myself on my ability to kill it in interviews and be like socially fluent and whatnot. But I feel like even though I film videos for a living, I'm more increasingly socially awkward if it's not related to exactly what I want to talk about. Yes. I think I think what it is because I try to think a lot about it because I've bombed a lot of uh first dinners with like new people. Yeah. Be like, "You said nothing." I was like, "I had nothing to add." But I think it's a signal to noise ratio. So it's like a lot of people will make noises, you know what I mean, with their with their I'm using this Dr. C my he's my close. He says people make noises with their face, but they don't say anything. And so it's like they have a high noise ratio, but like to me there's very little signal because it's just like these are they they might be meaningful to someone else. And so I can appreciate that. It's just like for me it's just not something I find interesting. And so I think part of where why you got to where you are and some people might say that we've you know accumulated some material success is because like we just genuinely find this incredibly fascinating. And so I spend all my people like how do you stay so motivated? I'm like I I don't feel motivated. I just I love doing this and it's what I spend all my time doing anyways. And thank God you can make money doing business because otherwise I'd still probably be doing business and not making money because I like doing it. Yeah. I want to circle back to your diet at a at very soon because you mentioned how how you kind of like break down your day, but from the entrepreneurship side, sort of like capping off like productivity. Go. Yeah. So, Caleb asked if you could change batteries for 90 seconds if we could just Oh, yeah. Sure. Sure. Sweet. We can just we can just normal chitchat. I don't know how to do that, bro. Sorry. Yeah, I don't I don't either. We can just we can just stare at each other. Yeah. What is uh I don't want to like burn through these questions though. I have a good one. So, well, I'll ask you I'll ask you a couple questions. Sure. So, are you uh are you married? No. No. Just girlfriend planning. Planning on? Not not anytime soon. No. Fair. Kids. Oh, we're good. We're good on battery. So, we're going to go. There you go. Disregard. kids probably not though because and it sounds absurd but well like for me the ROI and like it sounds so [\h__\h] up to talk about ROI when you're talking about like children or like pets or anything but like even getting a dog I don't even have time to feed myself let alone like a [\h__\h] dog. So it's kind of like for me I'm just not at that point in my life where I can take a step back from anything because I'm so full bored. So yeah, I get it. What's your what's your reason for no kids? Um, it doesn't fulfill a need for me right now. Yeah. Yeah. I feel like I'd be doing the kid a disservice right now, too, cuz I just wouldn't be giving him the attention he needs. And it doesn't really fulfill me in any meaningful way at this point in my life right now. Yeah, we're on the same page. And like the stuff that I'm doing is endlessly fascinating to me. And I don't think that like changing diapers or a 2-year-old would be as fascinating. A lot of people would be like, "Wait until you have your first kid." And I'm like, I get it. Um, but I've also seen tons of guys who love their work and don't love their kids. So, like, I don't think I'm immune to that. Um, and I also think that there's a very high likelihood that I don't know if I'd like the kid. I feel like I feel like I can be picky about the people I want to hang out with. And like even though uh I'm related to people in my life currently, I don't hang out with them because I, you know, we don't have similar interests. And so, like, if the kid really liked, you know, painting or something, and there's nothing wrong with that, I just probably wouldn't find that that fascinating. Oh yeah, it seems like the potential likelihood of the kid ending up something that skews away from what you generally had in mind as like what your dialed in focus is. It's so high that it's almost like the roll of the dice, is it is it always worth it? I I don't know. And I'll give the one followup that I have, which is like when I think about it because people are like, "What about legacy?" And you probably already know my views on it, which is just that I don't think legacy is real anyways. But like if like if if people are like, "Well, what about your future generations?" I'm like, "Well, I'm somebody else's future generation." And so if you go far enough back, we're all related. Uh and so it's like, "Well, then we already are all family and we're all distant cousins anyways." And so like, why don't I just help a super distant cousin of mine do stuff that they're walking towards me saying, "Dude, I love everything you do. Please help me do that." And I'm like, "Fuck yeah, I love talking to this stuff." And the people who like talking to this stuff, let's do that. And so it's like rather than try and convince somebody to try and love what I love, just let the people who already like that stuff who for whatever nurture nature reasons have come forward, I'll just help those ones. And I feel like in, you know, a kid probably takes 30 hours a week and 40, I don't know. Um, in that same 40 hours a week for 20 years, I could probably help a lot of people. And if I think about it like that, that's where I have a hard time justifying. And you're like, what about that's return on what? I'm like, I mean, it's return on whatever, you know. Sorry. Go ahead. I It's the kids. No, no, no worries. That's uh good to get some insight on that cuz I've been curious why you guys didn't want kids, too. What is the most overrated piece of advice you hear in the I don't know. I like I guess I I want to make this relevant to me selfishly. So, like in like the I don't know like uh your net worth area, what what is the most overrated piece of advice? I already know which one I'm going for. Okay. Um, okay. There's two. I gota I got to pick two. One of them's for Caleb. The other one's uh for me. So, uh, at least at least in the US, there's this like uh the average millionaire has seven streams of income, right? Like everyone like retweets this as though it's as though it's fact. And it's just like it's it's so silly for a variety of reasons. First one is that the way someone gets somewhere is not how they end up. So Mark Cuban has a zillion different income streams, but he made his billion with one. And so it's like it's like saying billionaires fly on private planes, so you should fly on private planes to be a billionaire. It's completely irrelevant what they're doing because what matters is how they got there. And that's why I think that quote is just such a farce. The other reason on a tactical level is that most people have a very difficult time staying focused and it takes an inordinate amount of effort to be successful at anything. And to assume that you have so much talent that you can that you can put onetenth of your attention into 10 things and then somehow compete against somebody who's going all in on that one thing is just a huge ego thing in my opinion and it shows a lack of clarity. Right? It's just like the whole idea of uh I'm going to do all these things and see which one works is so ridiculous because they'll all work but not at the same time. And so you just have to pick one and I think you just end up doing 10 things like really shitty instead of one thing. 100% 100%. And it takes a very high skill set of knowing how to delegate, lead, manage, recruit, partner even uh to to be able to expand yourself. And I think that people might be like, "Well, Alex, you have eight portfolio companies." It's like, "Yeah, but I didn't get here that way." And you're like, "We've gotten to this point because we finally got those companies start." And I've and I've been very open about the fact that I think Gym Launch would have been bigger if I hadn't started Prestige Labs. Mhm. Because I split my attention. Yeah. And I it would have been bigger. I know it would have been bigger because there was priorities that I had as soon as I started Prestige Labs. I just they stopping they stopped being initiatives, right? And I could have continued to grow that company and I shouldn't have. It just it just seemed it was the woman in the red dress. It was like she walked by and I was like, man, an extra 20 million years sounds awesome, right? But I could have just driven 100 an extra 20 million years in the main thing and I made the mistake by looking away and I took my eye off the ball. It was a big mistake for me. It was one of my Yeah. Yeah, it was when I was in the buildup stage of my supplement company and before my tele medicine company even started. I would see guys like Alex Becker and think to myself, I feel like I could do this like online course thing and the val the amount of ROI he gets for his like these master classes and you have like just a good ClickFunnel setup and the amount of conversions he gets relative to his input for it. So [\h__\h] the margin is so extreme. The the attra the attractive like lady in the red dress or whatever very very hard to ignore, but I think ultimately ignoring it and doing building my businesses got me like exponentially further than I would have been otherwise overall. And I feel like a lot of those like how to make money online course guys, not necessarily Alex because I think he has like successful um like Becker is the man. Becker is awesome. Yeah, that he has like high roast and like other stuff that's you know cool that he's doing but like Yeah, Hyro is a $100 million company. I mean, yeah, I've looked to see if Do you recommend presumably you'd recommend them for like Yeah, I think they do a good job. Okay, because I've considered using them for gorilla. They do a great job tracking. It depends on the type of business, but I mean Alex is smart, man. People like anybody who bets against Becker does not know how smart Becker is. Yeah. Yeah. I wonder how many of those make money online guys though that to taught you know kind of like kept the secrets to themselves sold like big um high value like courses and whatnot just wish they built enterprise value in like an actual brand instead of this like selling how they made it sort of thing at the end of the day. Yeah. So so think about so this is so obviously I'm in the space so I've given this like a lot of thought. So the way that most people practice it is that they sacrifice enterprise value for today's cash value. So if they think so think I would think about like this. It's like if in five years they could they could build a brand and not take a lot of money during those five years and then maybe sell that brand for like 20 million bucks versus make you know $2 million a year for the 10 years. A lot of people just can't say no that 2 million bucks a year takehome for that for that 5y year period. And now, is the amount of money that they're going to get at the end equivalent? Maybe. It depends on their skill set. You know what I mean? Um, but the the idea of doing the opportunity versus selling the opportunity is very interesting because you can also if you know how to if you know how to build a brand, you can turn the selling of the opportunity into a brand and then you get the best of both, right? And that's basically what I'm trying to do with acquisition.com is help people do that because that's what I did. I lived that, you know, I mean, we took 43 million in distributions while we grew the company. And part of that is because I did the other way first. So I grew my chain of gyms. I just pushed everything back into more locations, more locations, more locations, more locations. And then when I realized I learned more about business, I realized the opportunity vehicle was not ideal. And I had a mentor who's like, "Dude, you should be licensing this stuff. Like, you should be you should be helping other like you shouldn't be signing these leases, doing these build, like you shouldn't be doing all this stuff." And I took that to heart and I basically fire sold those. And I would have I would have had more money if I had just kept my first location and just literally pocketed all the money for that for that period of time that I spent reinvesting. Yeah. Rather than doubling basically emptying my pockets every single month into growth. And then at the end of it, I had nothing. I ended up making a terrible business decision after that and then losing what I sold the money for. Different conversation for another time. Um, but like that was when after I I was sitting there at the bottom and I had no money after just basically giving up, you know, half a decade to that to the the chain of gyms. I was like, I'm not going to do that again. I was like, whatever I do next, I'm going to make money while I grow it. And that was a huge priority for me. I was like, I'm not going to just just keep wishing it's going to happen because there's so many things that can disrupt a business. And so I am I'm a big advocate of taking at least, you know, decent distributions throughout the growth. And does that sacrifice long-term enterprise value? Maybe. But from an entrepreneur perspective, especially the guy who it's his only company, they are so overindexed risk-wise. Yeah. That taking distributions is a way of hedging your risk. Yeah. That's something I took to heart that you talked about is making sure you're taking regular distributions cuz for a while I was just thinking I care so much about enterprise value and I don't need this [\h__\h] I can just make the money off YouTube and like random stuff and not worry about you know distributions. I'll just reinvest it all and grow 10 like way faster. But there's a point where it's like it's it's too aggressive where you're not actually being mindful of like your own risk profile. See? Yeah. you're you're you're skating too close to the knife's edge. And I'll say one one more thing on this because I this happens all the time. And this is just what I've seen from some of the some of the companies that have applied and things like that is that there when you ask if I ask an entrepreneur and I'm like, "Hey, are you taking distributions?" They're like, "No, I'm reinvesting everything in the business." And I say like, "Reinvesting in what?" Like what are you reinvesting in? Like the term reinvesting in the business means that you are buying assets that are going to increase the company's value. So it means you're doing some sort of M&A, you're doing some sort of tuckins, rollins, whatever of other companies or competitors or you have capital expenses that are required to grow the business, which might mean I'm buying equipment. I'm, you know, buy I'm expanding facilities, right? Those are those are capital expenses that would be investments to grow the business. I'm going to get a return on the capital. That is what the true meaning of return uh reinvesting in the business is. The vast majority of the time they say they are reinvesting in the business because they are just not making money. And so they assume that because they are not taking cash out of the business, they are reinvesting in it. When in reality, they just not running a very good business because a very good business spits off cash. It spews money. That is what a good business feels like, right? And so unless they have a business that has a requirement that grows through capital, Mhm. Like anybody who's in the in the education space who says they're reinvesting in the business, I'm like, what are you reinvesting in? What asset are you buying that you're getting a that you're getting a return on through your business? Yeah. And usually they don't have an answer because they're not reinvesting their business. They're just not that profitable. Yeah. I wonder how many of those do that in order to show like an inflated revenue metric through like rorowazes that are barely break even just to show I made some huge amount of revenue to then sell their thing though too to more people which is a common tactic. The guys like that are Oh yeah, it is. But, you know, I've uh I've yelled at some of those guys because I I know some of them um and been like I'll tell I'll tell you a story because I think it'll piss off somebody in the audience. So, so there was a guy that I know um he's still active today and uh I knew that he was broke. Yeah. And he made a Instagram video that says uh do you want to know how to be a millionaire uh in your 20s? And so I screenshotted it and I texted to him and I said, ' Do you know the definition of a millionaire and he was like, "Well, I've done a million dollars in total sales." I was like, "Do you want me to repeat the question?" He was like, "No." I was like, "A millionaire means you have over a million dollars in assets." Yeah. In exclusion of your primary residence. I was like, "Do you have that?" He was like, "Well, no." And I was like, "Then stop lying to yourself." And so he ended up taking the thing down. And I was just like, dude, like the thing is is that as much as like everybody gets upset about, so think about this is from a logical perspective for everybody who's listening. If we're like, this guy's broke, right? This guy's broke and he's pretending like he made all this money. He's already broke. Why are we upset? He's broke. Yeah, we like he's lying about having money. Okay, well then he doesn't have money. Then why are we What are we upset about? He doesn't have money. And the thing is is until they learn the lesson, they're never going to get anywhere big. And by the time they do get somewhere big, they'll have learned the lesson and they won't be full of [\h__\h] Yeah. I don't know. I I don't get as I I don't get as upset about it cuz I just see it as they don't know any better. I don't see it as malicious intent. Yeah. Now, I'm sure you've ran into quite a few of those scenarios through your ClickFunnels days and experiences cuz a lot of those a lot of those guys like obviously there's good utility of this software for sure. Like it's an amazing platform, but there's a lot of people that use it who just like lie about their [\h__\h] and sell like make money online courses that shouldn't be. I feel like for sure. Yeah. And the thing is is and I I have a lot of love for the industry because almost everything I've learned has been from that space. You know what I mean? And so when I think about how much money I've spent in total for like the internet marketing courses and seminars and coaches and masterminds that I've spent, I spent more on my four degree, four-year degree, and that didn't tell me nearly as much. And so if we really want to get real, I think the problem is in the expectations that are being set. I don't think there's anything wrong with trying to teach somebody how to make money online or how teach money teach someone how to make money using an ATM machine or teach money how to how to how to become have a marketing agency or teach money how to become a videographer or teach money how to become a better hairstylist. It's like I don't think there's anything wrong with that. I think the problem is that people think that if they buy one course they now should be a master entrepreneur. And so it's like how can you take 120 credits in college, which is, you know, 40 courses, just to get a basic degree and then somehow assume that you're going to become a master of entrepreneurship from one course. It's it's it's a it's a messed up expectation that people have and that's why they get upset. No one's upset that they pay $200,000 and they give four years of their lives and they can make the exact same amount of money as they could graduating from high school. Yeah. No one's upset about that. And it's because they don't set the expectation that way. Yeah, when I realized what went into a successful company from a marketing aspect and how little my marketing degree actually was impactful of that and h how irrelevant it actually was, I became pretty jaded of the whole postsecondary system to be honest. So totally I I definitely there's a huge place for like high quality education in the e-learning space for sure. Totally. And how do you learn stuff? Apprenticeship. I mean that's how they did it in the olden days. We just have tech that allows one person to be, you know, many people to be an apprentice from one. It's the only difference is just tech is has changed the way education works. And I think that the space has to catch up. I it's so new like formal education's been around for hundred years. Like this has only been around for like 20 maybe. You know what I mean? And if you you can you can count the Dan Kennedy the old direct response mail guys. So you can kind of count that. like in the way that we kind of all consume it now with like modules and courses and videos and things like that like it's so new and so like there will be I mean gym launch is an example like gym launch is going to grow to 250 million like it will um and I mean as long as they execute on the things they need to do but they they have a very reasonable strategy of getting there and so what why isn't there an academy for gym owners like are you expect to just like learn how to just run it like where are you going to learn how to run a gym the business of running a gym is very is no one teaches it and they should. And so it's like what what does it look like? How would we how would we structure it and what expectations would we set if we were really trying to do it right? And that's what we're trying to do at acquisition.com. You know what I mean? And obviously companies that we that we start working with, they're not perfect. Of course they're not. But we try we, you know, we've got years to build this brand and slowly get better and better and better just like anything. And I think people have these crazy unrealistic expectations of just other humans that they don't even apply to themselves. Yeah. No, I agree. And I think it will eventually get more in the direction of where people see the value in these sort of things relative to like when you actually just like compare and contrast your postsecary education versus like a course you know there's there's a huge delta and like somehow people still will perceive it as ripoff scammy whatever and somehow school is fine even though how much practical information is there in the school part? Not a whole lot, dude. I I was learning I was I was taking business courses from teachers and and and teachers assistants that are making 20, you know, 5,000 a year. And I'm not saying there's anything wrong with making 25,000 a year, but like if the whole point is to teach us how to like make more money. Yeah. The entrepreneurship degree I found the funniest of all. I'm just like why? Like why are you here if you're teaching entrepreneurship? like, you know, unless you're a retired entrep like Harvard, Stanford, some of those professors are are G's, you know what I mean? And they really just want to give back and like they're savages. Like they've had billion-dollar exits and they've done multiple like they're legit, you know what I mean? But the thing is is I think there's just a huge amount that are underneath of that that are just not, you know, and I think anyways, not to we that horse is probably dead on the ground and just but I want to talk about your personal and professional life balance. So obviously you and Leila I'm assuming have some sort of structure at this point or maybe you don't. I don't know for like how many how many hours are allocated to you wake up you I don't know like what do you have a morning routine and then how do you schedule out things and date nights or how's that look? Yeah, we do the same thing pretty much every day. So, we wake up, we have coffee, we work, we have lunch, we do meetings in the afternoons. Uh, we walk, we go out to dinner, we come home, we'll usually have more dessert, and then we'll usually watch an episode of a show and we go to bed. And I do that basically every day. So, you you have the same sleep schedule and you wake up at like 4:00 a.m. at the same time or whatever it is. I wake up when I wake up. Um, it usually is like today I woke up at probably like 4:30, but 4:30 to 5:30 is when I wake up. I mean, whenever my REM cycle ends, I just wake up with my eyes open. Okay. And then you get up, you go make a cup of coffee and you sit there for like, how long is it until you're actually working in your office? Probably 45 minutes. Probably 45 minutes. Leila and I hang out, we have our coffee, we watch the sunrise, chitchat about the day, chitchat about whatever. Um, and then we work. And I mean the the two biggest life hacks that I've had for being productive that I still do is number one I wake up early and I start working pretty much immediately. Um I still consider you know I'm not transiting anywhere. I'm not getting ready. I mean from the time my eyes are open to the time I'm working is probably 45 minutes. Um and I start early. So that's one. And the second one is that I just don't schedule anything before lunch. And we're we're pretty we're pretty vigilant about that. even with all the demands of time and all that stuff, I have until basically 12:30 every day um that I don't take really any meetings. And that's that has I think those two things together have allowed me to I mean if I start working at 5:30 and I have until 12:30, I have a full workday completely uninterrupted every day before I do things like this, right? Like I did nothing before I talked to you today. Do you have like a task from Melanie too for that 5 to 12:30 slot where it's like you're going to work on your book for this or you're going to film or what whatever. Okay. Yep. And and it's also because the nature of my work compared to uh Leila's is different. Leila has far far more um tasks and like she has a lot more like 10 to 60 minute tasks and I have way more like 40hour tasks. You know what I mean? So like if I need to if I need to create like an entire SOP. So one I'll give you an example. So one of one of the things that I'm I have to build right now is um our databased marketing system. So it's a system that we do with all of our portfolio companies which basically creates compliant claims. Um allows us to track uh customer metrics and customer results um at different intervals within the company. How we translate that into headlines and guarantees um within the product and how it translates into marketing messaging. And so like all of that kind of all works together. It's a big thing that I have to put together, you know? I mean, there's lots of assets. There's like here's the surveys, here's how to interpret the surveys, here's how you translate them into headlines and guarantees, and here's what the compliance looks like, all that stuff, right? And so, like, that's a big thing I have to do. Leila's tasks are typically not like that. It's hers are more like uh have four interviews with, you know, this role that we're looking at with uh one of the portfolio companies. So, it's like they have a director of sales and she's going to interview their final candidates to to make a recommendation, right? So, it's like it's she has way more tasks than I do and they're just as important. They're just different in nature. H And if you guys don't finish like let's just say she's going through her bullet point list of tasks and she doesn't finish them by lunch or your meetings in the afternoon, do you just like chop them off in the middle or do they carry through and sometimes you'll have a full workday where you work for like 12 hours or how's that typically play out? No, they just start over the next day, you know? I mean, there's an there's literally an endless supply of work. So, you know, we just and that's where I think prioritization is important. A lot of people just don't prioritize well. So, they do lots of stuff, but they don't get anything done that moves the needle. When do you film? Is it in that 8 hour block when you wake up? Um, yeah, sometimes. I mean, a lot of the stuff is repurposed. And Caleb's, you know, coming in and he's building his uh the media team out, uh, you know, for this. Uh mostly cuz like I'm not I want to work on businesses um more than I want to make like the specific videos and I don't think it's sustainable. Um and so I didn't want to create an unsustain I didn't want to scale up to something that was unsustainable to then scale it back. So what I'm doing now is very is comfortable for me. This is like I make you know a handful of videos every few weeks and I usually do them in one spray. I'll just sit down and I have a couple things top of mind. I'll make the videos and those get spread out. And then we've got, you know, podcasts like this where they'll they'll repurpose different chunks. And so that that becomes content that also becomes the clips. And so the vast majority of the short stuff is repurposed. Uh and increasingly over time more of the other the longer clips for like YouTube will be repurposed. When you sit down for videos, that's like once a week you just like blast off and talk at the camera for like four hours or like how do you structure that? Uh cuz you have you probably have a much better process than I do. Well, the fact that I think you've said somewhere that you do it once a week or something, which is like Yeah. Or every other week. Or every other week. Yeah. And then you just make sure you have enough clips out of that to make. And then if you have like a long form presentation that you've done or like uh I don't know like you've been to an event or something that you can post, you'll post that. But it's kind of like whatever you thought of over the last two weeks as important and you just sit down just [\h__\h] talk kind of thing. You don't have like somebody prompting questions for you or anything. No, it is it is astonishingly low production. It's that's not a guys. It's not like some some I'm trying to make it I It's really low production. I have a like I have I have this little pad in front of my computer that if I think of something that I think would be good, I write it down. And then when I have like two or three of them on the pad, I sit down and make the video that weekend. You know what I mean? And if I get to the video time and I'm not feeling one of them, I don't make it. And so if I sit down and I feel like making four, I make four. And if I feel like making one, I make one cuz at le good and so I don't want to waste the audience's time. Do you review anything before it goes live ever? Uh, not really. So, you just let them clip it and just assume that it's like it's going to be whatever it is. It's me direct to camera. Yeah, it's me direct to camera. So, like I I feel confident like I will stand behind what I say. Yeah. Um where where I feel like people have to watch out is where if they if somebody's trying to take on their voice, that's something that I would have, you know, a lot of difficulty with. But anytime, you know, they want to take a transcript and then like post it as a caption or post it on LinkedIn or whatever, like those are my words, like cool. You know what I mean? As long as it's not taken out of context, which usually they're really good about. Um yeah, then yeah, that's how we do it. Do you do anything to get your headspace right for videos? like listen to music, get pumped up, like do you do anything like that? No. No. Okay. You're making sometimes sometimes just getting No, dude. But like sometimes if you know you've got to film and you have like a really dialed in schedule and it's like this is my filming block and you're just like not feeling it. You know, sometimes there's things people will do to kind of like get their head in the right space. Wasn't sure if you had any of those. If I if my head's not in the right space, I just do something that my head is in the right space for. So, I'll say something that Leila and I are probably a little different about. Um, maybe we've maybe we've converged a little bit, but like this is probably going to be against the the discipline motiv motivation manifesto like mantra that is that is predominant. But like people are like you got to do stuff that you don't want to do. Um, I I don't I don't do that a lot. I I do the stuff that I want to do and I I just if all of these things are high ROI, I just do the ones that I feel like doing. Um, and if they're all high ROI, then it doesn't matter what order I do them in. It's like today is a content day. I'm like, well, if I don't feel like making content, I feel like writing a book, then I'll write the book. And if the day the next day I was supposed to write the book and I feel like making content, I'll make content. They both get done. I just do them when when I when I'm feeling it. Okay. I don't know. It's worked for me. I I have I am not a rules guy. I do not like rules and so I like having freedom and so I don't I try to apply that to as many places in my life as I can. The one thing I can relate to a lot is recently you showed your little like little hallway cubby of an office. It's just like a dialed in [\h__\h] straight on. You can't look to your left. You can't look to your right. It's just a wall. For me over the years, the more I had windows, sound, anything. I can't even have my door open where it's like I know another room is like in the steppable vicinity of me. It just needs to be shut. So, I have a hard time with traveling even too cuz if I go sit down at a table somewhere else that's not my office, it's very difficult. So, for you over the years, have you This is a This is a mobile work studio. So that's a table that has that has things in it and it opens up and it has like a screen so I can like have a portable desk. It's like So I I hear you. I feel you. Yeah. Over the years did you kind of like come up with certain strategies to shut things out more? Cuz I feel like I don't know if I heard this, maybe I'm imagining it, but you said you at times you even wore a hat to be like more like tunnel visioned in. Sometimes some of the lore that comes out I don't know where it comes from that. No, I've never worn that to like stay more focus. I just wear it cuz it keeps my head hot. It keeps my head warm. Um, and I like it cuz I like the logo and I like the hat. So, yeah. So, like that's why I wear that. Over the years, has your office just become like smaller and smaller and smaller to where you've like dialed in a certain like you need to have a certain space the way it is where it's like you're not going to get as much work done otherwise. I like a big screen. That's about like that's what I like having a big screen and I like having a decent amount of desk space. That's about it. And I don't if you were overlooking Vegas with an office table right in front of the glass door or the glass window, would your productivity be like halfed or Oh, yeah. For I mean, I don't know. I don't know what the percentage would be. It would be less. Yeah. Okay, cool. So, I'm not Yeah. I I also get distracted really easily. Like I I mean, when we drink our coffee, sometimes I just won't say anything for like 30 minutes cuz I'm just staring at the cars like, you know, it's like watching fire. I just like stare at it. I have nothing else to do. You know what I mean? So like I I can't have some people can't like people tell me they're like, "Oh yeah, I work and like I just put jazz on or I put music on." Like I I put earplugs in and if I'm feeling really feisty, I'll put headphones on top of my earplugs. Like I need No music though ever. No. I I No. No. God, no. I can't think of I I only then I'm just listening to music. I'm not even I can't I cannot do more than one thing. Hm. So what about the phone? Do you leave it on airplane mode and like chuck it out of the room or what do you do with it? Yeah. Yeah. If I'm if I like if I need to crank, I'll I'll leave the phone outside the room. Even if my phone's off and on airplane mode, just that having it by me distracting. Yeah. Yeah, for sure. Then you like then you get the comp, you know, the compulsion to like check Instagram or check Twitter or whatever. Yeah. Have you found that harder to stay dialed in now that you kind of like you're so involved with social right now to grow your platform to then bring in these companies? Do you ever find yourself accidentally deviating too hard down the rabbit holes of social media when you're checking stuff? It's like, "Holy [\h__\h] I've been sitting on the toilet for 20 minutes now looking at Instagram." Um, um, I uh I don't I don't I don't think I think I'm actually okay at it. Um, as much as I'd love to have like a damaging admission right now and just say like, you know what, I struggle with like I I don't as much because I actually don't I have to remind myself to to like to do it. And um I don't I don't I have to I have to I have to try like I have to try like I have to remember to put stories up. I have to I have to I have an alarm to check to respond to comments and stuff because I otherwise I I just won't. Um, that's not something your executive assistant could do if they know how to speak your like you. Yeah, it's the voice thing. I'd rather No, I I want the stuff if it's going to be me. I'd rather respond to five people and have it be me than have 100 100% of people being responded to and it not be me. You know what's wild is how Instagram doesn't have like an admin feature where you can just like assign admins. You have to like actually physically give people your profile. Like, how is that not a thing a thing yet? It makes no [\h__\h] sense. I don't get it. There's a lot of things that don't make sense. Yeah. Um, sleep, by the way, I don't want to forget your sleep hygiene is like your like a militant schedule. Go to bed at what is it like 8 or 9 or something like you're pretty rigorous about that, right? Yeah, it used to be I we go to bed a little bit later now. Um, we noticed we both noticed that we felt like we were we were getting better quality sleep going to bed a little later. Um, so now we go to sleep around like 10:00. Um I for for the whole period of time that we were growing Gym Launch, we went we were we were asleep by 9:00. So we really just pushed it an hour. I would say both things have changed by an hour. So I used to wake up between like 3:30 and 4:30 and I used to go to bed, you know, I would be asleep by 9ish and now I'm asleep by 10ish and I'm between 4:30 and 5:30. Huh. So it's like 6 and 1 half to seven and a half hours sleep. You don't feel like you need eight to be top tier or anything? I don't even I can't sleep eight. I have I I mean I haven't I I would say I sleep 8 hours like once a month and I feel like a newborn child, but you know most most days I I don't most days I wake up and it's and this is going to sound really corny. Um but I wake up and I'm like really excited to start working. I'm like, "Oh god, I can't stuff I'm doing tomorrow." You know, I'm like, "Oh, I can't wait. I'm like I just finished the first three chapters. I can't wait to start, you know, chapter 4 today." like I finally have like a good framework for what I want to hit on or um oh we've got like that interview with like that new you know VP of ops for a new company I'm like ah that's that's going to be a good one they have a really cool experience I'm looking forward to talking to that person or you know we have this podcast I was like I'm really looking forward to to meet Derek and I know you've done a lot of really cool stuff and I was like I'm just really looking forward to it so it's just you know stuff like that it's funny I don't want to miss out yeah the paradoxical kind of like screw yourself situation that happens where it mo what I know Like a lot of successful entrepreneurs who love what they do, it's you have a hard time even getting to sleep because you're so excited about the next day to get started and then as a result your sleep quality gets [\h__\h] up and then it's harder to work well the next day and it just a vicious cycle that continues. Do you ever find that happens to you where it's like getting to sleep? I have issues falling asleep. I'm like I'm I've like try to keep my eyes open. Um yeah, I fall asleep really easy. this. Okay, so one thing that I'm sure you've seen as much as I have is the absurd exorbitant amounts of like bio hacks that people in our space use to optimize everything. So like whether it's sleep, whether it's like whatever it is, like what are some of the ones that actually stood the test of time for you that you felt were impactful versus things that you tried that were just like stupid? Because like even when it comes to sleep, there are people that have like a chili pad on their bed. They have to have the temperature set a certain thing. Like some of these things I do get, but then some of them are like over the top for sure at a certain degree. So I think like all right, so my my big picture response to biohacking in general is that placebo is a very strong effect, right? And so I think 99% of biohacking benefits come from placebo. And hey, it placebo effects are still effects. They're like, you know, more power to them. But I think where where they go wrong is that they become superstitions. And so then they can't fall asleep without the chili path. They can't fall asleep if it's not perfectly dark. They can't fall asleep unless it's silent, right? And that to me feels like a handicap. And then and then what happens is just to have baseline sleep, you have to have 100 things in line, right? And so that's where I'd never want to be, which is why I'm a big fan of like there are no rules, which is like I don't I don't have a strict bedtime. I go to bed when I'm you know when I'm tired and I wake up when I'm not tired and that's and if I like there was a a day two weeks ago where I just like I just felt out of it and I got up I worked for like two or three hours and then I slept for another four hours after that. I just felt completely and I went and I went to bed that night. I don't know what it was. I don't know if I was sick. I have no idea but I just like it I didn't feel productive at all. I was like there's no point in me sitting in front of the computer like my brain's not working. Yeah. So biohacking in general though um I mean I think that the things that people there's like does it is there a statistical significance and what's the effect size right like you know this stuff more than I do um I think the vast majority of effect sizes are irrelevant for just about everybody and so it's just the big stuff you know what I mean and I think that it's the same thing with training it's like progressive overload do more stuff for a longer period of time like eat enough protein and sleep and do that and do that for 20 years and you'll be big. You know what I mean? Like that's that's about it. Um and same thing like you know with the sleep stuff it's like I do think that having a cool cool dark room really helps. I think it helps. I think it helps you fall asleep faster. Can I do people in India fall asleep every day when it's 85 out and they don't have AC? Every [\h__\h] day and you know what they wake up and they get to work and so how important is it? I don't know. There's people there who live a very long time and they do just fine. So, I think a lot of us have just like gotten pampered and gotten really weak. And that's always been like my biggest fear was just getting soft. And that's why I just try not to like believe in too many of these superstitions. Even if they worked, how much do I care? Do you do sauna or cold plunge or any of that stuff? No. I am I am a a one cup of coffee in the morning type of guy. No cold showers, bro. What are you doing? Yeah. No. No red light sauna. I don't even know how I function. You know what I mean? Like, how do I do it without a cold? if I don't get my cold plunge in, I can't talk to anybody. You know, I was on this podcast late recently that I just uh really bombed. Um, and it was because I I think the founder and I kind of disagreed because he was like, man, if I don't work out, I just, you know, I have a horrible day. And I was like, I don't have that experience at all. I was like, I have more energy when I don't work out. Dude, wish I wanted to talk to you about that too as an entrepreneur like the ROI on lifting hard especially to failure and the effect it has on fatigue for like I find days I don't work out better for productivity personally. Of course I'm exhaust I mean if I train hard my CNS is shot. Yeah. Like I'm good on for like interviews and meetings because I'm like way more mellow but I'm not like man I want to go do this stuff. I'm like I'm dead. Yeah. If I do leg day, I don't feel good. Yeah. I'm not like soaked at work. I'm like, "Fuck me. I want to die." Yeah. I eat a bunch of pancakes and then I'm like, "I could take another 2-hour nap." Yeah. No, exactly. I don't know. I always wonder that like when guys are like, "Oh, I don't feel good if I don't exercise." I'm like, "Are you going for a run and getting like sun or like what is your workout?" Cuz like for me, I'm like if I'm going to failure in the gym, I'm getting home and I'm like I'm my brain is at least like 50% capacity what it was before I went to the gym. So totally. Yeah. Yeah. And and and there's also like, you know, how hard do they train and and you know, and like I don't want to look at somebody be like, I don't think you train that hard. I don't want to say that cuz like how's that going to make a friend? Probably not. So I just say like, okay, I guess that works for you, you know. Cool. And that's not me saying that about that kind. I'm just saying. Yeah. How do you time your workouts being mindful of that? Cuz like for me, like my gym I go to, it's less busy if I go earlier in the day, but at the same time, if I go and do legs at like, I don't know, noon, I know that my brain is going to be, especially my post-workout meal, too. the amount of like carb fatigue I might get when I'm like slamming, you know, all my post-workout nutrition and then sitting back down and trying to be mentally sharp as if I'm like if I can compare like fasting to with coffee versus legs and post-workout meal and trying to do the same thing. Magnitude difference of work quality. So, like how do you play that into your schedule? I mean, real talk, I don't train that much. Um, I'm in a season right now because I'm building acquisition.com that I'm not training nearly as frequently. So, I was actually talking I we actually did a a collaboration uh with uh Stan Effording. Do you know him? We He's sponsored by Mer Health. Oh, okay. Yeah. Yeah. So, um yeah, Stan and I trained over the weekend and I was talking about how like I was like, "Yeah, man. I'm just probably training once or twice a week right now." And he was like, "Dude, enjoy the fruits of your labor." He's like, "You just stay jacked because you already put the work in." And it was kind of interesting cuz I thought about this and it was kind of like having passive income. uh because like we've already built the asset of muscle and there's still work that has to be done, but it's just much less work to maintain it. And so it's like there's a little bit of work that you have to maintain the passive income. So this is like a passive body for me. I'm passively jacked. Uh right now. Yeah. When I was actively jacked, I was bigger. I was 250 at my biggest. What are you now? I'm like I'm like 218. I'm like 30 pounds less. How tall are you? This is me like five just under six. Like a hair under six. Okay. 250. Pretty hefty still at six. Oh, I I mean I was big. Yeah. Yeah. I was I was pretty big. Um yeah, I was strong as hell. It's great. Uh but you know, it's but like that was a season for me. That was like gym launch and I was gym you know gym lords is the community. So I had to look like a gym lord. Um and I you know I wanted to be the biggest baddest [\h__\h] there. And so I trained like it you know what I mean? Like my hips were killing me. My you know I had all these you know little you know little bumps and bruises. You know what I'm saying? little itty bitty micro tears everywhere and and it was fine, you know? I mean, I'm good with it. It was a season, but like I I don't see myself getting much bigger than I am now. If I tra if I train hard for like 10 days, I'll be at 230. Um yeah, but I'm I'm this is just not my priority. And the thing is is I'm sure you know, like the more the bigger I am, the more stress it's going to put on my organs and my heart, and I'd rather live longer. And so this is me. This is my passive body. Did you have sleep apnea at all when you got to 250? Probably. I mean, I got two nose operations, so I score less now, apparently. Yeah. Yeah. I had to I have to use a CPAP machine cuz my neck just like Oh, do you? Yeah. But massively massively impactful on sleep quality though. If you like efforting talks about CPAP all the time, too. It's like a huge needle mover. We got to talk about though your 35 lbs in 6 weeks video I just put in the chat. I don't know if you can see it. I had a roommate. His name was Greg Knuckles. He's really big in the strength space. Amazing name. He's one of the two smartest people that I've ever met, but also stupid strong. Anyways, he was like, I read this research paper. What if we had you lift six times a day, but for like 10 minutes each time? And I was like, cool. So, I set a timer and every 45 minutes I would go and do one set on three exercises. Then I'd go back to work. I did that and that's when I I gained just a tremendous amount of weight. Coupled that with another thing that he had done research on which was like a pure carbohydrate diet with no fat. And so basically the efficiency of fat conversion to fat that's stored is almost 100%. The efficiency of carbohydrate storage into fat is lower. So the idea was like I had you know 200 g of protein and like 800 g of carbs and basically zero fat. Yeah, I saw what you were eating. It looked like it'd be awesome for a diet and then horrible after that. Horrible and like it was not sustainable. But I put a ton of weight on and I put a ton of strength. From there, what I did was I dialed back the total volume, but I kept the split. You talked about every 45 minutes. That was natural. That was natural. 100%. That was natural. Now, okay. So, in this video, the picture though, it looks like the peak I've ever seen your physique like that. I wasn't as lean. I wasn't as lean. The peak I mean, so is this picture? I can show you a peak physique. Let me see. I'll look at it real quick. Okay. Because maybe this is just your editor putting this picture up and they don't actually Oh, no. That wasn't No, no, that was after I started tier 2. Sorry. There's another one where I did. So, that Okay, two things. So, I did gain 35 lbs in 16 weeks. Sorry, I gained 35 lbs in 6 weeks. That was 100% natural. That was uh that was when I owned my gyms, right? That was the one where I did every 45 minutes. That was that one. So the big article on muscle and fitness, that was that one. The So these pictures Yeah. You can see how people are finding it misleading. If you look at the comment sections, it's all like I'm sure. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, the the I'm sure the video guys just grabbed it from like more recent stuff. But no, but the I Well, now I want to show you cuz actually if you Google Alexi 35 lbs, the article that comes up on Muscle and Fitness is the actual before and after um for the 35 lbs. And I mean, I I was showing Caleb a video of me doing I think it was like four 450 for like I want to say like 15 or 20. I don't know. It was a lot. Um and I was I was squatting 405 for 20. I had just about a 400 lb bench and that was that was all natural. That was those are my natural numbers. Okay. How old are you here? This is 2015. I was 20 2015. I was 25 or 26. Okay. Um, okay, cool. I'll put up the picture so people know that which was which because obviously everyone who saw that video and it's gotten some steam and I got tagged a [\h__\h] ton in it cuz everyone's like, "Derek, you got to check this out." But yeah, it's uh, you know, I mean, that's still a really impressive before and after for sure. That was six weeks. That was six weeks. And this, I think, speaks to why you look the way you do on TRT as well, because obviously a lot of guys on Gear don't even look like they're on Gear because they don't have the baseline, you know, foundational infrastructure or their genetics just aren't as good. But like I trained for 16 years like before I went on TRT. So, as far as like you hitting your peak mass and like peak everything, like what Yeah. Did you why did you get on TRT and when did you start and like why did you do it to begin with? So this was when I got I don't know if you can see it. So that was when I was 250 from 3D delts, bro. Jesus. Yeah. And this was this was this was uh 16 weeks earlier. Jesus. But this was actually a two-year process that I did with Dr. Trevor Cash. Have you heard of Dr. Cashy? Yeah. My uh business partner at Merit speaks very highly of him. Yeah. I mean, Trevor's a Trevor's a absolute offthecharts genius, way out there. Um, and so only reason I even did TRT was because he was like, I will I will oversee it. I was like, okay, cool. Um, and so I was always really, really, really nervous to, you know, put anything in my body. Um, which is why, you know, I I didn't want to do anything. But then I got my testosterone checked twice. So, actually, this might be interesting. So, after I did that big 35 lb jump, I got my testosterone checked. So, I was 25 years old. So, that's supposed to be peak testosterone. I did it in the morning after I trained. So like everything should have been 100% aligned and my testosterone at that point and that was after bulking, overfeeding, sleeping 10 hours, like everything I possibly could, it was 270. And uh Trevor when I told him about this, he was like he's like oh you don't have low testosterone. He's like you're just incredibly receptive to testosterone. He's like so you don't need much. He's like so he's like these ranges are completely arbitrary. He's like, you know, you could. And I looked the way I looked there and was doing the numbers that I just told you with 270 as my, you know, my testosterone levels. And then fast forward uh to 2018 or 2019, I can't remember what year it was. I think it was 2019. Uh fast forward to 2019. Um I did my I did my blood levels again for like insurance or something. I can't remember what it was. Um and they and they tested it and I was like 74. It was super low and I'm sure it was stress and whatever. Um and they were like almost were in shock. I was like, "No, my last one was really low, too." And that makes sense. And so, um, anyways, they gave me TRT. Um, and Trevor has just been overseeing it since. And I just stay in the normal range. But if I if I if it's if I have my brothers, I'd prefer to live a long time. And so, that's where I'm at with it. This was a cool experiment for me. It was fun. I got to like see what I, you know, I will say this is like there definitely was a look that I wanted to achieve that I spent 16 years trying to get naturally that I was able to achieve. And I and I now like some people have this thing where like they get to a certain size, they're like, I want to keep getting bigger. I got to there and I was like, I'm good. Like this is fine. You know what I mean? And um and I'm content how I look now. And I will probably lose a pound a year between now and when I'm 50. I'll just probably just slowly lose a pound a year and I'll be a tight 195, you know, when I'm when I'm when I'm older. And I think it's natural and I'm good with it. It was it was a season. It's just like it's so funny cuz like right now people see the way I look and probably see the way you look and like they assume that fit. I mean I get comments probably like you do like at the airport people like, "Oh, I'm guessing you're going to the gym." I'm like, "No, like not. I'm I'm actually not going to the gym." As as a matter of fact, I actually barely [\h__\h] train, just so you know. Yeah. Um, yeah, I actually barely train at all. Um, but there was a point I was going to make. Um, it's all good. Like now your current diet, like you were going to, you said you were going to lose a pound a year. You're mindful of health. You're trying to downsize, etc. But, oh, I've been doing it for 20 years. That's what I was going to say. I was like, I've been doing it 20 years. Like most people who like into fitness, like they're still in their first 5 years. They're like really into it. I'm like, dude, well then give it another five and then give it another five and then give it two more and then that is when I decided to pit, right? I I put 17 years in. Yeah. Your current diet to sustain and kind of like hit your like obviously you have very low baseline requirements for sustaining because you put the work in, you've built up that bank of like muscle tissue essentially and you can kind of just cruise a little bit. What is your current diet? Is it like you still try to hit your 200 grams of protein per day and then you just like back fill with whatever you want and dessert and like dinner or whatever that ends up being sort of thing. 100%. That's all I do. I hit my two 200 grams of protein and then I just back fill my calories with whatever I feel like. What are your primary protein sources? I do that bar and the shake in the morning. I have the I have the beef and the and the steak uh for lunch and then uh so my breakfast and my lunch are always the same. Like they're always the same. And I usually have I usually knock down like 150 by lunch so that when I go to dinner I don't have to like think about anything and then I can just eat whatever. When do you say you said a bar and a shake or meal one? That's like a protein bar and like two scoops of whey protein or something. Yeah, like a 30 cal. Yeah, 30 gram shake. I get one of the I get I use the pre-made like the box ones that are like a buck. I just do that. It's easy. And you do that during your like 4:30, 5:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. window before lunch. Just in the middle of it. Yeah, I do it at like 9 to 10. 9 to 10 somewhere in there. Usually when I get hungry. And then noon, you said steak like uh like what? 8 o 12 ounce 16 ounce. Yeah, usually 12 oz or 16 ounces of uh some sort of meat. It's usually ground. It's either ground beef or it's steak. Anything with that. What' you say you had with it or ketchup? Okay. Okay. No like potatoes or anything. Nothing. I said sweet potato. Yeah, I'll have sweet potatoes. Like a sweet potato mash. Okay. I knew you said something. I couldn't remember what it was. And then your dinner is like whatever you and Ila feel like eating basically. Yeah. So we'll go I mean we go out every night and you know I usually have a meat and a carb and a bunch of bread and appetizers and dessert and I do that all the time and that's fun. That's like what we do, you know? It's like we we enjoy that. And I don't even say that I'm a foodie. It's just I have uh low ROI on tons of food during the day cuz I I feel like I get more lethargic if I dude. Yeah, if I do that. So I prefer I I pref I prefer to eat never. If I could just not eat at all. I would That's why I was surprised that you gauging the ROI on this massive bulk is like I feel no different. I'm like but like my brain would be [\h__\h] trying to do that much food. It was spaced out more though. You know what I mean? So it wasn't like these huge bowl. I mean, I was just eating all the time, you know what I mean? And I think that like it's if if right now, cuz you and I are probably more sensitive. Like, if I were eat a big thing now like that, I would be destroyed. But if I did it every day, either either I become unaware of the fact that I was lethargic or I got used to it. Whatever it was, you know, it wasn't, we still made money, the company still grew. Okay. The last thing I want to talk to you about in regards to drugs, and this will be the last topic, is smart drugs. So this is something that is heavily abused in the entrepreneurial space, guys who are on [\h__\h] tons of aderall, medafanyl, bunch of different medications, supplements, etc. What has your experience been like, if any, with smart drugs, neutropics, stuff like that? Yeah. Um, I'm chewing nicarette right now. Um Okay. So, I'm definitely a stimulants guy. Uh, I we drink a cup of coffee every day, so I have that. Um Trevor wrote me like a stimulant cycle when I was like in this period of time where I was like I have to work so much. But the thing is like I usually like if I get to a point where I feel like I have to work like that, it's usually cuz like something's wrong. Like I need like I don't need to push harder. I need to pull back and see why I have to work this hard. And so in some ways it's almost like a leading indicator of me needing to delegate or push something. Um and so that's that's what it's become when I was like younger and thought I had to push through everything. Uh, I was like, I just got to grit down, like, you know, do the boring work. Like, shit's got to get done. And I think there's a reason for that. But, like, I don't need to work like that. And it's not because like I can't. It's because it it's silly. Like, there's more work to be done than I can possibly do, which means I have to have other people to help me. And so, why don't I just find the other people to help me and skip that and just move straight to the next point of leverage. So anyways, all that to say, um, we I he taught me the concept of rotating stimulants. Um, and so I try not to do besides the cup of coffee, which almost has more like it's great time for Leila and I. Um, that's the only thing that I take every day. I chew nicarette when I feel like it. Um, I've done nicotine patches, which I actually really like a lot. Uh, like the like you're going to quit smoking patches. Those honestly feel like aderall. Um, highly recommend. like love, love, love those. I don't think a lot of people realize how neuroprotective and actual cognitive enhancing nicotine can be if you're not an addictive personality. Like if you're not going to get hooked on it brutally to the point where you abuse it, like people who, as ridiculous as it sounds, people get less Alzheimer's occurrence when they smoke. Oh yeah. For most angioenesis. Yeah. And I have a ton of Alzheimer's in my family. And so that's why I've been like, "So, you know, promotes short-term memory, decreases decreases appetite, increases energy, has a 30-minute halflife, like like prevents alime." I'm like, "I'm in." You know what I mean? Like, uh, sign me up. So, yeah. So, big fan of nicotine. I also like if we travel, I'll like forget to chew. Like, I don't I don't Trevor told me and I believed him that um, nicotine on its own is not addictive. He said activities that you associate with nicotine are addictive. And so like smoking is addictive. They said nicotine is not addictive. Um which of course I can't even make a Tik Tok about that because they would ban me off the platform which they did. Um they took the Tik Tok down. They said I was promoting drugs or something. Um but yeah. So anyways, so I did that. I still chew nicotine. Um you know, hey, this is not health advice, whatever. But at least from everything that I've looked at, it doesn't seem like there's any any cancer. like if you just chew nicarat or just uh like put the patches on it doesn't do anything. So those two um earlier on in my like entrepreneurial career like I took aderal probably like twice a month you know what I mean and I would take really really small amounts because I think I'm very sensitive to stimulants so I would probably take like five to eight milligrams which is like not a lot. Um but that was enough for me and maybe it was all placebo. I have no idea. Um but that was enough for me. Um, but caffeine and caffeine and nicotine were the main ones. I've taken modafanyl. Um, the thing that I don't like about that in the halfife so long and so I uh I feel like I end up giving the next day to have Yeah. the productive, you know, the productive day and then you end up using it the next day potentially to make up for the fact that your sleep was [\h__\h] I've never done I've never done multiple days in a row. Um, but a lot of people do get into that vicious cycle. Oh, really? Okay. Yeah, I've never done that. Um, but yes, it was always like a once in a It was like always like a once a month, twice a month thing and it was usually aderall, not medafanol. I've tried medafanol, but it was I I preferred aderall. Um, but the fact that uh the nicotine patch plus nicarette plus drinking a coffee is uh and I actually prefer Red Bull to coffee for like actually feeling I don't know if that's the B vitamins or whatever, but like if I drink if I do 120 milligrams of caffeine versus 120 milligram caffeine Red Bull, I feel it way more than the format is definitely impactful cuz like if I even those like caffeine tablets you would get at Walmart or something you take a 200 milligram doesn't even feel close to the same as like 100 milligrams from an energy drink or coffee sometimes. Like it's or from a the preworkout versus a tablet versus this. Wildly different feelings even though the milligram amount might be equal. It's really interesting how it works out. I that's something I don't know anything about. I just know that I feel much different on that. So like if I have a big workday, I won't do all those things. I'll do like Red Bull once a week cuz I like the concept of cycling has stuck with me. Uh because it's like if you're gonna get if you're going to get used to it, then you'll get the benefit. So it's like I want to use it. I don't want it to use me. So, you know, I'd have Red Bull once a week probably now. Um and I have I just ordered patches yesterday. I haven't used them in like a year or two, but I was like, "Oh, yeah. I forgot about these." Um so I'll probably use a patch uh as another thing that I'll do because I'm I'm really trying to finish my book and so I'll probably have more stretches of like intense attention. Um, yeah, that's my, you know, that's that's on like a peak nicotine day, like the most you'd use, how many milligrams in general? I chew the four milligrams. Uh, and I've had three a day. Okay. And what about like two to three a day is probably Yeah, usually I'll pop one in. It's usually like when I I basically pop the same piece in and then when I have to like eat or drink something is when I would like switch it. So, it's like I drink coffee and then I'll pop one in and then I'll have my snack and I'll pop one in and then I'll eat lunch. I'll pop one in and then that's it. So, it's usually like two or three a day. Okay. And as far as supplements, I just like having it I like having it just like I just like plop it in my Yeah, exactly. Got it. As far as like neuroprotective neutropics for Alzheimer's, do you do anything from like alpha GPC or anything from that side of things to support you? No, I don't take anything. Okay. Um, it's mostly cuz I I don't I don't take a lot of supplements cuz I don't remember. Right. Like I mean I told you to remember the better, frankly. I'm three days late on my pin right now. So like, you know what I mean? Like I I barely And that's like I have to do that. Like I I can't remember to do that. So I've been uh Yeah. I mean this I put next to my desk so I can I have that right there and I have my coffee in the morning and that's your budget. We've kept it pretty simple. I don't, you know, cold like cold plunge and outdoor walk and red light sauna and singing songs and affirmations and I just that's very hard for me. No. Yeah. I feel like some of that stuff when you get too in your head about it, it's like almost overwhelming the routine you develop to be an entrepreneur and it's just overkill and you'd be better off. I had AI had a young entrepreneur reach out to me. He said, "Hey man, I'm really struggling." He said, "I'm doing something that my mentor told me to do." And he told me, and so he said, "My whole morning routine takes me three hours." And he he basically did that whole checklist. He's like, "I walk outside barefoot 30 minutes so I can like center myself and then I do the red light sauna and I do float tank and then I do like all this stuff, right?" He's like, "And it's just like it's killing my day." He's like, "By the time I start, it's like, you know, 11:00 a.m. And uh he's like because he also needs me to sleep this amount of hours and all this stuff." And I was like, "Dude, sometimes the work just needs doing, man." like like everyone I think I think a lot of this stuff is proc is productive procrastination or people think it's productive procrastination but it's just another form of procrastination. They feel like it's like watching TED talks. It's like you feel like you learned something but like you're not making more money. Like you got to make 200 dials. Whatever way you want to do that, go for it. You know what I mean? But for me, like the longer I'm putting it off, the longer I feel like I guilty about not doing it. Yeah. Well, I think I could talk with you for hours about [\h__\h] but I'm glad you stayed. Thank you for staying three hours. That was a [\h__\h] ton of valuable insight, I feel like, for everyone in the audience and for myself included. And um as far as where to find Alex, you're on Hormosi on most Instagram on the social platforms, Instagram, Tik Tok, etc., I think. Uh I think I'm if you type in my name, you'll probably find it, but uh Hermoszi is the Instagram one. Uh, I think Tik Tok is a hormone. Uh, and then, uh, Twitter is Alex Horeroszi. Okay. I because people claim my name before I could even get on the platforms. Um, yeah, that was something I wish I had the foresight on is scooping up usernames. Yeah. But anyways, so go check out Alex and all his socials. And if you are a um business who's doing 3 million in revenue or more and you fit the criteria that he has, you know, discussed and whatnot, uh check out acquisition.com and check out his other podcast. Like there's a lot of stuff I went I totally skimmed over from like the grind to get to where he's at that is hugely impactful for new entrepreneurs and I definitely recommend you guys check it out and appreciate having you on, man. Thanks for coming. Yeah, you bet. And if anyone's It's called The Game. You could probably just type my name in iTunes. It'll come up or Spotify or wherever it is that you consume audio content. Oh, for your podcast, too, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. They're into that. Awesome. Dude, appreciate you, Derek. Thanks so much for taking the time. Thank you to the audience. I hope you guys find value from this. It means the world to me that you, you know, if you're listening to this right now and you tuned in, u you know, thank