 cschoppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppoop And I feel like there's a lot of missing information though, which I hope to at least elucidate to give more takeaways that could be informative for the situation and kind of give my stance on it. So basically these two individuals have been disqualified previously, last year, for failing a gender verification test where purportedly they were verified to be biologic men. It seems like the Imane situation has gotten a lot bigger though in that despite the fact that they have a pretty similar situation, they both were disqualified for the same thing. Imane had one of, I forget which round it was, but one of the opponents basically quit mid-match because she claimed she has never been hit that hard in her life. So in the middle of the Olympics, literally just throwing in the towel mid-fight because you've never been hit that hard. And then this individual comes out shortly after that they've failed a gender verification test and they've been disqualified. Within the last year from competing, the internet went absolutely haywire. And objectively, both of these individuals, Lin and Imane, look more masculine than most females. So we can say with relative certainty that most people would agree that they look a little bit more masculine than the average female. So all of these factors together, you know, it's a shit storm. So Imane and Lin, as far as I know, have never identified as transgender or intersex, but they failed a gender eligibility test at the 2023 World Championships, according to the International Boxing Association, IBA, leading to disqualification. And another test was conducted by the IBA to reconfirm the findings of the first test, which it did, according to the June 2023 letter the IBA sent to the IOC, which is the Olympic Committee. So the IBA issued an official statement asserting that the women did not meet the required necessary eligibility criteria that were found to have competitive advantages over other female competitors. However, the IBA, which organized the World Championships, but is no longer associated and involved with the Olympics, would not initially reveal why they failed their test. Like what was the criteria they did not meet? At a press conference, literally within the last week, on August 5th, the IBA, which no longer oversees Olympic boxing, apparently for concerns about its integrity and links to Russia and some other stuff, take from that what you will, finally clarified that Khalif and Lynn's test results revealed chromosomes that made them ineligible to compete in the women's category. So the results summary were abnormal and the interpretation was chromosomal analysis reveals male karyotype and they both had the same results. A male karyotype means the general appearance of an individual's complete set of chromosomes is that of a male and this can be assessed photographically. You can see a depiction of the XY chromosomes through lab test results and this is supposedly what happened. So this is a quote, the problem was not with the level of Khalif's testosterone because that can be adjusted nowadays, but with the result of the gender test, which clearly revealed that the Algerian boxer is biologically male. This is apparently a total of five boxers had been examined, including Khalif by the IBA and all of them were indeed men. So Umar Kremlev, the IBA's president, then claimed that Khalif and Lynn's test results showed very high levels of testosterone. Now, it's been unclear if blood test was actually conducted assessing testosterone levels for the purposes of assessing gender classification, but even if it wasn't, because there's a lot of stuff being thrown out right now as to, you know, did this stuff actually happen? Testosterone levels should be analyzed regardless. Um, this isn't like for gender verification purposes necessarily, but just straight up, any governing body should know if an athlete's testosterone levels look male or not via the biological passport data that they should otherwise be collecting via their WADA-accredited steroidal module. So, everybody in high-level sport, basically any athlete that is subject to drug testing would, under, you know, WADA guidelines, would have a WADA-accredited biological passport that shows longitudinal data assessing their androgen levels and metabolites and the ratios of them and absolute values for, uh, excretion patterns and whatnot. So, everyone has their testosterone tested via the steroidal module of the biological passport. This is like the most basic of testing that should be collected among all athletes, so they should already have the answer as to if these individuals have male-looking testosterone levels or not, as should the, the Olympics, you know, the governing body should know this already. They just, may not otherwise want to disclose. As far as exclusionary criteria that the technical and competition rules that apply to the IBA are obviously quite different than that of the IOC. You know, last year, these individuals couldn't compete at the world championships because of these verification tests via chromosomal analysis, whereas in the Olympics, that is not happening, nor are they taking those tests into consideration whatsoever, and apparently, neither are testosterone tests being done, or to the extent that they're not being considered for exclusionary criteria. So, the IOC has insisted the fighters were born and raised women, but the IBA has continued to insist its tests suggest their eligibility for women's boxing is in question. So, IBA doesn't think they should compete, IOC thinks they should, and people should leave them alone. Kind of a debacle. So, what is the IOC's position on eligibility for women's sports? So, this is, you know, I got interested because I've seen over the years the goalposts being moved in multiple different sports and disciplines depending on how much scrutiny is happening, transgender athletes that have basically worked their way into certain sports, and again, by the way, to clarify, this is not a transgender situation, this is different. But, notably, a lot of these rule changes have kind of happened in light of some of those like big time situations that you're probably really familiar with if this kind of content interests you at all. You know, like the Laurel Hubbard situation, the cyclists, the rugby players, like there's a lot of stuff we've covered on this channel, and also the Caster Somania situation, which we'll get into shortly as well because it's highly relevant here. So, in late 2021, the IOC issued new guidance on transgender athletes in women's sport. This placed the responsibility on individual federations to determine eligibility criteria in their sport, and since then, many sports have banned trans women from taking part in women's sport entirely, such as athletics, aquatics, and rugby codes as well. Tracked world athletics tighten the eligibility rules for female athletes with DSD conditions. So, testosterone levels now being used to assess eligibility, not XY chromosomes, which is the pattern typically seen in men, are the key criterion of eligibility in Olympic events where the sport's governing body has framed and approved rules. And starting in March of 2023, it required them to suppress their testosterone levels to 72 nanograms per deciliter for six months, typically through hormone suppressing treatment, antiandrogens, to be eligible to compete. So, for context, the average woman will typically have a total testosterone level between 13 and 71 nanograms per deciliter. So, 72, it's not like you're at the bottom of the barrel in production, you are literally on the threshold of arguably too high as is. It's a generous, I would say, cutoff, depending on your response to those hormones, which is where we get into some of these very unique medical conditions. So, anyways, 72 nanograms per deciliter. Remember that? It's the top of the female range. That is the cutoff that they have. I mean, you can understand how they arrived there at least. You know, if they have to come up with something, it kind of makes sense how they arrived there. It used to be 10 nanomoles per liter, which is like, I think, 288 nanograms per deciliter. And then it was dropped to 5 nanomoles and then now it's 2.5 in a lot of these sports. World Aquatics prohibited trans women from competing in women's races if they had undergone male puberty. That was their line in the sand. International Cycling Union also took this step last year. The swim body's world-leading rules additionally required transgender women athletes who did not undergo male puberty to maintain testosterone levels below the 72 nanogram per deciliter cutoff. However, this is where things get complicated. The rules have been applied differently. So there are sports in which trans women or athletes with differences of sex development, DSD, I probably should have mentioned what DSD was earlier, can compete. Boxing is one of those as the IOC, which has been overseeing Olympic boxing, hasn't updated their eligibility criteria rules and literally the criteria of eligibility this year was based based on their passport saying they're female. Apparently. So the IOC said it supports the participation of any athlete who has qualified and met the eligibility criteria to compete in the Olympic Games as established by their international federation. The IOC will not discriminate against an athlete who has qualified through their international federation on the basis of their gender identity and or sex characteristics. So, you know, troublesome as you can imagine. Let's talk about Castor Somania. I think that is probably the most prime example of a gold medal caliber athlete who underwent similar levels of scrutiny all but in a different event, but in a much less private way. But I think it gave a lot of insight into how these situations are handled. Is there a performance enhancing advantage or not? Like outside of the whole ethics discussions, like all this stuff. Like at the end of the day, we do ultimately want to know are individuals with these unique predispositions in a uniquely advantaged position competing against women. The Castor Somania situation I think is most relevant to discuss in that Castor basically learned of how her anatomy differs from the typical woman she is competing against and what implications that has for performance as did the public, which was unfortunate for her that it was such a public, you know, display of what's going on with her body. It's like very embarrassing. I can just imagine the stress, especially when you're born a certain way, certain way, you have no say in it. You would just, you know, you could be living your entire life thinking you are just a normal, healthy, functioning, very, very muscular woman. And in reality, you have like a unique situation that is not really in parity and fairness to your, you know, female competitors. So let's get into it. So basically, prime example, she, you know, gold medal athlete, a lot of scrutiny, very public situation, messy situation. She is a South African middle distance runner and winner of two Olympic gold medals and three world championships in the women's 800 meter. Following Samania's victory at the 2009 world championship, she was made to undergo sex testing and cleared to return to competition the following year. The decision to perform this testing was pretty controversial. You know, as far as I know, they weren't really doing this. Like in the 90s, they basically stopped testing for gender, which we'll get into shortly. But basically, sparked a lot of controversy and later reports disclosed that Samania has the intersex condition 5-alpha reductase 2 deficiency and male level natural testosterone levels. You know, pretty startling discovery, especially if you had no idea going your whole life thinking that, you know, you're just uniquely advantaged, but you don't realize you have what we're going to get into shortly is internal testes. So in 2019, new IAAF world athletics rules came into force for athletes like Samania. With certain disorders of sex development, DSD is requiring medications to suppress testosterone levels in order to participate in the 400-meter, 800-meter, and 1500-meter women's events. Samania refused to undergo the treatment, which is now mandatory, and has filed a series of legal cases to restore her ability to compete without testosterone suppression, arguing that the rules are discriminatory. In March 2023, world athletics made its rules for Samania and other DSD athletes even more restrictive, requiring them to lower their test levels below a threshold of 72 nanograms per deciliter for two years before competing. So it's getting more and more strict depending on the event, as we'll see. Although Samania was assigned female at birth, she has the intersex condition I mentioned, 5-alpha reductase 2 deficiency, and this condition only affects genetic males with XY chromosomes. Individuals with this deficiency have normal male internal structures that are not fully masculinized. During the development of the reproductive system in utero, due to the low levels of DHT that would otherwise be produced via this enzyme that is absent in activity essentially, and as a result, the external genitalia may appear ambiguous or female at birth. Caster Samania has said that she was born with a vagina and internal undescended testes, but she has no uterus or fallopian tubes and does not menstruate. Being born, you know, without a uterus, you know, being born with internal testicles, those don't make me less a woman. Her internal testes produce natural testosterone levels in the typical male range. So obviously a problem there for fairness, at least, you know, a pretty highly debated situation and nowadays highly relevant given the current situation. So now moving on to history of sex verification in the Olympics. How do they actually screen for this stuff back in the day and how do they do it now or do they? So the sex of an individual is usually determined by a pair of sex chromosomes. Typically females have two of the same XX sex chromosomes. Males have two different kinds of sex chromosomes XY. Y chromosome is responsible for triggering male development and the absence of the Y chromosome. The fetus will undergo female development. You probably heard that we all start as females. This is kind of what they're referring to. There are various rare exceptions though, which is what makes this really, really complicated. So a single sex determining region Y protein called SRY. You might have heard of this if you've been following the situation. This SRY gene being present on the Y chromosome acts as a signal to set the developmental pathway towards masculinization and mutations in this gene lead to a range of disorders of sex development with varying effects on an individual's phenotype and genotype. And one of the most controversial uses of this gene was as a means of sex verification in the Olympics under a system implemented by the IOC in 1992. So athletes with an SRY gene were not permitted to compete as females although, you know, many of them might be assigned female at birth. If they had this gene, they were essentially told, you know, you're a man and you can't compete. Now, at the 96 Summer Olympics, apparently, all the athletes in which this was detected were ruled false positives and were not disqualified. specifically, eight female participants out of a total of 3,387 at these games were found to have this gene. However, even though they have this gene, after further investigation of their genetic conditions, all these athletes were verified as female and allowed to compete. So these athletes were found to have either partial or full androgen insensitivity despite having an SRY gene making them externally phenotypically female. And in the late 90s, a number of relevant professional societies in the US called to eliminate this gender verification, thought it was ineffective and seemingly unethical, and basically it was eliminated by the 2000 Summer Olympics, and this was followed with the new implementation of hormone level cutoffs as a means of assessing, you know, are you too male, essentially. Now, you can just imagine how this gets really complicated because if you're somebody who like, by, via an analysis, have been determined that you were meant to go down a developmental pathway that is biologically male, but you otherwise have a mutation in the gene that encodes for, you know, 5-alpha reductase, where you have androgen receptor insensitivity, so you don't actually respond to the androgens to actually masculinize to whatever severity the androgen receptors are actually functional or dysfunctional. You have a spectrum of sexuality, essentially, whereby individuals may have partial viralization, complete lack of viralization, or otherwise, like, totally female, essentially, with exception of their, like, genetic makeup. It all is a spectrum, and that's what we're going to get into now, is the actual performance enhancing advantage. Is there one? So, for Imani, Khalif, and Lynn, you know, the situation seems cut and dry. If you have XY chromosomes and a functional SRY gene, which is what we can discern from the tests of, you know, the IBA, a lot of people are saying you shouldn't compete against women, full stop. That's what a lot of people will say, and I totally understand why they would conclude that. However, what muddies the waters on this is the huge difference in how different categories of DSDs and conditions can impact not just your synthesis capacity of androgens, like, how much you can actually make, or your testes actually functional. Do you actually have them still? Because a lot, some of these individuals end up getting gonadectomies, like, we're going to get into it all. But in addition, like, baseline, it's anatomical infrastructure and the spectrum of how you respond to those hormones. So, in the case of casper somania, we know the condition in question was the, specifically, 5-alpha reductase deficiency. So, let's get into that first, because I think this is the most ideal example of a situation in which an individual who otherwise is genetically on the path to becoming a man deviates from a deficiency in, well, a mutation in the gene that encodes for an enzyme that is responsible for the production of the male main androgenic hormone that dictates male sexual differentiation and maturation in adolescents, but retains male advantages via their inherent testosterone. So, this is, like, on one side of the spectrum, a condition in which this individual probably, at least in my opinion, has a significant advantage, pending their testes are infrastructurally sound enough to produce male amount of hormones. And this is where, again, the imperfect testosterone test is absolutely not an ideal way to go about having exclusionary criteria or whatever when some of these individuals actually have complete absence of response at the androgen receptor, which we'll get into, too. But first, let's get into this example, because I think it's the most relevant to kind of set the stage here. So, Castor, who asserts, you know, it doesn't matter what I have, what I'm born with, I'm a female, you know, it's fine, let me compete. So, basically, Castor's situation is a deficiency in this 5-alpha reductase enzyme activity where, and this is literature-backed, you can, you know, double-check what I'm saying. Basically, genetic males with male gonads do not produce enough DHT because they have a mutation in the SRD5A2 gene. So, this mutation prevents 5-alpha reductase from converting testosterone into DHT adequately. Dihydrotestosterone, the most androgenic hormone in the body, responsible for an array of things, but the most notable being sexual differentiation and maturation slash masculinization. So, depending on the severity of their deficiency, which notably is a spectrum, because again, this mutation in the gene, it's not just like you completely lack the capacity to make DHT. Some individuals, they need to be diagnosed via a threshold ratio of testosterone to DHT or literal analysis of their genitalia. So, males with 5-alpha reductase deficiency can be born with genitalia that is not obviously male or female. It's ambiguous. In some cases, their genitalia appears female, or in other cases, they definitively have male genitalia, but it is unusually small. It's a micropenis. With the urethra opening on the underside of the penis, and during puberty, testosterone and DHT spike significantly. Now, in general, this would be when individuals undergo full-blown puberty and totally mature into adult men. So, circulating levels of total DHT are about one-tenth the concentration that of total testosterone, but local concentrations of DHT can be up to 10 times higher than testosterone in specific areas of the body to facilitate full maturation. We can get into, you know, the chemistry on that and some of the interesting tidbits, and I'm highly tempted to do so, but I feel like I'm going to derail the entire video. But basically, what you need to know is DHT is, in bioassays, equivalent to 2.5 to 10-fold more potent than testosterone at the androgen receptor. It's so androgenic that even though it is, you know, present at least systemically, obviously tissue-specific is different, like, overall concentrations of it in the body are a fraction of that of testosterone. It is still the primary hormone responsible for the development of secondary sex characteristics like deepening of the voice, development of facial hair, body hair, growth of the penis and scrotum, or it's at least significantly implicated in reaching full maturity, perhaps is a more accurate statement. So, during puberty, men with deficiency in this enzyme do not develop much facial hair, body hair, notably no androgenic alopecia, and this is kind of the inception of some of these hair loss prevention drugs which operate via this enzyme pathway. But anyways, and they also have a small prostate. Many males with 5AR deficiency are actually raised as female until they hit puberty because they didn't have enough DHT to markedly differentiate themselves as males pre-puberty. So, they were born, appeared to be female, and then, you know, when they hit puberty, all of a sudden the spike in testosterone makes it a bit more obvious that things are not, like, classically female. Once they hit puberty and test levels spike, the penis and other androgen supported structures start to enlarge, and, but still, without the DHT, you don't end up having full maturation. Penis doesn't grow to full size like it would, facial hair doesn't develop, prostate growth doesn't happen as much, etc. So, most notable, though, about this is the fact that with DHT deficiency, with intact testes and male testosterone levels, you will still have male levels of performance. Undoubtedly. So, with this condition, the gonads can still function and produce male levels of testosterone, and androgen receptors are fully functional, meaning you get male levels of bone mass, muscle mass, general anabolic activity, erythropoiesis. You know, it's not, the erythropoiesis is still going to be driven through DHT, too, but, like, if you have male-level testosterone, you are getting all of the anabolic activity that a male would have with those levels. So, despite being a more potent androgen, unlike testosterone, DHT is inactivated by the enzyme 3-alpha-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase, 3-alpha-HSD, in muscle via its conversion into a very weak androgen known as 3-alpha-androstain diol. So, basically, DHT is present in specific tissues to drive sexual differentiation and maturation, but does almost nothing for muscle growth. And this is very apparent in male pseudo-hermaphrodites who are inherently 5-alpha-reductase deficient due to genetic mutations. So, here's an example. One study involving brothers with different DHT levels, the male with partial, and this is partial, by the way, 5-alpha-reductase deficiency experienced reduced sexual development throughout puberty, but actually gained more muscle mass than his brother. This is a picture of them together. The man on the left has a 5-alpha-reductase deficiency, and his brother on the right doesn't have a deficiency. The man on the left has a higher testosterone level. So, you heard correct. Higher. And is more muscular. And has less androgenic alopecia than his brother on the right who has normal DHT levels. So, like, you know, they look both like males. And one has some of the, you know, hallmarks of natural male development, whereby they start to have temporal recession, etc. But the male with higher test levels and 5-AR deficiency still has, you know, development as a male. Just not to this degree that they would have otherwise with adequate DHT. But notably, the biggest takeaway in my opinion on that is normal muscle. So, male level muscle tissue in response to the male androgen testosterone that you are producing. So, even in studies when this is, you know, fully wiped out. Like, almost essentially manually replicating what is, you know, the castor somenia situation more or less, depending on the actual structural integrity of what her gonads were capable of producing testosterone-wise, which sounds like, you know, it was male territory level still. Ultimately, in studies where adults have their DHT levels completely wiped out with a nuclear level 5-alpha reductase inhibiting drug called dutasteride at 2.5 milligrams a day, which can wipe out upwards of 98% of systemic DHT, if I recall correctly. These participants did not experience hindered muscle growth at all. And personally, I've actually been on dutasteride myself for hair loss prevention. And despite having lower tests or lower DHT levels than a girl, it has absolutely zero impact on anything perceivable that I've noticed, except for a bit less back hair now. And I don't lose my scalp hair as fast now. So, testosterone pulls the weight from an anabolic standpoint just fine. So, for someone to have a 5AR deficiency as they grow up, it will prevent them from going through puberty and fully masculinizing. But they still have fully functioning androgen receptors and their body will still masculinize to the capacity that their natural male level testosterone levels will allow, which is contingent on the functional capacity of their testes, which will vary. But, you know, ultimately, individuals, regardless if they have full 5AR deficiency or partial, and again, like Castor, I believe it was just only deficiency in the type 2 isozyme, if I recall correctly. You know, the dutasteride example I gave inhibits all three isozymes, which is basically every type of enzyme that 5-alpha reduces testosterone to DHT is completely nuked into nothingness through irreversible inhibition at a max dose. You have probably the same or lower DHT levels than Castor Somania. You have no inhibited muscle. Like, these individuals in these studies, it's a highly replicated and repeatable and predictable finding that DHT inhibition does not really impact muscle growth capacity at all. So, we don't have enough information, though, to say this is what Imani Khalif and Lin Yuting have. So, like, with Castor, it was literally analyzed, identified, and specified to a degree that you knew exactly what was going on. You saw the functional capacity of Castor's testes, male-level testosterone levels. There was no androgen receptor insensitivity. The only thing that was going on was there was a lack of DHT that basically resulted in a growing up, appearing to be female, and then not having full sexual differentiation and maturation that somebody with adequate DHT production would otherwise have, but still getting the benefits of a male from a testosterone and androgen receptor standpoint. So, what's going on with Imane and Lin? We don't have enough information to say, and it sounds like they might not either, but, again, this is why I wanted to elucidate the 5-alpha reductase deficiency, specifically because this is one of these conditions that could result in somebody who is growing up with what is essentially female, seemingly, anatomy, but has the performance-enhancing advantage of being a man. That is one extreme example. Now, here are some other ones which get a bit more complicated. So, there are other categories of DSDs and conditions arising from different gene mutations, enzyme deficiencies, or an array of different things that could appear on paper to be just as unfair. You know, your XY, you've had this, the SRY gene, etc. You know, you could fail a sex verification test, but in the same manner, but not actually get an advantage, even comparable to castrosomania. So, for example, this is documented in literature. 5-alpha reductase type 2 isozyme deficiency can be difficult to distinguish. The reason I specify type 2 is because this is the one that can actually lead to a situation in which somebody has deficiency and DHT significant enough to create a, like, ambiguous gender upon pre-adolescence. So, the other isozymes are not as impactful on sexual differentiation and maturation because 5-AR type 2 basically pulls the lion's share when it comes to tissue conversion of DHT to drive masculinization. So, anyways, just a side note, it is the type 2 deficiency in particular that actually leads to a 46XY DSD-looking situation. So, 5-AR type 2 deficiency can be difficult to distinguish, though, from other causes of 46XY DSD like partial androgen insensitivity syndrome, for example, 17-beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 3 enzyme deficiencies, among other things. So, if you didn't use blood work to analyze testosterone to DHT ratios and use precise anatomical imaging, you would actually find that a...  autoppoopeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropener externally phenotypically female, it's entirely possible that an individual could have partial or complete androgen insensitivity. So the reason I kind of brought up this comparison to begin with is, as I mentioned, the 5AR type 2 deficiency can be difficult to distinguish from other causes when you just look at an individual. They could undergo the same degree of masculinization, but it's their lack of DHT and the amount of testosterone that has pushed them to the point they're at of whatever spectrum of masculinization they're at, whereas these other conditions, they might have full capacity to produce DHT. They might actually have high testosterone and DHT, but the way they actually respond to those hormones puts them at a level that appears to be similarly masculinized to the 5AR deficiency individual. But this individual has the performance advantage of testosterone and no DHT, or almost none, so they basically are under-viralized, but have full anabolic capacity. Whereas this individual does not even have comparable anabolic like activity whatsoever to this individual, but because of the DHT production, whatever spectrum of androgen insensitivity or other condition they have may put them at the same level as this, like objectively from like a how far on the spectrum of masculine are you, the equated outcome on performance is just not the same. So anyways, hopefully I'll get into more detail that hopefully helps make this a bit more, I don't know, it brings it home in some capacity. So now let's talk about androgen receptors and sensitivity. An individual with dysfunctional androgen receptors may respond just enough to the amount of DHT present to partially masculinize as DHT is such a potent androgen for driving masculinization and maturation, but they may not be responsive enough to androgens as a whole to get any actual performance advantage over women. But, you know, it's a spectrum. Some individuals with complete androgen insensitivity may be much worse off than somebody who has partial insensitivity, likely will be. And the person with complete insensitivity may be, you know, equivalent to the lack of advantages that women have relative to biologic men, or maybe even worse off. Like, you know, I don't know. It depends on the level, the severity of which an individual has an insensitivity and the functional capacity of their testes to even make hormones. You could have an individual with complete insensitivity that has poor testosterone production and is worse off than a natural, totally healthy, virile woman who has no inhibition to androgen receptor activity or their natural testosterone production. You know, it would be like the equivalent of being on a nuclear level castration drug your entire life, essentially, if you were in that situation. Here's an example. So, this is something that can hopefully illustrate how convoluted this gets. So, bicalutamide probably means nothing to you, but it is a non-steroidal anti-androgen. So, a lot of people have been talking about puberty blockers nowadays. It's a big topic in media and a understandably controversial one because individuals are getting, it's a whole nother video. But anyways, basically, bicalutamide is a drug that can act as a puberty blocker in transgender girls and it works quite well. So, hypothetically, if a pre-adolescent male took a mega dose of bicalutamide to prevent masculinization, that would occur via androgens interacting with the androgen receptor. Basically, this drug acts as a non-steroidal silent antagonist, meaning it will occupy androgen receptors and prevent DHT and testosterone from binding to it and doing what it does. And, you know, it does this fairly well, depending on the dose of bicalutamide. Let's say somebody's on a nuclear level dose in pre-adolescence. They will actually have a higher testosterone level on paper than a male who is non-medicated, but they won't actually get the effects of that testosterone and DHT, the direct genomic effects of that androgen and skeletal muscle, bone and the brain, etc. They won't have that. Some individuals actually have higher testosterone levels as a compensatory mechanism because their body has suboptimal response at the androgen receptor and needs more testosterone and DHT than another guy to achieve the same development or functionality as someone who could have, you know, half the testosterone levels. This is why you'll often see individuals that are twice as jacked as somebody else, but their levels on paper, it doesn't mean that every person that has more muscle has more testosterone than the next guy. Like I know some of the most jacked guys I know have 500 to 600 total Ts, whereas I know guys who have 900 plus naturally who are smaller. You know, sometimes it is a reflection of your body actually needs to produce more to get the same effect that somebody who is more sensitive to androgens could get at a lesser concentration. So when individuals are inhibiting action at the receptor, but have otherwise functioning testes, they end up with higher testosterone levels on paper. So an individual with insensitivity to androgens may otherwise have higher hormone levels on paper, but respond horribly to those hormones and not actually get the advantages that they would impart. So you can see how this gets super complicated now. So the lack of negative feedback in the brain results in an overcompensation to stimulate as much as, and this is by calutamide research, 2x the testosterone levels in the testes as a normal non-medicated male. But the male on bicalutamide with double the test levels will not develop like the male with half the test levels with uninhibited androgen receptors. So you could like block puberty with this drug and have higher testosterone and DHT levels on paper, despite the fact that you're actually blocking puberty and the effects of these hormones versus another guy who has less than half the androgen levels go through puberty just fine because they're not competing at the receptor with this drug. So individuals with a mutation in the gene that encodes for fill in the blank and causes a defect in, I don't know, like androgen receptors that are dysfunctional and are not functioning correctly to impart transcriptional activity. This is a spectrum by which somebody would otherwise be able to potentially have higher hormone levels on paper, but respond so horribly that they actually have a lesser advantage than anybody else essentially who has, you know, has fractions of the hormones, but proper response. But it's a spectrum. So let's get into that. So the subcategories of androgen receptor insensitivity, these are critical in my opinion for the nuance of this conversation when it comes to who should be allowed to compete versus not, or just what male level advantage advantage does somebody potentially have. So mild androgen insensitivity syndrome is indicated when the external genitalia are those of a typical male. So a penis and a scrotum. Partial androgen insensitivity syndrome. This is, as the name implies, partial insensitivity to androgens at the receptor. And this is the first category in which an individual is not obviously male. This partial insensitivity is at a hindered athletic capacity in contrast to a 5-alpha reductase deficiency individual like castrosomania, but they may have similar levels of masculinization. So when the external genitalia is partially but not fully masculinized or is ambiguous entirely, these individuals could otherwise, depending on how responsive they are in actual production of hormones, could be just as masculinized or lack thereof as somebody with a 5-alpha reductase deficiency. But because of their insensitivity at the receptor, their testosterone levels do not impart the same advantages that somebody with a 5-AR deficiency does who has normal testosterone levels and full capacity to impart transcriptional activity via the testosterone at the receptor level. Now, the next most extreme version of insensitivity is complete androgen insensitivity syndrome. This is indicated when the external genitalia are those of a typical female, a vulva. Now, obviously, these are three categories and as you can imagine, there is a spectrum within these three categories by which things get, as if it wasn't complicated enough, even more complicated because it's like the identification of this can be like highly scrutinized as to how, which of these you fall into as an individual. So hormone levels have been reported in gonadally intact individuals with complete androgen insensitivity syndrome in a number of studies, which is notable because it really calls into question the credence of these testosterone threshold values to begin with in Olympic testing. And these individuals' hormone levels are similar to those of males. High test levels, relatively low estradiol levels, but expectedly, even with those high testosterone levels, complete androgen insensitivity syndrome is associated with decreased bone mineral density and muscle mass in contrast to healthy, unaffected biological males. And bone and muscle mass, expectedly, you know, these categories, the higher up on the categorical classification you are from complete to partial to mild, the more mild it is, the closer your bone and muscle mass will be reflective of that of a normal biologic male with no issues at the receptor. That is probably a logical, most people would assume that to be logical, but it's worth noting nonetheless. Now, some of the anatomical differences between genders, I think most are probably familiar with the fact that there's obvious differences here. And as you would expect on the spectrum of masculinization versus maintaining full femininity, you will have differences in how somebody develops in terms of anatomical advantages. So individuals with androgen insensitivity are typically going to be taller, slightly longer limbs and larger hands, which obviously could be advantageous when punching somebody in a boxing ring. Also, lung volumes will differ. So on the extreme, you have female versus male. There's a difference of 10 to 12 percent in lung volume with females having 10 to 12 percent smaller lung volumes than males. And depending on the spectrum of androgen insensitivity, this will impact where on this differential you actually land, because it could be if it's complete insensitivity. You may be like far on the end of, you know, you don't have some of these same advantages from an oxygen carrying capacity standpoint via multiple variables, not just lung volume, which we'll get into in a sec. But in general, females are going to have lower oxygen uptake capacity, which is expected. Females also have about 85 percent the heart size of that of males and the volume of blood that you can actually pump around the body as a result of that, obviously less. Heart size of males translates to a larger stroke volume as well. And VO2 max as a result is going to be 15 to 30 percent higher in elite males than in females based on just straight up sex differential in terms of the anatomy. Functional capacity of the lungs as well varies based on even a propensity to asthma. So androgen exposure seems to lower the incidence of asthma. So the more female you are, the more likely you are to have asthma seemingly. And if you have mild insensitivity versus partial versus complete, this is obviously going to affect your the probability that you have severe asthma versus not among other factors that drive oxygen and carrying capacity as well, like hematocrit, you know, affected individuals do not menstruate. This is notable, hugely notable in my opinion, given that if you're competing in a sport that is highly dependent on your ability to have elite endurance, you know, not having a period where you bleed out a bunch of your oxygen carrying capacity would be helpful. You know, you would not have to worry about that like a, you know, the average female would. So there's a quick high level on red blood cell production. Worth noting, hematocrit is the percentage of red cells in your blood and normal levels in men. Men hematocrit probably depends on the reference range in the lab, but you know, 40 to 54% is typical for men, whereas for women, it's approximately 34 to 46%. So obviously less in women and androgens drive erythropoiesis. So the process of making red blood cells is significantly mediated by the ability of androgens to increase erythropoietin concentrations. So for somebody with complete androgen insensitivity, it's entirely possible the net outcome of lack of menstruation, but concurrent lack of AR mediated erythropoiesis might be, you know, net neutral, net negative. You know, it's kind of hard to say compared to a menstruating female with full androgen receptor activity. But there's also obvious leeway given that this response that the androgen receptor is all a spectrum. As we mentioned, different categories and individuals who are also a partial insensitivity, you know, based on some of the, uh, at least Olympic classifications, not that they're being used now, but even back then it was deemed to be a false positive. If you had partial insensitivity or complete, which is obviously going to be a differential between how much erythropoiesis you can drive. So there could easily be a net positive outcome if you only have partial AR insensitivity and satisfactory or even male territory erythropoiesis occurring. In addition, over the past few decades, this is something that typically is not talked about. Evidence has begun to accumulate showing that the androgens in the body can have actions independent of the androgen receptor and can still impart very significant rapid actions at the cellular and organism level without having to interact with the AR whatsoever. This is known as the non-genomic pathway and it requires neither AR nuclear translocation nor AR DNA binding. This is independent entirely from the androgen receptor and even antiandrogens like bicalutamide that we talked about earlier and flutamide have no effect on non-genomic androgen signaling as evidenced by studies evaluating if it is indeed the case or not that this is a AR or AR independent mediated thing. And it turns out that there is in fact effects of androgens independent entirely. If you were somebody who had complete insensitivity, if you had natural testosterone levels that were that of a male, there is some degree of effect that is happening outside of the receptor entirely. And this is driven through metabolites into aromatization to estrogen and a bunch of different things. But it seems to drive androgen mediated functions despite not actually interacting with the androgen receptor interestingly. So one example is a notable case report from 2021 that details the case of a complete androgen insensitivity patient who underwent gonadectomy at age 26. So gonadectomy is the actual surgical removal of their gonads. And after they had that removal, they actually had a decrease in libido. Very significant decreased libido. But they were able to reverse it by using testosterone. Very interesting. Because if this person had complete androgen insensitivity, you would think, okay, well, when you remove their gonads, there's gonna be no difference in terms of how they feel, how high their libido is, etc. But the fact that it dropped dramatically and then increased back up with testosterone therapy indicates that there's something going on independent of the AR. So testosterone therapy led to a robust increase in sexual function, which is inconsistent with a genomic action of testosterone. And it is speculated, you know, this could be partly mediated by central aromatization because estrogen does drive some level of sexual function for sure. If you've ever crushed your estrogen with aromatase inhibitors or bodybuilders know just how bad it can be to have low estrogen, but high test, you can still have no libido. But it is thought to also be mediated by non-genomic actions of androgens because exogenous estradiol therapy in individuals with complete androgen insensitivity syndrome was not effective like testosterone was in reversing this. So a recent randomized crossover trial with 26 complete androgen insensitivity syndrome patients also found that exogenous testosterone did lead to an improvement in sexual function. So there is little debate as well when it comes to psychoactive effects that better motor skills, visual spatial skills, and pro perception will improve coordination and subsequent athletic performance. The sex specific connectivity of sub networks in the brain are thought to underlie the ability of males to show consistently higher levels of performance in these areas. And you know, when we see these non-genomic effects of androgens, you can't help but think there seems to be some effect independent of AR that is traditionally like masculinizing through non-genomic effects. And then for something with partial activity or partial response, you can assume they're going to have some of these like male characteristic effects that otherwise give them a uniquely male spectrum level advantage over females. And that's just over females without any predispositions like this, which is just the reality. So depending on the mutation, a person with a 46 XY karyotype and androgen insensitivity syndrome can have either a male or female phenotype or may have genitalia that are only partially masculinized. And ultimately, this insensitivity syndrome is the largest single entity that leads to 46 XY under masculinized genitalia. So even with unethical level scrutiny, if you want to call it that, someone with partial androgen insensitivity syndrome could still pass like the most crude sex verification test if they are exempting all individuals that are XY with partial androgen insensitivity syndrome and complete, they could compete against women and potentially depending on the condition and severity have a net advantage via higher testosterone levels, some level of direct genomic effects if they have partial insensitivity, the full capacity of the non-genomic effects of androgens, which are becoming more well understood as the years pass and more literature emerges, longer limbs, bigger hands, being taller, more muscle mass, depending on the severity, bigger lungs, potentially bigger heart, less prone to asthma, more erythropoiesis, not menstruating. There are a lot of factors here. So in the Castor-Samania case, revisiting this for a final time, the extreme example of somebody who's a gold medal winner, but has fully functional internal testes producing male level testosterone, functional androgen receptors, having undergone full development or at least the development to which the testosterone levels allow masculinization wise, but on the muscle tissue, bone mass, etc. side, like that is full capacity of those natural testosterone levels without inhibition via antiandrogens because this wasn't a mandatory requirement when Castor was competing until she decided not to compete anymore because she would not abide by those rules, but she was able to still win when that was not a requirement. Like it's hard to argue that that individual with that specific set of circumstances does not have a significant unfair advantage. You know, you can argue the whole, you know, individuals who have unique genetic predispositions like Michael Phelps or whatever that result in unique performance advantages over competitors. You could argue that, well, this is just that again, but then it calls into question what is the validity or actual like point of even having segregated gender categories at all. Like we have men's sport and women's sport. Like does it even make sense at this point when you are just claiming that an individual who is, has internal testes that produces male level testosterone levels and fully responds to those testosterone levels is a superior female. Like that's basically what you're claiming from a performance standpoint. If you wanted to shoehorn that person into a, you know, female division, that's not to say that it's fair for that person, but it's certainly not fair for women who have to deal with normal female physiology to compete against somebody who has literal male development. Like that is not fair. So I would say in the case of the 5-alpha reductase deficiency, depending on the person, depending on the functional capacity of the testes, et cetera, like that is a situation where that person should have been probably identified and subject to either. I don't necessarily think that the whole antiandrogen situation, the threshold cutoffs, I don't necessarily think that's a perfect system. But at the end of the day, caster should not, in my opinion, somebody with that level of unique predisposition should not be put in the exact same playing field as somebody who literally does not have the same organs to work with. You know, like it's different when you talk about males who have specific anatomy for males that give them an advantage like Michael Phelps or mutations and genes that encode for some process that is significantly more efficient than another male. But at the end of the day, like this is the criteria we're dealt with is segregating sport by gender. Once you start to shoehorn individuals with male territory performance via their male predisposed development that they actually were supposed to go down, should they not have had a mutation in the gene that encodes for 5-alpha reductase, like you've essentially defeated the integrity of these gender categories entirely to which it's like, what's the fucking point? You might as well have everyone compete against everyone at this point, which is obviously dumb, but I mean, I don't think that that case makes sense to have somebody with that unique of an advantage competing against just straight up women without internal testes. However, what is the takeaway for this situation with Imane Khalif and Lynn? So I think chromosomes matter. I think the genes matter. I think the hormone levels matter. And I think the DSD category plus medical condition of these fighters matters. I think a lot of this information we just went over is of critical importance to carefully evaluate in a nuanced manner among each fighter. And it was essentially just thrown out the window in Olympic boxing seemingly as there was not only no sex verification testing, but there was also no testosterone threshold cutoffs or regulated limits in the Olympics, nor were there, you know, mandatory anti-androgen requirements or anything of that nature. I'm not to say that that's a perfect system, but at the end of the day, like there was nothing in place to prevent somebody from competing who has, you know, even greater predispositions than, you know, caster seemingly. So despite, you know, neither of those tests are perfect and there's a ton of room to maneuver and cheat that system. But there's a reason why other sports at least have cutoffs in place to do something to try and somewhat allow parity here and to be inclusive. So despite other sports in the Olympics this year, having rigorous cutoffs, there is no formal oversight body for boxing. Supposedly, the IOC created an ad hoc boxing unit to temporarily oversee the boxing competition in Paris. And this unit has no guidelines for gender eligibility, seemingly, or the extent to which it is, is basically allowing boxers to compete as females if they have female gender markers on their passports or legal documents. So if you had a passport that showed you were a female, you were eligible to fight in the women's category. That is what we've been led to believe. So to determine if Imane Khalif or Lin Yu-Ting have a semblance of a male level advantage, they need to be tested. And until the IOC makes clear what their specific criteria is for eligibility above and beyond what's on your passport and how they're ensuring fairness in situations like this that can be, you know, debated at that point as to if that criteria is sufficient or not, we can only assume, you know, without any more information that there is a possibility that under-virilized men are winning gold medals in women's sports at an Olympic level and also punching women in the head in the ring. Like that's, with the lack of information given, we can assume that that is certainly a possibility and it's wild that this is occurring in 2024. It's very unfortunate that these two individuals that, again, not born as biologic men going through full puberty and then transitioning to women and then trying to compete in boxing or something, these individuals are born as women and believe wholeheartedly that they are just natural, normal, healthy young women and all of a sudden are thrust under scrutiny like this and basically getting shit on by the public for having competed against women. I think it's a highly contentious and weird situation and I also do empathize with those individuals who really probably have no clear-cut understanding of what's going on. Like this is seemingly a very recent thing. They were disqualified and who knows if they know what that means or why they were disqualified and if it made sense. Because if you were disqualified last year for something in your test and then in 2024 you were eligible, it's like, okay, well you would think at the highest level of sport in the Olympics, whatever their tests are, would be the criteria of which is, okay, I'm obviously good to go. Nor would you even think like, hopefully I can finagle this test because you just think you're a woman this entire time. Which, you know, you could be unless you're told otherwise via proof and you have some sort of clear-cut test eligibility requirements that would dictate that you are or aren't. You can't have somebody getting away with having a 5AR deficiency with male level test levels and punching women in the head. So hopefully that's not the case and hopefully they have, I guess, the spectrum of androgen insensitivity that would otherwise net out to female territory performance levels. But we have no idea if that's the case and we will not know unless more information is presented that may be otherwise too much of a privacy concern to be releasing to the public. At which point it's like, okay, well, I don't know. Does it just suck for you then? If you're an individual born like this? Maybe, unfortunately. But I also think that for fairness of women's sport, you almost have to have that level of scrutiny, all but maybe not publicized to the public, but there should be clear-cut criteria that somebody needs to meet that the public knows what the criteria is and then the athletes are tested accordingly to determine that they don't have response to male level androgen levels that is reflective of that of a male. I think that's a fairly general and logical statement. I've got a, my brain is absolutely fucking warped at this point, but hopefully you guys learned something from that, found an interesting, wild, controversial situation and without the actual specific categorical identification and medical condition and analysis of hormone levels and chromosomes and genes. We have no idea at the end of the day if this is fair or not. So to be determined, maybe, but hopefully these individuals are otherwise, you know, equated to what is just a, you know, normal functioning woman at the end of the day when it comes to the capacity for, you know, muscle building, blood building, bone mass, etc. But it's hard to overlook some of these anatomical differences and even slight sensitivity at the receptor and these non-genomic effects and the fact that individuals likely, if they have internal testes, have male level hormone levels. It's like really hard to overlook that there should be higher scrutiny on this than a fucking passport. So anyways, let me know what you guys think in the comments down below. All the comments help the algorithm. We're much appreciated. Like, subscribe, check out my blog, moreplacemoredates.com. I'm laughing because I'm saying my outro as if it's still like a relevant outro. Like, I don't even write on my site anymore. So I don't know. Maybe you shouldn't go to moreplacemoredates.com. It just exists at this point. But subscribe to here because I actually post stuff here. And follow me on social media, other platforms, Instagram, etc. If you want to support me, anything in the video description below. Gorilla Mind, Pre-Workout, Nootropic Formulas, Innovative Energy Drinks even now from a Nootropic Formulation standpoint. If you haven't seen those, you're missing out. Fucking incredible, most efficacious energy drink. Merrick Health for preventative medicine, high level diagnostics, hormone replacement therapy, etc. Also, Intelligent Shop for hair loss prevention, men's fragrance, skincare, and anything else I'm associated with, it's all in the video description below. Thank you guys for watching. Talk to you soon.