viaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviavia and I've kind of moved my stance onto that is that the vast majority of those are consumed as part of ultra processed foods. So you think the discussion gets conflated because you're getting the inclusion of basically garbage foods representing them as a whole and some of them could be okay in certain circumstances or how would you? Yeah, well, we do see in the research that when you replace saturated fats with mono or polyunsaturated fats, you see a decrease in in ApoB. And we also don't see any increase in nomocysteine or CRP, hs-CRP. We don't see any inflammation markers that are measurable from the consumption of CTOs as much as I hate it. Cause I did say in my rant, I said, I'm biased. They are a poison to me. I'm allergic to them. When I eat them, they give me diarrhea. And I spoke about that, but that doesn't afford me the opportunity as I just got done critiquing many other keto people that doesn't afford me the opportunity to extrapolate that onto the masses without sufficient evidence. Yeah. So like, what do you, when Paul Saladino, for example, comes out with really aggressive claims about it, which, you know, may or may not be founded, what are your general thoughts? Cause oftentimes it's, uh, I don't know. It's, uh, you'll see a video from Lane Norton the next day, basically dismantling them and then they're going back and forth. And sometimes it's hard to know as the layman, these are both highly intelligent individuals who are well-educated and seem to do the research. So who am I supposed to listen to? Yeah. Well, if you rely on epidemiology, but we have many now randomized controlled trials showing, and then oftentimes they'll pick out a, they will cherry pick a study. Uh, I think one of them was the, uh, uh, they're going to escape me now the Sydney diet heart trial. And then there was another one out of, uh, I think Michigan. Uh, they were horribly conducted studies. The trans fats were in the mix involved there. Uh, the length of the study, the number of participants, there was just so many problems when you find when they continue to go back to the same two studies, which are horribly confounded and then completely disregard, uh, all of the current research. We, we have mechanistic data, we have epidemiology, we have, um, randomized controlled trials, and we have, uh, Mendelian randomization, uh, all pointing in the same direction. Uh, and they'll continue to bring up the same stories. And then they conflate it with, uh, and you can hold these two beliefs equally. Uh, they conflate it with, you know, big oil or big sugar or big pharma or, you know, whatever else. So you can believe that, that, that big food, uh, is, is a bad thing generally, uh, that they're profit driven and, you know, you can believe that and understand again, the evidence, not the research, the body of the overall evidence, looking at the body of research, uh, and, and agree that, that they're not poisonous. Uh, there's no evidence to that, you know, point to, um, a biomarker point to all you can point to is in X if, if, if in excess, the same thing's true of, of say fructose and high fructose corn syrup versus sugar. They've had many, many, many replacement studies swapping one for the other and it's calorie driven when the calories are in excess. Then you start to see the fatty liver accumulation. You don't see some special problem with, uh, you know, eating one or the other of those. And that's, it's frustrating. And I can already see the comment section, you know, I've, I've watched it over and over and over again. Uh, the folks just freaking out because they just haven't bothered to deep dive into the research and look at the comparisons. And these are examine.com has taken a deep dive into these things. Obviously, Lane Norton has, uh, another great resource that, uh, uh, uh, Alan Flanagan from Alenian nutrition, uh, it's just brilliant, uh, does brilliant analysis on research. Um, and he's criticized me multiple times over the years for, uh, you know, claims that I've made one being seed oils, um, uh, and one being shitting on Ansel Keys, uh, which, uh, which, you know, he correctly pointed out that I didn't read Ansel Keys's entire, uh, research studies. Somebody who's famous for that is again, Nina Teicholz. She has a whole book, you know, blaming big this and big that and conspiracy theories here and conspiracy theories there. But, uh, when you come down to the actual evidence on the nutrient itself, uh, it's, it's very shaky, if not just horrible. And, uh, uh, and Gary Taubes did the same thing. And I mean, his, his wife is recently apologizing on his behalf for, you know, saying he wasn't doing this intentionally. He, he had, he has a good heart and he meant well, uh, but he was wrong. You know, Dr. Jason Funk's wrong about the carbohydrate insulin model. It's been disproven over and over and over again. And people think if you eat a grape that your blood sugar is going to elevate, you won't be able to burn fat. Gary Brekka is on that board, carbohydrate insulin model. He's just driving that, that whole thing. It's not true. Um, who was the gentleman recently that just, he, he spiked his blood sugar every single day, ate sugar every single day for a month and lost weight. Jordan Syatt. Yeah. It's fantastic job. Just demonstrating it's, it's the calories. It's not that your blood sugar elevates. That's a normal physiological response.