He offered to share them with me and we would could get swole together. Being an idiot 16-year-old, I agreed. So, every day after school, we would go to his dad's basement where his home gym was located and take two pills each. And what's up, guys? Derrick from8s.com. Today, we have another horror story on our hands. It is not about the Trembalone sandwiches, though. It is about literal 19-nor testosterone. So a lot of people don't realize trenalone is derived from nandrallone. So the parent compound being nandrallone is essentially what every single you know 19 noir in that class of compounds comes from the base molecule of nandrallone. And nandelone has its own you know unique characteristics and um some of the kind of uh flagship side effects guys experience. Most notably probably being decad. If you've heard of decad, it is like uh it's like when your dick just ceases to [\h__\h] work properly and you have erectile dysfunction out the wazoo and you cannot perform for [\h__\h] And even if you get hard, you will not sustain a high quality erection throughout your session. So anyways, presumably that's what this is about because the title is Deca and libido inhibition horror story. too long. Didn't read. Don't be stupid. Don't be me. Throw away for obvious reasons. This is before I discovered MPMD. So, anyways, let's uh Deble only cycle first in high school. We got a classic gangster on our hands. So, we shall see uh what that was like. I'll start from the beginning. When I was 14, a buddy and I really got into lifting. I was always stronger than him. I was a bigger guy, 5'11, 200 lb at 15. So, that is to be expected, I guess. Granted, most of what I had was fat. He was around 6'3 and built like a rail. One month when we were 16, he suddenly blew up over the course of a few weeks. Red flag. One day I pulled him aside. This was after he benched 250 for reps. I was maxed at 220. He showed me these blue pills that he was taking. I did not know what they were. I didn't even know what gear was. Too busy playing out fantasies and CK2 with mods and other video games. He offered to share them with me and we would could get swole together. Being an idiot 16-year-old, I agreed. So, every day after school, we would go to his dad's basement where his home gym was located and take two pills each and chill for a few hours playing video. [clears throat] He said we had to wait a bit for it to kick in. The first time I took it, within hours, I immediately felt the effect. I think the halflife of Diana is like like 6ish hours. I might be wrong on that. That's just off the top of my head, but um like are you going to feel it pre-workout? You know, maybe. I guess. Yeah. It's like an acute effect and it's going to be in and out of your system pretty quickly. So, I suppose yes. Um if you can feel an anidrol, I can't see why you wouldn't feel a dianal other than the fact that it's not going to crank up your sympathetic drive as aggressively probably and it's not progesteric. So, um, you might not get some of the same, uh, I don't know, aggression from it, if that makes sense, but you should feel something. Should make a little a bit of a difference for sure. Like, obviously, it's going to make a difference once it's saturated, too. Said we had to wait for it to kick in. Within hours, I felt the effect. It's like I could not get tired. Like, my muscles were having sex with themselves. It was incredible. I felt stronger than ever, and it was putting on mass on my shoulders and back like crazy. 2 weeks into it, my nipples begun to become sensitive. Classic. My friend had the idea that I should split the dosage up. That way, things would balance out. So, he gave me a bottle and told me to take one in the morning and one at night. This helped, I guess, since I did not develop gyno. We did this for about 3 months. [\h__\h] dude. 12 like 12 weeks of a hpadotoxic oral only cycle. Not a good idea. Looking back on things as a 21-year-old, the stuff he had was debal. Having taken it now on cycle, his heart was in the right place and he never charged me for the gear, but it definitely stunted my growth. I'm shorter than every male in my whole family. Even my sister is a bit taller than me. Coming off of it, I got even fatter than I was before. I had no energy or motivation to do anything or even to apply myself to do well in senior year high school. I had no drive. And when he says it stunted his growth, this is a very estrogenic compound at super physiological doses. Like obviously if you shut yourself down you're replacing the you know what you would otherwise produce endogenously the aromatization to estrogen might not be such a significant burden but the fact is it's not converting to bioididentical estradile rather it is aromatizing into a synthetic estradile analog called 17 alpha methyl estradile which is different in its inherent agonism of estrogen receptors and how long it takes for your body to metabolize it and whatnot you know historically obviously debol fairly problematic for certain individuals in an estrogen management context. So if you have you know undesired excessive amounts of estrogen receptor agonism you might be inducing premature plate closure you know that might be otherwise stunting your growth. I don't know for certain if that's what happened but it's certainly plausible that if you can prolong your you know growth phase by inhibiting aromatase that if you are smashing aromatase with highly you know potent drugs that are potent substrates for aromatase and produce a high amount of 17 alpha methyle dial you can imagine that just like the opposite you should be able to I would think prematurely stunt your growth with a [\h__\h] ton of estrogen so like that's literally the reason why uh females stop growing as quickly. It's the same reason why if you use an aromatase inhibitor, you might in uh when uh castradi were castrated, you know, it's the equivalent of being uh it's not like an aromatase inhibitor, but you you have no [\h__\h] testosterone. So, you don't aromatize enough estrogen to actually cause that epithesial bone plate closure to begin with, whereby you would stop you would have that process where everything kind of uh ceases to continue growing. So you end up with disproportionately long bones relative to what you would otherwise you know you were meant to start with um or you were meant to gain over your um adolescence. And of course obviously the castradi you know they have no endogenic or estrogenic signaling so they end up with [\h__\h] like osteoporosis and poor bone quality. But for individuals who are literally artificially stunting or inhibiting that uh closing the growth plates early with, you know, hardcore amounts of estrogen, you know, it's it's certainly plausible that you might end up shorter. You know, I I can't say for certain that would be speculative, but it's definitely plausible. Like you said, I had no energy or motivation to do anything or even to apply myself to do well in senior year high school. I had no drive. This was likely due to suppression. Had no real interest in girls or progressing in life. I was I would just stay in my room playing video games. The [\h__\h] up thing is that I did not even look good on it. I just got bloated and strong. I started uni at 20 for the context because of this. I was a straight A student before and earned my academic merit in high school the whole time before that. I guess it ruined my life. Deca mistake in university before I discovered MPMD. I snapped out of it eventually. I wanted to turn my life around. I started dieting down hard in 2 years from 260 to 180. I hiked long distances every day and then did boxing all on a ketogenic diet doing OMAD, taking a multivitamin and psyllium psyllium husk for fiber and nutrient deficiencies. Fast forward my first year in uni. I look good, but in my head I am still that fat [\h__\h] shut in loser. There was this one cute girl I liked. With time dieting down, she became my motivation unintentionally. I remember one day I was about to break my keto for 2 weeks and had a box of Tim Hortons in my hands and she walked back past on campus. Okay, so this guy is definitely Canadian and he definitely went to I don't know. I would speculate I don't know actually [\h__\h] I don't know. It's not like I could tell but if he's in university like I imagine he's probably Ontario or British Columbia or something. U but I don't really know. I threw it in the trash and decided to fast the next day. I was good looking at 180 lbs. Looking back on things, full head of hair, youthful skin, and a keto glow. Still lacked the confidence to talk to her. She was in my classes freshman year and lived in the same building as I did. Spring of 2019, I felt a surge of urgency. I thought she would be leaving since the age limit of the dorm was 20, and she was turning 20 soon. I was 21 at the time, but was allowed to stay there under special circumstances. It was quieter, and I have very sensitive ears. I was tested and got my ENT to write a letter to them about it. This urgency made me buy gear online. First was pills, Anavar. Then when they worked, I had enough confidence to start pinning. So started Deca. I chose Deca because I thought it would be hairs safe. I was super paranoid about balding because my dad is bald. I also bought nolva and Clomid and Aromosin since I was also super paranoid about Gyno. The first week on Deca was amazing. I had the confidence to cold approach her and secured her number and a date. Quite the first approach there, bro. [\h__\h] You know, not most people don't have that kind of luck on the first [\h__\h] approach ever. Everything went downhill from there. I did not know what was wrong with me at the time. I was taking one pill of arroin every other day and 40 millig of nolva for some reason. So this guy is literally inhibiting aromatase on a drug that is not a potent substrate for romatase to begin with with 40 mg of a selective estrogen receptor modulator which has its own inherent side effect profile for inhibiting estrogen receptors and causing those side effects too. Not unexpected for him to feel like he was going bipolar. One second I'm on top of the world and in euphoria. The next I'm dirt and going to fail at everything. I know now that I had like zero estrogen in my system. What's worse is that I started going bald. I could see my scalp and my hair was falling out in clumps. I immediately stopped. The suppression I experienced killed my libido. The girl liked me and put up with a lot of my [\h__\h] but everyone has their limits. I was a clingy, overly emotional little [\h__\h] with her who almost fought a guy for sitting too close to her in the mess hall. I pretty much failed every course that semester because I had no energy to focus, no drive. My libido was also dead and I noticed that my balls felt cold. I did PCT two weeks after my last shot like an idiot. I thought it was the right call at the time. at the time of doing my first and by the way as far as two weeks after the the reason we don't do that is because the clearance time of deca for example nandolone danoade you need at least five half- livives of clearance before a compound is sufficiently out of your system enough to no longer be HBTA suppressive and actually get your body to start recovering but with deca too like that's a [\h__\h] long esester and that is a very suppressive compound so the likelihood that you're ready to start PC CT drugs that are going to actually help you recover 2 weeks after your last injection. No, dude. It's going to be over a month before you're ready. Like this is not uh a compound you can just clear out of your system in like even if like this is not test prop, you know, we're talking about Nandrolone Dano here. So anyways, thought that was the right call at the time. At the time of doing my first cycle, I would record my masturbations and tally them per month. I was heavily suppressed for 7 months. For context, I jerk off about 30 times a month as of writing this. It took 10 months to get back to pre-deca levels of jerking off. I never had my testosterone checked, but I think it's normal now. Just thought this would be interesting to see the effects of Deca on a 20-year-old's libido. Any advice about hair loss would be great. My hairline has not properly recovered even though I've been on finasteride for like a year straight. I even tried RU5841. Nothing is working. I don't know what damage having no estrogen in my body did to me, but I feel a lot dumber, too. Um, let's see. Wow, you have this like [\h__\h] elaborate log and yet you still haven't got one blood test. Like, like, bro, go get a [\h__\h] blood test. Like, that's the obvious first step. So, you're not that much older now than you were, you know, dur during the cycle. So, you're 21 at the time and now you are like this log here ends in uh what 2020. So, I don't know. This doesn't seem like it was that long ago. So, like dude, just get a [\h__\h] blood test. And as far as your hair coming back, yeah, like if you have low tea and you have low estrogen as a result, yeah, maybe you're not going to be able to recover your full density. Estrogen is pretty important in mediating hair growth in my opinion. Now as far as will it recover as soon as hormones like hormonal fluctuation will cause tigen oflovium and make it impossible to stabilize. So yeah, you want to I would get your bloods done, see if you have indeed stabilized and returned to homeostasis and from there then make an assessment if this is actually androgenic alipcia or just persistent tigen ofium chronically and yeah cuz if this is like at if you had perfect hair before this and now it's like [\h__\h] after one cycle of deca which is a very hairsafe compound if you're not on finasteride and by the way if your hair is not recovering on finasteride with deca like did you combine finasteride with deca? Did you not wait for the deca to clear before you started finasteride? Then you ended up [\h__\h] your hair from that. Like there needs to be more context here, but ideally all the deca would be cleared out of your system. You'd make sure your gonadotropins are in check with your blood work, your luteinizing hormone, follical stimulating hormone. Check where your tea and estrogen is at. And um yeah, obviously finasteride is a good start and minoxidil plus micro needling as a growth stimulant would be good. And I would stick with that until you know that you have stabilized and kind of ensured that this is not the medicine necessarily being lackluster in its effects for the finasteride and stuff, but rather it is basically you want to rule out the fact that you've actually recovered and this isn't a result of some sort of deficiency that hasn't been addressed yet. Cuz for all we know, your [\h__\h] system is like wonky as hell. Like if you fluctuate your hormones at all, you can get a massive acne breakout. You can get massive taggen aluvium. can get this [\h__\h] pretty easily. Even if your hormones are like optimized for, you know, hair growth, you know, on paper, if you just experience a wild fluctuation to get to that, you know, snapshot in time, you might not yet be ready to have a, you know, long duration antigen cycle that is actually allowing you to reflect that high quality density of hair. So, you know, you might, it's just time, dude. Like in my opinion, the fact that you did this one cycle with no estrogen in your system essentially and um in crush the [\h__\h] out of it with the serum and the AI concurrently and it's not that much longer after. Like I guess 10 months is quite a while but I mean we don't know what your [\h__\h] bloods are at like let's go check them see if it's uh ideally you would have been getting post cycle bloods this whole time and if you've been fluctuating the entire time it would not be uncommon to expect telogen ofium. So, I would give it a bit more time and if you want to add a growth stimulant in, then micro needling plus minoxil would be the way to go. I would stay the course on finasteride if you're side effect free and you're fapping [\h__\h] 30 times a month or whatever. Uh, but yeah, blood work is going to elucidate a lot about uh your situation. And I have tons of [\h__\h] content on hair loss. So, if you want to see more about, you know, what you could learn about what you could do for hair loss, just go check out my playlist. I literally have a playlist dedicated to hair loss prevention. So, highly recommend you check that out. I was taking 30 milligrams anavar, 250 milligrams of Deca two times a week for a total of around five weeks. Oh, so he took [\h__\h] I totally misunderstood. He took VAR as well as Deca concurrently. So yeah, you're you're crushing your SHBG into the ground whilst using Deca. And then if you were on Finastride concurrently, you've been on Finastride for like a year straight. So does that mean you were on finasteride when there was Deca in your system, too? Because that would also potentially explain why you got [\h__\h] you know? So I would uh I'd wait it out, bro. You know, I'd get to just if you're planning on being natural and not being on TRT, like let [\h__\h] stabilize. See where your SHBG is at. Hair loss is often caused not just by, you know, high, you know, DHT in the scalp, but in addition having low SHG. Guys who have low SHBG, they have a disproportionately high amount of free DHT. Keep in mind, DHT binds to SHBG with a much higher affinity than testosterone and a much higher affinity than estrogen. So the SHPG is essentially the regulating mechanism that which determines how much androgenicity is cir circulating around in your body freely. So if your SHBG is in the toilet because you took anavar for example and or your lifestyle sucks andor your diet sucks and or you know a bunch of other things then maybe you have a disproportionately high amount of DHT floating around. Even on finasteride does not factor in. Finasteride doesn't wipe out all your DHT. You still have a residual over 30% of it. So um know granted is that all actually like tissue specific in the scalp you know that's uh a bit of a debate right there but what I can say is your blood work would elucidate if you have a thyroid deficiency causing tigen oflovium if you have SHBG that's low causing it your testosterone levels if it's a fluctuation if you have low E2 still for some reason [\h__\h] like that would be definitely worth your while in terms of getting a blood test. Um yeah, that looks like the uh the full thing. So anyways, yeah, usually decad from like decad is usually caused by guys using too much testosterone with their deca and or using too much deca in general. So and that's not to say with it solo necessarily. I mean concurrently. Usually guys are using a test base of some sort. And often times the alignment of the concurrent usage of the test and the deca and or whatever else you're using, it often is not dialed in. You end up with decade deck typically through the progesterenic activity on top of you know whatever estrogenic activity/burden comes from your base and or whatever other drugs you're using. But decad is typically not an inherent problem of the compound itself. Rather, it's the compound in a in unison with other [\h__\h] that you're using. So, that is something to keep in mind, too. So, anyways, hope you guys enjoyed that one. Um, definitely a little bit different than the classic trend stories we've been hearing constantly. So, good to mix it up a bit. Thank you guys for watching. Like, subscribe, check out my blog, moreplace.com. Follow me on Instagram at moreplaceates. Facebook, Snapchat, Bitu, Twitter, Tik Tok, a couple podcasts if you want to support the channel. You can check out anything I'm associated with in the video description below. My TRT clinic, it's all tele medicine from the comfort your own home. Gorilla Mind, neutropic formulas, Gorilla Mode pre-workout formulas. I designed myself from scratch. My recommended lab tests and diagnostics to stay on top of your health, including this guy. Should definitely be getting his biomarkers checked through my clinic or through another, you know, private lab of some sort in order to assess where he's at. Highly recommend you do that on a at least annual basis. Um, and if you're blasting, ideally more frequently for sure. Thank you guys for watching. Tisen.