 kreig-jones, thanks for flying out man, i appreciate it. good to be here, good to be here in vancouver. how's it been so far? interesting, spent a little time on heisting straight. doing a lot of things for a warrior first impressions of entertaining people. yep yep. i mean it's a beautiful city, beautiful reminds me of latpoilans. oh yeah. big fan of latpoilan, i guess seattle, same, very similar. yeah yeah. but yeah, interesting characters on heisting straight. this is your first time here? first time ever in canada. oh wow. you have never entered canada before. because i travel around for jujitsu seminars and always canada is always one where you definitely should get the working visa because i'll bust you the border. so i was always hesitant to come to a seminar run over here. how popular is bjj up here do you think? i think it's pretty popular. definitely in toronto. we've got stewart cooper here in vancouver. okay. but yeah pretty big in canada. apparently there's adcc sponsored tournaments here as well. that's true. that's true. they've got the train assassins hosting events up here in the north. yeah yeah. just doing it like i was going to respond to you or probably just leave it alone. i've been trying to. i've been bathing him. he got in so much trouble for the original death threat that i think he's scared to follow through with anything now. but that just gives me, i can keep pushing him. yeah just for context. we talked about it earlier but so you got a death threat from some dude who organizes adcc events and he just happens to be within five minute driving distance right now. yeah yeah so i've come to him. maybe it's an inside job you've set me up. but yeah this father of two civilized man from democolorado threatened to kill me for hosting a rival grappling tournament on the same day as his tournament. and then he blocked me on his event page so i didn't even know his event was on. and then we realized his promotion fight the winds in town just happens to be the same weekend i'm here so all of our lives could be in danger. yeah watch out. so just for a high level if the viewers don't know who you are and you were to give like a summation of who is craig jones what you're about. could you just give like a quick intro? a quick intro yeah uh jiu jitsu athlete originally from australia lived in america for a while now i'd say i'm probably homeless just traveling the world aimlessly but coming trying to move into the influencer role much more enjoyable life i would say than wrestling dudes for a living but yeah long history in the sport in the sort of the big events the super fights now for this upcoming tournament i've basically gone head to head with the olympics of our sport which just like the real olympics doesn't pay the athletes any money so i had a long sort of a not even a long standing this was like done on a whim i was like uh complaining about athlete pay and anonymous donor contributed three million dollars to me and he's like host the tournament the same weekend that'd be hilarious so so i thought it was like the million and cash you brought to rogan that was did the stakes get higher from that guy who donated or like well he's the thing the million was a prop right it was a prop it was like a proof of that i actually had the money because most people don't believe at that time the total amount was still three million still three million yeah so it started with he sent crypto to another one of his crypto accounts he gave me the screenshots we like look show people you have three million dollars and then obviously crypto can be a bit dicey so when i went on rogan i didn't have the three million but i sponsored my shuffle dot comma gambling website connected me with a local guy in austin that had access to that type of cash and he was a fan of joe rogan so we're able to get a million dollars cash in hand from a guy i've never met before he just showed up on my house with a million which is fearless in his behalf but i could have taken fake money but the last thing i wanted to do was dump it on the desk and rogan goes this money's fake because he did look at it to make sure it was real and then obviously this guy told me not to tell anyone that i had a million dollars coming to my house but i couldn't resist i told everyone i took photos of it it's definitely not the safest course of action but yeah this guy took his money back he had trouble getting it out it's actually hard to get a million out from the bank even if you have it yeah so he told his bank he's like i need a million dollars for this thursday or something especially in cash too they're probably like 17 layers of authentication to get that out of there probably but they said no to him and he's like give me a million so you don't even have that much cash in a bank i don't even know yeah i'm us actually the guy that originally funded me and he's told me stories about how he's gone to banks and just ultimate ball of move and like how much money do you have any safe i want to take all of it i'm like i fucking wish i had that power but yeah this guy's bank said no he said get it or i'll go to a bank that can get it and they suddenly had the cash for him but apparently there's like a whole bunch of procedures all the bank stuff had to be there a bunch of austin police had to be there wow and i didn't even like rogan hit me up i don't think he believed me rogan's like um do you have security or no and he's like all right i'll set my security to escort you to the studio and even his security and stuff for like what the fuck is this they have huge people coming to the studio all the time and it's as well obviously i don't go in with security but i mean it's pretty chill normally you walk in guys are just chilling there what's up no one's like coming through has it yeah yeah but i mean rogan did obviously lie to me because he said oh i've never seen a million dollars before and i was like that's what me said i've never seen steroids before yeah that's awesome man so okay so circling back to bjj and your entry into this sport what drew you to this over other sports or combat sports in general yeah good question growing up i played a little bit of basketball a little bit of australian rules football was not good at those things i came into jiu-jitsu at a time where it wasn't big in australia so there was like an opportunity there but like why did you go out my cousin trained it at the time and i was watching you okay so i was like that seems like a fun thing to do but if you're watching usc wouldn't with your first inclination i suppose if you'd know somebody who's doing it but typically wouldn't it be okay i want to learn how to kick box or i want to learn how to moi tai or like for short i did a little bit of that but at the time in australia mma was illegal so it was no like avenue to even pursue that huh so i went off first started and then i was everything illegal in australia is yes nothing i mean everything's legal here you get crack on the streets i love it hey but you just can't post news online here you can't you can take gear and do a bunch of illegal drugship but you can't access news networks that aren't canadian really yeah try and access a news network from your phone with an ip address here it will block you really yeah it's crazy fuck it's like russia hey maybe soon i don't know it's a little concerning i think the first time the first thing rogan says to me every time i go on is that you're still in that shithole oh really yeah i mean hey seems looks like some parts lost it honestly it's like i'm homeless people's taking over some yeah but he's rogan's sort of feeling of canada right no he hits it he said he will never come back here hey and he makes it a point to tell me every time about it is i'm like oh fuck yeah i mean i just don't like the color well i don't know it seems like a lovely yeah yeah would you have a leave canada first trapped here in a way which is unfortunate it's like the way they've set up the taxation system is such that you have to pay tax on unrealized gains if you leave so hypothetically if you own companies you literally have to pay what they are valued at without actually selling them when you leave what yeah it makes no sense right he kind of gave a it'd be like for example let's say you have your house appreciated and value from like i don't know you bought it for a million dollars now it's worth three million you still have the house you haven't sold it but when you move out of the country even if you want to keep the house you have to pay the two million capital gains even though you haven't sold the house to get the money to pay the capital gains yeah so it's like anything you own your your taxed on because they don't want you to like i don't know leave without paying what they're owed for the value accrued while you're in the country so it's kind of like if you're a business owner it's kind of impossible to leave if you have any level of success where you haven't like it's not typical for a business owner to build a business and then sell it for some huge amount and then have the money to you know do these kind of things flexibly typically you will try and like you know hold assets and hope they go up in value even if it's the stock market but you're not going to have like the money accessible to liquidate to just pay it and leave typically so it's kind of a weird system that i'm sort of uh stuck in that's yeah i mean that obviously that's good and bad for the country the bad pot is stuck with drake he's stuck in it yeah but i think there's a way i could absolutely live somewhere else but similar to what you implied like it's nice the environment is great like the mountains the water the landscape i love it but it's like the taxation and some like the government stuff like the censor censorship is a little bit i don't know like it's not extreme enough that it's affected me dramatically but it's like going down that road where it's concerning um but yeah anyways a bit of a diversion that's wild but i can't leave the one that you go yeah i think the us has their own like it's not the same but you would have to like denounce your citizenship to get out of the tax system there so it has similar issues in different ways because then you can't really get back into it maybe as easily yeah i'm i've got a green card and i could get my citizenship but i'm really contemplating right now if i do it because you are on the hook for taxes yeah rest of your life unless you renounce u.s citizenship yeah like people from the u.s like influencers who travel some that live in dupas sometimes like they're still paying the irs even though they live in dupay and get all their money through like influencer whatever it is that they're paid by sponsorships even if it's sourced like dupay based i'm pretty sure the irs takes their cut because you have to literally give up your citizenship to get out of it yeah which is like okay do you want to go that far or no kind of thing i think best best luck living in port you get that four percent tax right but then you have to live in port or eco but that's i lived there for six months how was it difficult yeah was it okay no it was challenging we had to get out of there you were like maybe they put the taxes up and some things work you know there needs to be some balance you know like uh for you can't get anything done over there impossible post office seven hours you know oh my god yeah we're saying something about uh getting like a mailbox open yeah couldn't do it could not do it it was no one will help you hey problem is that if you're a white guy in port or eco they think you have multi oh they assume you're like they're to skirt the tax yeah you let fuck i wish yeah is anyone still there that was there with you at the time or the guy actually runs adcc that's where he lives so we were kind of going there to open a gym with him as corrupt as that sounds in retrospect but um we got out of there we couldn't function i think to live in port or eco you have to have like 50 to 100 million live in this ritz kultin area bubble dorado beach really nice but if you live anywhere outside of that it's like you're battling the same stuff you would in southeast asia with just very few things function you know it's like and you have to prove you're there for at least six months six months and yeah you have to be there six months in one day and they track that but they do that in the u.s even i think like if you're california like obviously california side tax rates so they really track where you are to determine where you have to pay those state or potentially city taxes they're on to you the irs yeah yeah so like hypothetically i could live somewhere for five months and you know just shy of a day but i would still be paying the taxes here i guess so i don't know maybe at some point i'll look into it more but i'm kind of well at least they're going to good use the crack cocaine is starting to get quality yeah yeah for sure um okay so bjj i totally derailed you got into it because you knew somebody was doing it and mma is also illegal so it's legal and it was also a bit of scary prospect too i used to study psychology and i remember learning about um sort of like traumatic brain injury and just thinking about holy shit like you'd want to get paid good yeah to be risking that and then most of those guys get paid fucking nothing so you just think i don't get paid much either but you're only risking your limbs not so much your brain there so i was really drawn to that i always thought like if i made a big mma sorry in jiu-jitsu and then someone threw a crazy off at me then i'd do mma rather than that riskless reward who do you think would actually be fit enough to or suitable to make that crossover and do well yeah yeah yeah gabby would be the one i'd fight i'd fight her for sure maybe that's the rematch after the grappling match what do you think her actual stats are natty though her natty stats because she would have to be like if she was in the u of c for example rigorous drug testing that is trees are rigorous in your opinion uh more more so than many other professional sporting organizations and it seems like they care enough to try and do it well put it that way you can get around it for sure but it's not the easiest sport to get around it's easy to get around if you live in the mountains of dagestan i imagine it's probably easier yeah i have to find you you know i mean but if you live elsewhere yeah like some of the logistical and political implications of it for randomized testing it gets a bit more problem you know obviously there are some advantages yeah the trade off is yeah dagestan i guess it's a Puerto rica yeah yeah but um what about for uh the guys is there anyone do you think that is seen as an elite bjj athlete that can make a crossover that would be worthwhile or just generally within our sport yeah i mean i think niki robber do well because his skill says go the wrestling base could do well and i think like if you look at mma as a whole the weaker divisions you have to say it's probably towards heavyweight because a lot of those big athletes are doing more higher paying sports you know so i think like generally speaking if you're a big athlete in jiu-jitsu and you have a wrestling base you could probably trend transition pretty well get and get paid but at the lighter weight range i mean we got the rotolos they're looking at transition mma they're probably two of the best guys in our sport they're good enough and young enough that they could but most of the time like guys will hit their peak in jiu-jitsu 28 29 30 and that's hard to now learn striking yeah wrestling not impossible but pretty damn challenging is there anybody that you think it would be like for example niki rod would it be worthwhile for him do you think or do you think he should just stay the course with what he's doing that's a good question depends if he wins a million dollar tournament if he keeps true yeah because i guess it's worth it now to yeah if he takes the million not many mma fighters are clear you know what i mean it's like the upper echelon of clear a million so if he wins a million jiu-jitsu pays the bills but i think i think he has been offered money to fight a bare knuckle fight so he's had offers before so i imagine he's probably had some mma offers so how far down the ladder do you have to like how much grandfathering into a higher status position do you get via your bjj accolades if any do you know not many unless you have some good social media skills i think and that's why i'm fully like i wonder for hypothetical sake if niki rod or gordon ryan were to get put into mma like how elite of a matchup could they get on day one yeah true often i mean often bad would be sick to have them face each other in mma oh yeah true that'd be huge yeah like i think something like that could happen and then that would be hilarious dude that's the real super fight is you know you have the winner of uh cji versus the adcc winner fighting actually yeah and a bare knuckle bare knuckle would be good yeah that'd be crazy oh yeah i mean i'd love to watch that'd be hilarious to watch we'd better to watch some participating you know yeah but for you so you want to avoid you know brain injuries it seemed like it was uh a good path still what age did you start again i started at 15 but honestly i started with pretty low aspirations because there wasn't much money or like yeah i'm trying to because you were talking about mon monetizing it i'm just thinking like how would you even have conceived oh you know if i take this all the way how much can i make because it's like presumably there wasn't like there wasn't any but always when i looked at it i looked at like retired mma fighters were in a much worse position to open a sort of a business right so like it's mma gyms are less successful than jiu-jitsu gyms jiu-jitsu is like a cult so it's like you don't have to be the best jiu-jitsu guy in the world but you could still operate a pretty good jiu-jitsu gym and in essence the theory would be to avoid real work because you're doing what you love but really it's still going to be real work but when you're young and you look at an office job or teaching jiu-jitsu you're going to be pulled in that direction so i thought not targeting the elite of the elite but there was a better career path right jiu-jitsu guy than mma guy what are some misconceptions you think people have about bjj that are i don't know it's like a few of the top ones like sometimes you hear it's ineffective for self-defense or you need to be really athletic to be good or like what are some of the misconceptions you think would be good to dispel i mean misconceptions i think uh that people think it isn't gay okay i think it's really gay you know that is close to a gay activity as you can do without crossing over there uh the misconception but a lot of people think they have no social skills i would say that's completely accurate you guys will defend that to the bitter end yeah but i would say there's a correlation between inability to hold eye contact and success in the sport yeah through the autism jokes come in but yeah in terms of misconceptions it is a cult it looks seems like a cult most of the jiu-jitsu gyms around are cults the jiu-jitsu coach sort of becomes like a heel train doctors lawyers like people with really incredible jobs but he'll be giving them life advice in all areas all facets you know what i mean so it's like a the jiu-jitsu gym owner becomes this cult like figure misconceptions no i mean they're pretty accurate you know you walk into a jiu-jitsu gym you see how weird that shit is your friends talk about it you listen to how weird it is it sounds to you that's you're gonna be pretty damn accurate with your instinctual thoughts but obviously there's something good there because everyone gets addicted to it all right they hang in there so okay so let's just say if somebody has no desire to compete in actual tournaments but they're actually looking to find a discipline or a fighting style that they just want to be able to feel like they can protect themselves when they go out in public kind of thing what do you think are the top three skills to learn in descending order of importance for someone that's like trying to learn to defend themselves in the streets i mean i guess like avoiding dangerous situations and stuff like the bat the most obvious stuff i get to plan properly yeah planning your number on seeing how drunk you get and stuff like that but if it's like unavoidable you know like i mean it's really jiu-jitsu is going to save you but it depends how many guys how many people you're battling against here like do they have weapons and stuff like that like in terms of the street fight oh man it's tough like obviously if you're training in a sports jiu-jitsu environment you're still going to develop that physical wrestling strength it's different you know like guys that lift a ton of weight still come into the gym and although they feel strong in certain areas they're not wrestling strong so no matter how you change jiu-jitsu whether it's sports folks or not as long as you're like wrestling hard every day it gives you a certain type of strength that i think would transition very well to any sort of physical altercation because it's like obviously you look at jiu-jitsu you're all these bunch of gay guys pulling god but uh they're not gonna do that in a street fighting environment you know yeah so okay so if we were gonna say the most important if we're gonna talk about boxing wrestling like all the different disciplines you could be focusing on you would start with i mean honestly i would probably start with wrestling because those guys generally have the most athletic gifts in terms of being difficult to control you know what i mean so if someone grabbed them if someone started to throw a punch they could take them down quite easily control that and if someone were to get them down they're quite good at getting back to the feet scrambling and standing back up so i think that would be number one honestly they're all pretty valuable depending upon the situation you got involved in if you were to just have boxing skills and you happened to fight a guy with any form of grappling skills and he gets a hold of you you're in trouble we think it was the most ineffective form of combat that is perceived to be actually useful oh i mean any of the traditional ones you know like taekwondo i mean you might be intimidated if someone throws it in a taekwondo stance or some karate stance out you might be like i know shit yeah you might it might make you sort of feel like it's such a bizarre set of movements you might not want to get involved with that type of uh former combat but that would be completely completely useless i mean everything that ufc one showed how all that weird shit doesn't work you know that would have been amazing to exist in those days all the traditional martial arts guys thinking that their shit was so deadly nobody could stop them i would have loved to have met those people before ufc one occurred yeah no yeah some of them to me like there's instagram pages dedicated to just some of the most nonsensical things and watching it it's baffling like you said the cult leader obviously for actual fighting disciplines that are impactful and useful i get it but then there are some i'm like how could you convince this many people about this yeah i'll be like mind control shit you like you know use the force on a guy and chuck him across the room like i don't get that stuff i don't know how they pull that off i don't get how they pull up convincing people that it's useful or if it's more fabricated that it seems like people follow them yeah i want to know that conversation where he's like hey we're going to do a demonstration just go with it yeah like what black bower does he have on him to do that in front of like a large group of people i wonder if that's similar with like hypnotists to some extent where they're just like snapping like knockdown 20 people or something it feels like that when they're doing the the fighting i wish that power was real hey yeah i'm trying to investigate all forms of that stuff like i was just in romania and we went to a gypsy witch's ceremony was uh i didn't feel too much to be honest so that was good people that were cool people hey yeah yeah i know nothing about like psychological stuff like that but i imagine there's like a certain mindset that you would have to have to be able to be affected significantly like the hyper skeptical i can't imagine it's the hypnotism stuff is that helpful yeah yeah like not everyone is joining Scientology exactly i wonder how they get them yeah okay so we talked about wrestling is the top one um and for you competing like you kind of knew there wasn't money in it so what compelled you to start competing in competitions in general i mean i think it's just for your own sort of bragging rights you know like your ghost just shifts like uh when i was training i was like i want to be the best guy in the gym and then you're like best guy in the city best guy in your states and then you just slowly the ghosts rise up like you'd have to be a tony robbins like character to start there i mean the crazy guys like that exist they walk into the gym they've never trained like i'm gonna be the best guy in the world and you're like something's wrong with you you know what i mean like let's set out target a bit lower so i always started small and just trying to accomplish goal after goal sort of in my climb to the top or near the top basically so that's sort of i mean the competition aspect i mean it is fun it is fun to grab there and compete obviously it's very very stressful it's more fun when you don't have a name because you get to just go out there with nothing to lose right but as soon as you have the name and your income relies on maintaining your position in the sport it actually you feel more pressure and it's more difficult to compete so a lot of like up and comers or people at seminars will ask me how do you deal with the nerves how do you control it i'm like bro it only gets worse you know like no one cares for you now i'm like i go out there and mess up everyone laughs at me sends me messages you idiot you lose it you know what i mean it's like hey only your family has handed that to you now but for me i have to deal with the internet the so the b team was it sort of derived from playing off like you had this you're striving to be the best in to have the breaking rights and then was it that you continuously came second or like what is the b team conception that's true and it's also a marketing strategy i actually heard there was an expression a russian guy told me this and he said to me goes if you claim to be the best many people will argue with you but if you claim to be the second best no one's fighting no one's like hey bro i'm number two you know what i mean so you get this brilliant strategy yeah of where you can just deem yourself second best in the world and absolutely no one will argue with you so we really went down that route i also happened to win silver in every tournament i ever did so it fitted quite well but it serves me well now even when i don't face some of the best competition people will still be like that's the second best guy in the world yeah no i can actually see that for sure being because you know like gordon for example is constantly having to defend himself seemingly yeah yeah and like i don't know i guess the more you defend yourself the more it compels people who don't like you to bleed in and then you know you had to challenge you and like go to his arguments but again no one complains no one's like fuck you i'm number two you know that's not something you can argue over so it's almost like and you probably have way more time to do actual useful things with your dick you're on instagram having to argue about how you're the second best no that's i'll give out other things that's i'll give for the love of the game but not over second place do you get into instagram beefs no i try to enjoy it you know i try to make fun like oh jiu-jitsu was always very serious very weird you know i tried to get involved and just poke fun at how strange it is you know i mean especially when guys so would you say you're the least weird and did you do i'm probably the most weird but i like to poke fun at the like traditions of the sport you know i mean because they take because guys in sport take themselves very serious i would say for americans take themselves pretty damn serious so it's good to cruise in there with some banter and i'd also say um the brazilians in their own native language they take jokes very well they're quite good at banter obviously as they transition to the english language sometimes things get lost in translation and they bite they bite on some of the the playful banter and obviously they have a lot of respect for the origins of their sport so i'll sort of an opportunity to come in and sort of poke fun at it you know like make fun of the fact that it's like everyone looks at jiu-jitsu again it thinks it's gay and everyone would fight it and i was just like well they make a pretty good guess you know like and then obviously the people that take this sport very seriously get very upset about that so probably a question that some people are thinking similar to i is you refer to it as jiu-jitsu but a lot of people call it brazilian jiu-jitsu and bjj and we're talking about just now the brazilians who have this you know uh they have tradition and whatnot the integrity of it like what is the difference between like how is the inception of bjj to begin with and why is it called brazilian jiu-jitsu and evolved to where it is now and why do you specifically call it jiu-jitsu instead of and so yeah i mean it's a good question i guess what happens was brazilian jiu-jitsu was popularized by the gracies the gracy family in brazil did all these challenge matches proving grappling was number one i mean i'm no historian of it but i know a lot of the submissions are borrowed from judo i know the original judo style original form of judo before they changed the rules to favor the big throws and stuff did appear to be more like modern day jiu-jitsu where they spend more time on the ground so to say brazilian jiu-jitsu is just paying respect to the gracies family and brazil the country of brazil for really popularizing that's  and the style of grappling. But I mean, the roots of grappling, obviously you got catch wrestling, you got traditional wrestling, obviously it goes back to the original Olympic games and stuff like that, but we say, Brazilian jiu-jitsu is really what the sport and the kimono is referred to, but it's just pure laziness, I'll just say jiu-jitsu. So I did ask about how popular you think it is here, and it was kind of interesting, because the other day I was at the beach and typically I guess my demographic doesn't skew that young, but it's not common that I have, I don't know, like 10 year olds come up to me. I had this group of four kids run up to me, like are you a YouTuber? And I guess they recognized me off some videos, and I said, yeah, they weren't like super familiar with my channel, but they knew they saw me somewhere on YouTube, and I don't know how they can't, I think it was just a flat out question, they were like, how do we optimize, well they didn't say optimize, how do we build muscle for jiu-jitsu the best? And I was like, that is a wildly specific question, and also a weird coincidence, because I've never really had anyone ask me that. I was like, oh, have you heard of Craig Jones before? And they freaked out. And I was like, this is crazy, because in general up here, like this wasn't like Vancouver either, this was like many suburb cities higher, where it was just this random lake and these kids, and they were pumped to hear that, and I'm doing a podcast about it, and I told them, well first they actually said, can he come here and do training? I was like, he's probably a bit busy, but I said I would ask you, as far as maximizing training for, because I'm assuming, and this is probably a good part answer to the question, is it's not just about building muscle, whereas I see a lot of really jacked out of their tree athletes that doesn't necessarily translate to you're gonna win, but what are the things you think should be focused on if you were to hypothetically go back in time and tell younger you, like how do you expedite your progress as fast as possible, what do you focus on? Honestly, I would say just training in such a way to avoid bad injuries. So some of us get so pumped up for training, and they wanna flat hard, and they wanna beat their training partners, that they just get injured all the time, or they're injuring their training partners, like just finding the right group of people to train as hard as you safely can. Cause it's like, it's who sticks it out, it's like who can last, cause you're putting your body under a lot of stress. It's probably the same in weightlifting, where guys will push you hard, injure themselves, they're going for six to 12 months, and then it's super hard for them to come back. Yeah, if you have the wrong training partner who you're trying to hang with, who is way further along than you, or you're trying to prove something, an ego lift, like career ending shit can happen. Exactly, hard to come back, you know? I guess it's like in the gym, you have to do that. Do you know who Larry Wills is? No. Okay, so he's like a power lifter slash, I guess he does compete in bodybuilding. He's on a pro, but he has a crazy physique, and very known for his strength feats, and he has a really big YouTube channel, and often the collaborations with him on YouTube, are in the gym, trying to like basically do his workout with him, and it's almost become like, he's almost infamous for like, not rooting careers, but like putting you in positions that are very likely to, you feel pressured to over extend past what you can do, to try and like hang for the video, and people just like blowing out their packs, like fucking themselves up, and getting like multi-year injuries, and for bodybuilding too, the cosmetic appearance of something ripped off the bone, and then reattached is not necessarily, and ever going to be the same. He sabotaged him. So, but like, and it's, I'm sure he has no intention of this, he's just a guy who loves training, and invites people to train with him, and that's how he likes to do it, but it's a good example of like, pick the right training partner, and know your limit, I think. I'm sure for BJJ, there's probably similarities where there's, you know, you go train with somebody, and then you feel like you have to show them up with some crazy submission, or like whatever, and what are some of the things you see? Oh yeah, I mean guys just not wanting to tap, getting popped. Make sure how tough they are, and then just like fucking tear their knee or something. And then obviously that's an ego-based decision, so when they have to take time off from the sport, if you take time off to recover an injury, when you come back, other guys have gotten better. Yeah. So the prospect of returning to the sport, to lose to people, you were better then. Already puts a big wall up. So it's like most of the guys that I started training with, like there's a reason very few make it to black belt, let alone make it to higher echelon in the competition. It's just fought to the death every day, or over trains, or like just doing crazy shit, just ego-based decisions, and they've just never made it to the end. Some guys just unfortunately have brittle bodies, it seems like some people are just predisposed to catastrophic injuries. And I would say maybe Jiu Jitsu's not for them, you know what I mean? But that would be number one for me, is like trying to mitigate injuries, because you don't wanna have those injuries when you finally make the higher level competition, and you're vulnerable. Like you are like, guys will, like you have, say you get your knee popped, it could be close to 100%, but it's almost like you've got PTSD from the injury. And then you compete, and the next time someone gets close to it, they're tapped straight away, they're so scared of the injury again. So it's like avoiding any of that. Yeah, I think a lot of people too, and we'll probably circle back to this, are really focused on the Jack physique, and the anabolic steroid use, but often people don't realize like the real injury-proofing yourself, through things that enhance the connective tissue integrity, and compounds that work off of healing mechanisms, and more so than just like hypertrophy, is almost most advantageous, I would say, for BJJ, and I think it goes overlooked by people who think everyone's just on test train, whatever, get crazy aggression, get jacked, and that's how you win, but like, it sounds like it's just as important to just make sure you don't fuck yourself up. Yeah, train safely, and some of those guys like that just get juiced out of their minds, what you did to like, it's almost like their technique gets worse, because now that it's like a crutch almost. Yeah, and now they feel like, oh, shit, I can overpower everyone. Flexibility gets horrible. Yeah, gets diminished, yeah. So it depends on the person, obviously, but like, even when I got it my biggest, I almost couldn't teach swimming lessons anymore, I was like, I don't know, 20 years old teaching. Yeah, I was trying to do back crawl, and my dealt would literally like, not allow me to do the back crawl properly, and show the kids how to do it, and I would sink like a rock too, it would be way harder to float, things you don't think about until it happens. Yeah, fuck that, yeah. But you just are getting massive, definitely not a great decision, I think. Like gas out quicker? Yeah, I'm gonna bad guess, I think as it is, so like, to get just float good, well at least that's what I tell myself. Yeah, so the B team, so is this, who came up with the idea, and what's like, I don't know, the inception days look like? Well, we had a team, it was the DDS, Dana Hadesko, we had this team, it was in New York, we trained at a gym called Hintzr Grace, it was like a team within a team. COVID hit, we left New York, we went to Puerto Rico, there was already problems within the team, you know, like bands. Interpersonal conflict. Yeah, like bands break up, you know, it's hard to keep things for a long period of time. So the team was already having some issues, being in Puerto Rico, made those issues worse, there were personal problems between other people, so we split up, we took our team to Austin, they also ended up in Austin, but just as a little lighthearted fun, because Dana, our old coach, would have the team, and if you weren't a part of that elite level team, there was elite level group of individuals that were always winning, you would be called a junior. So you could be a fully grown man, and you refer to you as a junior, which is obviously pretty condescending, but of the core team, it would have been Gordon, Gary Toner, me, Nikki Rod, Nikki Ryan, would be considered kind of the senior members of the team, me, Nikki Ryan, Nikki Rod, Ethan Kralenstein, we moved and we opened our own team, we basically split down the middle, and then they took over North Austin, we took over South Austin, and that's kind of where we're at today, pretty strange. We went to Puerto Rico together, we went to Austin together, but we separated. It's hard to manage the egos, you know what I mean? It's hard to manage that many athletes for a long enough period of time, even on a small scale. Like you see in every jiu-jitsu gym, things will be great, and as time progresses, egos get bigger, because their guys are getting better, the teams will split. So there'll be a guy that's like a brown belt that'll just move and open a gym somewhere else. It just seems like an inevitable part of close relationships in the jiu-jitsu world. Let's talk about just a high level, when people hear black belt, they think of, okay, you're the pinnacle of your discipline, presumably a lot of people would. What does it take to become a black belt in this, specifically, and what does it mean? I mean, it just me, it depends who gave it to you. It's honestly just a trick, it's like a marketing trick to keep people hooked. You know, it's the reason why people do jiu-jitsu, longer than they do kickboxing or boxing classes. It's a hook to keep you invested. It's like a multi-level marketing skill, and how it's like they wanna get the blue belt, they wanna get the purple belt. I guess it's a cheap belt to make too. Like it's just like fabric, right? Yeah, it's brilliant. And the black belt has a long established history in all martial arts, so it really is just a marketing strategy to hook people into the sport and make them feel special and validated. But at the end of the day, like you could be a shitty black belt. You know what I mean? The black belt doesn't prevent or mean anything at the end of the day. You're only as good as how you could train and perform. So it is, in my opinion, a marketing trick. However, if you're talking to a female that doesn't train, then a black belt signifies something of great importance and discipline. Right, right. It means other different things, different people, you know. Is it like the athletic equivalent of a PhD? I would say so, yeah. I guess you could have a PhD and be an idiot. I get, I mean, you could definitely have it, you just said like, well, and be completely terrible. Okay. So like in general, start to finish, how long does it take to get one? You could, if you dedicate yourself every day, train really hard, you could really get in fortified. Be difficult, but you could. Is there any corrupt people who just like, oh man, I would sell out for whatever, you know? Like, you know, they're not funny. These are some sort of like certification process, whereby it's like you cross reference, if it's a legit black belt or- No, really, no, really. There's a tournament, the IBHGF, which is the longest running G-World Championships in the world. And they have a bunch of criteria for what you need to be accredited with them, so that you can compete with them, or you could have a team, or your students compete. But it's a whole lot of confusing stuff. And they have roles where it's like, I believe you have to have three straps on your black belt to give a black belt like that, well, these rules. So they try to control- Oh, so there's levels above it too. Yeah, so there's straps on the black belt. What's like the pinnacle? The red belt, but I believe that's only for if you've been a black belt for 30 years. Holy shit. Yeah, but that's like the highest level of phyontology. I need very few- It's like when you hit the next, the super saying you didn't even know existed, and all of a sudden you're like this thing that doesn't even look like the previous iterations. Yeah, it's because it's bizarre. Cause by the time you get a red belt, you probably got half a foot in the grave. So I thought, what is the belt matter if you can't train? Probably. Huh, interesting. So like, I find this actually really fascinating. So you go from white to black, the transition is how many colors between? So white to blue, you go blue to purple, purple to brown, brown to black, and then you could do stripes on those belts too. So there'd be four stripes on white belt, four stripes on blue belt, four stripes on purple. But you don't need to, you could just jump maybe. No, I mean, most people do it for white belt and blue belt because they need the most validation. You know what I mean? Things are so bad. In the gym they get embashed, they don't know anything. They feel like a fish out of water. That they need a little something to keep them going, to feel really good about themselves. Right. You know, that's the trick to keep them in the game. But really. So you're getting a raise in your job or something? You're getting like a little bit of a... Well, it's like a flex. You just get to walk onto the mats and look at everyone below you and the belt structure like peasants really. That's the feeling that these people are going for. Right, yeah, because it's like a visual status cue as well. Yeah, that's it. It's really a marketing strategy. I think that's why it's taken hold so well. Yeah. So four to five years to get the black belt. If you trained every day, most people take about 10 years. So presumably you, Nikki Rod, Gordon, top guys all have black belts or is it? Yes, yeah, we all got the black belt. Okay, what about the stripes? I don't know how many stripes. I think I'm two or three stripes. You're meant to get an X amount. Once you get a black belt, you just get it based on pure time, which I think the first two stripes are three years each. Honestly, I can do it. How would they regulate how much time you're investing into getting the stripes though? By paying a membership with the IBJF so that they can track. You still have a black belt apparently. Is it harder to get a black belt through like Donner than elsewhere, for example? Yeah, for sure. He, I mean, he will be pretty tough. He'd be probably one of the most strict. So presumably it means more to have like a Donner, her black belt than it does mean more. But he also does it in a brilliant way because he'll keep his students who are elite level students below the level of black belt so that he can now send those students out to the world to beat black belts and go, oh, brilliant. This guy is he just destroyed a black belt. But that black belt could be a bus driver or something. You know, it's a very genius approach. He'll be like my junior beat this world champion black belt. Right. Right. Damn. So there is like a big marketing components around it, for sure. Well, yeah, for sure. I mean, yeah, it's all it's all marketing at the end of the day. I think that's crazy, man. So all in four to five years, if you're going hard and realistically 10 for most people, for most people, 10. Yeah, you'd have to be really, really good. I think four to five years you train every day and you had successful competition results could easily be justified. I've just meant to put restrictions on how long you meant to be. It is felt. But most people don't pay attention to the obvious. Jeff rolls too much unless their schools heavily focused on competing in that role set. What is like the time in, like you said, every day, working your ass off? What does it look like to be a high level athlete in the sport in general? Like time commitment wise? What does a typical week look like? I'll be I'll be saying probably two sessions a day, probably 90 minutes of rolling per day, probably 60 to 90 minutes of technique. That would be about a pretty good level, but it is hard to maintain. And it depends who your training partners are. Like if you're fortunate enough to be in a gym with a bunch of guys of equal level, then that 90 minutes of rolling is going to be hard, hard work. But obviously if a lot of gyms will be one guy that's better than everyone else, he can train, play with the guys however he wants to, he can go as hard as he wants to. So he can be more in control. So it's very it's a very individual thing, I would say. So who gives up the black belt side beating? Me when I'm there, but I'm never there. So you just have a closet full of them and you just fucking. Pretty much. I mean, we don't give them out too often. You know what I mean? Like it's like what you do just like order from the black belt store. Like we have a black belt store, Amazon, Unwrapper and give it to the guy. You know, we gave it to Nicky Rod on his podcast. We surprised him. Oh, cool. Because we're no ghee only, basically. So there's really even no purpose to having about. Right. It's just ornamental. So when do you actually get to show it off? If ever to people put in their Instagram bios, like a it's like an Instagram verification thing, I imagine I would. Yeah, or on Reddit, I'll put the flare is black belt now. Yeah, something is a big overlap between Jiu-Jitsu athletes and being on Reddit. Yeah, I think the red subreddit is like, it's like a million people on that. Oh, we should be a regular. Are you just like a crew in and look to anyone that just doesn't like me and agree to an anonymous comments agreeing with type in the search like Craig Jones every week. And every hour. So if you were to break down, I don't know, like training in a week for somebody who's trying to progress, you would say like presumably it's not feasible to do what you just outlined for a typical person, like somebody who's wanting to make, I don't know, become good in general. What does that look like in terms of like allocation to strength training, if any, you know, weights, endurance work, or is it mostly just technique stuff? And you focus on the rest of it later? Or what do you think? I mean, it's a good question because you're it's going to shape up depending on what you've got coming up. You know, you might tailor your training to be more to be less technique focused, more rolling focused if you've got a competition coming up. You know, yeah. And like obviously, I know the question is so general when it would be hyper nuanced for an individual based on whatever their strengths and weaknesses are, or they frail and need to get in the gym versus not. In general, if you had a guy entering the B team, though, and you're like trying to just gauge where he's at and he's, you know, I want to progress as fast as possible, what is kind of like your your feeler month to like figure out what he needs sort of thing like what's it look like? Yeah, true. I mean, you'd want to observe him in the gym to see how he stacks up against other guys in the gym and try to identify why he's losing to these people. Like is a is he massively overpowered strength was then you pre recommend the gym is his conditioning terrible. Then you might recommend doing cardio, but you also might recommend more technique because the better your technique is, the less tired your opponents will be able to make it because you'll be in sort of more control of what's taking place. I think sometimes guys that get tired, could be a lack of efficient movement, but they just don't have the answers. So they're getting put in positions where they panic and just use all their energy. You know, anytime you're panicking and just so you're going to burn energy straight away. Sounds like sometimes these guys are too tense. But yeah, really individual basis, you know, one of the like learning the techniques, though, like I know people sell instructionals and there's different ways to go about learning now versus however long ago. Technique development. Is that something that is best done? Like you kind of get an assessment off of like, how did you learn to start versus what is the ideal way to go about it now? Do you think like for learning submissions, for example? I honestly think, and I shouldn't say this because I sell instructionals, but instructionals, the best way to learn would be to observe rolling footage or match footage and break it down sort of frame by frame and really try to work out why something just occurred, try to work it out for yourself. I feel like when you figure something out for yourself, you remember, but when you're told about how something works, you kind of like, it doesn't attach as well. So I think your own ability to problem solve trumps everything else. So what's an instructional? So just giving you the answers. But if you're encountering a problem, you're still going to learn much better. Maybe problem solving it with a teammate, watching a scenario in competition or in training footage and try to reverse engineer it. I think the best way to train if time isn't a problem would be to just focus on the rolling and use technique to problem solve. Whereas the standard best way to operate it, you get to business would be to, the guy shows up without having thought about much about you just because he's had a nine to five job. He wants to be given some technique. You give him general technique. Might do some position rounds, rolling. Go home. That's going to be a very slow way to learn. But from a position of operating at your jiu-jitsu gym that wants to make money, that's the best way to do it. But the best way to learn would be to have students that are engaged, engaged, learning at home, they show up to the gym to test it out, enrolling positions by and as a group, problem solve afterwards. But again, that's not the best way to run a business because most people, they want to just show up and be gifted to knowledge. Right. Do you have some of my favorite submissions that you think have like a good learning curve or something that are effective and easily assimilated for like actually integrating into a high pressure situation that you could actually execute on it? I still think leg locks, if you like, you want to attack the legs, it's still a thing most people are terrified of. So they get that panic response when someone's attacking their legs. And it's still generally not taught to the upper belt. So it's like, if you were to take a beginner and teach him some leg locks, I think you'd probably have the sharpest return on your investment of time. But will it make you a better grappler overall? You still need to develop a well-balanced game. So it's like, it's, I mean, it's, it's, it's hard to explain in terms of submissions. I think like the best way to submit someone is to get them tired and then they kind of quitting and gifting you something. But it might look like a very technical setup, but your ability to fatigue your opponent to a point where they have nothing left is still going to be the best path to submission, where they, you basically taking what they give you. How about like a tears list? So like if you have a guy who's fatigued, what are the three easiest submissions to hit versus the three hardest? Cause like you see in movies, stuff happen all the time. You see these crazy like flying arm bars. And obviously it's probably almost impossible to hit some of these things you see in some like the, you know, cinematic stuff. What do you think would be like three top ones you should know and three ones that maybe have been hyped, but are kind of shitty? Oh yeah. I mean, if the guy's already tired, like this presuming is tired, you've passed and you're in mount position here. Like, I think just applying so much pressure to them that they want to give you the back. Like in MMA, guys will throw some strikes. The guy doesn't want to get hit. He turns over. He gives up the back, presents the back, and then you've got the best submission. That would be like a re-naked. I think any submission that keeps you in top position. So if it's just like an arm triangle or still applying so much sort of smothering pressure that they want to turn, that's nothing will ever beat that. Just remaining in top. If you've got a guy tired, he might give you an arm, but he will have good enough arm bar defense to maybe take a pop and then you end up on bottom. Or if you go for a triangle from now, you might end up on bottom. So risk reward, that's a big risk. In MMA, guys go less for those submissions because the risk is greater. If they're in top, they go for an arm bar end up on bottom. Now they can get punched in the head. At least in Jujitsu, guys will do that more because worst case scenario, oh, we're in bottom. Right. What's the worst that could happen? So, I mean, tier list. I mean, we're talking about submission tier list. What is your end game? You know, if your end game is to humiliate your opponent, then there'll be a class of submissions that you know, like you're really going to sure it's going to bother them to get here. Let's just say you want to win a competition. What do you think are the ones you should master first? And then the ones that are probably you're almost never going to get in a position to hit this. And even if you would, it's like very unlikely to work. I mean, buggy choke is it's effective, but it is kind of a crazy one. And it's one that if you got them, they'd be really pissed off in competition, but it's a high risk, high reward sort of move. Heel hooks would still, I mean, it changes over time because it's like someone will introduce a new, a new submission or the repopularized something. And then it has an incredible success rate because people aren't prepared for it. And then over years of it happening, now people start to understand that and it kind of falls out of favor. So it kind of goes through waves of popularity. Oftentimes it'll be an old move that's repopularized that a generation thinks, oh, it's a new thing. So it goes through sort of, it goes through cycles, I would say, popularity of submissions. And it's what people are least prepared for, we'll have the best success. And that's kind of where the instructional market comes in. You're selling something that has value at the time because people don't remember or don't understand it. If I wanted to see the craziest submission you've ever hit, what would I type in? It would be me against Vinny Margulesh because he just, I, he, so this guy, there's a guy that was notorious for not getting leg locked. He used to say, heel hooks don't work. And I had a match with him, put him in a heel hook and he is, he had a spiral fracture of his fibular and his ankle completely dislocated from his leg within like, I think 30 seconds. He didn't even have time to really tap his, he just let his leg snap straight away. That's the most disturbing. And he doesn't tap and it does a full 360. And I could see his bone poking into his skin like I was about to poke out. That's probably the most disturbing one. Also the most like, yeah, is it fuck with you seeing that kind of thing? Kind of, but it's almost like, it's like, what, what's wrong with you? Well, why are you doing that? Why would you do that? Like who cares? But just, you know, what would you make you do this to me? You're like, how would you make me do this to you? Damn dude, that's crazy. So these instructionals, is that the primary way people monetize in the sport because the prize money and competition is not significant? 100%. That's the biggest, the greatest thing they've ever happened to a jujitsu athletes would be BJ Fanatics because they pay like people just, it still boggles my mind how much people spend on instructionals, how many they'll buy. Cause obviously they are, they have value. Like you can understand things through the instructions. They do have value, but it's crazy. I mean, I guess there's a whole new wave of white belts and blue belts all the time, beginners starting, starting, starting and then buying a bunch of instructionals. And that is going to make them better. Anything you put forth into the sport is going to make you better. But they're all, I guess they're just looking for shortcuts. And at the end of the day, instructionals will provide knowledge, but it's not a shortcut. So it's like, it is a massive cash cow. And there's also no guarantee that competition success translates to instructional success. Cause some guys win competitions in boring ways, ways that you might not want to replicate. Right. So if you win something like ADCC and you don't submit anyone, no one at home is going to go, Oh, fuck, how did you do that? Right. You know, so it's like those people will have the medal, but they won't have anything to sell. Like if that guy's teachers of seminar, it's like, what are we going to learn? How to just push each other for like in 40 minutes. So is it actually hard to find instructionals on certain techniques online? Cause everyone paywalls them or is it cause like, for example, and this is probably not apples to apples, but like, if I want to learn how to do a stiff legged deadlift, I would just go, obviously there are paywalled exercise programs that people buy from, you know, credible creators. But oftentimes you'll still find those same credible creators making the content for free. It's just like packaged differently, I guess. I'll be like, here's literally how do you do this lift start to finish? Like, is it actually that hard to learn without it? Or like, what do you get out of it? That is, I mean, you could learn it without it. It's just might take you a little bit longer. You know, like it's like a name recognition. I guess it's a form of like, it, there's something to it. You know, like if you caught him, Ryan goes out there and wins everything. Then you're going to hope that he has the ability to teach that technique. And a guy like Gordon does, but not all of the athletes, especially some of them have a language barrier. Like if you're a world champion from Brazil, but you haven't mastered English, then you're still not going to sell many instructionists because we can't understand what you're saying. There's no nuance to how you describe it. So it is mostly paywall. There is a lot of great free information out there, but you'd have to track it down. There's almost too much free content. And you as a beginner, it's going to be, you might find a guy teaching Gordon's techniques identical free on YouTube, but the surest way that you know that it's a quality technique would be to go to the name, run big through the sort of endless YouTube.  ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, Six figures six figures pretty pretty easy. I mean for a top 20 guy in the world I would hope so but again, but you're not even sure of a top 20. I would make a hundred grand a year Yeah, cuz some of the guys won't do anything else. I mean, here's the thing It's like he might be the 10th best guy in the world, but he doesn't do any social media He doesn't you know, I mean he like he can barely understand how to promote a product He doesn't want to travel. We want sustain his routine It's not kind of wild though like the when you outlined what it takes to accelerate your progress and be in the gym for that long You have to somehow also rest enough Eat a good diet Probably work your eight-hour job and then also try and build a side hustle of social media I can't it seems like impossible. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, it's better to just pretend to be the second best I know you're talking about social media That's a better use of time I think yeah, okay Now some of those guys man like he's the thing. He's like if you guys won ADCC and he's still teaching classes at night you're like What is the disconnect? Yeah, what did you win ADCC for you should be out of monetize and Olympus like basically an Olympic gold medal Like if it has that much in trincy Valley should be out of monetize Yeah, having that into just teaching the techniques one time and release a product Rather than run a school, you know, I mean it should have enough value, but yeah people. That's a lot of people are told Like anything it's like who's better at marketing school. It's gonna sell making the most money Yeah, well, you know what sounds like if you were better at making exciting YouTube videos And you were like not even that good at your jitsu and never won anything you might be better off Then yeah, tons of tons of guys don't even compete would make more money than the elite level competitors Hmm damn dude. Okay, so that brings us to competition and Top prizes it sounds like like best case scenario if you win the most elite competition in the world, which is ADCC presumably What do you get you get $10,000? that's not to qualify or get invited and Then to do like basically a three month training camp fourth place a thousand dollars third place is 3000 second place six thousand first place ten thousand and how many people compete in totality 16 per division and there'd be a 66 kilo 77 88 99 and over 99 and then obviously there'd be three women's divisions and an open weight for each the open way for each would be $40,000 The first place but again if you if you just happen to be 66 kilos Open weights out of the question for you. You know, I mean it just heavily favors the big guys Yeah, yeah, so we put on a tournament with a million dollars prize money So obviously you have to win ADCC a hundred times to get a better amount of money So the toy okay, so it started with this anonymous Donator who is What do they get out of it? Just out of curiosity because it's anonymous, but they just want to see Think I'm the fruition or he's in it. Obviously loves you did see once ago the sport as you did see but he's also in it for the You know Give a maniac some money to just the short industry for the better And enjoy watching it unfold and are they gonna stay anonymous even after the thing is done or yeah I mean the way we've set it up I mean you could probably find a way to track down who it is where I've misled people by pretending the money Like I was in you guys pretending I sold a couple missiles over there and I got the money Like I've been in UAE so to some people I pretend it's coming from royalty over there I just mislead people some people think it's coming from Zuckerberg. I just keep misleading people Yeah, but the guy is actually yeah, he's just anonymous guys just doing it for for a bit of fun He enjoys watching the chaos this guy. So is he gonna be there just no one will know he's there He's working on his visa right now actually, but I'm not sure if you'll get a visa, but he is so he doesn't live in doesn't live in the US but The funny thing about this whole thing is he's on the Instagram So the 80cc organized when we first keep this off mode Jasmine used to go on 80cc live all the time and he'd be commenting commenting Like he'd be talking and reading comments and stuff and the actual guy funding me Early days when no one believes I could do this commented to moe So where do you think Craig will get the money from and knows like he doesn't have the money He's not gonna do a tournament while talking to the guy funding the tournament Yeah without knowing it That's great So you mentioned your motivation to start the thing that was like on a whim They were like go start your own tournament or something so that's yeah, I mean they People kept asking me if I would do 80cc again, and I'm like for what for $10,000 and well That's a huge investment of time energy. Yeah, like I'm short of time as it is and they're just like The organizer was like Like just be grateful that we give you a platform to compete on you competing for exposure Yeah, and then this guy got rid of it supported me in this endeavor and basically it's just all blossom from there But yeah, like I would say this it's like did you post this? Conversation that like look at this out like what 80cc is doing their athlete sort of thing and then he got one of that Or how does he even find out I started very Delacately with just a video that was basically like answering the fans questions am I gonna do 80cc? I just said hey It would be nice if we got compensated more considering they can sell out T-Mobile and they can sell the streaming rights That's it was very nice, but that's a very we're dealing with a very sensitive group of people who overreacted to the initial video with just a condescending obnoxious energy and it's like Then once you get the funding It's like again one of them was like oh if you don't like T-Mobile cost two million dollars get your own two million dollars run your own event And I was like, okay, I would say this is quite a lot of energy to do this and For the most part it's all for a positive course. We're given proceeds to charity from ticket sales We could have put this behind a paywall with streaming a free on YouTube and We're paying the athletes it always started first and foremost to get the athletes paid I will say You can work an eight hour day on positivity But you work a 12 hour day on pettiness so their obnoxious condescending energy has inspired me to new levels of productivity to take them down Yeah, that's awesome, man So the million dollar prize going to the could you just like break down how the tournament structure will work exactly? Oh and by the way, so we Maricelt I think I don't even know if we mentioned at the start of the video We're sponsoring this thing because we think it's Really awesome what you're doing. I'm really exciting and I'm stoked to see it come to fruition and Obviously a high level of competition with the amount that's at stake here So definitely cool to be a part of that What work is of critical importance if you want to understand what's going on with your body Whether that be preventing disease optimizing performance getting blood work done is Incredibly important on at least a bi-annual basis in my opinion is what I do personally Understandably so knowing what to order and how to interpret it is beyond overwhelming It's incredibly nuanced to interpret blood work with the level of rigor that is needed to actually assess the root cause of many underlying issues and or hit the perfect balance of optimization And that's where Maricelt comes in with highly educated coaches and medical providers who are always staying on the cutting edge always on top of the most recent literature to give the most rigorous interpretation of your current health status Interpret if there's any ways to optimize your lifestyle supplementation sleep hygiene diet Pharmacology it's all taken into account here at Maricelt So if you want to take control of your health and or optimize your performance check us out maricelt.com Yeah, it'll be the best guys in the world on question Maybe the I guess the hardest tournament to ever win in the history of it Well, I mean we like to consider it like UFC one or something You know it's the where the forefront of this but yeah, it'll be Is here's where the pat in this comes in at ecc pays ten thousand dollars to the winner We pay ten thousand and one dollar to show up So every all 32 of the athletes and two of the 16-man brackets just get ten thousand one to show up because I think In an event like this, you should you've already made it to the operational and you should be getting something to show up so Ten thousand and one for everyone if you win a million dollars, but then if you win one million dollars So it's gonna be heartbreaking if you can't second. Yeah, you just lost $990,000 Damn, yes, there's no tears list in terms of no, but obviously it'll produce a higher level of competition because Yes, so much more the line. I think if you compensate the guys better they kind of come in Yeah, better prepared. Yeah, and it's a question of 80cc said Well, the organizers said We have the prestige of an Olympic gold medal But again fucking you're walking Danny McDonald's around the world and some Olympic gold medalist I'd be like wow you could say you're an 80cc gold medalist We're like who the fuck what the fuck is that? You know, so it doesn't have the same prestige as an Olympic gold medal so there shouldn't be a good Analogy for what they're doing. Yeah so okay, so the bracket it would look like to have 32 competitors and Is it subdivided into weight categories or like what does it look like under 80 kilos over 80 kilos 16 guys in the under 16 guys in the over and we go to we got guys like Luke Rockhold in the over we got NC double-a division one wrestlers in the over under is almost entirely Grapplers and we have Jason Knolf who's such a high-level Penn State wrestler He just beat Jordan Burroughs at the Olympic trials, but he lost to Kyle Dake in the final But basically elite level grappling in all forms. So we've got some wrestlers in there But for the most part you get to guys and then if you make it to the end of your 16 person bracket It's like You each win a million or not. So it's oh, yeah, well, there'll be million dollars for the under Yeah, yeah, the other okay, so that's crazy man. Okay huge prize money. So of the three million the guy gave us we're giving I Would say including superfight purses 2.6 million dollars to the athletes themselves Hmm and now on top of that whatever revenue we create off of ticket sales It's gonna go to charity and then the super fights that these are pre-planned Matchups segregated from the actual competition bracket and those are what again? Those would be McKenzie Dern versus beyond Davies the current best women's athlete versus the previous best women's athlete from 2015 She McKenzie UFC fighter she went into MMA so it took a bit to get her back as in it took her She wanted to do ADCC one more time Yeah, we took her from ADCC and gave her a superfight against fielder which is would have been the match most people interested in seeing anyway Yeah, so we booked the biggest women's superfighting grappling history We really wanted to do something special for the women because we don't have a women's division We wanted to capture the most people's attention with this event So we were like two million dollar divisions, you know like one million here one million here Obviously as it progresses to add in another million dollar women's division would be awesome And we thought the way to leverage that for the future is to book the biggest women's superfight in history Throw it on YouTube and then people will be able to see the metrics of the jump and the spike in the interest in a women's Superfight and that would help encourage getting a million dollars for a women's division Yeah, because again, it is difficult to find funding for women's sports that doesn't come for the government Understandable, okay, so that's one of them and then and then me. Let's go. I see it. I've never won anything She's won like 10 11 world titles. She's six four five 300 pounds monster Yeah, we're gonna scrap it out in a very serious match Well, it's sexual tension in this one. What is the the rule set? Like what does it look like in terms of? It will be Three well, I'm in a race. So what happens sometimes in jiu-jitsu is that it might do a 10 or 15 minute match And it's a slow pace a guy gets a good position In a jiu-jitsu match, here's one of the biggest problems if I come out and get a good position like two minutes in and I don't take any risks. I might be able to keep the guy there the whole match That's fucking boring to watch, you know, like there's matches where you take a guy's back and you literally thinking you had during the match You're like I've won it as long as I don't fuck up. Yeah So we wanted rounds to break it up. So it's like In the qualifying rounds three by five minutes to reflect UFC MMA capture their audience's attention keep it simple score in a similar way 10 point must But also we like it for jiu-jitsu because it won't let you ride out of position It's like hey, you took the guys back try to submit him. You're gonna lose that position and start standing again And I like that because it punishes inactivity even from the guy that's in a good position So that's sort of why we shifted out the rules. The other wet thing we've changed is jiu-jitsu is usually on Just mats and there's an out of bounds ADCC There's a lot of time spent resetting two guys go out of bounds. They grab and they reset them In regular wrestling they have push out rules or if you take two or three steps back They'll be like vanguard on the shot clock. You're getting penalized. Jiu-jitsu doesn't typically have that so tons of time is spent with the Stop reset and they just try to reset up a position We're using inspired by karate combat this hit We call it the alley because it's a rectangle, but it's like Basically an angled wall. So obviously UFC's got that vertical cage That's not great for pure grappling because it can stagnate there You can spend a lot of time against the cage five minutes fly by in cage wrestling However, when you have that angled wall Feet a backup into it is a massive disadvantage to you because if you shoot a takedown You're not fooling against a flat surface a vertical surface. You're falling backwards Right. So we wanted to create a way that there were very few resets very few restarts And it would punish you for being evasive of your opponent. So we're trying to use the structure To create more exciting matches than necessarily just all penalty penalty penalty So we tried that we changed everything about grappling with that. So it's like that sort of like a 45 degree slanted Yeah matted wall And it's like it's unique for everyone. So it's again, it's adds a new dimension people are building their own walls Angled walls in their gyms to prepare for this. Wow, that's crazy. No one will have Too much experience in the angled wall. So it throws in a new factor and then Watching it you're from above and it's So it's expensive as fuck because if you think about it, usually it's an elevated stage There's just flat it's an elevated octagon or it's a flat matt space. So 80 cc It's easy to slap some mats down in a stadium. Everyone looks down We had to build a structure around it to elevate the sitting around it because the last thing you'd want Is to buy a fucking VIP seat And the angled wall starts here and you're like trying to see over it. So we've elevated the staging around it So we've spared no expense, but it's obviously It's for a good cause it's for it's for the better betterment of the sport. Oh, it's there Yeah, that's crazy, man This like presumably you want this to be an annual thing. It's gonna if it does well enough It's gonna be every year if it does well enough. That's the plan What about the anonymous donor guys he into? Recurring with uh, he's into it. Yeah, obviously based on the success of the event. Yeah, we also think that like 80 cc is funded still by shakedown and he gives a gesture of prize money Which would be x amount? We know the streaming rights For an 80 cc like event can sell for a significant amount of money at least seven figures at least right? So they're alone. You've probably already got 1.5 million of funding towards an event We know ticket sales are happening. You can look at what? 80 cc sells at thomas and matt previously And now combining all those things you're already getting to a point Where you would have the funding without the investor To know that you could do this again. All we would need to hit is that three million dollar mark. So it's a good test to showcase We because we basically believe that 80 cc spent their money incorrectly thomas and matt event center 80 cc's previous venue cost 200 000 dollars for three days This year they're doing a t-mobile just two million dollars And you're like It's only four thousand more seats or something. It's like why have you just now? Misappropriated the funds. Hmm stay at the original venue Pay the athletes. You know what I mean? Like it's like a it's a prestige move, but it's a lateral move, you know like So it's like we're using this one as a real test To a theory that you could make an event that compensates the athletes and is a good experience for the fans Yeah Do you envision it being called Craig jones invitational like long term? We'll probably change that. I don't know. Oh, cola some we want actually Because we had the b team and as the idcc we almost went with b dcc Okay, but we were like, oh, maybe we'll get sued. We won't call it down. We'll call it Craig jones invitational What does adcc stand for? Abu Dhabi combat club because shake donins from Abu Dhabi. He started it He's actually an interesting story. He started in america And he's like royalty over there. He started in america training jiu-jitsu just loved it And he trained anonymously at a gym didn't tell anyone who he was And then at the end of his uh 10 years studying and he was going back to Abu Dhabi He invited some of the guys from the gym. He's like, do you want to come to my country? And they're like, oh my country and then they went there and realized who he was and his passion for jiu-jitsu Started the Abu Dhabi combat club and then he still funds part of it. But for the most part the event organizer Plans everything and does everything but he's still Sort of funding that from afar okay, but he's he's on to I think he's a security He's in charge of security for all of you a so he's a high up government role to him pretty damn busy to be messing with grappling events, right? Right? So we came into the picture I don't know like a month ago probably, you know, I see a lot of promise and I think it's cool. Also, you were looking for a nationwide uh kind of like more preventive medicine focused sponsor for hormone therapy and Just health optimization in general. Um, that's why marics are part of this. We're stoked on it What's your experience been like so far? Like I know you just kind of started recently like how this thing is how things been going. Yeah, awesome I was you know, I have a crazy travel schedule So like the first cool thing was you guys sent a doctor And a nurse to where I was in the u.s. To basically draw all my bloods to make sure I was Basically to check What condition I was in which was awesome and then the first concert we had we I mean he got through it like sort of The market sort of small lifestyle changes we need to do but yeah, it's been awesome so far awesome, did you feel that it was like Thorough in the process by which like the the detail of the diagnostics and like the Um, oh it's like that you got out of it and definitely the amount of bloods that came out I don't think I've ever taken that many bloods before so that you've gotten blood work before or yeah, but very infrequently Very infrequently how infrequent out of curiosity. Oh Maybe six times of my life Okay See it's you're laughing as if it's so bad, but you'd be shocked how a lot of bodybuilders that you know Do way worse in terms of what they expose themselves to And some of them don't do blood work at all. I think sometimes they don't want to know Yeah, it's definitely like a fear of you what you want to show up because you almost know it's gonna be bad Yeah, because I was almost it had been I think a year since I'd done it previous I was on this like fuck and because of the travel and the crazy schedule and a bit of potty I was just like oh How's this kind of look so it's like I guess some of the people I pray have a bit of anxiety. It's probably the same reason Men in general don't go to the doctor. Yeah, they have they They do something there It can also be embarrassing going to a doctor about hormonal issues or like erectile dysfunction or You know a lot of these issues are not things you want to have to like bring up to a doctor who's not Specializing in this. Yeah, because often your family doc Shockingly won't really know about a lot of this stuff or how to handle it You might just get prescribed like anti depressants or something like that. But um, yeah having somebody non judgmental especially when you're going to be exposing yourself to PEDs like athletes in general. I think it's pretty well known that the jujitsu Community is pretty enhanced. Yeah Poshio This is one of the most like like Just obviously untested but also, you know people are very Obviously on shit when they go into competitions typically So having that oversight from somebody who won't judge you for doing that. I think it's critical in itself Uh, it as well as having rigorous insights into somebody who deals with elite athletes on a regular basis And won't judge you for it Um, I think you know, that's why I felt strongly about it too is because I think a lot of these guys could get help To optimize their quality of life and performance concurrently by using Us and I think you know, I just see in the bjj world a lot guys who are not really Having a rhyme or reason even to the compounds they choose let alone the ensuring they don't fuck themselves up while doing it so I think there's Definitely a lot of value to be had there and I hope that we can help bring that to the community Um, but also yeah, just like a badass event in general We'll have 10 maracal team members on site to support and give information if anybody's interested um, but yeah, we have a lot of elite athletes and some are jiu-jitsu athletes as well and Looking forward to seeing how much we can have an impact on The sport because we want to keep people healthy for longer avoid those injuries like you mentioned earlier You know if you have guys who are like cycling on and off stupidly like the risk of injury It's pretty dramatic when it's not just what you are doing in the like wall training. It's also your Infrastructure and what is supporting it from a hormonal standpoint? Nutrient status like just a myriad of things I could go into for a long time, but I will digress but I think we're pretty Competent and capable to be able to give Access to high-level service for anybody who's interested. So if you want to check out marical while you're there Um, we're pumped to be a part of it. So thanks for having us on board. Thanks for jumping on board I mean, yeah, the sport definitely needs it. There's a lot of like Bro science in the sport as you did so a lot of like, uh, who do you consult? You know what I mean? Like there's like people just don't know so to have And even at a elite level like you would be considered like you're the top of your team even and even you it's not necessarily like Yeah, just winging it, you know largely Yeah, so I feel like the more information we can get out there as well and education to teach people about how to even Dig into this stuff with a level of insight that makes them confident. They're not Hurting themselves, but also they're going about it the safest way possible and the most optimal way Because some people just choose stuff that makes no sense too. Like oh, I heard epio make me better endurance during bg So they just fucking juice themselves up with it and it's who knows It's a good. I mean, it's a good time to do it And that's why I always I want to be up front with what I'm taking with the public because there's gyms out there where there's like 14 year old kids starting cycles to get to you know, so it's like you want these people to know that That obviously it's not perfectly safe, but you can go about this in a safest way possible whereas Yeah, just hitting the bro science random dude at the gym Yeah, yeah, as long as you have a full I would say just like a realistic insight into what it takes to Go about this in as safe of a way as possible That's the most you can really do because it's at the end of the day a pretty prevalent thing in the sport And if you're going to do it, you have to know what kind of risks you're exposing yourself to is this road? You still want to go down Interestingly enough though, there are some people we might believe are natural who are world champion level or do you think it's Something that is necessary at the top of the top. I mean, it's a good question. You know, there's some people I think personally that like Like I always say about like people like niki run stuff It's easier to just it's easier in your ego to just be like, ah, you must be taking something Yeah, I mean it's way easier on your ego to say that whereas the truth is some people are Just genetically gifted. I've had friends that have been like I want to get on TRT and I've said to them Check where your natural levels are and they're fucking astronomically higher and you're like You might not need to you know, you're fucking up a you're at the highest level of the natural range So it's like there are just genetically gifted people out there, you know, yeah, and I think it's worth noting that In sport, it's not necessarily like bodybuilding where it's literally impossible to win if you don't juice essentially in bjj, there are individuals who I believe are natural and maybe it's not common But there are individuals that you can you're not forced to go on gear at like 19 just to become a good bjj athlete So I think that's worth stating because a lot of people hear how Drugridden is and they assume it's okay. Well, I might as well get on now because it's inevitable Not necessarily the case, you know, obviously you're at a disadvantage against the world champion if you get that far But I mean you certainly shouldn't be touching the stuff at 14 years old just because you heard Gordon ryan takes year Yeah, and that was his his counter argument for a long time. Are you on steroids? And he'd say everyone is and it's like, uh, it's not true You know, he would he would accuse people but really it's like what you do your nanny and not things at the end of the day It's hard unless there's really obvious Science it is hard to tell sometimes with people like, you know, I mean if there's no Jurassic weight change It's some of these guys that you want to say are on definitely not on like my former coach lachlan giles Although he's naturally gets muscular from training I'm personally Can say that I don't think he's ever done anything. I think he'd be scared to have a full strength beer, you know Yeah Yeah, it's like I couldn't I wouldn't say with certainty anyone at the top of the sport isn't enhanced either but i'm just saying like It certainly doesn't mean just because you want to be Pursuing this sport in general that you need to be taking stuff because I think there's a at least in the fitness industry. There's a very It's pretty much assumed that if you're going to be competitive in any capacity You're going to be on shit essentially unless you're in a tested federation Or as in bjj not necessarily the case of my opinion. No very little testing. Yeah, if any at all Yeah, but even like without the testing it doesn't mean that just to like enter a competition and like start to climb the ranks in some capacity or even just like Have fun in your gym like you don't need to be on shit and You know, I we also work with natural athletes. I feel worth mentioning because it's worth seeing how to optimize your performance Both of your enhanced like having oversight from that is important But also if you're natural like we certainly I don't want to give the opinion or the impression that We only work with enhanced people too. It's high level athletes from both sides of the spectrum So speaking of the spectrum. You said autism and steroids is a world championship combination So what does that in your opinion look like? I guess that replicated typically or I mean if you have no social skills at all Really the only way you could express yourself is physically which is a way to That's a great form of doing jiu-jitsu is the way I communicate with people if you can't express yourself verbally I think it's a great non-verbal Hey, what motivated that clip because that was like one of your most viral clips. I think ever Yeah, what motivated it? I mean just spending time around people in jiu-jitsu You know, they just they lack self-awareness and social skills and that's reflected at the highest level of the sport You know, complete lack of self-awareness  and throwing in steroids, you're basically weaponizing autism. That is the key to success. I think that's the perfect combo. So do you think, like, if somebody is to beat Gordon, for example, do they have to, like, what kind of level do they need to take it to, or be genetically set at from, like, an autism perspective? Like, what is the pinnacle? That's true. I think we need to both test for steroids and autism. Okay. There's obviously a spectrum of autism. Yeah, yeah. We need to recognize that. I had thought about a BTN recruitment at Child Autism Centres to get them at a very young age. Sure. Because it's an untapped resource. Yeah. That's what's... I think it's a solid plan. Yeah. All right. So circling back to CJI and the life-changing money, like, obviously, this is an amazing opportunity for anybody who otherwise is looking to monetize their skill and maybe isn't like a social media phenom or what have you. Presumably, you did mention that you want this to be annual recurring and try and make the most of it and hopefully have it become, presumably, the go-to tournament in the future. Like, do you see this kind of superseding? Do you think it's already superseded ADCC in terms of it hasn't even happened yet? But I mean, if it goes well, as you predicted, do you think that outcome would be you are now the competition to beat sort of thing? I think, in a way, it already has superseded it because no matter what happens, if you go out there and win ADCC and then you look over to another tournament where a guy just won a million dollars, are you going to feel that good? You've been robbed of that prestige. I think where the money is, the prestige is. Where the difficulty to win is, the prestige is. If we get a complete sellout of the venue, I think that's the only thing we need now to guarantee that we are the pinnacle in the sport. Again, ADCC has been selling tickets for two years. We basically came in when their event was already sold out. You can't sell your ADCC ticket now. No one wants to buy them on the resale market. So the only thing is, is if we can get that sellout, then we've achieved every goal possible. That's our sole focus now. And again, that the event runs smoothly. We have no streaming issues. You know, obviously there's a lot of technical things to go on there, but we've got the right support in all these areas within the production sort of budget to guarantee that I think this event is going to go smoothly. There's unavoidable things like Mackenzie Dan's Flight CFC tonight. It would be tragic if she were to get injured and pull it out because that match is so important for women's studio to that. I would hate for that to happen. Those would be the only things that would be sort of holding us back from being considered the best. Again, I think from a marketing standpoint, we've already far surpassed ADCC in its current form. So if somebody wants to, can you still get tickets or it's? Yep. Yep. Okay. So where do you go to get tickets if you want it? You would go to the UNLV Ticketing website and I'll have tickets on there. Okay. Awesome. And also streaming on YouTube as well. YouTube, Meta and X. So we've had a bit of help from some of the people behind those websites that are going to push it. So that is good. So from a streaming perspective, I think the numbers are going to be massive. It's going to be great for us. It's going to be bad for the streaming provider that ADCC uses, which is FlowGrappling, which is behind what I would say is quite an expensive paywall. Yeah. So it's like, now there's an alternative for free. Aren't those third-party streaming services like typically pretty hit or miss? Yes. Yeah. I mean, they have produced good streams out there, but they are. They just don't have a good reputation in the sport. Oh, really? Okay. So it completes all fans, unfortunately. So us providing an alternative here for free is probably going to damage them, but it's also, I think, important to have a sport like Digitube in its current state, and at least one big event for free to try to lure as many of the mass public as possible. I hope, like back in the day when Conor McGregor would fight or Ronda Rousey would fight, gyms around the world would have a bunch of people signing up to do a trial class. I'm hoping that we can do that by having this event free that a bunch of people around the world see this and go, I'm going to try out Digitube finally. Awesome, man. So what's the YouTube channel called again? It'll be on the B-Team channel. Okay. Got it. And if anyone wants to get, stay in the loop or watch the updates or see how it's the highlights or anything to do with the tournaments and what you're doing with it, where do they go? Your page? Yeah, my page or the CJI official page on Instagram. This has been a grassroots social media marketing event. It's just been basically me shitposting my way to market. Some of the memes are wild, dude. Yeah, I've just used memes to overthrow, I guess, the powerful people in the sport. A lot of people, even from the streaming provider that ACC uses from the guy that runs the event for ACC and stuff have just like either treated me in a condescending or belittling way and then we've been able to use some kung fu to just spin that back on them in meme glory. And that's basically got the whole people on our side and really sort of a grassroots thing. But everyone's, we had easy villains to target, I will say that. I mean, we've been given people in the sport or surrounding the sport that was so easy to turn into memes that we didn't even need much of a marketing budget other than my Instagram and our YouTube channel to just attack these people and get the fan support. Well, awesome, man. I'm looking forward to it. And yeah, everyone, check it out. What is the date? August 16, 17, Las Vegas, Thomas and Max and awesome. Looking forward to it, man. Thanks for coming on the show. Appreciate it. Thanks for having me.