Sup guys, Derek more platesmartdates.com. Today we're going to be talking about Carterine. Uh, this is going to be the most comprehensive video on the entire internet about Carterine. Um, perhaps the most comprehensive post on the entire internet in general. not even just video, but written as well because I also have a written iteration on my website more platesmordates.com uh which I wrote back in 2016 I believe and it's been updated um several times over the past few years to reflect the most up-to-date information and findings. So from pre-clinical data, phase one trial data, phase one two phase 2 trial data, uh anecdotal findings, side effects, cancer data, everything you could possibly think of and want to know, it's going to be included in this post. So let's get started. Carterine, also called GW-501516, is a PP delta receptor agonist that was developed for the potential treatment of metabolic diseases and cardiovascular diseases. Carterine is purported by many recreational users to be the most effective endurance boosting chemical on the planet right now. That is obviously debatable, but it's definitely up there with some of the top most efficacious compounds for boosting endurance. What is carterine? Carterine, also known as GW-501516, is a peroxyone proliferator activated receptor delta PP AR delta agonist. Carterine is commonly lumped into the same category as selective androgen receptor modulators, also known as SARMs, like ostrain, but it's not actually a SAR whatsoever. SARMs, like ostrain, are androgen receptor ligans that stimulate androgen receptors in a selective way, whereby they induce a significantly greater amount of anabolic activity in the body relative to enerogenic activity. Carterine was designed by Ligan Pharmaceuticals and Glacos Smith Klein in the '90s. It was initially intended as a potential treatment for metabolic diseases and cardiovascular diseases, but was ultimately abandoned in 2007 when animal testing revealed that it was either directly or indirectly related to the rapid development of cancerous tumors in multiple organs in both mice and rats, which the data we will get into later. Despite Carterine's abandonment due to safety concerns, impressive performance-enhancing benefits were noted in the data that emerged from the test. The results were widely discussed in popular media, which caught the attention of many athletes. Obviously, individuals seeking a competitive edge started to use carding to improve their endurance. Recognizing this, the World Anti-Doping Agency, WADA, developed a detection test for GW-501516 and other related PPR delta modulators and shortly thereafter in 2009, it was added to their prohibited substance list. Potential clinical applications. Prior to 2007, when carterine was abandoned, carterine was being investigated for its potential applications in treating metabolic diseases and cardiovascular diseases. Like I mentioned, after undergoing pre-clinical trials and examining carterine's efficacy, the scope of its potential therapeutic applications narrowed as targets were set for phase 1 clinical trials. The first target set was the treatment of hyper lipidmia as carterine exhibited a profoundly positive reduction of triglycerides, fatty acids, VLDL, LDL with a simultaneous increase in HDL which is also known by most as good cholesterol. Other studies focused on the treatment of obesity, diabetes, dysipia, and cardiovascular disease occurred after 2003 on the back of positive results found in phase 1 and phase 2 trials in 2000 to 2002. Had it not been for those studies revealing cancer development in mice and rats that were administered high doses of carterine, this chemical very likely would have progressed into further human trials and perhaps even been approved for the treatment of a handful of metabolic disorders today. Mechanism of action. Carterine is a selective agonist of the PPA delta receptor. It has a high affinity and potency for peroxyone proliferator activated receptor delta. Carterine binds to PP AR delta and recruits the co-activator PGC-1 alpha. Via activating PPR delta. The liver switches its energy source from glucose to fatty acids which can in turn reduce blood sugar levels. This in turn upregulates the body's expression of proteins involved in energy expenditure. improves insulin sensitivity and body composition which can lower the overall incidence of type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease. Naturally, the first thing people started to associate carterine with is exercise in a pill was a you know very prominent headline. Exercise mimedics would obviously be an extremely attractive alternative to many individuals and delving further into GW-501516 data supports that the activation of PP AR delta can in fact replicate many of the benefits gained from exercise itself. increased energy, muscle building potential, insulin sensitivity, fat burning potential, endurance, uh improved lipid profiles are just the most notable benefits that cardarine has exhibited in testing via its uh selective activation of PP delta. Despite the array of blatant health benefits, cardarine was ultimately dubbed as a failed exercise mimetic as it was shown to promote cancer cell growth in animal studies. Getting into the carterine clinical trials. We're going to start with the pre-clinical rat and mice models in rat and mice treated with carterine. Increased fatty acid metabolism in skeletal muscle and protection against diet induced obesity and type 2 diabetes was observed. In a metabolomic study of carterine for enhancing running endurance in kuning mice, significant improvements were noted in the treated mice. Carterine treatment enhanced running endurance and the proportion of SDH positive muscle fibers in both trained and untrained mice. So as you can see this is a graphical representation of the effects of GW on SDH positive fibers in skeletal muscle of sedentary and trained kuning mice also KM is the abbreviation for it. The increased running performance in KM mice occurred regardless of training and the magnitude of improvement uh between both trained and sedentary treated mice was surprisingly high. So a running distance nearly doubled in the mice treated with carterine. Uh and this is the most prolific finding in the studies where you know the media started to really like pick up on carterine. Uh so you can see here in the graph effects of GW on running performance in sedentary and trained KMIS force wheel running endurance tests were performed following 3 weeks of treatment. A shows the total distance ran by mice in each group. Other data supports that PPR delta activation can regulate muscle fiber specification and produce profound increases in long-d distanceance endurance. Other pre-clinical rodent models noted less commonly referred to benefits that should still be noted though as they could have uh significant potential therapeutic applications in a clinical setting. So obviously like doubling your endurance is something that was the most uh you know headline grabbing kind of uh takeaway from the results but the following are you know arguably as important. So cardine lowered inflammation in mice. Carterine improved blood flow in mice by increasing nitric oxide levels which can help prevent blood clots and other detrimental cardiovascular complications as well as improve wound healing. PP AR delta activation via carterine may help reverse obesity and diabetes by increasing total oxidative metabolism in white atapost tissue. PP delta activation in carterine may help reverse obesity and diabetes by increasing total oxidative metabolism in white atapost tissue. And in addition to that, carterine significantly improved insulin sensitivity in mice, which is one of the main precursors to a variety of different ailments including diabetes, obesity, heart disease, and cancer just to name some major ones. improving blood glucose metabolism and preventing insulin resistance is one of the most important factors when it comes to maximizing vitality and longevity. Okay. So going on to the preclinical uh primate model. Preclinical trial was conducted on obese reesus monkeys as they have a lipid profile that closely matches humans. Carterine increas uh increased HDL cholesterol, lowered LDL cholesterol and reduced serum insulin levels. No adverse effects were noted and all health outcomes of this trial were positive. The data in this pre-clinical model suggests that carterine could potentially be a very strong candidate in a clinical setting for lowering the occurrence of heart disease associated with metabolic syndrome. The number one killer of humans that can be controlled via diet, exercise, and chemical enhancement is heart disease. and any advancements in the niche of cardiovascular disease prevention would be a huge benefit for everyone. And while carterine certainly wouldn't have been a complete fix for insulin resistance, inflammation, and arterial plaque buildup, the data suggests that it could have potentially given patients a significant edge in recalibrating their bodies to an insulin sensitive state with a more balanced lipid profile. Moving on to the phase one trial. So, a lot of people don't even realize that cardarine was tested in humans, but there is a lot of positive data on humans. I'm going to delve into it now. Two early phase one trials in healthy subjects demonstrated the efficacy of cardine in reducing triglycerides, LDL cholesterol, APOB, and insulin levels, and improving HDL cholesterol, and insulin sensitivity. The first phase 1 clinical trial on humans was conducted on 24 healthy men for 2 weeks. Each volunteer was given either placebo, 2.5 milligrams of cardarine, or 10 milligrams of cardarine per day. Carterine significantly improved HDL cholesterol and reduced triglycerides. These lipid profile improvements are a result of carterine's ability to induce the upregulation of human skeletal muscle fat utilization, ABCA1 expression, and enhanced serum fat clearance rates. A fat-feeding study was conducted where subjects were fed a highfat breakfast on days 0 and 13 of the study 1 hour after taking their daily carterine dosage. Triglyceride analysis was performed to assess how much, if at all, carterine would influence how efficiently the body processed these fats and how much nutrient partitioning in general was enhanced. Lipolytic activity was gauged to assess the efficacy of carterine relative to placebo and the data revealed that the placebo groups triglyceride levels went up significantly from highfat meals and the 2.5 milligram and 10 milligram treated groups both respectively lowered triglyceride levels even in the presence of the fat-dense meals. So the carterine groups are the only ones who experience this benefit. As you can see in the graphs below here, carterine was shown to be safe and well tolerated during this trial. Subjects treated with carterine did not experience any significant adverse effects, including muscle and liver responses. Liver enzymes and muscle proteins were measured to assess any potentially negative effects deriving from carterine. None were found. Second phase one human trial. Most notably, the second phase 1 trial found that cardarine significantly reduced hpatic fat content by 20%. The pre-clinical rat models where overexpression of PP delta was stimulated with carterine suggest improvements in metabolic syndrome reversal via enhanced fat oxidization in skeletal muscle. The second phase one clinical trial sought out to replicate this result in humans. 10 milligrams per day was given to six healthy moderately overweight subjects for two weeks. Treatment with carterine showed statistically significant reductions in fasting plasma triglycerides, APOB, LDL cholesterol, and insulin. HDL cholesterol levels remained unchanged. A 20% reduction in liver fat content and a 30% reduction in urinary isoprostain were also noted. The relative proportion of exhaled carbon dioxide from the fat content of the meal was increased as a result of carterine administration and skeletal muscle expression of CPT1B was also significantly increased. Carterine successfully reversed multiple abnormalities associated with metabolic syndrome without increasing oxidative stress. One of the only negative side effects found in Meggos preclinical animal studies. The results of this second phase 1 trial on humans looks very promising for potential therapeutic applications in a clinical setting to treat metabolic syndrome. So getting into the phase 2 carterine studies, there's actually a couple of them. Um, you know, contrary to popular belief, the first phase 2 trial intended to examine the effect of carterine on lipoprotein metabolism. The trial was conducted on 13 dysipic men with central obesity who were administered with placebo or 2.5 milligrams of carterine per day. The results confirmed carterine's lipid modifying effects in dysipomic subjects with abdominal obesity and also provided evidence of its effects in modulating lipoprotein kinetics. uh increase in catabolism of VLDLDL and production of Apo A1 and Apo A2, decrease in production of ApoC 3 and LDL APO B. GW was also associated with a decrease in cholesterol estester transfer protein activity but had no effect on insulin resistance. In the graph below, you can see the results of mean, VLDLDL, IDL, LDL, and HDL triglyceride uh in comparison with placebo versus carterine result. The first phase 2 trial results further supported carterine's potential as a treatment of dysipia and obesity. going into the second phase two human trial. In the second phase two trial, carterine or placebo was administered to 268 patients with low HDL cholesterol levels for 12 weeks. Dosages of 2.5 millig, 5 milligs, and 10 millig were administered to the treated patients. A second smaller exploratory study in a similar population was conducted on 37 patients using a sequence of five and 10 milligram dosing for the assessment of lipoprotein particle concentration. Carterine treatment in this trial was associated with significant improvements in multiple lipid components uh including triglycerides, LDLC, HDLC, free fatty acids and APOB, Apo A1 and Apo A2 and a shift in LDL particle size from small dense to larger less dense particles was also noted. Despite the promising results found in Carterine's pre-clinical phase 1 and phase 2 trials, the further investigation and development of it was discontinued after observations made in a couple rodent models found rapid cancer cell growth in the liver, stomach, tongue, skin, bladder, ovaries, womb, and testes. So you can see here in this table, this was pulled out of a report given at AI believe it was like a toxicology summit for like new drugs in development or something and it was a summary of new PP Agnes and SP RMS in development. So GW-501516 as you can see here severe adverse events increase risk of cancer. So I circled that in that report to show kind of where this derived from in the first place. I'm going to delve into that cancer data shortly. So carterine results, a lot of this is anecdotal and recreational um because you know the clinical studies are assessing specific health markers as opposed to real life performance enhancement. So just delving into what it's typically used for and what kind of uh effects have been noted. So endurance is the first one. Cardarine stimulates fatty acid metabolism and suppresses glucose catabolism without negatively affecting mitochondrial content or muscle fiber type. By sparing glucose in the body, carterine delays the onset of hypoglycemia during exercise and substantially improves running times and overall endurance. The massive boost in endurance is without a doubt the number one reported benefit of carterine. And it isn't uncommon for users to rave about how their endurance feels like it has gone up 25 to 30% shortly after taking it. Expectedly, athletes in endurance sports using carterine report very favorable outcomes in their performance. Carterine is unique in that it is one of the few chemicals suited more to enhancing athletic performance in a sport setting rather than in a bodybuilding capacity. Athletes commonly report a very substantial increase in their ability to push past endurance plateaus where they would normally gas out. Greater output in the gym, less required rest time, better running times, better hiking times, even better endurance in bed are all things commonly reported by recreational carterine users. Fat burning, greatly accelerated fat loss is commonly reported uh as one of the benefits of carterine. However, I believe it is far less potent than what some articles imply. Anecdotally, I have yet to see any evidence of substantially increased fat loss derived solely from cardarine. Uh, by stimulating fatty acid oxidization via increasing glucose uptake, your body will resort majorly distorted fat as its energy source and in turn improve fat burning potential. This is what carterine aims to accomplish and I believe to some extent it definitely does. However, it is not a gamecher and in a bodybuilding context in my opinion. Muscle growth. So while carterine evidently exhibits some anti catabolic properties, it does not yield significant hypertrophy in a bodybuilding context. While it is could probably very likely be used as an effective tool for staving off fat gain, I do not believe that cardarine has any substantial muscle building properties in humans. So, as far as my experience with it, I feel like the fat burning capabilities of it are exaggerated and typically only found in articles written by individuals who want to convince you to buy it. Personally, I feel that carterine proves most useful as a cardiovascular endurance aid or a modulator of lipids for all other purposes, fat loss, muscle growth, etc. I feel like it falls short of it being worth using, especially when we don't have uh definitive human data to conclude that it is definitely not going to accelerate cancer cell growth. Do I think it causes cancer at commonly used dosages? Based on what I've learned, I think it's extremely unlikely. However, I don't compete in endurance sports, nor do I feel the need to art artificially boost my endurance. I do see very promising potential benefits in regards to its effects on insulin sensitivity and lipids as chronically low HDL levels are super common among bodybuilders, especially even those on low TRT dosages. That being said, I see it as a last resort, even when it comes to lipid management. My educated guess would be that even synthetic GH usage, which is, you know, often used in bodybuilding without considering the implications, is probably far more of a cancer cell proliferation, you know, risk than carteriness. But that's just based on what I've seen and have learned over the years. I don't make a habit of using cartered myself, but I have occasionally sporadically used it in short bursts for boosting my HDL. And I'll do a separate I've done separate posts on that before. Carterine dosage. So, doses of 2.5 to 10 milligrams per day were used for up to 12 weeks in clinical trials. Anecdotally, users report improved outcomes at daily dosages of 10 to 20 milligrams per day with no serious adverse effects. Personally when I use it for lipid modulation I use the uh clinically studied 10 milligram dosage as per the human trials. Side effects. So does carterine cause cancer? At the 48th annual meeting of the society of toxicology in 2009 which was 2 years after Carterine's abandonment data was presented showing that cardarine caused cancer to develop rapidly in several organs in animal testing. The first thing to note is the fact that the aforementioned study involved administering carterine to Han Wistar rats for almost 2 years straight and it's actually 1.99 years to be exact. Without being administered any chemicals at all, the median life expectancy for Han Wistar rats is between 30 to 33 months for females and between 33 to 36 months for males. The reason for their short life expectancy is the number of adenocarcinomaomas that they develop. Prior to even looking at the animal models for carterine, we already know that these rats are not expected to live longer than 3 years. And that's irrespective of what they're administered. And the literal reason is due to their high probability of developing cancer. That doesn't mean it's not possible though. But anecdotally, carterine has been shown to be generally well tolerated. A study examined the effect of ligand activation of ppar beta delta on cell proliferation cell cycle kinetics and target gene expression in human hacatenocytes using carterine and found that liand activation of ppar beta/delta inhibits caratinosy proliferation through ppar beta/delt dependent mechanisms. So to clarify, caratinosy carcinoma, also known as skin cancer, is by far the most common cancer in the United States. The ligan activation study provides strong data to support that carterine has the ability to inhibit cancer cell growth rather than accelerate it. In addition, in all of the clinical studies conducted on humans using dosages as high as 10 milligrams per day for 12 weeks, no serious adverse effects or cancer development was reported. As of now, there is zero evidence to support that carterine use at the dosages used in human trials will cause cancer. However, it is obviously certainly still possible. Potentially increase cell death. So, reducing oxidative stress may increase protection from cell death. Therefore, measuring reactive oxygen species levels may be a way to track cell death progression or lack thereof. CCL4 treated hpatocytes incubated with KD 300 which is another PPR delta agonist had reduced levels of reactive oxygen species whereas hpatocytes incubated with GW-501516 showed more reactive oxygen species production via increasing reactive oxygen species production. Carterine increased starvation induced cell death in cultured hpatocytes and exacerbated liver damage. So how does carterine stack up to other endurance boosting chemicals? First looking at carterine versus SR90009. SR90009 also known as stenabolic is a synthetic reva liand not a sarm although it is very commonly lumped into the sarm category as well. SR works by increasing the mitochondria count in the muscles resulting in a blatant improvement in endurance. Causes no testosterone suppression. There are no serious adverse events reported to date from SR usage. SR has very poor bioavailability though making it useless in comparison to orally orally administered carterine. However, when SR9009 was injected into mice, the results were very promising. Pharmacological activation of Rev ERB alpha substantially increased the running capacity and mitochondrial respiration of the mice of the in the pre-clinical model yielding any performance outcomes with SR9009 would need to be achieved via injection only as oral administration has proved an extremely low level of bioavailability and there are no current human trials. Anecdotally, we can only assume that carterine has a greater efficacy profile uh than SR90009. However, this may not be the case as the very few cases of intravenously administered SR90009 have reported uh positive outcomes. Don't try this obviously, but that's just you know what I've seen. Carterine versus EPO. Recombinant human ariththropoetin. EPO is a glyoprotein hormone produced by the interstatial fibroblast in the kidney that signals for ariththropoesis of in bone marrow. One of the main effects of EPO is increased red blood cell production and the elevation of mat of homatocrit. One of the main effects of EPO is the increased elevation of hematocrit levels. EPO has become a heavily abused drug by amateur and professional cyclists because of its ability to increase uh exercise performance and endurance so significantly. Serious adverse events are reported far more often with EPO than with carterine. While there have never been any clinical studies comparing its efficacy and safety profile to carterine, and there very likely will never be, EPO is significantly more dangerous in both the short and long term. in my you know just my guess anyways arterial hypertension cerebral convulsion hypertensive encphylopathy throbo embolism iron deficiency and influenza-like syndrome have all been commonly reported adverse uh events occurring with long-term EPO usage to date there are no adverse events that have been reported in human trials with carterine keep in mind the sample size of those human trials is small and long-term evaluations of those individuals have not been made to establish long-term cancer risk. In a performance-enhancing context, you would be hardpressed to find someone who believes EPO is a safer alternative to carterine. Carterine's effect on the endocrine system. So, carterine does not cause endocrine suppression. It doesn't lower natural testosterone levels and it doesn't inhibit LH, FSH, or SHBG. It does not raise estrogen either which has an indirect effect on testosterone suppression as carterine doesn't suppress any sex hormones or increase any antagonizing hormones. There's no hormonal suppression that occurs via carterine use and therefore would not require any kind of postcycle therapy to you know regain fertility in a expedited manner. Okay, so that's my comprehensive overview of carterine. Please like, comment, subscribe, check out my blog, more platesdates.com. Subscribe there. Check me out on Instagram, moreplates_dates, Facebook, Twitter, um Snapchat, etc. Uh check out the links in the video description for uh companies I'm affiliated with or products I'm formulating myself to see ways you can support the channel. So, thank you guys for watching. Talk to you soon.