Today we're going to be talking about hair removal. So obviously if you bodybuild you, you've probably tried to figure out the best way to remove body hair without, you know, it being time consuming, without it being annoying, without it being painful, without it causing, you know, razor bumps, causing ingrown hair, such and such. Best way I found to date is nare. Nare has always been my go-to for not causing razor bumps, not causing this, not causing irritation. Occasionally, I'll get some skin irritation if I leave it on too long. Sometimes it randomly irritates your skin more. And this is the worst situation I've ever had with it. Probably for like 5 years now, I've used it as like my go-to thing. And it works great. You know, you lather it on, you wait like 5 minutes, you wipe it off if you use the coarse hair one. One thing I had no idea about and it doesn't say on the bottle which it probably should if they are even aware of this is that nare reacts chemically somehow with sweat. So it was a hot summer day. I was uh sweating obviously. I went and did my nare and in the spots where I get sweat accumulation the most right here mostly I started to have insane amounts of burning way way sooner than it would just like a typical application typically if you leave it on for too long. You're going to start chemical burning yourself if you leave it on too long. So that's why, you know, it says right on the bottle, do not leave on longer than, you know, 8 minutes or whatever it says. I had it on for like a few minutes max. And I was just getting insane burning and I was like rushing to wipe it off and I almost couldn't even wipe it off cuz it was so painful to rub a like a cloth on myself. I got it off and this is what happened. So, I'll put that up uh up here. And just insane irritation. And it was like I don't I don't know what a second degree burn is, but it was like it was really bad where I was actually concerned it was going to be like very bad scarring. And I was I couldn't believe it. And I didn't really connect the dots. And then I realized so it was my armpits were terrible and right here was the worst. So, it was like those two areas just so happened to have sweat accumulation that I guess I didn't wipe off prior. And in addition to that, I had deodorant on which I just applied prior to naring, which is another thing that chemically reacts with the nare terribly for whatever reason. So, if you're going to nare, do not do it when you're sweaty. like literally put a fan in front of you to keep you dry and like towel dry yourself first to make sure that you are totally totally dry prior to applying it. Especially if you're using I don't know about the the less intense versions of it cuz obviously there's like nare for women is a lot well I guess I use the nare for women but I use the coarse hair. It's like the most intense version of it. It's for people with you know coarse hair and they need like the most hardcore version of it. The lighter ones, I don't know if they burn as easily, but I've only I only used the coarse hair one. It took weeks for it to heal, and I still have a couple marks from it, too. I couldn't believe it happened from like a few minutes. So, obviously, now I'm religious about making sure I don't uh I actually tried just shaving after that for a while and it was still such a hassle. I eventually came back to the Nare, but now I make sure I'm, you know, literally totally dry. have a fan on me if necessary if it's you know hot outside. Um no deodorant on um I don't know why just just brutal chemical reaction of some sort and just totally wrecked me and it was like the most painful thing ever. I couldn't even walk around really cuz you like move and the scabs would like break open and you'd like start bleeding. Learn from my misfortune and do not have the same thing happen to you. Um, N, if you're watching, put a disclaimer on your product or look into this cuz that was that was brutal, honestly. And uh, I haven't seen anywhere online of people talking about this, so maybe I'm the only one. Maybe I just have like a random freak accident. But anyways, heed caution with Nare and do not put it on. Put it on for the minimum amount of time possible. Get it off as soon as you can after you've hit that minimum time. And make sure your body is totally dry, you have no like open cuts or anything anywhere too because if you have like a open like even a little cut somewhere and it gets in there, it's going to sting like crazy. Definitely don't narrow the balls either cuz those get sweaty and you'll notice that it stings really bad there too. So, literally anywhere where there's potentially sweat, make sure it's totally dry first and don't get it on the balls at all. So, anyways, word to the wise about hair removal. And uh um yeah, don't don't leave a comment about like, oh, you remove your hair. Like, that's stupid. It's if you bodybuild, you know how much of a difference hair removal makes on it's like an instant look of losing 4% body fat pretty much if you're hairless versus like a freaking grizzly. So, if you're watching this, you probably are on my channel because of bodybuilding related stuff anyways, but I'm sure there's going to be a few guys that are like should leave your hair. Anyway, be careful in there. Thank you guys for watching. Drop a like, hit subscribe, hit the notification bell if you want to be updated when I post stuff. Talk to you guys soon.