So something that as a metabolite interaction with gluccocorticoid receptors like trenolone or anavar which are potent GR antagonist will ultimately prevent more muscle protein breakdown which will then net you like compared to muscle protein synthesis you net a greater amount of overall muscle growth than you would otherwise. What's up guys? is Derek moreplace.com. Today we are going to be doing another product breakdown. So often times I'll just release these products and you know usually I do like an hour deep dive into the products but you know sometimes I feel like you guys would rather potentially just have entertaining content. So I just skip them over and then I'll get a bunch of messages being like Derek can you break down this product? So there's been enough demand that like obviously it helps the marketing for me to have a video to go along with it and enough people have been demanding for this product. So, I'm going to break it down for you guys. Um, as far as uh if you guys want me to do breakdowns for all of them, I guess like just let me know in the future and I'll do them. Like, to be honest, some of them I've just been like releasing for the Gorilla Mind products and not really making corresponding videos. But, um, if you want me to do them for all of them and like I can. I did that for the uh like the glycerol one I didn't do one for and then a bunch of people were asking me for it and then made the video. Roll sign. Same thing. Recently did the turquestone one. Um and then anyway, here we are. So, cortisol blocker. So, why would you use a cortisol blocker? Um is it necessary? No. However, one thing that is um problematic and it's like this is something that is not really necessary if you actually had a good lifestyle and diet. The problem is is in this world unfortunately the majority of people are addicted to something called stimulants. the most most people are addicted to caffeine specifically and they are essentially artificially shoving their body into a state of heightened sympathetic drive on a daily basis. So there's basically two states your body can be in. It can be in sympathetic or parasympathetic. One is like fight or flight, like you know, [\h__\h] get ready to uh like run from a wild animal or like hunt prey or whatever in like uh ancestral um ancestrally that's what it would be for, but in current day it's more so just like you're essentially just like redlinining your body and like focusing all on something that is not about uh recovery or rest or anything that is useful to overall rejuvenation. It is literally like flooding your body with catacolamines to try and just like mentally [\h__\h] blast through some [\h__\h] And then the other side there's parasympathetic which is rest and digest. This is where you would be calm, cool, collected. You would be um able to get to sleep easier in this state. You would be uh digesting your food. you would be like ideally. Whereas the problem with nowadays is that a lot of people are artificially keeping themselves in this state with the heightened sympathetic drive on a daily basis which prevents them from getting into this state when they need to to actually get to sleep in a timely manner, stay asleep, not be stressed out on a daily basis, which is going to be detrimental to their health long term. and a myriad of other things that is problematic when you don't actually let yourself get into a state of a proper state of relaxation and especially when it's artificially exacerbated with excessive stimulant use. And this is where people are starting to tax their adrenals to a ridiculous amount, having excessive cortisol production and u basically self-inducing this state of uh redlinining themselves to a point that is unhealthy, causing unnecessary amounts of inflammation in the body, causing insulin resistance, causing shitty sleep, causing lack of muscle growth because they are um impeding their body's ability to actually repair and recover. So, some of this is like the cortisol thing. Glucocorticoids in general, it's kind of like they're necessary. A lot of people will say, "Oh, you know, cortisol, it's so bad. You gain fat. Like, cortisol is the worst thing ever." It's like, no, you actually need a good cortisol response to wake up in the morning to get your ass out of bed, to get motivated and get like [\h__\h] [\h__\h] done. It's like later in the day and having that regulated like activity of gluccocorticoids that is not excessive and is not artificially maintained on a long-term basis when it would otherwise need to like peter out over the day. Like when you wake up, you should have a strong cortisol response. This is what is going to get you up in the morning. However, it should not be excessively so and you shouldn't be redlined all [\h__\h] day, especially going into the night time when you actually need to calm down and get into parasympathetic rest and digest. go to sleep, stay the [\h__\h] asleep mode, which a lot of people are impairing themselves from doing so. So, this is where a cortisol blocker is essentially a band-aid, and that's not necessarily the best way to go about it. The best way to go about it is to um not excessively bombard yourselves with stimulants, to not get shitty sleep, to actually follow your circadian rhythm, get exposure to light in the morning, um block out blue blue light at nighttime, you know, all of the proper uh you know, like lifestyle practices that would otherwise be conducive to a optimal, you know, glucocorticoid regulation in your body. But people just can't do that. Like a lot of people just no matter what, they're still going to do the things they do. And that's totally understandable. And this is where something like a cortisol blocking supplement or something that would otherwise enhance anti-anxiety/stress comes into play that can at least help you get to that state that you need to be a bit easier than you would otherwise from this artificially induced redline state you put yourself in perpetually through your, you know, lifestyle choices. So again, this is not like the answer. This is more something to aid you in the lifestyle you've induced upon yourself, which is like it sounds bad, but it's like most people have unfortunately like the life the I don't know just the way the world works. Most people are in this uh overabundantly in this red line state the majority of the day. High amounts of stress, high amounts of just overall like needing to chill out. they no not a lot of people have the strong like uh control of their body to actually get into the states they need to. They're constantly in a perpetual state of sympathetic drive essentially and it is not healthy. So this is where something that like I said helps you get into this rest and digest state easier is going to be beneficial. So again, there are lifestyle things you should be doing to fix this, but this is something that will help significantly in terms of getting you to that anti-anxiety, anti-stress, calm down, actually be able to get into a state of muscle recovery, healing, sleep without, you know, like sitting in your bed, staring at the wall for a [\h__\h] hour because you can't, you're too stressed out to go to bed, that kind of stuff. This will help significantly as well as just anti-anxiety in general. So anyways, breaking down the formula. This is one of the most potent formulas I have come out with for Gorilla Mind. I have uh like it's extremely expensive to the point where I question if I will even rem make this product again. Like I don't even know if I'm going to reorder it just because it is a very niche product. But even when I put out something that's niche and is not going to be high demand, I want to put out the best stuff. And this was I have this was so expensive that I'm like baffled. I even went out of my way to make this product because I could have otherwise just made like another flavor of my pre-workout or something and had it sell 10 times more than this. So, but anyways, if I put out something, it's going to be potent. It's going to work. So, the first ingredient is emodin, which is standardized to 95% and there is 500 mg per two capsules. There's 120 capsules in this product. And um so there's 60 servings if you use the two capsule dose. The second ingredient is ashwagandha extract. um at 250 milligrams standardized to 5% with analyed glycosides. The third ingredient is phosphatal serarine at 150 milligrams. The fourth ingredient is panax ginsing extract standardized to 5% um that's 125 millig. The fifth ingredient is goko extract. So goko baloba um at A-50 to1 standardized extract at 100 milligrams. And then alenine is the next ingredient at 100 milligrams. And the last ingredient is bioperin which is the trademarked black pepper fruit extract standardized to 95% piperine. So this formula emodin is the most expensive ingredient in this product by far. Now I'm sure you've already heard before about how like corticosteroids like prenazone dexamethasone all these things can cause uh muscle loss as well as like when they're you know being used for what they're being deployed for. One of the side effects could be essentially like muscle and bone wasting and the reason being is these are very catabolic hormones. Well, they are agonist of the same receptor that would otherwise be agonized via cortisol. So when you have the gluccocorticoid receptor um this has a you know like I said you cortisol is not the devil. It's something that is necessary just at a physiologic amount that is reasonable. But when you get into this like excessive redlinining territory and you're artificially like cranking your body longer than it should be, you get into this like excessive slamming of the gluccocorticoid receptors which can lead to muscle protein breakdown. And this is where you know like exogenous anabolic steroids actually come into play where they actually one of their most potent effects through muscle building and performance is antagonism to the gluccocorticoid receptors. And this is where the breakdown of proteins is inhibited which nets out a more increased muscle size and strength outcome than would otherwise be achieved by something that is just a potent uh you know like a pure AR agonist. So something that as a metabolite interaction with gluccocorticoid receptors like trenolone or anavar which are potent GR antagonist will ultimately prevent more muscle protein breakdown which will then net you like compared to muscle protein synthesis you net a greater amount of overall muscle growth than you would otherwise. Um that's like one of the main ways by which anabolic steroids work. Now in the act in a natural the same thing is sort of the case especially guys who are redlining themselves and are just unnecessarily dipping into body stores of protein like the way it can like chronic levels of inflammation are going to cause protein breakdown in the body when your body is essentially going into a state of stress from a perceived you know like danger um perceived uh you know stressor in general. you enter a state of just like chronic inflammation and basically your bad body starts rapidly metabolizing energy from carbohydrate, fat and protein stores notably which is something you don't really want to dip into and can otherwise be problematic in a catabolic context and this is where the catabolic nature of cortisol is comes from to begin with. So the first ingredient in the product is emodin. This is a potent 11 beta hydroxy steroid dehydrogenase type 1 inhibitor. And the reason I actually found this ingredient not on my own. I found it through the gorilla chemist. He came up with I don't I don't know if he's the first one to find it. I've heard it on uh a couple podcasts. I saw him come out with a product with it in it and I've tried it. I've had some other people test it and it works pretty well. So this was a ingredient I definitely wanted to include because it's something that actually inhibits the formation of cortisol itself. It's not something that just like causes anti-stress or anti-anxiety through indirect mechanisms. It's something that literally goes into like the literal [\h__\h] fat cells and prevents the creation of cortisol. So emodin it is um an 11 beta hydroxy dehydrogenous type 1 inhibitor like I mentioned and it regulates atyposite function in vitro and exhibits antid-diabetic effect in mice. This is one of the first rodent studies that was notable. It sort of reinforced its mechanism of action in terms of it actually reducing cortisol rather than just being like a antistress calm you down you know adaptogen that just like makes you feel a little bit more smoothed out. This thing actually works by inhibiting the creation of cortisol itself and it's very potent at that. Basically this study found that emoin improves the inactive gluccocorticoid induced ad atapost tissue dysfunction by selective inhibition on 11 beta hydroxy steroid dehydrogenase type 1 and adiposite in vitro improves glycemic control in mice. So why this is important being a selective inhibitor the way it is is because there is more than one type of 11 beta hydroxy steroid dehydrogenase type in the body. There is type one and type two. So type one is highly expressed in key metabolic tissues including atapost tissue in the central nervous system whereas type two the one that emodin does not target is expressed in al eldoststerone selective tissues including kidneys, liver, lungs, colon, salivary glands, neurons and placenta. So this is basically more interaction with the mineral corticoid receptor whereas 11 beta so [\h__\h] hard to say every time. 11 beta hydroxy steroid dehydrogenase type one is the one that we are more concerned with because this is actual activation or inhibiting the downstream cascade that lead to the agonism of gluccocorticoid receptors. So, if we can prevent as much of that interaction in somebody who's otherwise redlining themselves above and beyond where they should be with GR interaction, we can get that kind of anti catabolic action and we can prevent some of the excessive um preventing you from shifting your body into a state of rest and digest. Just like some of the problems that come along with the way people are self-inducing the state of chronic stress in their bodies and cranking their [\h__\h] adrenals. Um, this is something that can actually step in and prevent you from [\h__\h] yourself as bad. So, emoent seems to have a lot of promise and in practical application, I've guinea pigged it on myself as well as several individuals and it actually makes a pretty significant difference, especially in getting rid of like stubborn fat. It seems to actually make a significant difference, which is actually really interesting. I was more concerned with the, you know, like adrenal cranking that everyone is inducing upon themselves, the rest and digest state that no one can really get into as easily now with this [\h__\h] constantly redlinining themselves as well as the catabolic action of, you know, excessive cortisol production in a perpetual state essentially. So, um, as far as any other studies on it, like there's honestly very limited data on it. Is more like one of these experimental chemicals that has sort of, uh, data extrapolated to reinforce its actions, but it does seem to work in humans. And there's another study that was very promising that led to kind of the um idea that this could be a novel um cortisol blocking supplement in um your everyday life or at least when warranted um when you are otherwise pushing yourself a bit too hard. So this study found emodin a natural product selectively inhibits 11 beta hydroxy serero dehydrogenous type 1 and ameliorates metabolic disorder in diet induced obese mice. So the conclusions were this study demonstrated a new role for emodin as a potent selective inhibitor of 11 beta HSD1 and its bene which is I've already said that enough times I'm just going to abbreviate it from now on and its beneficial effect on metabolic disorders um in mice. So this highlights the potential value of analoges of emodin as a new class of compounds for the treatment of metabolic syndrome or type 2 diabetes. So this actually showed it was able to reverse predinazone induced insulin resist resistance in mice which is something that is you know pretty [\h__\h] impressive to be honest because that's something that is otherwise a very potent um corticosteroid that would otherwise cause some uh issues that you've seen. I'm sure you can just look up the [\h__\h] side effects of predinazone you'll see for yourself. Now one of the main things to note too is how it was able to ameliorate notice how it said ameliorate do uh metabolic disorder. So this is something that is can be exacerbated by lifestyle as well as through diet as well as through drug use as well as through a myriad of things. But a lot of people on the planet are insulin resistant nowadays and are essentially self-inducing the state of metabolic syndrome. A lot of people are getting to the point where they are just uh their entire endocrine system is like [\h__\h] with because they're exceeding the amount of like basically when you start producing too much stress hormone, you're actually pulling away from your ability to synthesize indogenous androgens and other metabolite hormones like neurosteroids and stuff that you would otherwise need to have a high [snorts] functioning quality of life. And this is where you can actually lead to some people having low tea naturally low androgens, low neurosids, low metabolite hormones that otherwise have downstream cascades that dictate many important physiologic functions in the body. Make you feel good, make you build muscle, make you burn fat, make you get to sleep properly, make you not stressed out and anxious as [\h__\h] cuz your body is redlinining trying to produce these [\h__\h] gluccocorticoids the entire time. So basically by manually intervening in that enzyme enzyatic process, we can kind of uh get in front of the issue a little bit in people that you know need to get some sort of intervention in that capacity cuz some people are going to continue this lifestyle unfortunately or you know otherwise need time to kind of like reorganize their lives and fix their lifestyle practices. And this is where emodin can kind of like cut in the middle and um like instantly improve that area that is otherwise pulling away from other hormone production in the body and other cascades and interactions that are going to become severely neglected if your body is constantly in a state of just like cranking out gluccocorticoids. So the next thing these are some uh more commonly known ingredients like ashwagandha is the next one which is something that has found that it can substantially reduce cortisol levels relative to placebo. So this is one of the best antistress um adaptogens probably out there and it's found that it can have uh interesting um benefits in terms of its interaction with uh endocrine parameters. It seems to increase um testosterone production to some extent. It's found it can improve glucose metabolism. It can also have a uh enhanced strength performance, but most notably it's the effect that it has on cortisol as well as anti stress. Like for me, the main thing I knew it for personally and why I even looked at this was its effect on stress and anxiety. This is one of the most well-known compounds for kind of like, you know, easing the mind, smoothing it out, getting chilled out, and helping to get to sleep. And this is why it's in Gorilla Dream as well, but as well in a cortisol blocking product, it makes a lot of sense to put in it. And it has a lot of efficacy in a clinical setting for anti-stress, anti-anxiety. And when you actually dig into it, it does in fact lower cortisol levels to a significant enough degree for it to be worth adding into the product in my opinion. So the next ingredient is phospatidal searine, which is an amino acid derivative that is fat soluble and found in high amounts in the brain and otherwise is going to be something that you're probably not going to get enough of through your diet to yield the kind of anti-stress, anti-cortisol effects that it may otherwise provide. And this is something that over the years enough, you know, anecdotal reports and enough data has come out kind of reinforcing its efficacy that I started to take it seriously in a cortisol context. And again, this isn't like the most important thing in the world. This is more for people who actually have anxiety, have stress in their lives, have want to actually intervene in some capacity and um want supplementation to kind of aid them in their journey to do so above and beyond the overhauling their lifestyle which some people just won't do or some people can only like partially do and may need that supplemental boost to get a potent additive effect that is anti-catabolic, anti-cortisol. So this study in particular the influence of phospatetal serereine supplementation on mood and heart rate when faced with an acute stressor is the um main one to resort to uh refer to in my opinion. Basically they found that it blunted the release of cortisol in response to exercise stress and an improved mood. Um, you know, again, there's not a ton of data backing some of these chemicals and backing some of these adaptogens and whatnot, but of the data we have, it seems like they do each have an additive effect on top of one another and in conjunction with one another, they have a very potent anti-cortisol, you know, stress component that seems to uh, in practical application, I felt it was worth bundling into a full product. So, it's not like this is what this is not something that is going to like literally tangibly pack on like 5 lbs of muscle in a certain amount of time. And frankly, this isn't even me advertising for a muscle growth component. That may just be a like byproduct result as in terms of somebody who is way too stressed out and isn't able to pack on muscle the way they should be if they otherwise had their lifestyle, stimulant intake, dietary interventions completely on point. So just keep that in mind because this is me elaborating on where it may have the most application rather than saying that everyone's going to benefit from this because frankly most a lot of people are not going to really need this. This is more for the hyper stress individual, the hyper anxious individual, the person who can't sleep, the person who needs this rather than every single person. Now one thing before I continue to the next ingredient is circling back to emo. Something that definitely needs to be noted. I don't know if you guys saw my Instagram a while ago, but I basically was talking about how I need uh I I like made a joke. It was like um the texts I send to like people in Gorilla Mind or something and it was like me talking to um my business partners or uh people in the company too and basically we were testing out the cortisol blocker and it was basically like I need you guys to try this and let me know if you [\h__\h] yourself cuz it was like something I had also tried tried and the reason is emodin has a very potent laxative effect. So, this is something that um has been used in traditional Chinese medicine to treat digestive issues. So, this is something that definitely needs to be taken note of because you may otherwise not respond well to it. And if all of a sudden you have brutal diarrhea and you don't know why, it's probably the emote. So, this is where I actually wish I broke down the product further in the supplement facts to a one capsule dosage rather than two. And I would highly recommend when you're starting like actually only start with one a day to evaluate tolerance and see how your digestion handles it cuz 250 milligs of emoin is actually a decent amount and can still have these side effects for some individuals. So you can taper up but start at one and taper up accordingly based on your digestive response as well as based on your stress response. Don't just go based on the supplement suggested use. Like here it says first time users should begin with one capsule to evaluate tolerance. Like I really wish I I went back and like really like bolded it or made it super obvious cuz it can um be very uh digestively upsetting for some individuals. So start out one have it u at a time that actually makes sense. Not right in the morning when you actually need your cortisol response. Don't blunt it right when you wake up. Use it later in the day. Use it after your workout is done when you actually need to get into rest and digest. I don't know why a lot of cortisol products don't really advise like when to time it, but you don't want to do it before working out right when you wake up. You don't want to blunt the like fightor-flight response you need to go hit the weights hard or to wake up in the morning and get out of bed and get, you know, like attack the day. You want to do it later in the day or after your workout when you're trying to get shift into rest and digest parasympathetic state and get to bed or you know like chill out and get your mind like calm and get out of that red line mode. So that is when you'd want to test it out. Start with one taper up accordingly from there but just be aware that if you get digestive distress it is the emote in and it can be it's very expected for a lot of people. So just be aware of that. The next ingredient is panax ginsing. This is uh commonly referred to as true gins singh and basically it is often used I guess most commonly for mood regulation as well as uh your immune system you know see it actually has some pretty distinct cognitive benefits as well sort of like in a neutropic context um but for this one the main reason we're using it is its anti-stress component and the study that I would defer to for kind of elaborating on how it works exactly or the mechanism of action anti-stress effects of gin ing via down reggulation of tyrrosine hydroxilase and dopamine beta hydroxilase gene expression and immobilization stress rats and PC12 cells. So basically they talk about catakolamines and how basically long-term stress um leads to the induction of catakolamine biosynthetic enzymes such as tyrrosine hydroxilase and dopamine beta hydroxilase and a bunch of stuff you don't really need to know but basically um it kind of it's like a fancy way of talking about the red lining yourself the catakolamines the you know ridiculous amount of stimulants re leading to this kind of like state of hyperympathetic drive on a constant basis and how Jin Jins Singh can actually intervene in that. So what they found here was um immobilization stress induced catakolamine biosynthetic enzymes gene expression while jins singh appear to restore homeostasis via the suppression of TH and DBH gene expression. So basically they found that um Jins Singh has a anti-stress action produced by suppressing this gene expression that is caused by the induction of catakolamine biosynthetic enzyme. So if that was not even [\h__\h] English, let me circle back. So long-term stress leads to the induction of these catakolamines. And basically what ginsing does does is it comes in and it gets you back to homeostasis or restores it via suppressing this gene expression. So when you were otherwise redlined, gensing can come in and kind of downregulate it and bring it to homeostasis. So this is where it can come into play and have a very potent anti-stress c uh capabilities in that regard. The next ingredient is ginkoaloba and this is a often known as its uh neutropic benefits and an acetal colonistase inhibition capacity. Um it is used mainly for boosting cognitive function but it also has a pretty notable effect on stress as well. So this is a reduction of rise in blood pressure and cortisol released during stress by gkoaloba extract in healthy volunteers. standardized extract of ginko baloba was found to not only improve memory and aging associated cognitive deficits but also to exert beneficial effects on moods uh on mood sorry and then the study provides evidence that um goko basically has an inhibitory action on blood pressure and may influence cortisol release in response to some stress stimuli. Otherwise, when a stressor introduces itself and you would otherwise have this overaggressive fight orflight response, um, gkoalloba can kind of come in and help attenuate that and not have you freak out as much or have your body go into redline mode as much. So, otherwise calming your body down, getting into rest and digest, getting into the state that you actually need to to relax and not be in a state of uh, muscle wasting or, you know, extreme levels of stress and basically just calming your body down. So the next ingredients are alenine. So this is something I've talked about for its calming and relaxing effects many times. It's in grooide smooth. It's a very potent anti-stress compound. Prevents a heightened level of mental clarity. Helps you calm down, get to sleep. It kind of mitigates the overactivity of uh excitable neurotransmitters in the brain. Kind of also helps curb the anxiety caused by caffeine. One of the most potent neutropic stacks um or I guess most popular as well is atheonine stacked with caffeine. So you can obviously where atheonine would come into play with people who are you know addicted to coffee or caffeine. We have this cortisol blocking supplement. Obviously althanine is a no-brainer addition to add on to that. Um stacking caffeine within has actually been proven clinically to help you get to sleep and smooth out the jitters. So, somebody that would otherwise have problems getting to sleep because they're a slow metabizer of caffeine or they otherwise just take way too much or they took it at a stupid time or whatever. Altheonine can be stacked on top to not only help you not freak out too much when you're on too much caffeine or have a poor response to it, smooth out the jitters, but it helps you actually get to sleep after having too many stimulants in the day. So that is why elenine is excellent above and beyond its ability to improve memory and attention too. One of the most notable studies I often refer to is a randomized double blind placeboc controlled study on 91 people with minor brain damage. A combination of L39 and green tea extract improved memory, attention span and alertness during a memory test. It also has improved verbal fluency and executive function. U randomized control trial on 30 healthy adults. They were given 200 milligs of altheonine. Verbal fluency and executive function scores improved after using it. Stress levels also went down, notably the main reason it's in here. Um, sleep quality also increased after LT9 administration, improves reaction time, and it also even has a neuroprotective effect. The last ingredient is bioparin black pepper fruit extract. And the reason it is in here is it's a very effective CYP3A for P glyoprotein inhibitor. And this can help prevent the breakdown of some of the ingredients in the product and help kind of enhance its uh bioavailability. So emodin in particular has a very poor absorption. When you stack it with bioperion, it can enhance its bioavailability and prevents it from being broken down as easily, which then potentiates its action and makes it an actual viable like orally ingestable supplement. So that is the breakdown of the formula as far as who would benefit from this. It's basically, you know, like anybody who is um like it kind of depends on your situation. Like are you somebody who abuses stimulants? Do you get poor sleep? Are you um do you have poor glucose control and you're you're developing insulin resistance? Um it kind of depends on you. Like for me, this is something I would introduce in an acute setting to kind of intervene in a lifestyle that may otherwise like not be able to be optimized or like it's sort of like a band-aid approach at the end of the day. But a lot of people aren't going to fix and do everything 100% on point. And this is where the supplementation can kind of come come into play. As well as for individuals who are dieting down aggressively, especially naturals who otherwise are um cranking their cortisol up or are depleting their body of indogenous androgens that they otherwise need to maintain muscle. has this vicious circle effect where they have muscle protein breakdown, more stress, shittier sleep, you know, down reggulation of their HBTA and then they have less androgens, less muscle retention, more stress, blah blah blah. Like, especially for naturals, this is something that makes a lot more sense than somebody who is literally antagonizing GR receptors through their use of exogenous synthetic anabolics. For a natural, this makes a lot more sense. Or for somebody who's abusing stimulants or whatever or has poor sleep, intervening with something like this can actually be helpful. But again, at the end of the day, this is a lifestyle induced problem that you bring onto yourself. So, most people aren't able to completely optimize their lifestyle, though. Like, most people are still going to abuse stimulants. Most people are still going to sleep here and there for 5 or 6 hours instead of the eight. Some people aren't going to get explo exposure to light in the morning, follow their circadian rhythm, have a perfect micronutrient-dense diet and blah blah blah, you know, uh follow a perfect schedule of, you know, going went to the gym at the perfect time of day when their catacolamines are like spiked and blah blah blah. So, if you want to intervene with something like this, it's kind of like on a case- by case basis based upon your own individual stress levels. But I would just, you know, like hopefully this helps break down where it makes sense and why you might want to use it rather than saying like, "Oh yeah, cortisol is bad for fat loss, bad for muscle growth, so you need to use this." It's like, no, that is not the case whatsoever. This is more for the hyperstressed individual who or somebody who can't get to sleep or somebody who otherwise is taxing their adrenals to a unwise uh not sustainable, I guess, would be the best way to put it. So, this is going to be up to your discretion if you would benefit from it. It is not something that is going to be for everyone. So, this is something I keep on deck for like intermittent use when needed, but I try to have my lifestyle on point enough where like I don't need to use this at all. it just gets introduced here and there when I like really fall off the I don't know the wagon or whatever it's when I fall off my routine for like a few days and I like really [\h__\h] up and I like need to kind of like get back to homeostasis get back get back on the horse or whatever it's called and then go back to not using it again. So that is the that is the way I use it personally and I would recommend you using it to kind of like intervene when you like [\h__\h] up or you are like hyper stressed or hyper you know sympathetic drive driven and otherwise need to fix it and get back to normal. So anyways, it's going to be available on the site now if you want to check it out. gorillamind.com. You can save another 10% with the coupon code DCT10. Anything else I am associated with is in the video description below. Thank you guys for the support of the brand and everything. And it's uh the growth is, you know, exceptional and it's uh I'm very much appreciative of it. And uh I'm glad you guys are digging the formulas. Like I put a lot of work into this stuff and you can see like even in the formulas if you go look at other cortisol blocking supplements or any other supplement I put out like you can tell this [\h__\h] is expensive to make. Like this is most people would put in just like one of these ingredients at a high dose not all of them together. Like this product in particular is one of the most expensive ones I've ever created. So if you're going to use a cortisol blocking supplement, this one is bar and none the most potent in the entire industry. So check it out if you're interested. Thank you guys for watching. Talk to you soon.