So to me, like to be honest, unless I saw these levels like really spike into the sky and sustain there for a long period of time, I don't know how much I'd really What's up guys? Derek more plates.com. Today we're going to be talking about this 1977 study on DBL. 2 to 6 weeks afterwards, a significant overcompensation in mean plasma test levels was observed. So basically they show that dbol ended up increasing natural test levels after recovering from the cycle. Want to get my thoughts on it and um I will be reacting to it in real time. I have not yet read it. Maybe it's a study I've seen already. You never know. This 1977 study on devol shows the effect of lowdose short-term devol use. should also study DHEA but puffed too long didn't read on the study 12 DBLA only cycle gangsters JK runners well-trained four-week cycle 5 milligs and 10 milligrams of placebo given at different times during the 8-month study figure one is a graph that shows total T FSH and LH levels starting from day one and ending 5 weeks post cycle for the 10 milligram part of the study it shows how rapidly an acutely debol crashes retest 73% on average in 4 weeks the 5 milligram crash it by 66% in the same amount amount of time. That's great and all, but who cares? What we care about is that by day 10 post cycle, no PCT drugs, free tea levels had been restored. And after 2 weeks, free tea levels had increased above precycle levels in all participants. The researchers referred to this as overcompensation. The mean average increase was 20%. Even 5 weeks post cycle, there was no signs of reduction. Actually, it seemed to be increasing. This study raises a lot of questions. Questions I reckon Eastern block sports scientists and Derek may hold the answers to. The secret behind the success of many drug tested athletes from the era pre-delt god. Why did this happen? Was it the short cycle length? Was it the small dose? Was it dbol's insanely short half-life? Was it all of the above? Logic suggests that some part of the body HBTA freaks the [\h__\h] out after realizing T levels are hitting ATG squat depth and does whatever it can to restore oh as grass. How the [\h__\h] did I miss that? And it does whatever it can to restore baseline levels. And then by the time everything else is restarted, it takes a while to realize and boom, 20% increased natural tea for 4 weeks. Study could have been a whole lot better. For one, they could have carried on measuring after 5 weeks to find out when it dips back down. There's a million things that could have helped the outcome. What does this mean for us now? How can we abuse this mechanism for anabolism and performance? I have no clue, but sounds cool. The problem is always the 10 days it takes to get back to baseline. Keeping the gains during this period is the issue. I mean, there's also the liver damage and the perma bulk bloat lord water retention, but like that's ever stopped us before. Would using a serum for PCT for 10 days mitigate this or would it stop the overcompensation effect? Way more likely. It stops the effect. I mean, there's a reason we all PCT and don't see this happen in blood work. What about reverse dieting? 5,000 IU vitamin D, mega dose ectosterone, and 5 g lcarnitine daily. Who knows? I may end up experimenting with this, but also I don't feel like looking like a pregnant cow for 4 weeks. You definitely won't on 10 milligrams, bro. Also, blood work is expensive. Way more expensive than Debbal. I would try 15 milligrams daily, possibly 20. If you want more useless articles like this, don't worry. My wife left. So, more coming soon. All right, so here we are. Effective short-term treatment with an anabolic steroid, methandone, and D HEA on plasma hormones, red cell volume, and 23 diphosphoglycerate in athletes. Um, all right. So, let's see. Effective 1-month course of a treatment with a potent anabolic steroid devol 5 and 10 milligs daily and a very weak androgen hormone precursor DHEA and plasma on placebo on plasma testosterone, LH and FSH levels. Uh, highly significant decrease in mean test was observed after 5 and 10 milligrams. Treatment with 40 milligrams of DHA decreased mean testosterone levels by 41%. Oh, DHEA s they're treating. Okay. Um, pre-est testosterone levels were retained about 10 days after the end of the treatment period with higher doses of both compounds while 2 to 6 weeks afterwards a significant overcompensation in mean plasma levels was observed. No significant changes in plasma gonadotropins were seen immediately after treatment with either of these steroids but later a tendency towards decreased FSH and LH levels was observed in the subject who received the higher doses of both compounds. No significant changes in red cell volume blah blah blah. All right. Now, what I would want to see is [\h__\h] dude. It's [\h__\h] sideways. God damn it, dude. All right, there we go. Debb 5 milligrams, number of subjects, test levels before and after and nanomals per liter. Uh, basil, FSH, LH. So, you know, I'm going to be honest, dude. I think what we're seeing is not necessarily a overcompensation of test necessarily rather the result of crashed SHBG. So we see here plasma testosterone levels and nanomals per liter. This is the DHE EAS group. Um we have the DVAL group here. Um these [\h__\h] graphs being sideways pissing me off. Um conclusion on the basis Okay, let's go back to the actual graphical representation here of the debol group. So, plasma test levels, plasma, LH, and FSH. So, we can see here that the okay, the test levels here go down and they crash into nothingness, but then they end up over baseline here transiently. Okay, so it looks like it had absolutely nothing to do with free test levels after all. The guy mentioned here how free test levels um increased to above pre-cycle levels but it's actually total. So I thought the explanation was going to be an obvious drop in SHBG. So then when you recover natural test production the lack of SHBG um due to an oral androgen that's going to crush it into the ground is going to result in transiently higher free testosterone levels proportionally. But it looks like it's actual total test levels that are spiking above baseline. So, we have individuals who were starting here, crashing their test levels with the dbol, getting off the dbol, and then recovering to above baseline within a couple weeks, and actually sustaining it for [\h__\h] weeks after. So, what would be the cause of that given the fact that LH and FSH levels are pretty much are not any higher? Um, depends, dude. The one thing I would say is that this is a very small sample size, obviously. um the dosages used aren't necessarily dosages that are going to be used for performance-enhancing purposes. Like again, 10 milligs of dbol is like borderline replacement dose for androgen replacement therapy. Um and then you have this overcompensation of test, but you're dealing with that week of, you know, hypoganatal, you know, levels essentially where you have to deal with, you know, potentially the deterioration of lean muscle trying to protect, you know, your hard-earned progress. Um, and it seems like this is not, you know, a strategy that's really worth pursuing. Like if you can get a super compensated, you know, like overexaggerated effect of testosterone recovery after a short exposure to a lowd dose anabolic steroid that is otherwise essentially basically androgen replacement. Like is that really worth it to go through a couple weeks of, you know, borderline hypogonatism in order to achieve a level that's transiently higher? not that much higher like transiently higher to a point that it's probably not going to have a significant impact on um sports performance anyways. I don't know but it is certainly um interesting nonetheless given the fact that gonadotropins are actually no higher. So something is definitely overcompensating or at least again I would really boil this down to what time of day were these individuals getting their blood drawn? What was their diet like during this time? What's their sleep hygiene like? Is it possible they just have improved life lifestyle factors now and it's just you know a snapshot in time because at the end of the day these individuals it's a very small sample size testosterone is affected so significantly even taking your blood test you know a few hours later in the day in the afternoon versus in the morning can have a major impact on what things are at because it operates on a dial rhythm in a pulsatile man manner. This is not something that necessarily equates to this snapshot in time is exactly equivalent to this snapshot in time in terms of your body's output of uh you know ginadotropins and subsequent to that actual um light exel stimulation intesticular testosterone production. So to me, like to be honest, unless I saw these levels like really [\h__\h] spike into the sky and sustain there for a long period of time, I don't know how much I'd really read into this given the fact that you're basically shutting yourself down in order to put yourself in a state of hypoganatal, you know, very very muscle deteriorating circumstances for a little bit of period of time with a barely performance-enhancing amount of drug and sustaining, you know, borderline hypoganatal territory for a couple weeks to then recover. up to this super compensated increase in total test. Like it's definitely not worth the reading into in my opinion. Like if you're going to be doing a only cycle gangster cycle to begin with, you know, it's certainly interesting, I guess, to look into and there are ways that you could otherwise try and, you know, lessen the damage during this kind of like in between phase where you're recovering. Ideally, you would be using things that expedite recovery rather than focusing on vectors of, you know, what kind of random supplements can I take to enhance to try and like prevent muscle protein breakdown when I otherwise could just, you know, try and get back to a hormonal baseline as quickly as possible. Now, again, debol halfife very very short and the methyl estradile production is um, you know, problematic, but again, it's going to clear quick enough to effect that to a point that you can get back to baseline within um, relatively short order. like this is not, you know, a an antate estester or some eststerified um injectable that you have to deal with, you know, a clearance time of like months or, you know, 1 month to 2 months or whatever the [\h__\h] it is depending on the compound. You're dealing with like you know, a week down time until you get back to baseline. So it's not um you know that I don't know like reading into it I think is like overanalyzing trying to figure out how to leverage this kind of compensatory mechanism whereby I think the compensatory mechanism may not even exist to begin with. It may just otherwise be individuals who came off of [\h__\h] and want to make sure they recover and you know change their lifestyle accordingly or get you know a better sleep or they get you know their diet's more on point. They're getting more you know nutrients in like whatever it is. I don't have, you know, a good enough assessment of this with a big enough sample size with controlled enough variables to be able to say for certain that this compensatory thing is actually going to happen if you pursue the only cycle gangster cycle. So, I wouldn't be confident assuming this is going to happen and I definitely wouldn't pursue this cycle banking on it happening. However, during this time, there's definitely things you can do to try and, you know, prevent the uh, you know, shitty period of time here where you could be prone to [\h__\h] going wrong. And you know, he's not off with things like, you know, using vitamin D, using carnitine, if you want to add an er beta egg, sure, reverse dieting, making sure you're getting enough food in during this time. Absolutely reasonable. I don't think this I don't think this is a useless article. I think it's worth, you know, digging into. I thought this was going to be a really obvious um you know, free test being increased pro proportionally from lack of binding proteins. But interesting, there's actually, you know, compensatory thing going on that that's what they've determined in the article. Uh let's see after 1 month a mean increase about 20% over the control level was apparent. The highest of the individual overcompensation values were significantly greater than the basil testosterone levels. Um and they determined that in this study the fallen test was about similar to the changes in earlier reports where higher doses of deball and longer time of therapy have been used. 100 milligs per day for 6 weeks now that's a [\h__\h] cycle bro. And 15 milligs for 2 months. Long-term treatment with debol in large doses up to 100 milligrams per day has been reported to result in a marked depression of plasma test to almost castrate levels. The suppression of plasma test can be accomplished by inhibition of the hypothalammic hypoysial ganatal axis. Funny calling it this hypothalamic hypoysial ganatal axis by inhibiting testosterone biosynthesis in the gonads and by reducing the level of plasma test binding globulin. As suggested recently, the major con causitive mechanism active during androgen administration is probably the first in the study by Homa and Adler. Both the levels of LH and FSH fell to about 50% their normal levels, which is in agreement with observations of the suppression of ginadotropins in some other papers caused by short-term testosterone infusion or by long-term use of debol. In agreement with the results of the present study, no alterations in ganadotropins were previously reported after nandrul and danoate or um is this proviron treatment. These seemingly contradictory results may arise due to different affinity of anabolic compounds for hypothalammic receptors and or to differences in dosage and duration of therapy. Yeah. So obviously you know if there's a esther attached to it with danoate you know clearance time is going to be affected. If they're progesteric in nature and are agonizing the progesterone receptor, it's going to have negative feedback too through a totally separate vector. How much are they, you know, agonizing the estrogen receptor inherently or through their downstream aromatization into methyl estradile? How, you know, resistance to hypatic clearance is the estrogen produced from the inherent parent compound. These are all going to play into the negative feedback and how long it takes for you to actually recover to baseline. Uh, let's see. Okay, so they talk about more of in this study, pituitary function was not significantly affected by any treatment regimen. Apparently, the [\h__\h] phone, stop playing my goddamn alarm. Sorry about that. Thus, the study pituitary function was not significantly affected by any of the treatment regimens. Apparently, the period of treatment was too short and the dosage is too low to cause a clear effect. It would seem therefore that a decrease in test caused by short-term treatment of low doses of anabolic steroids is affected at least partially via mechanism other than inhibition of the hypothalammic hypothesial access perhaps through changes in the sex hormone binding globulin concentration. Boom. That's what I [\h__\h] mentioned at the start. I thought duration of altered hormone levels only blah blah blah blah. Let's see. On the basis of our results, the duration of the decrease in plasma tests would be seem to be subject dependent on and range from 1 to 5 weeks and overcompensation of the test level after anabolic treatment is always seen. Plasma test returns temporarily to a higher than control level after androgen treatment. The increase may indeed be quite marked levels up to 100% in excess of the basil levels were seen in the present study. The same overcompensation overcompensation phenomenon has been used in testosterone rebound therapy for the treatment of male infertility. That's honestly the first time I [\h__\h] heard of that. As mentioned above, we observe no immediate post- treatment changes in FSH and LH secretion after androgen treatment. Can you imagine being like, this almost reminds me of like the HRT clinics that are like, we're going to put you on test and then like pull you off cuz your receptors are like saturated and we're going to it's going to reensitize you. Like I don't know. Like that kind of [\h__\h] is really bro sciency, but this is actually this is interesting. Testosterone rebound therapy. Rebound therapy. like we're going to shut you down in order to have you shut down for a periodic per small period of time and then you're going to rebound you to above baseline and then you're going to be naturally more efficient than you were before you used [\h__\h] steroids. Seems funny. Um the depression and LH secretion observed 2 to 6 weeks after androgen treatment synchronizes well with the overcompensation period in plasma test levels reflecting proper functioning of the gatal pituitary feedback system. In addition, at this time, yeah, like I guess hypothetically, if you're shut down, your body is going to freak the [\h__\h] out. Once there's sufficient clearance of androgen receptor agonism and estrogen receptor agonism, you're going to have a surge of ginadotropins in response to the crash test levels, which may transiently induce a state of like over stimulation of light cells, which is going to result in a spike in intraesticular testosterone transiently to above baseline potentially. Yeah, I can I guess that might [\h__\h] happen. In addition at this time is it going to be performance-enhancing though given the fact he had to deal with hypogonadism for a little bit of period of time like the seessaw ROI on that you know in addition at this time a parallel and significant decrease in pituitary FSH secretion as compared to basil levels was observed uh anyway let's see what's said in the thread here first off I agree with the other guy that this is a type of post this sub needs I would agree with the point of the super low halfife of deep and short cycle duration perhaps that enough for the body to recover. Now, how much lean mass was gained over those four weeks would determine if the cycle itself is worth it because debol itself will make you stronger during your workout. Your numbers will be faked if you take it right before it. Um, I don't really understand the 8-month bit, namely in the aspect of seeing how many of those gains were retained after the 8 months given the sporadic nature of the cycles. Adding a serum would definitely make this study more interesting. As you said, so many questions arise from this. It'd be awesome if Dererick looked into this and gave some feedback. Although in my opinion after reading this, it seems likely what they saw was a blimp. But as time goes on, it would probably level it to baseline. Yeah, of course it would level out. But it brings up a muchneeded possibility of small deep cycles being used by those who are uncommitted to long or risky cycles. Up the trend downvoted by [\h__\h] four points. Another unfunny trend joke added to the account. I think one of the factors here is that it takes a while for balls to atrophy and stop producing test. 4 weeks is probably the point where they have not atrophied much yet and are so quick to or quick to start back up. Yeah. You also have to think about structural integrity of what's going on. How uh you know toxic is what you're using. You know progester you know testosterone derivative. There's obviously going to be a difference in different agonism of different receptors and satellite interactions. Once de and the halflife you know the [\h__\h] clearance time all that [\h__\h] And if you have, you know, the structural integrity completely maintained of your balls the entire time and you have like minimal atrophy, you know, you would expect a quicker bounce back than a guy who's been on, you know, nandalone denoate for [\h__\h] you know, succumb to complete testosterone shutdown and castration essentially for months on end. There's going to be a marked difference in recovery, I would imagine. Uh, let's see about the suppression natural test. Obviously, we want high test, but I think that if your levels are pretty high normally, you will still be able to make gains even while suppressed. increased free test is very interesting and could possibly mean using debol to increase testosterone. My biggest worry for using debol in such a way is probably the test fluctuation causing gyno but you can prevent that like you said. Yeah. Like in general what I see from individuals who are using debol and getting estrogenic issues such as gyno or individuals who are stacking it with [\h__\h] like test. If you're using essentially two test bases overlapping on one another, like you can imagine you're going to run into some pretty significant issues, especially if you add in a progesteric compound on top like a nandelone, which may upregulate, you know, estrogen receptor sensitivity and or aromatization itself. Um, also, you know, agonism of the progesterone receptor in itself adding to the compounding effect and causing a onepus 1 equals disaster effect where you have the decade decadel test. classic bulk Michelin man cycle just being overkill as [\h__\h] So that's where I think most people run into issues with D balls or stacking it with tests to be honest which is totally contradictory to how it was run in the golden era. You had guys running DBball Primo, Debball Dandelon. [\h__\h] like this was very common and worked quite well. And only in recent years did you see individuals stacking, you know, dbol as a kickstarter on top of their test with other [\h__\h] that's estrogenic in some cases, too. And it can be even [\h__\h] more problematic and then adding a deck on top. Like it's those are like the ruthless psycho outcomes with, you know, goddamn like hypertensive crisis situations where you need to go to the hospital cuz you can't even [\h__\h] walk around without a nose bleed. more bishes, more bishious territory, bro. That's the kind of [\h__\h] you end up in this that kind of situation. So, anyways, maybe I missed the part talking about free test. I didn't want to read this entire thing with you guys. Like, this video is going to be pushing an hour if I dig through the whole thing. I sorted by free. I couldn't find any mention of free testosterone in this entire article, but I imagine any increase in free test, like I was under the impression we're looking at transient increases in total test levels as opposed to any sort of change in free test. But if it's a change in free test, I can almost guarantee it's a result of crash binding proteins. Um, if it's a result, if the overcompensation of total test though, that one's more interesting and I would speculate it must be a result of either a blip, you know, individuals with different lifestyle factors or whatever it is, sleep hygiene, like this is a snapshot in time of your test. You could literally have a test level lower than baseline, you know, however many hours later if you just get your blood drawn at a different time with slightly different factors in your lifestyle going on. But if this is all, you know, controlled and super regulated and, you know, this is like an actual representation of what's going on, the only thing I could imagine would explain this is the actual overcompensation of gonadotropen production causing an overstimulation of intrasticular testosterone production as a result of your body sensing that it's entirely deprived and essentially borderline castrated. It's like, holy [\h__\h] we need to make tests. And then, you know, obviously you get this slight overcompensation effect potentially short term, but this would eventually level off. And yeah, I guess hypothetically you could argue what, you know, for like what kind of advantage would you have to this though for guys who want to leverage, you know, short cycles. Is this something you should be doing? I don't really know that I'd be deploying like short oral only bursts that are going to [\h__\h] with binding proteins anyway so significantly cuz eventually you're going to run into potentially like how how frequently do you do it? And what is the actual like myioite maturation cycle where you actually produce contractile proteins? Is this, you know, even sufficient to get like realized like real muscle growth potential out of short little bursts like this with small exposures with basically androgen replacement level dosages? I don't really think so, dude. Like I think you'd be better off looking at actual injectables to be honest. Um, you know, only cycles are um they're not as bad as you might have been led to think by the jokes about the bowl only cycle gangsters to be honest. But I mean, um, I would not be utilizing short like four-week exposure bursts to try and like bank up significant amounts of muscle tissue and then bank on this overcompensation period. Hopefully your B balls don't, you know, atrophy too significantly, waiting for recovery to then run another, you know, like little cycle of 10 milligs or some [\h__\h] Like, you're not really going to get anywhere. I think it's going to be, you know, spinning your wheels a bit trying to do this. So, um, personally, if you're going to be shutting yourself down at all, like I think the fluctuation in hormones too, you could argue is more unhealthy than just being on like a sustained cycle, um, for like a like reasonable duration of time. So, again, like to me, this might look like a strategy to deploy around drug testing potentially, um, or for individuals who just like don't want to pinch [\h__\h] And again, the liver toxicity of this stuff, is this something you want to be relying on as your primary driver of hypertrophy? No, definitely not. So anyways, that is my stance. Let me know what you guys think in the comments down below. Hopefully you found this interesting. It's kind of me just [\h__\h] trying to dissect a study as we go here. And um not a whole lot of studies on, you know, human use of, you know, compounds that interest us. So anytime there's something that pops up, even if it's old, you know, that's all we have available is old [\h__\h] So you know, it's still interesting to dig into. Like again, that 100 milligram deball study, like some of that stuff, you're only going to find digging through old literature. And it's actually really interesting to dive into it cuz you learn things about these compounds that otherwise go completely overlooked by people who are paring old like in misinformation from the bro forums. Um, which I don't know, not a lot of people really actually dig into the real studies, which is interesting cuz they're all widely available. So anyways, let me know what you guys think in the comments down below. All the comments help the algorithm. They're much appreciated. Like, subscribe, check out my blog replacement.com, follow my Instagram at more replacement, Facebook, Snapchat, nonbuy, Twitter, Tik Tok, Apple podcast if you want to support the channel. You can check out anything I'm associated with in the video description below. My TRT clinic, all tele medicine from the comfort home. Get high quality medical oversight from doctors who understand interpret biomarkers like this, how to keep you as safe as possible during, you know, TRT. Even if you're an abuser of androgens, you need a non-judgmental doctor in your camp who knows how to um get you the proper lab organ diagnostics and stay on top of your health and try to attenuate any sort of damage you may be exposing yourself to as well as if you're a natural who just wants to optimize your quality of life. Um address any imbalances or deficiencies and see what kind of changes you could be making that could be helping you in a performance, mental acuity, whatever it is context. Um we're turnkey. We do it all. Check it out in the video description below. Having a high-quality doctor in your camp is [\h__\h] huge, dude. I cannot stress the importance of that enough, especially after going years of going to local doctors who, you know, literally are so buttthurt when you even ask for something as basic as a lipid profile. Having somebody in your camp who is not going to judge you when you try to be proactive about managing your health and optimization is [\h__\h] critical, like I mentioned. So, anyways, as well, Gorilla Mind, neutropic formulas, gorilla mode, pre-workout formulas. I designed myself from scratch. We recommend a diet model for sports performance and gaining muscle and strength. Um, whilst being mindful of micronutrient intake, having a diet model like this obviously critical for backfilling hormonal pathways and being as optimized and dialed in from a health aspect, not just from a hitting your [\h__\h] protein and macros aspect. Um, the clothing company that sponsors me, the clothing I wear in my videos, um, anything that supports me, it is all in the video descript description below and use my coupon codes or my links. Um, it's very much appreciated. help support the brand. And um yeah, hopefully you guys enjoyed that one.