What's up guys? Derek more platesmoreates.com. Today we are talking about Lionel Messi's Prime ripoff is what people are calling it. And it looks damn similar. Let's be honest. This thing is pretty much like a Prime bottle with the word Mass Plus on it by Messi, more or less. So basically was announced today that Messi is starting Mass Plus, its very own energy and hydration drink company along with uh launching several flavors. Miami Punch Orange. I'm gonna butcher some of these pronunciations that should be obvious door. I don't know, bro. But anyway, as you would expect, you know, KSI's already quick to kind of like poke at it and be like, you know, Ronaldo's the goat because Messi basically just ripped this off. That said, is it really that unique of a drink? Uh, visually, no. But they kind of own that look now based on how prominent and widespread the brand has gotten. So basically a solid color plus a big word down the side is pretty much seen as their, you know, their brand at this point. And it does look like very damn similar to a point that I'm not sure if there's actually some sort of like trade dress like copyright infringement here cuz like the placement of the flavor with the font with the name the brand name on the side like this with the solid colors with the exact same bottle style. It's pretty hard to ignore. But I don't know. Do they have a legit case here to be determined? But it does seem kind of wild that for such a massive star that could, you know, do something totally unique, hire the best designers in the world, whatever, he had somebody basically tell him, hey, you know, this is a good selling drink and we should just rip, you know, rip this design essentially. Maybe somebody didn't say that outright, but and maybe they just showed him the designs and his kids seem to like them, so he just signed off on it. I don't know. You can't help but think though that at least somewhere in the company, somebody was seeing the positive traction of Prime and being like, "Yeah, we're going to capitalize on this with Messi who's a bigger name, so we're just going to use the same design we know works with this name and beat out Prime and we're going to edge it out in ingredients, too." Because from what I've seen, they have not actually revealed the ingredients yet, but of what is basically been leaked to date, it looks kind of like a prime oneup more or less. It's like we're going to take the design, we're going to put Messi's face on it. So, it's like we're going to oneup the influencer and we're also going to one up the formula and we're gonna one up just like overall it's just a oneup basically. Now, it's funny because you would expect, you know, logically KSI and Logan are going to use this to catapult Prime even more and use it as a marketing opportunity. They're probably hatching up some, you know, creative way to do it right now. But it's like the oneup kind of plan is not totally dissimilar to what they do themselves. Like if you go to, you know, Prime's page, you can find tons of videos of Logan basically calling, you know, comparing their product to the best product on the market, you know, the gold standard in in their opinion and basically literally saying, actually, not basically, literally saying we added one more milligram to one up them. Like this is him comparing Prime to Liquid IV, which is a very, very established and successful product. The new Prime hydration sticks versus liquid IV. Liquid IV 45 calories. Prime stick 25. Liquid IV with 11 g of sugar compared to primes 2 g. Liquid IV has 870 millig of electrolytes. And the Prime Stick has 871 millig of electrolytes. And that was intentional so we could literally one up them. So they're not afraid to go out of their way just to do the same plus one, which is a pretty weak strategy in general for creativity, especially to then use that as the leverage point in your marketing, but then criticize brands that are by using products that they sell that are not even reflective of the product category that competes with you. like when they, you know, my criticisms of Prime have always come from them comparing to like a sugar-filled Gatorade and then saying it's shitty for you basically, even though they literally have a like sugar-free alternative and then just ignoring that completely and just misleading, unethical, stupid marketing practices from Logan, who is in general like a pretty unethical guy seemingly overall, you know, aside from the crypto [\h__\h] and all of that stuff which is egregious and brutal. This is like the marketing is hard to ignore as unethical in my opinion and I've spoken quite uh publicly about it. But anyways, I digress. Circling back to Messi, this is, you know, pretty much prime seemingly at least to be determined. And in his, you know, breakdown of it, he has not said a lot about it, but you can go to the website and see, you know, pretty clear as day the similarities. you know, like look at this blue bottle in comparison. It's like it's pretty much the same [\h__\h] thing. Um, you see here, four electrolytes, five minerals, six vitamins, three antioxidants, 1 gram cane sugar, 10 calories. So, Prime, you know, they talk about the 25 calories. No BCAAs, though, bro. So, that's uh that's where they're slacking that Prime is, you know, [\h__\h] on them with. Seven calories for the can here. Seven specifically. However, there is not an actual nutrition facts panel to look at. We're just going off of what's on the page. We will absolutely revisit that when it becomes public. But it's kind of funny. They have a frequently asked questions section. And in there they say, "What is it?" You know, it's a next generation hydration drink with more of the good, none of the bad. How many calories are in it? 10 calories. Okay. How much sugar? One gram sugar. Is it caffeinated? No. Is there torine? No. Does it contain allergens? They basically go down a laundry list of questions, but when it gets to what's in the ingredients, it'll be like look at the label, which is not available. Is there a lot of sodium? Look at the label, you [\h__\h] Like, that's that's what we're getting out of the frequently asked questions. What are antioxidants? What are aminos? We haven't added any aminos to it. What are the tasting notes? Like, there's a lot of frequently asked questions here for something that they are just not showing the nutrition facts. A lot of just nothing answers. It was kind of a waste of a fact, a frequently asked question section for a lot of this stuff ultimately. So, the only thing we can refer to now is, you know, the founder story. Are we going to say we think that we can, you know, is Messi going to have some very very genuine reason for starting the company or is it going to be the typical cookie cutter, you know, like I saw, you know, like there was such a need for this product. It wasn't being done properly. And I know because I'm messy and I researched the [\h__\h] out of this stuff and I could just identify that it just wasn't there. Like, we'll see. So, let's uh let's listen to the the founder story. Leo Leo Messi spent years searching for a drink with quality ingredients and amazing taste. Just imagine him searching high and low. Like this guy's the maybe best football player in the world. And you know, he just can't he just can't find anything out there. Nothing exists that uh is efficacious enough. He couldn't find one he liked, so he went to work on a drink of his own. The chemist, bro. Like, these are the kind of founder stories that I have a hard time believing, to put it lightly, and almost assume to be disingenuous. Like, you could at least tell me you had like specialized interest in this because there's a product that you use that you like a lot and you thought, "Hey, I'm a big face. I can, you know, make something of my own that my fans can support me with and I think is good as well or like whatever. But like to pretend, you know, like even even for me with energy drinks, like I certainly would not say I've never found an energy drink on the [\h__\h] planet that I liked. It's like it's like I had certain things that I thought would add and bring a unique value proposition that were worth actually introducing to the market, but there's stuff that exists that I actually think is good. And same for hydration. Like there's good companies out there, you know? Like these people are so afraid to say stuff exists and I just like want to make a brand that I think is great and that you guys can support me with. I don't think that's so bad because with Messi, I don't think anyone would expect him to bring anything unique to this. It's going to be his face slapped on something. You know, like when Cristiano Ronaldo makes like a cologne, do you really think he's sitting there like meticulously picking through notes? I don't know. Probably not. Like I'm sure he reviews them, but I mean like to what extent when these guys are tied into so many different things. Like I was in Vegas uh I think it was in December. Like like I saw Messi's face on like a [\h__\h] sandwich on the corner, dude. Like the likelihood that these people are intimately involved with all these products and they're actually identifying shortcomings in the market and are creating something totally innovative. You know, it's I don't know. I just have a hard time believing this stuff. I wonder what the alternative options were. He's actually mentions the creation of the can and the bottle as like it was special process and like I really enjoyed myself doing it with my wife and kids. I can't help but think the kids saw it and were like, "This is the banger." Because it looks like Prime and he was probably like, "Yeah, sure. [\h__\h] it, bro. Saw some colors in there, bro. I wonder if those are natural. I'm assuming they are. All right. Well, you know, it wasn't too bad ultimately. Like I I'm a little bit skeptical on this stuff, but overall, you know, he sounds like a genuine dude. And I wonder how much the marketing is going to lean into like we identified some like you know revolutionary the perfect hydration drink that just hasn't been brought to market yet. I find it hard to believe that in his career spanning what decades at this point that he has not found one drink that he's actually enjoyed while he's playing. And I also suspect that this probably isn't going to be the drink that he drinks while he's playing, you know, but to be determined. Um, we will absolutely do a deep dive into the formula when it comes out, but um, yeah, overall I think it's pretty hard to deny the resemblance. I have I'm not sure if this is lawsuit worthy, but I mean, Logan's a guy to pump out the lawsuit, so I mean, we'll see, bro. Let me know what you guys think in the comments down below. All the comments help the algorithm. Much appreciated. Like, subscribe, check out my blog, moreplace.com. I'm still getting used to doing the outro. I forget how it goes. Like, subscribe, follow, check out the video description if you want to support me with stuff down there. Uh, yeah, it's probably about it.