 PROUviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviavia recommendation of a certain panel that you like getting or something that evaluates what you consider to be like a good foundation of this is at least the biomarkers in question to evaluate the metabolism of your individual situation. Yeah. If I see somebody's ApoB and they're elevated, right? So they have what's called hyperbeta lipoproteinemia. That's the technical word we're using to talk about this elevated ApoB. I'd want to know the following. What are the, how high are their triglycerides? What are their markers of metabolic health? What are their markers of cholesterol synthesis? We typically measure desmostrol and lithosterol. What are their markers of cholesterol absorption? Uh, we typically look at cytosterol and, uh, compesterol. If I know those things, then I have, um, like a decent sense of how hard to pull on the diet lever. Um, what are the, Oh, one other thing I want to know is what's their saturated fat intake. Uh, yeah. So if I, so everything I just said, plus tell me what your saturated fat intake is approximately in grams per day. And then if I know all of those things, then we, we sort of know how much of this is fat reduction, how much of, or SFA reduction specifically, how much of this is cleaning up insulin resistance and how much of this is pharmacology and then which pharmaco, um, drugs are there? And there's other classes of drugs we haven't even talked about like fibrates, but specifically target elevated triglycerides. The, the, sorry if I missed it, but the metrics that would be indicative of insulin resistance, for example, and would reflect metabolic dysfunction. Was that the triglyceride? Triglycerides give you a clue, but they're, they're misleading. I don't like to rely on triglycerides alone. There's too many people. In fact, there's an entire race. So African Americans do not elevate triglycerides in the presence of insulin resistance. Okay. So you can see an African American with type two diabetes that'll have normal triglycerides. So it's just too variable. Um, but instead, you know, looking at your standard markers. So even if you weren't willing to do an OGTT and sort of cumbersome tests like that, you know, certainly looking at fasting insulin, fasting glucose, uric acid level, homocysteine level, um, markers of inflammation, you do get a really good sense of how insulin sensitive a person is. Um, is there like a target for not necessarily all of them, but like, I don't know, a fasting insulin and a fasting glucose that you would deem as like you're pretty fit in general or sure. I mean, we like to see fasting insulin below six fasting glucose below 90. Um, you know, we're very liberal in the use of CGM as well. So CGM is going to give you a much better look at it because you're going to see postprandial glucose. You don't see the insulin, but you at least see the glycemic response. Um, so, you know, knowing that picture and then knowing those sterols, you, you really have a sense of, you know, so, so for example, like I don't, uh, if I take, if I see somebody who's on a very, very high saturated fat diets, we have patients that'll come into our practice and they're on, you know, ketogenic diet and they're, you know, they're eating 75 grams of saturated fat a day. Um, and their APOB is through the roof. So, you know, I'm, I'm going to counsel that person and say, look, um, I don't think this is a good APOB to have. You've got a couple of choices. If, if a ketogenic diet is working for you, I'd consider moving to a much higher proportion of monounsaturated fats from saturated fat. So you could make an isocaloric substitution of monounsaturated to saturated fat. Um, what's a typical switch? Like, let's just say it's all coming from, I don't know, whatever other sources of saturated was. Yeah. Typically that person is really high in dairy and really high in, you know, the fattest cut of meat that they can get their hands on. Right. So they're eating ribeyes and butter and, uh, you know, lots of cheeses and stuff like that. And I would say, look, let's move to leaner cuts of meat. Um, could be, you know, wild game where you're much leaner. Um, and you're going to be eating much more olive oil and much more macadamia nuts and avocados and things like that. So, you, you, you know, you can make that isocaloric switch with a little bit of finagling. And I've absolutely seen time and time again, that that will correct the ApoB.