And please, every one of you, write Derek from Place for Dates and Fillion. Tell them natty or not on Coach Greg's pictures on his Instagram when he says he's natural. Any and all any or all of those pictures. Do freaking natty or not. I want to see what they think. What do they think? What's their expert opinion going to be? Can't wait to see. At least one of the two will do video. I'm sure of it. What's up guys? Derek more playsports.com. Today we're going to be doing a natty or not on uh Greg. So kind of an interesting scenario. Um I posted a video the other day called Chris Bumstead Natural versus Enhanced the new genre of fake natty. to basically he posted a picture at 18 years old looking like a looking like a [\h__\h] sauce house and a half and he you know claims natural and no one believed him. Well, a lot of people did believe him but it seemed like it was more Greg and I who believed him and the majority of individuals were kind of like almost annoyed that we believed him. So, you know, I thought we presented like reasonable evidence to suggest why it's probably likely that he'd be telling the truth. And I still stand by that to be honest. And Greg did a video the day at Oh, a few days later. So, Mr. Olympia Chris Bump said, "Now you're not at age 18." So, we're covering the same picture and he came to essentially the same conclusion as I did. Um, and I was just just chilling, enjoying the video, you know, talking about uh time travel and TRT [laughter] [\h__\h] like that, you know, just enjoying a a Greg Ducet video and I like I'm like watching the video enjoying the discussion of uh, you know, uh, [\h__\h] transcending space and time and whatnot with HRT cuz that's cuz everyone knows that's what it does, right? So, you know, I I pop in with my little time travel comment down there. And then lo and behold, at the end of the video, there's this part that comes up about like telling me the natty or not him. So, anyways, this is what came up in the video. And I'm going to end it with this comment. Watch more plates, more dates vid on this. Who are you gonna believe? Chris Bumstead and his coach Ian Blair, coach Greg and Derek from Plays for Dates, or a bunch of morons in the comment section that just want to envision that anybody that takes steroids looks amazing. Are the morons right this time or is coach Greg wrong? And please, every one of you write Derek from Plates for Dates and Fillion. At this point, I was like I was like, "What the fuck?" Tell them natty or not on coach Greg's pictures on his Instagram when he says he's natural. Any and all any or all of those pictures. Do freaking natty or not. I want to see what they think. What do they think? What's their expert opinion going to be? Can't wait to see. At least one of the two will do a video. I'm sure of it. Ending it here. Greg. So, yeah. Obviously, I'll do a [\h__\h] video. Why not? So, all right. So, here we are on Greg Ducet's uh Instagram page. So, I guess we'll just go one at a time here and just go through some of the uh you know the fake Natty shots and see see what's up. So, this first one obviously recent picture advertise harder than last time cookbook. Um at the gym uh Shaw Strength. Okay, so this one I actually saw the other day. Um I didn't read through it, but let's see. Post a photo to show how difficult it is to tell if someone is natural. I look enhanced in both photos obviously, but based on the photos I would say I look more enhanced, bigger and leaner in the left photo. The truth is, however, on the left I'm 449 lbs and on the right I'm 6 years older and 171 lbs. I'm leaner and severely dehydrated on the left and flexing harder in comparison to on the right. Left was when I won the drug tested national lightweight title. Right is 2006, winning the overall Atlantic title. Pictures often don't represent reality. The physique on the right would destroy the physique on the left when I turned pro in 2012. I added 30 lbs more muscle and was 22 lbs heavier on stage with the help of several super subs and used a lot of diuretics to come in super dry and shredded. So although I look enhanced in both photos is because I have extremely good genetics and trained for 15 years. What you want to hear is that with drugs anyone can or will look like this. What you need to hear is that even with every drug in the world, you will not look anything like this unless you have very good genetics. So yeah, on the left, you know, it's uh, you know, grainier shot in terms of like image quality. Um, black and white. It's almost like deeper contrasting in the uh abs and the sicey seratus he's got going. And he's flexing. So, you know, it almost you can almost argue it's the same day. Like that's how similar these look, but there's apparently over 20 lbs of difference between them. So yeah, like the, you know, you could literally just move a little bit like into any other position other than your flex and automatically look 15 lbs less in a photo just by the angle of which you're walking, standing, flexing, whatever it is that you're doing. It's very very hard to interpret what's going on in photos. And this is why you will often see these uh big fitness influencers who have, you know, insane physiques like guys, I don't know what's a good example, like Jeff side, for example. this guy, you know, in videos or images, he might look absolutely insane and jacked and huge, but then when you see him in real life in a t-shirt and you're beside him, you're like, "Oh [\h__\h] I'm like I'm bigger than this guy." You [laughter] know, like it's uh it's not that his physique isn't impressive, but it's it's the inserts, the way they sit, how lean you are, and the [\h__\h] lighting angles, everything. It can make a massive difference. And you think, like, everyone says they know that, but then they still comment on pictures like this, and they're like, they don't get the difference. Like people talk about how they understand. You think everyone knows how big of a deal lighting is, how big of a deal having a bump is. Everyone knows that it's like the most common sense thing. But then still you will see people comment on certain images of bodybuilders or fitness guys and be like totally deceived by the angles, the lighting, the everything. Even though they literally acknowledge that it's a huge deal. So in this photo, yeah, I'm not uh I'm not surprised like that just standing in a certain way holding your trophy up and not flexing. If he was standing right beside, you know, the older version of him, if he was able to time travel because he was on HRT, if he was on HRT and he could time travel and he stood next to the other one, it would, you know, look like a massive difference because you'd actually have the proportions right next to each other to compare. But when you're actually just looking at a photo zoomed in, like you have no idea. So yeah, that that's understandable. And um I can see why people would say unnatural because again, this guy's inserts are exceptional. So, it's not like, you know, 170 on Greg might look like 200 on another guy. You know, maybe when they stand next to each other, it won't look like that, but when Greg is in a photo, you know, 170 looks way bigger than another guy's like even 210 in a photo. Like, that's how much of a difference inserts actually make. Let me just see his contest history here. Um, so this was in 149 lb. 6 years later, 2006. Okay, so we have the light middleweight overall championship at 2006 provincials. Or maybe it was I don't know. I don't know for sure. But anyway, so presumably the photo on the left is this competition from 2000. And then here in 2006 is the So he's basically moved up from lightweight to light middleweight. You can see where the massive jump takes place between 2009 and 2012. So, obviously that's notable. Um, getting back to the uh Instagram here. Um, let's see. There's the Bumstead shot. [\h__\h] 984 comments. People do not uh were not happy about this one. 187 on the last image, but then almost 1,000 on the seabbum pick. Crazy. Dialed in over here. Okay, here's another one. Shocking natural transformation. Over 50 lbs difference between photos. Who says you can't grow into your 30s and 40s? Many others have done so. Just look at Michael Hearn and Jeff Cavalier for starters. Hatter is going to say not mosquito cat shocked face and uh a circle. Okay, so obviously just trolling hard here and natural on the left, bloat monster on the right. So this is, you know, Greg has the uh you know, the main gain or what's it called? The lean gain. I think it's main game like philosophy as far as uh [snorts] not bulking traditionally, you know, and having a excessively, you know, way too calorie dense offseason where you pack on unnecessary amounts of fat and just make the dieting process harder in the future. But he's not somebody who didn't um go a little bit harder on the bulk phases in the past. Like he's tried it all, you know, as far as I know. And this looks like one of those Michelin men off seasons to some extent. I don't know if this is guest posing, but obviously it's a bit of a different look than he maintains year round now where he's more of the uh you know the dialed in condition pretty much all the time. And even if he gains weight, it's like not even close to what a you know like offseason traditionally would look like in a you know guy whose head doubles in size from eating his [\h__\h] house during the offseason. though. Um I don't know uh what offseason this was, but presumably this was like a little bit before he did his whole uh I don't know his more like leaner approach to the offseason perhaps. I don't know. But anyways, um okay, so this is another natty shot back at making people mad. Throwback to the natty days. As you can tell, because I'm posting a throwback to when I was natural, it's obvious that I'm a fake natty because if I were in fact natural, I would not Jesus Christ some inception. I would not post throwback photos saying I'm natural because doing so proves you're natty or you're a fake natty. [\h__\h] Christ. This is from 15 years ago with only 20 years of training. I'll post a natty versus enhanced photo tomorrow so you can see just how much bigger I got while enhanced. Okay, so that was this one I guess. Um I'm not saying I look better now, but I am over 20 lbs bigger. Bigger is not always better. And father time catches up to us. Still happy with how things are going at age 45. cooking link is in bio. So yeah, like obviously if you're younger, you have everything is less deteriorated. Your skin, your organs, your muscles, everything is more intact and fresh looking. So of course, some people expectedly are going to say he looked better when he was natural, when he was shredded cuz he was already jacked. And to be frank, above what most people it's realistically possible for them to achieve even on gear as a natural, you know. So, you know, of course people are going to say, "Oh, like it's uh it's too much now. You know, you look better before, but it's like it's not like you could maintain that fresh look into your 40s or into your like even into your 30s, you're not going to look exactly the same as you did in your early 20s. Even if you have the same amount of muscle on your frame, like things are going to start to shift. Visceral fat distribution, things of this nature are all going to uh, you know, rear their ugly head. And it's kind of impossible to expect you to look exactly the same as you did in your 20s or your early 30s when you are in your 40s, even at the same body composition. So even, you know, it's just a, you know, ridiculous thing for anyone to be like, you look better before. You should have stayed like that. It's like, well, he's trying to win [\h__\h] pro bodybuilding shows and now he's just maintaining with HRT, which [laughter] H uh I'm not going to get into all the jokes around HRT, but uh the time traveling one was [\h__\h] funny. But yeah, so you know, this is natural like genetic phenom at its, you know, at its finest right here. [\h__\h] specimen and a half. So now, does it look the same? Maybe some people prefer it less, but there's a lot of people who think, how many bodybuilders have you seen like open guys who have ruined their physique? I'm not saying Greg ruined his physique by any means. He's like well within the realms of still being aesthetic and blah blah blah, but I'm just saying like on the extreme end of more is not better. Like there are a lot of bodybuilders who got super big and then tried to push the envelope even more and they end up developing like less, you know, mainstream appealing physiques because frankly the monster bodybuilder look is not that palatable to the average person. So expectedly people are going to say either during your first, you know, handful of cycles when you were shredded for an average genetic guy, they're probably going to say like you look best here. You had all your hair intact. Your skin was still good quality. you weren't, you know, super old yet or whatever. But for Greg, you know, his, you know, peak natty is like pretty much equivalent to a guy with like good genetics several cycles down the line. So people are going to say like, you were good here and, you know, like going above and beyond that, you overdid it. But it's like when you're a competitive bodybuilder, that's not the case. You know, you didn't overdo it. You did what you had to do. So obviously that there's context there. Um, let's see. And here he is again. Throwback to the natty school teacher days before social media was invented. The pic is so old you had to wait a week to see it and no one ended up seeing the pic other than yourself and whoever you dared to show it to. If you show anyone a picture, it means you're a narcissist and likely making fun of people who are overweight. So, let's all walk on our tippy toes and never tell anyone the real truth about what's on our minds. Let's just behave as sheep who have been raised only to do things to fit in. Forget being yourself and doing what makes you happy. Happiness. Okay, this is a big rant. Uh, let's see. Yes, I'm fake as I pretend to be what you see here. It's true because my voice is at a higher pitch now than before. cat surprise face. Don't forget to subscribe to my newsletter at gregducet.com. You don't want to miss all the craziness. Um, watch everyone's reviews of my cookbooks. Don't buy it. Good luck. All right, here we got uh what is this? Greg and Will in the kitchen. Um, one is clearly more on top of the manscaping game of their uh of the pits, bro. So, uh Will just letting it fly here. Are you natty or nice? Uh, anyone who wants me to do a proper natty or not on none other than everyone's favorite Gym Shark sponsored athlete, Will Tenny. Um, all right, Greg, you didn't have to grab the angle from him that hard. Let's see. Are there any more of these natty ones? Interesting to read some of the comments yesterday about Good Life only being open for 60-minute slots. I [\h__\h] hate this uh this thing, too. The 60-minute slots. It's you like you go in, you barely have time to do anything. you haul dick through your entire workout and then you get kicked out when you're like you're almost done but you're not quite done but I guess it's better than having no access to a gym at all. But I mean it's tough, dude. I'm not a huge fan either. Any more of these? Uh circa 2019 when I was on more than just HRT last cycle I've been on. Uh which was the smallest one I've done since before turning pro. Um okay, here's another here's a real saucy looking one. First overall win as a middleweight. thought I was shredded at the time, but looking back at these, it's unreal how much fat I was carrying in my legs. Since going on PDS, I noticed that my legs got a lot leaner, but my upper body did not. My legs right now in my offseason are in fact way leaner on HRT, only then I was here when I was training natural. I'm currently over 20 lbs heavier than I was here, despite being 15 years older and way past my prime. I am able to hold 20 lbs more muscle now on HRT than I had back then when I was natural. So, if you think HRT is not that effective, then my response is the numbers don't lie. How can I be so much bigger now on HRT only than I was back when I was natural? If you think I was on gear back then, then please explain why I'm 20 lbs heavier now than I was 15 years ago. I must be a fake natty, though, because you can't be both big and ripped if you're natural, right? Don't forget how important genetics are as well as training and eating harder and smarter than last time. So, like obviously this photo is extremely flattering. And he has great inserts. Like again, if you are 170 lb shredded, but you have exceptional round muscle bellies, you're going to look better in a photo than a guy who's 220 shredded with [\h__\h] muscle bellies. Like I've seen so many like big boned kind of like shitty block waisted dudes who weigh like 300 lb. And in a photo, a pre-contest shredded photo, like a selfie or something at home or even on stage, you see them and you're just like, "This guy is tiny." But then on stage, like obviously if he a 300lb 6'3 guy stands beside Greg in this photo, he's going to dwarf him. But on a in a picture, the inserts of Greg are going to make a guy who's even 70 lbs heavier than him look relatively smaller smaller proportionally. Like there's a reason why Phil Heath can step on stage at 240 lb and hang with dudes who are 280, you know, and make it look like they're in a same ballpark of muscle mass when in reality he's holding like 35 lb 40 lb less of lean tissue cuz he just has exceptional round muscle bellies. They're just inflated like a [\h__\h] and Greg almost has like a like it's not Phil Heath the same but it's like you can see what I'm talking about when you look at the roundness of the muscle bellies and how everything is very symmetrical very aesthetically pleasing and very just round in general. So even though he only weighs I don't know what is this? What show is this? I don't know. My first overall win is a middleweight. So what is this in 2009? So and he's 20 lbs heavier now. So he's like in the 170s I guess here. So like he you know if you look at this photo you think okay this guy looks bigger than [\h__\h] guys in the 200s you know but then when they actually step beside each other like obviously there's when you have a proportional like person right beside the other person you can see the difference. But in photos, you can't perceive it. You just see the guy flat out in this one stationary image and you think, "Oh, like he looks way bigger than he actually is." And that it's not like he's small, but I mean, you would think he weighs a lot more than that based on what you see in this photo. Like there's guys who weigh 220 shredded on stage who won't have as flattering of a photo on stage is this and would look smaller proportionally just by their muscle bellies and their their overall inserts everywhere. So, this is another natural shot presumably throwback to the natty days. I mean the fake natty days because it's not possible to have abs and big muscles at the same time if you're natural. This was in fact couples bodybuilding which was a thing back then and competed in the event five times. Three different partners never lost was a lot of fun. Putting together routines with a partner. Me and Melissa here won the best male and female poser awards for our individual routines. Okay. So practice posing harder than last time. So another uh natty photo and this one looks a lot more uh believable I guess. Although still many people would probably be quite skeptical but you know again angles, lighting, whatever movement you're doing, what flex you're doing at the time. You can dramatically change the perception of your physique just by your presentation. And obviously here you know doing a uh you know a mini lat spread here. Um doing a little like side flex here. Like I guarantee you if he stepped off off stage and went into like shitty lighting outside where he's all washed out um and just like stood there and like tried to look as unimpressive as possible, you know, it looked like he lost 25 lbs of muscle in 2 seconds and people would be like, "Oh, that's probably actually natural." When in reality, you know, like they wouldn't have believed him 2 seconds earlier looking at the stationary photo on stage. Um let's see. Here's a more uh so outside sitting on train tracks or something trying to not get a splinter in the ass here. Um and um looking more believably natural. This is actually exact this is exactly what I was just saying where if you are outside in unflattering lighting things look a bit more believable. You know again a lot of it is just presentation. So he's just chilling here. He's not doing a crazy flex. He's not under crazy down lighting. He's just chilling on the train tracks here trying to avoid the old splinter in the ass crack. and he is uh looking believably natural for sure. The fake natty files is clearly I'm not natural because you can see it in my trap development. If you look carefully, you can see the bumps in my abs where I injected the GH. Just because Isaiah Miranda most likely used Sarm to build a shredded and ripped physique does not mean it's impossible for you or someone else with amazing genetics to do so while 100% natural. Was my sex drive, energy levels, and sleep good when I looked like this in my early 20s? No. I felt like garbage and could not maintain this level of conditioning year round. But guess what? That's part of the challenge of the sport of bodybuilding. If you don't like it, don't compete. But don't act like just because you train harder than last time and choose to eat to be shredded that it gives you a reason to need HRT. Re-examine your goals and ask yourself if looking like your favorite fitness model. Um, I don't know why I said fitness, your favorite model and trying to live up to unrealistic and unattainable goals worth ruining your life. I only get to peak levels of condition at various times per competitions. The rest of the time, I have a healthy, realistic, and maintainable physique that allows me to be happy. Please, everyone set realistic goals and don't abuse peeds just to try and live up to society's expectations. So yeah, obviously there's so many guys who are successful in this industry now that are not massive bodybuilder dudes with crazy shredded physiques year round. Like some of the most popular fitness YouTubers, fitness influencers are guys that are like 160, 170 and completely natural. And it's because they either have good content, good information, good entertainment value, whatever it is. There are ways to set yourself apart. And frankly, I think those guys have more longevity in the industry than guys who literally just have a good physique and nothing else. Like, there's so many dull [\h__\h] in this industry who have no personality and have gotten to where they are simply off of their crazy physique. And that's shitty for them because that has a lifespan. Whereas, if you are charismatic and have good information, fortunately, that has a longer lifespan. And um like I would I would argue you're actually better off not being an individual who's just known for your sick genetics and sick physique. And it's quite possible to have horrible genetics and still do good in the fitness industry if you just know how to set yourself apart. So you don't need to abuse the [\h__\h] out of peeds. In fact, you probably don't even need peeds to do well in the fitness industry if you are an exceptional individual. You know, has set yourself apart in some other way. and it's probably going to be uh give you more overall, I don't know, value anyways. Obviously, if you have the best of both worlds and you have a sick physique and you're charismatic and intelligent and blah blah blah, like [\h__\h] great. But it's not like a mandatory thing that you need to be on [\h__\h] trend blown all the time to look like Sargi Constant, you know? [laughter] So, keep that in mind, which hopefully most people know by now. Guess me and editor Steve's weights and ages. Hint, he's 5 years younger. We both won the drug tested naturals um in different divisions. To all the haters, yes, we know we have shitty genetics and are short and clearly not natty since we already have under 10% body fat and we look way older and likely already already died [laughter] from using peeds. #Natty #natural. Greg is 148 lbs at 24 years old and Steve is 127 lbs at 19 years old. Essentially bang on. Okay, so 148 lb. Let's see what else we got here. Getting out angled by editor Steve, age 18 and Steve 13. started my diet 165 lbs and saw a six-pack of abs for the first time ever ever at about 8 weeks out. I remember thinking how weird but cool it was at the same time. I needed good lighting and learn how to flex to see and see the muscles I've been working on for the first time. It's also the first time I lacked energy in my life. I went from feeling like Superman to feeling like crap. Okay, so age 18 and um according to this Muscle Insider article I had pulled up about his historic competing. So it looked like at age 17 was his first show and he was over 140 lb. So um here he was at age 18 and where was that photo I just saw here? So, he said uh 148 lbs at 24 years old, which if I recall correctly, Greg also mentioned how he was doing a lot of uh duathlons or whatever they were called that uh what's his face was doing Paulclar and that was holding him back from gaining muscle. So presumably that is why at age 24ish he was only 148 despite having trained for another 6 plus years because that would be the only way to explain oh here we go age 18 after finishing a tri triathlon. Um so yeah he was still competing in things that were uh muscle catabolizing I guess like very very counterproductive to bodybuilding um endeavors. So that would be the limitation of bodybuilding progression from that age obviously. Um here he is at age 19 when I thought I was shredded having won provincials. Check out how soft my legs were in contest shape back then. I've been doing triathlon since age 13. Was doing massive amounts of cardio. Okay this man it's like exactly what I just [\h__\h] said. Awesome. Could have been bigger and leaner but who cares as I was being active and doing what I love to do. Do what you love and love what you do and make sure exercise is one of those things you love doing and you will do it for a lifetime. Okay. So, 19 years old here. Um, 143 lb. Let's see. Okay, 143. Okay, so that makes the timelines are starting to make more sense. Circa 2002, the difference between relax and flex. Ah, this must have been the infamous splinter in the ass crack photo shoot. Circa 2002, the uh difference between relax and flex. This is me. Can't [\h__\h] talk. This is me in peak condition. On the left, you likely are saying, "Yes, that's natural." But on the right, you might be thinking, I bet he's not natty. Exactly. So, he's flexing here. He's got the abs dialed in. Soratus [\h__\h] slicy side tricep shot versus just standing there and it looks like there's 15 lbs of muscle difference at least, even though it's literally the exact same photo, just him flexing versus not. So, this is this is where context is key. And like seeing a video or the person in person makes a big difference. When you just see a photo, if it's flattering in terms of the angle, the lighting, the blah blah blah, makes a massive difference. Everyone should know this by now, obviously. Um, let's see. Okay, another Natty shot. Man, this guy's [\h__\h] on fire with the natty library. This video is going to take [\h__\h] forever. Uh, circa natty files. Wait, less than you, I assume. Arguments. People used to say you're fake natty. You can't be big and ripped at the same time. Yes, you can. You can tell if someone is on gear because of the traps and delts. No, you can't. Argument saying I'm natural. Someone else who is natty is the same size or bigger. So what? That has nothing to do with if someone else can do it. someone else is as lean or leaner and natty. So, what has nothing to do with someone else? What's this have to do with anything? The point is you can't tell if somebody is natural or not based on looking at picture. Unless, of course, they're so absolutely ridiculous monstrous that it makes no mental sense that even a one in a billion person can do it. Everything else we say when someone is natural, not speculation. However, if you really want to know if someone's natural not, you have to look at how much muscle they put on for a set period of time. if their muscle mass fluctuated up or down as well as the signs of sterile use such as d gyno I guess severe acne and sudden growth spurts that often that occur after not being able to grow for a while. Just wanted to let y'all know that I'm under 155 lbs here. I'm a lightweight bodybuilder that wouldn't even be big enough to win a men's physique competition. Just goes to show what good lighting in the right photo can do. Yeah. So again, this is his round muscle bellies making him look a lot bigger than he is. Like does he look like he's 155 here? Like I guess I guess if he knew his height, he might ballpark it better just from like a gauge. But I mean the inserts of the muscles look bigger than many guys who are 200 plus shredded on stage simply because of the way everything sits. If they actually had a photo of him beside another guy who's 50 lbs bigger, like you obviously see the difference, but just objectively looking at him like flat out in this photo, it looks a lot bigger than you would think. than you would think. There's no way this is natural. But it's a lot more realistic when you actually think about the progression. He was like over 140 in his first show ever at like 17. And then here is 155 years later. So totally reasonable in my opinion. Here is the one that everyone has one of the one of the [laughter] one of the most heavily speculated ones. I guess 31 years old, 21 years of training. Unfortunately, despite this triggering so many of you, this was natural. was just over 170 pounds in this photo shoot and under eight% body fat. Before you say how I look better back then despite the fact I'm not natty now, consider this is 15 years ago and I'm old now and only on HRT. I'm literally 20 lbs bigger and almost as lean as this right now as a 45year-old. So when you think the peeds I've taken don't work, consider I have 20 lbs more muscle now than this on my frame now. So yeah, you just you can't just judge someone to be natural or not based on a photo. Like obviously if he took him now and stood him beside him in this photo, him now would dwarf him in that photo, you just might think, "Oh, the guy the natural version looks more quality because it's, you know, younger, fresher, blah blah blah. There's, you know, less visceral fat, like whatever. Better, I don't know, black hair instead of, you know, a little a few grays. You know, the quality just looks fresher." But in reality, Greg now is much bigger than this. It's just you see this photo and you think objectively, wow, this photo of him curling looks bigger than him sitting on his couch recording a video. Therefore, he must have been enhanced while doing this curl. And it's like, no, that's just that's a perfect example of people not understanding, saying they understand lighting and angles and [\h__\h] but not really getting it. So, obviously, if you actually put them side by side, you'd actually see what the deal is. So, um, let's see. Another natty shot. Age 24, 152 lbs, light heavyweight winner. Um, that would Uh, okay. So, he was in the 170s when he uh kind of peaked as a natural from what I recall. Um, so like in these photos specifically, for example, people don't believe him. And I I understand because it looks [\h__\h] unachievable, but you have to keep in mind he's in the 140s when he started. So, let's just look at the competition history and just get a gauge for what exactly happened. So, in the first however many provincials he did, he was a bantamweight, lightweight, welterweight. Um, makes it up to middleweight, light middleweight, middleweight. Um, and I think he actually has a video oldest. Yeah, I actually sorted by this already before I recorded. I think this is the one. 2009, posing natural, 179 lbs, April 2009. What's really weird is a bunch of the comments that he responded to like deleted themselves. So, it's just him like responding to himself here like and it's just like a [\h__\h] onslaught of comments. Just for the record, this video was taken this is 10 years ago. This was taken over a year ago. At that time, I just finished being drug tested twice. The video was taken after winning the drug tested Canadian bodybuilding nationals, which took place a few weeks after the Arnold Classic Powerlifting Championships. I am now working on getting my IFBB Pro card and will be competing in the non-ested Canadian Nationals in 2012. I think 15 plus pounds of solid muscle might be enough to get me my pro card. Wish me luck. Steroids did not help to build this physique from over two years ago, but thanks for the com just like no [\h__\h] comment there. I wonder what happened to all these. This was a photo shoot after doing not one but two drug tests within the month. Sorry for bursting your bubble schnitle freaks, but some people are able to build a 179 lb physique without steroids. So, at the pinnacle of his development, he went from he gained almost like [snorts] 35 to 40 lbs of stage weight for a guy with elite genetics. Now, I could understand why people would say that's, you know, no, he's unnatural if they don't look at the history. But for me, I look at the competition history and I see him as a middleweight. Then I see him within 3 years jump up to heavyweight and win the overall. If you were enhanced from 1996 up to 2009 or I don't know even halfway through here and you're jumping up, let's just say from lightweight to middle weight, do you really think that you are suddenly going to go from this to jumping up to this in a few years if you've already been saucing for many years? Like do you think it's realistic to expect that you just like when you have natural development, you have a genetic limit based on your endogenous androgen production? You have a certain genetic limit and it's based on how much hormones you produce essentially as well as androgen receptor density and blah blah blah a bunch of predetermined factors, but at the end of the day, it's how much of your indogenous testosterone can bind to that AR, transcribe effects in tissues, etc. So, when you get into the enhanced realm, you've already plateaued in your, you know, 20, 30, 40 lbs of natural gain, whatever it is you're capable of as a natural. And 40 lb or almost whatever he did is [\h__\h] exceptional. That's like high tier [\h__\h] that most people aren't going to be able to do. But you have to keep in mind, too, he was like 17 in the first shot. Like, the guy's like barely gone through puberty. And we're comparing a stage weight of a young teenager to a full grown like 30 plus year old man. So there's, you know, some context in that too in terms of just like actual growing that's still to be done. Um, so at 179, what is the likelihood that now he's going to say, "Okay, I'm just going to double my dose now and now I'm going to gain like another 30 [\h__\h] pounds or whatever it is." Like what what is the likelih likelihood of that happening? Zero. You know, it's very unlikely. You're not going to somehow just take, you know, I'm on like 1 and a half grams of gear now. I'm just going to go to three grams and all of a sudden like there's a harsh diminishing effect that takes place with gear. It's not like you can just double your dose and double your muscle growth. Like you're going to have a cap that more is not better and it's not like yeah more you know depending on how much androgen receptors you have more could be better but in the context of muscle growth but once you've plateaued from like a reasonable amount pushing the envelope into like ridiculously high dosage abusive territory you're not going to squeak out another 30 lbs of muscle on top of that. You don't just jump 30 to 40 lbs of muscle in a couple years by doubling your dose if you're already been, you know, cranking your face off for 8 9 10 years or whatever it is. You don't see guys who just all of a sudden jump like that because they decide to enhance on top of their enhanced, you know? So, for me, when I see this jump, like to me, this seems more representative of something that makes sense. Like, for him to have gone from a light middleweight and a middleweight to jumping into the heavyweight category and winning the overall against other heavyweights. Like, here he is. Um, oh, this is uh his buddy Johnny Shreve here in third. I don't know who the other guy is, but anyways, this is a men's heavyweight 2012. Look at the [\h__\h] delts, dude. is [\h__\h] flying. This guy is This is the gravitational pull delts right here. So, you know, jumping up that much weight in that short of a time period if he were already on gear. What is the likelihood of that? I would say extremely low. And then from this point on, 2012, I don't even think is when he won the pro card. I have another another article up of muscular development. Let's see. So, 200, where was it? What was the competition he won? Pro card 20. Okay, so this is provincials, too. Not even national. So, this is a heavyweight competition in provincials. He ended up doing um let's see middleweight in 2009. The images for some reason on muscular development are like not working properly. I don't know if these are cuz these are just really old but half of them are like broken. But this is the competition that most people have seen where he competed against Antoine in the overalls I believe. And I think the two guys who won their pro cards in this show was Antoine winning the overall and Greg winning the uh the second pro card. But here he is winning first in light heavyweights and then going on to compete in the 212 IFBB Pro, you know, competing as a 212 competitor in the IFBB. So, do you go from a guy who's barely scraping 180 in 2009 after what, like 20 plus years of training or whatever it was to all of a sudden jumping like 30 lbs of stage weight in the next few years, you know, like the you would not get that jump that plain as day. would not get that jump if you were in such a sudden time frame too. Like if you were already enhanced, okay, if you crank things through the sky and you weren't already, you know, you pack on another 5 lbs of stage weight per year, maybe it would be more progressive. You would not see this just rapid jump of like from 2009 to 2012, just a [\h__\h] massive spike in muscle tissue acural. Know for me this seems pretty indicative of a guy with ridiculous hyper response genetics from his entire teenagehood going through his 20s into his 30s peing his physique and having nowhere to go with it except get on gear if he wants to be competitive hopping on gear pushing the envelope with the gear doing as well as he possibly can and then getting on HRT and time traveling because that's what he does now. For [laughter] me, for me, I can see the timeline and it kind of it makes sense, but I could see where the speculative, you know, the uh, you know, skepticism would come in here because the 2009 physi physique in particular looks ridiculous. Now, here he is actually in live footage with that 2009 physique. And maybe it gives a bit more insight into how natural it looks or not versus these stage photos that are a bit more uh I don't know different angles. Like you can see him here actually moving around and getting out of the poses and kind of seeing more. There's optimal angles, but then you actually see the suboptimal angles where he's not trying to look perfect and things look a bit more reasonable. Now, of course, you see the [\h__\h] like mid singledigit body fat percentage with some mass on him and you're like, "This is impossible." But you have to remember this guy only is 5' 6 and 1/2 or something. I forget. So, everything just looks way bigger on his frame and he has exceptional inserts too and he has exceptional genetics to begin with. So, anyways, at the end of the day, that is the conclusion I have come to. I can understand where the skepticism comes in just from the pictures itself. But when you actually look at the progression and the sudden jump, it becomes easier to wrap your mind around when you understand a guy with ridiculously top 0.01% genetics and going from a plateaued state of gaining a couple pounds a year to all of a sudden just flying through the sky. Like you cannot explain that if he was, you know, on gear all the time prior. So that is my conclusion. Let me know what you guys think. Do you think he was natural through any of these years? In particular, the 2009 provincials would be the one that has the most skepticism around it. So, let me know what you think. Was he natural in the 2009 uh competition or any of them before that? And uh if so, where do you think he actually hopped on gear? Where was the red flag for you? Um what is your explanation? Any of the evidence? You know, I'm sure Greg wants to see it. um obviously as he kind of [laughter] you know told me to make this video essentially and uh helps the algorithm. So you know comment it helps uh you know push the channel and whatnot. Any comments help the algorithm so they're much appreciated. Obviously check out Greg's channel and uh if you're not already subscribed I'm sure we have a huge overlap of subscribers. So I'm not sure how useful that is to say but check his channel out if you haven't. Um, if you want to support the channel, you can check out anything I'm associated with in the video description below. My TRT clinic, it's all tele medicine from the comfort of your own home. Gorilla mind, neutropic formulas, Gorilla Mode, pre-worker formulas I designed myself from scratch, and anything else I'm associated with, it's all in the video description below. Thank you guys for watching. Doc.