Typically what I would do like if it were me is like I'd start with the minoxil topically. If no response I would probably look at micro needling to ensure there's actual absorption occurring and or the enzyme activity that can be manipulated via that manual because it's not an extra drug that I'm adding. It's just manual micro damage essentially that I do once a week. And newest literature reveals that you might be able to get away with only doing a 0.6 6 mm depth as opposed to the old studies had everyone doing 1.5 which was like guaranteed to draw blood. Like I have some of my old YouTube videos where I have like a bloody scalp in the video because of the depth that it would I would be going to to be, you know, using the devices. So 0.6 seems to be potentially as efficacious with less of a cosmetic issue, quicker recovery, etc. It's not more drugs. It's something that I recover from quick in my scalp seemingly. you know, is there some potential downstream issues to hitting my scalp with that once a week? I don't know. But so far so good from a lot of the data that I've seen and like for me using it. And then from there, I would escalate to like the pharmaceutical compounded route at that point if you needed to with like the treino and compounded minoxidil. >> It's funny the micro needling like I'm interested in it for skin effects. It is something I'm going to do. And when I went to my dermatologist and saw like some of the brochures with their studies cuz my dermatologist does actual research. >> And it was funny in their brochure, it was like there's like this whole hair loss area to the micro needling and some of the the stem cell growth factors that they use. >> Yeah. >> And I was like, hm, what's going on here? And I was like, oh, so it's like regrowing hair. And she was like, yeah, we've done like a small study and we added it was like a combination of growth factors that are involved in, you know, stem cell production in the hair follicle. >> But that's why I was like interested in the micro needling too with the hair. I was like, "Oh, so they're essentially just making it better absorbed." Whereas, if you were to put some, you know, stem cell factors on just your scalp, like, it's just not going to get absorbed really. >> Yeah. I think the majority of the benefit is likely mediated via ensuring adequate absorption of the drug because when you do micro needling on its own versus minoxidil on its own versus micro needling plus minoxidil, it's not a comparable outcome. You would expect the micro needling alone group to be very significant if it was recruiting some sort of local growth factors that were dramatic. It seems more like it's probably in ensuring you're actually getting this to where it was supposed to go to begin with, but maybe wasn't getting fully assimilated. That's what some people need in order to get the absorption, but it could be like the difference of 4x the results I've seen in some studies. That seems like a legit pathway for for some men that are a little bit skittish about potential side effects with the oral drugs as