 these PRADESES PROUDOUDvia. significantly implicated in reaching full maturity, perhaps is a more accurate statement. So during puberty, men with deficiency in this enzyme do not develop much facial hair, body hair, notably no androgenic alopecia. And this is kind of the inception of some of these hair loss prevention drugs, which operate via this enzyme pathway. But anyways, and they also have a small prostate. Many males with 5AR deficiency are actually raised as female until they hit puberty because they didn't have enough DHT to markedly differentiate themselves as males pre-puberty. So they were born, appeared to be female. And then, you know, when they hit puberty, all of a sudden the spike in testosterone makes it a bit more obvious that things are not like classically female. Once they hit puberty and test level spike, the penis and other androgen supported structures start to enlarge. And, but still without the DHT, you don't end up having full maturation. Penis doesn't grow to full size like it would. Facial hair doesn't develop. Prostate growth doesn't happen as much, etc. So most notable though, about this is the fact that with DHT deficiency, with intact testes and male testosterone levels, you will still have male levels of performance, undoubtedly. So with this condition, the gonads can still function and produce male levels of testosterone and androgen receptors are fully functional, meaning you get male levels of bone mass, muscle mass, general anabolic activity, erythropoiesis. You know, it's not the erythropoiesis is still going to be driven through DHT too. But like if you have male level testosterone, you were getting all of the anabolic activity that a male would have with those levels. So despite being a more potent androgen, unlike testosterone, DHT is inactivated by the enzyme 3-alpha hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase, 3-alpha HSD in muscle via its conversion into a very weak androgen known as 3-alpha androstane diol. So basically DHT is present in specific tissues to drive sexual differentiation and maturation, but does almost nothing for muscle growth. And this is very apparent in male pseudohermaphrodites who are inherently 5-alpha reductase deficient due to genetic mutations. So here's an example. One study involving brothers with different DHT levels, the male with partial, and this is partial by the way, 5-alpha reductase deficiency experienced reduced sexual development throughout puberty, but actually gained more muscle mass than his brother. This is a picture of them together. The man on the left has a 5-alpha reductase deficiency and his brother on the right doesn't have a deficiency. The man on the left has a higher testosterone level. So you heard correct. Higher. And is more muscular. And has less androgenic alopecia than his brother on the right who has normal DHT levels. So like, you know, they look both like males. And one has some of the, you know, hallmarks of natural male development, whereby they start to have temporal recession, et cetera. But the male with higher test levels and 5-AR deficiency still has, you know, development as a male, just not to this degree that they would have otherwise with adequate DHT. But notably, the biggest takeaway in my opinion on that is normal muscle. So male level muscle tissue in response to the male androgen testosterone that you are producing. So even in studies when this is, you know, fully wiped out, like almost essentially manually replicating what is, you know, the castrous mania situation more or less, depending on the actual structural integrity of what her gonads were capable of producing testosterone wise, which sounds like, you know, it was male territory levels still. Ultimately, in studies where adults have their DHT levels completely wiped out with a nuclear level 5-alpha reductase inhibiting drug called dutasteride at 2.5 milligrams a day, which can wipe out upwards of 98% of systemic DHT, if I recall correctly. These participants did not experience hindered muscle growth at all. And personally, I've actually been on dutasteride myself for hair loss prevention. And despite having lower tests or lower DHT levels than a girl, it has absolutely zero impact on anything perceivable that I've noticed, except for a bit less back hair now. And I don't lose my scalp hair as fast now. So testosterone pulls the weight from an anabolic standpoint, just fine. So for someone to have a 5AR deficiency as they grow up, it will prevent them from going through puberty and fully masculinizing, but they still have fully functioning androgen receptors and their body will still masculinize to the capacity that their natural male level testosterone levels will allow, which is contingent on the functional capacity of their testes, which will vary. But, you know, ultimately individuals, regardless if they have full 5AR deficiency or partial, and again, like CASTR, I believe it was just only deficiency in the type 2 isozyme, if I recall correctly. You know, the dutasteride example I gave inhibits all three isozymes, which is basically every type of enzyme that 5-alpha reduces testosterone to DHT is completely nuked into nothingness through irreversible inhibition at a max dose. You have probably the same or lower DHT levels in CASTR somania. You have no inhibited muscle. Like these individuals in these studies, it's a highly replicated and repeatable and predictable finding that DHT inhibition does not really impact muscle growth capacity at all. these individuals in these individuals.