All my internal organs would like shake and quake and vibrate and I felt like I was literally going to die. Sup guys, Dereks.com. Today we are going to be reacting to Drifter again. Low testosterone almost killed me. Yes. So, a bunch of you guys tagged me in this as well as on Twitter where I am super active. So, go follow me there, of course. I I basically just post the same [\h__\h] over there. But trying to diversify, you know, so go follow me there if you're on Twitter. But, um, anyways, we're going to be reacting to this. I have not watched it yet, and I'm going to be giving my uh my feedback, see if there's anything I can interpret. As far as I recall, I actually did a video like the video I did last was December 14th, 2020, and it was about him. He was on the PKA podcast. He was talking about his HRT regimen, which is just the deployment of a selective estrogen receptor modulator known as clomophene citrate in order to antagonize the estrogen receptor and trick his brain into producing more testosterone essentially. But is this a long-term viable form of monotherapy for testosterone restoration? Not really. You know, you're going to end up potentially with ocular issues. um you're going to have hindered uh performance out metrics. You're going to have maybe depression, you know, anxiety, a bunch of bad [\h__\h] The Clomid is like the most it's like the most uh mood [\h__\h] I don't even know how to say it. Like it [\h__\h] with your mood so significantly to the point that it'll make you like literally cry in the middle of [\h__\h] movies even if you wouldn't have otherwise normally. Like this is a compound that sucks to be on. And even as of recent in PCT regimens, it's getting phased out by a lot of people for, you know, uh, superior alternatives like enclomophane and whatnot. But, um, and I still don't think a serum is really a long-term viable strategy for like a TRT alternative. You know, occupying estrogen receptors your entire life, probably not the best idea. So, anyways, presumably he's still on the same therapy and something, you know, crazy happened. I don't know, but we will uh we'll find out. I'll put it on 1.25 time speed cuz this video is kind of long and I'll just try and talk faster. Hey guys, Drifter here. Low testosterone almost killed me. I know that sounds like clickbait. That's ridiculous. That's nonsense. It can't happen. Well, it did. And uh I've been suffering for the last two or three weeks. I haven't posted any videos. As you can see, I had a number of insane symptoms that made no sense and confused a great number of doctors. So, if you don't listen to anything else today that I say, if you don't really care about me or my health, just if you're feeling funny, get your testosterone checked. It's very simple and easy to do. And something like an eighth to a quarter of all Western men have testosterone issues due to lifestyle issues. So it's worth looking into before you end up in my shoes. And obviously I'm feeling alive. I'm not dead at the moment. Feeling better, more active, more clear-minded than I have been in a very long time. And because of that, I'm expecting content to resume sometime this week. Obviously, I'm posting this video, but I've got a little bit more coming in the future. And now I want to talk about what happened because it was it's it's an insane story, guys. We're going to be talking about all sorts of personal stuff that you've never heard before. Uh secret stuff, actually. So, it's going to be a big video today. It was basically a perfect storm of events that hit almost every single system in my entire body and almost made me as a person just kind of shut down. And that seems a little weird, but testosterone affects your entire endocrine system. It affects all of your muscles, your tendons, your nerves, your bones, your brain, your temperature regulation. It affects a lot of stuff. So, you may remember a video two years, maybe three, I don't even remember how long ago. I was talking about having low testosterone. And that was a big joke in the COD community. Low T, beta male, looks like a woman, very feminine, transitioning, blah blah blah. all the trans jokes that go through the roof, right? Uh, but I did the video with the idea of encouraging more people to get checked because I was having symptoms similar to bipolar disorder. Typically, when you have like low testosterone, you're really weak, you're really small, you're kind of tired, uh, erectile dysfunction, stuff like that, sad all the time. That was not me. I was like working out like crazy. I'd be awake for like 5 days and then sleep like two. I was sexually aggressive. I was like angry all the time. My testosterone was like double digits. It was like way way way way down there into the scary anomaly should never be there zone. And my body was doing crazy stuff. So, I wonder what is free tea and SHBG and DHT was like during that like hyperaggressive phase though cuz low tea can cause like often people assume, oh, if you're low tea, you're going to be like beta and subdued and blah blah blah. And in general, you'll probably have a low sex drive. So, that's interesting. Maybe had a disproportionately high DHT [clears throat] level, which would not really make a whole lot of sense given his total was low. But anyways, um yeah, like one of the things people think is, "Oh, if I get on TRT, I'm going to be like roid raging at people." when in reality it's probably going to if you're actually deficient and need it, it's probably going to help you be more calm and stable rather than when you're low tea, you're like mood is volatile as [\h__\h] It's all over the map. You can be fine one second and then just like depressed like the next second back and forth. It's a nightmare. So obviously if uh like you said a lot of people have lifestyle induced low tea though like nowadays it's not uncommon to be underslept over stemmed under nutritioned like so many factors that play into proper hormone production that most people overlook entirely or even if they're aware of it they just neglect the [\h__\h] out of it. So, you know, most not most, but like a lot of cases can just be dialed in via lifestyle, dietary, sleep hygiene, etc. manipulation. But even once you know that, it doesn't mean every single person's going to do that. So, my doctor and I got put on a little medicine called Clomophine, which is a it's a fertility drug for women, but it also works for men to boost testosterone. Put me on clomophene to kind of see what would happen to avoid TRT because my doctor believed that TRT would cause cancer and maybe infertility. [\h__\h] ridiculous. And uh it worked. It worked great. all of my weird bipolar like symptoms went away. I came back to life. I actually grew a little bit of facial hair, just like a tiny small amount. It's a little bit easier to put on muscles. I don't think I'm ever going to be like a big like buff guy. That's not ever going to be me, but you know, it was easier. My I actually had real gains in the gym. But the doctor didn't want to keep me on clomophane forever. He wanted to put me on for a while and then kind of take me off and see what would happen to my body if you know if maybe it would just naturally stimulate it. It kind of kickstarting it for the long run. Well then, so the approach the doctor took was kind of like a PCT. You know, you would think if you had adequate baseline function, then if you took a ser, it would help you kind of kickstart your way back to that baseline function, but that's based on the assumption that you had adequate baseline function to begin with, which he does not seem to have. So, it'd be like if you're a guy who's like clinically deficient, hypoganatal, needs TRT, and a doctor puts you on an intervention that rectifies your symptoms and gets your tea to where it should be, like does it make a whole lot of sense to pull you off at halfway like at once you're where you're at? Not really. Like again though with Clomid it's more used in a postcycle therapy context. So I can see the logic and frankly you shouldn't be on Clomid forever anyways. But I mean like to me it seemed like the proper way or at least the way you know I would have explored it personally. Um if it were me in this situation would probably be really really take a close look at lifestyle factors, sleep hygiene. Literally get something that tracks sleep metrics to see if I'm even getting high quality sleep. tracking my macro and micronutrient intake, exercising regularly, stress management techniques, whatever the [\h__\h] I need to do to really dial everything in and then get retested at the optimal time of day when I know my tea is going to be peaked and then make an assessment from there and be like, "This is the absolute best I can possibly achieve naturally. What is it?" And then from there make a judgment call on if pursuing some sort of HRT regimen makes the most sense rather than you know like unfortunately in medicine it is not widely adopted to look at the diet, look at the micronutrient intake, look at the lifestyle factors before going to the pharmaceuticals which it's not really in their job description to do that though. So it's kind of like on you as the patient to have tried to max out all that [\h__\h] beforehand if you are interested in going the natural route. Like not everyone wants to go the pharma route and they think it's the only answer to their problems when in reality you might be able to rectify your [\h__\h] if you just looked at the natural stuff first. Obviously it doesn't apply for everyone though. Corona happened in quarantine and I didn't want to go back to the doctor's office cuz the doctor's office is a tiny little box that's almost always filled with boomers that don't wear masks and it it's really frustrating to as a spoiler for the future of this story. I did end up going back to that same doctor and uh did go to the little office and it really was a jam-packed full of boomers that kept pulling their masks down and uh complaining about Trump and Biden stuff. It was very very fun. Uh but before that, the doctor kept wanting me to come back and I'm like, "No, dude. I want to come your little cramped office." And he's like, "Okay, well then how about you just quit Clomine and I don't refill your prescription and we'll see what happens." I was like, "Do I need to taper anything?" The doctor says, "No, this is not like that powerful of a drug. You should be fine just quitting this cold turkey." So I took his advice and did that which turned out to be a horrible, terrible mistake that you should never do. And the amount of bad advice that I've gotten from my primary uh care doctors here has been so bad that I'm I'm basically kind of wanting to do self- medication or I actually relied on some of my fans that were doctors that reached out to me with better advice than what my actual doctors had. But I stopped taking the medication and over about 2 months I noticed that my muscle mass was declining. I figured well my tea levels might be dropping a little bit. That's normal. I'm going to get a little bit weaker. But I'm not the kind of guy that gives up easy. I don't just like roll over and die. So I thought you know what I am going to drink more protein shakes. I'm going to work out harder. I'm going to train five six days a week. I'm really going to do this. I'm going to increase my weights. Unfortunately, during this time, increasing the weights caused me to sprain my right shoulder super badly. You might have remember like little videos of me in the cast and stuff, right? Uh, as I would learn, low testosterone can affect joint strength, uh, the tendons, the nerves, the bones, the muscles, everything. And but I didn't know this at the time. At the time, I thought I was just pushing my luck too much. I was trying to do too much shoulder press and it popped and I was screwed. Yeah. So, a lot of people don't realize how much androgenic signaling as well as estrogen signaling has to do with bone health, bone integrity, um, tendon strength, etc. A lot of this [\h__\h] has interplay with all of the hormones you naturally produce. So, obviously, expectedly, if you pull out, you know, your HRT that you were relying on to peak those hormones and you end up in the, you know, double digits again, you're going to be in a sub-optimal spot where you're going to be more prone to injury. This [clears throat] is sort of uh interesting because it's kind of close to what uh not the same, but it's sort of like, you know, Greg Ducet, you know, he just came off of HRT entirely and crashed his tea levels to try and heal a calcified um tricep tendinitis, which is, you know, kind of a weird scenario to be in when you're intentionally trying to, you know, crash your androgens into suboptimal territory to expedite the healing process when it is kind of contradictory to the integrity of everything or else that is the infrastructure for actually preventing the tendon from getting [\h__\h] up to begin with. So, you know, it's not exactly, you know, it's kind of just an interesting coincidence that these two had similar situations in terms of crashing around the same time, but you know, you are going to be more prone to injury. I think that's fairly wellestablished. Like Greg had a very very hyperspecific niche scenario where he had literal calcification deposits build up, you know, otherwise I don't think anything would have justified coming off. So expectedly, again, if you're coming off of a long-term HRT intervention and your baseline function was poor to begin with, expectedly when you pull out the intervention, you go back to baseline, your baseline was not even was not satisfactory to support um structural integrity of the bones, tendons, etc. at the time. So expecting it to when you pull the [\h__\h] out, not going to really work. And Clomid actually has some estrogen agonist activity um at the receptor site, too. And this is kind of what makes it a suboptimal suboptimal choice of a serum to begin with for PCT because of the zucchophene agonism of the estrogen receptor as opposed to enclophines like pure antagonism. So my speculation is this guy's low tea was you know so bad he has such a lack of estrogenic activity too the clomid was actually helping him get more estrogen receptor activation than his suboptimal levels would have even allowed perhaps. So, you know, he's put up to even more, you know, injuryp-prone state than otherwise. But again, how would this all be solved? It'd be like proper therapy in my opinion. And to me, I think the TRT route made the most sense for this guy off the bat. Potentially, what was actually happening is my overall muscle mass was declining. My tendon strength was going down. I don't think the bones were weaker. But, as we'll get into later, I'm actually having nerve problems in my upper body and a little bit in my lower body that's making some muscles weaker than they should be because the testosterone can affect nerves, too. Oh, boy. All the fun things that I've learned. So, that was annoying, but I didn't really notice cuz I thought I just hurt myself, right? During the big snowstorm that came, I sprained my ankle super bad and it laid me up. It It hurt like it was crazy bad. And that probably also happened maybe partially due to low tea or low testosterone can cause slow healing of ortho injury. So, that's pretty normal. The snowstorm screwed up my temperature really bad. My whole life I've always been really weak to cold weather. Like 70° I got to wear a jacket now. 110 I'm out there. I'm fine. It's hot's great, but cold like kills me. During the snowstorm, I went out to film the dogs and my hands just stopped working. They like froze. Like I had to like mitt and try to open the door to get back in the house. It was super bad. But I thought, hey, you know, it's really cold and I'm just kind of weak to cold, so that's whatever. But then after the sprain and the cold and the power problems, that pretty much completely ended my exercise routine, too. So, a lot of you were saying, "Oh, well, Drifter, you should just go eat red meat and bench press and blah blah." I was training five or six days a week. I would start my warm-ups with 100 push-ups, just banging them out. Like, I I work out of plenty. That's not I would also check thyroid function, you know, like maybe this is all, you know, androgen related issues, but the temperature, you know, yeah, it plays a significant role with estrogen and whatnot. And um but still, you know, I think thyroid is the first thing I think of when I think of you're extremely cold all the time. Not really the problem. The problem might have actually been stopping the workout once I was so injured. So, shortly after that, or maybe shortly before, about a week or two, I started noticing that I was getting a little bit like a little bit like woozy before I would eat or after I would I take that back. If I missed a meal, like if I were to work out really hard and then skip lunch that day, I'd feel like a little woozy. And then it got like, ah man, if I skip dinner, it's going to be a little woozy. And I figured, you know, I'm in my 30s now. I'm not exactly young. After this stressful event, I probably definitely picked up some more gray streaks, right? I was like, well, this must be what getting old feels like. This is why my grandpa always carried a little Worther's candy or whatever. And I thought, haha, maybe I'm getting like pre-diabetes or something cute, right? It was barely something to notice until it just immediately jumped to extreme hypoglycemia. For those of you that are diabetic and have them in your family, you probably know what hypoglycemia is. That's when your blood sugar drops or I maybe gets too high. You have a number of weird symptoms. You can sweat, you can freeze, you can get uh you're you're get mentally confused. Anxiety tends to happen. Uh nausea. So for me, what would happen is if I missed a meal by about 30 minutes, my I would get hit by the worst hypoglycemia you can imagine. See, this almost sounds like like the first steps you see towards the progression of type 2 diabetes is actually your body's inability to control blood sugar and get it to where it needs to be via its insulin secretion. So you almost get like an over an overzealous amount of insulin secretion relative to what you need to bring your glucose into range as a result of like progressive insulin resistance to the point where eventually it leads to the beta cells actually burning out and you end up you know with the development of type 2 diabetes and how does this all play into androgen level as well. This is like one of the most effective things for keeping your blood sugar in range is maintaining an adequate amount of um muscle mass, you know, being lean and muscular as well as sufficient androgen levels. So, expectedly, if your androgen levels are in the toilet, you're losing lean muscle mass, things that would otherwise be very much dictating your metabolism. This is going to have a very negative effect on your ability to actually utilize glucose correctly and actually uh have your pancreas work the way it's supposed to be without overstressing it. So um like it's a very common outcome to see guys with low tea start to progress towards type 2 diabetes. So this is not uh uncommon you know for uh or not unexpected what he's describing. Like I would get dizzy and vertigo like the kind where you hold on to the table so you don't fall into the sky kind of vertigo. I would get really dumb. My IQ would just drop a solid 20 30%. I was like at the barely functioning range. I And when you're hypo dude it's like you can't really explain to somebody what it's like until they've experienced it. And I've experienced it in the past when I used to do way too aggressive bulk phases and take, you know, MK-677 and, you know, I've even tried insulin before and like [\h__\h] like that. And if you've ever taken GHRP, it's sort of like or peptides that are like ghrein receptor agonist, sort of like M. Like if you've taken MK, it's not the same feeling, so maybe it's not directly comparable, but you get like clammy, you know, you feel [laughter] like you're [\h__\h] woozy. You're like all of a sudden you're like starving for sugar specifically. Um, that's the best way I can describe it. But he's uh he's elaborating here, too. I couldn't focus on what I was seeing, and I had what I would have described as an impending sense of doom. Now, doctors would tell me that this is an anxiety or panic attack that's associated with the blood sugar drop, but I felt like I was about to roll over and die at any second. And the worst thing was I felt like I was going to throw up, and I almost couldn't eat. Yet, I had to eat to make the problem go away. So, for about a week, I was force-feeding myself stuff that I just could barely keep down through sheer power of will while holding on to the table to not fall into the sky and telling myself that I will survive the next 5 minutes. Jesus Christ. So, this is like I've heard some horror stories of bodybuilders who've been in like either taken some drug that made them nauseous or had like, you know, they're in some circumstance where they can't keep their food down, but they accidentally like overadministered insulin to the point that they're going severely hypo and they can't even get down the uh carbohydrates they need to get their blood sugar back into range where they need it to be. And they end up in this like vicious loop of like trying to eat enough and then like puking up their food. And it's like a very very sketchy scenario. So um you know I can uh definitely just imagine what this guy was going through. It's not you know directly relevant. I'm I'm just giving a relevant example from the bodybuilder side of the space. After eating it would go away. I very quickly put myself on an eating regimen. I started eating I think it was initially like seven times a day on a very strict schedule and I kind of worked that down and that did eventually go away. That's when I decided this was a real problem. We're going to go see a real doctor and I'll talk about the doctors later but basically nobody knew what was going on and everybody thought I was crazy because all my blood work kept coming back really good and healthy. So eventually as the hypoglycemia started going away a little bit, I started having bouts of extreme hypothermia. Hypothermia is when you're freezing. You usually see this when people fall like in a frozen lake or river or something or you know the kid gets stuck in the car. A kid died of hypothermia here in Texas during the snowstorm. But it wasn't necessarily an in my head kind of hypothermia cuz that can happen. We're going to talk about stress in a minute too. But my core body temperature as measured by a thermometer was 95° a couple of times for no reason. So I dropped 3°. No reason. No warning. My entire body felt like an icicle. Not just to me, but to my wife and other people. I was cold to the touch. All my internal organs would like shake and quake and vibrate and I felt like I was literally going to die. Pretty much nothing really helped warm me up. I could take a warm bath and that would help me like if I stayed in the hot water for like an hour, but then sometimes that would overcorrect and I'd go up to like 99° and just roast and turn all pink. Got limited results from a heating pad, which I would use a little bit more frequently, but I would just be minding my own business, I'd be like, "Man, I feel like a little bit chilly, you know?" And then 15 minutes later, I probably would have qualified to go to the emergency room. Uh during these times, I would get very mentally confused as well. my IQ would just plummet like u let's just say I have perfectly normal 100 IQ that would drop down to 70 or maybe 60 I could barely focus on what people were saying I could barely move around I'd get very agitated I started cursing at inanimate objects and getting really aggressive but when the body temperature would warm back up the problem would go away as that started happening a little bit less I then started getting uh specific parts of my body with hypothermia I had freezing feet that were just just ice cold to the touch felt like dead skin I had cold mouth like my mouth felt like ice cubes in it constantly but the rest of me was warm burning hands sometimes. Uh, usually cold hands, though. A lot of weird problems. Most of that is kind of going away now. And it's kind of like one, it was basically like one bizarre body discomfort being replaced by another just as soon as you get the other one under control. And I'm still I'm kind of shocked. Like maybe he's going to elaborate very soon on what something he did, you know, shortly thereafter to fix it. Getting back on his Clomid or, you know, doing something hopefully TRT maybe. But I mean, like, if you knew what the problem was, I'm surprised he didn't just like nip it in the bud way sooner. It sounds like he tried to like really like tolerate this [\h__\h] and get through it. Still kind of on that treadmill there. I'm still have an ongoing problem we'll talk about. But there's another thing that we haven't talked about yet. Like one thing to note is if you're actually clinically hypoganal and it's not induced by anabolic energetic steroid usage or some sort of like unique factor that would otherwise be shutting down your HPTA. the likelihood that you're going to recover to a baseline that's superior to what your function was when you started therapy is low. Like the whole point of you getting on some sort of, you know, clomid monotherapy in the first place was because of the suboptimal hormone production. So, at a later date when you're older and would otherwise have an even more dysfunctional HPTA simply via age, the likelihood that you're going to come off of therapy and recover to a at best what you were at previously, which was already sub-optimal, like I don't know what else you would expect to be honest. What's the timer over here? We're somewhere around like 10 minutes in the video. And that's stress. Um, this is a very interesting interaction that happens because as I've read, testosterone imbalance can trigger stress and a high level of stress can trigger a testosterone imbalance. They are mutually related to each other. And thankfully, or not thankfully, I was trying to make jokes like cutely, unfortunately, some ly word, some adjective. No, that's an adverb to describe my situation. Both hormones can do crazy things to your body. Higher low levels of testosterone, really weird things to your body. Uh, low levels of stress would be good, but really high levels of stress can also do really bizarre things to your body. It can push you into hypochondria, mental problems. Some people die from being overstressed. Some people have heart attack, stroke, hypothermia was probably a over azella stress reaction in my case. But I was very stressed out during this time. And of all the stresses, I think that the ankle sprain put me over the edge. I had the bad shoulder. I was still managing it and working with my left hand and doing stuff. But when I couldn't walk anymore, and I was truly just laid up for days upon days with multiple joints failing me, I I think that just stressed me a little bit too much. And the stress section here is important uh because my stress levels changed rapidly with the tea level. I'm putting this a little bit later in the video because I guess the true fans are watching this far. Uh, but there was a reason that my stress level was so incredibly high for a big chunk of 2019 and a big chunk of 2020 and some lingering issues as well. I've had a really bad issue with swatting at my house. You haven't seen this on my YouTube channel. I worked really hard to keep this private, keep the content as positive and clean as I can. And the police were also pretty adamant that if I just got on YouTube and started spouting off about this that they really weren't going to help. But, uh, I got swatted a couple of times last year. if there was an ongoing issue with harassment. I had uh another creator stream uh one of his fans coming to my house with a ski mask and a gun in what I personally assume was going to be an armed home invasion, but they you know that the police took care of that in my front lawn thankfully. And just a whole ton of crazy bizarre stuff. I almost died four or five times. There were other people that were armed. There was the the prank to try to trick me into killing an escort that was supposed to do like a break-in fantasy or something in the middle of all of this. Uh, but basically for the better part of a year, there was just constant violence against me and my family. I worked super hard to keep it private and off of YouTube. I mean, it was like sleep with your AK-47 every single night kind of situation. But finally, some of the bad people got arrested. Uh, the trial is now over. There's no limitations on me making public comments so that I can talk about it. And I'm generally planning to maybe in a later video while I'm feeling better. It feels smarter to do like one, you know, drama at a time, like one ridiculous thing. If I went straight from like bad health to swatting, I would just look like a weird like crybaby that always lives a dramatic life. So, we're going to put that's all done. I've got all the footage and stuff backlogged. We'll do that later this month or next. Jesus Christ, dude. So, I can just imagine trying to maintain optimal hormone levels when you're literally trying to go to sleep and have this [\h__\h] in the back of your head. So, his condition is a lot more understandable now. Like, obviously, you know, it's still possible to have it happen without that factor, but I mean, the stress of that would definitely contribute to uh definitely exacerbate things to a significant degree. Months sometime. Uh, but what that did obviously when you're worried about your family dying or you dying for swatting or some crazy stuff like that, it ramps those stress hormones way up. So, for pretty much all of 2020, I was at my maximum level of stress. You saw me about as stress as I could possibly get. Bad guys get arrested, stress levels go back down temporarily, you know, slowly over time and then boom, right back up again now that I can't walk. So, I was on a stress yin-yang and on a testosterone yin-yang at the exact same time. Both of these are very, very bad for your health. So, once all that started happening, I saw a lot of doctors. I went to a couple of primary cares, uh, urologists, rheumatologists, primary different urgent care, uh, oh god, I can't even remember. I went to a bunch of different doctors trying to get an answer. And I know that seems like a hypochondriac, like a crazy stressed out person, and I was. Uh, but when you can't eat food and when your body temperature randomly dips 3 or 4 degrees and you can feel it in your organs, that's serious. Like, I needed answers and I needed them bad. I went to a lot of doctors. I never really got any clear answers till I went to one doctor who told me that he believed that the clomine was the problem and that was cold turkey withdrawals. This particular doctor is actually a subscriber of mine that reached out to me via email and we talked about some stuff back and forth. I didn't put like my private info in there, but we just went over symptoms and stuff and he's like, "Yeah, well, you know, when you change your testosterone levels, these kinds of things can happen." I'm like, "Yeah, but my primary care doctor said that it would be fine that cold turkeys, whatever." He's like, "No, no, sir. It would not be fine." And his uh prog uh rejection was that if I resumed the clomophane medication and raised my tea levels back up to normal that I would eventually start feeling normal very Yeah. So like expectedly again if you are going onto clomid monotherapy presumably it's cuz you have such suboptimal function naturally that you need to intervene with something significant. So expecting that an older version of you is going to get back to even at best the same suboptimal function like that's your best shot dude pretty much unless you like overhauled the [\h__\h] out of your lifestyle and previously your baseline was like totally deficient in all these things. That's the only scenario where it might be different. But I mean, in general, if you're hypogonatal, go on therapy expecting that years later you're going to come off therapy and not end up hypoganatal again, if not worse. You know, wishful thinking. Shortly after that, I saw a urologist about this, which apparently covers the whole penis system and stuff and a test, gonads, whatever. And he agreed. So, I resumed taking Clomoped and my the whole penis system. My testosterone levels pretty rapidly came back to normal. They were getting back up to normal in about a week. But then, oh boy, does this ever keep giving. I got symptoms of massive tea level rises because not only do you get bad symptoms as things go down, but as they go back up, you get them all over again, which does weird things to the stress bar on the other side. I'm imagining this like an audio mixer, like trying to get the right balance between the two. So then I got all these like weird problems with tea level rises. And uh currently my only problem that I'm suffering right now is weird nerve pains that are slowly decreasing. It actually kind of reminds me of pre-shingles. I had shingles in college where your skin would break out in hives and horrible nerve pain. It feels like in my back and like spine and like down my arms. It feels like I'm trying to grow wings or feathers sometimes, but then other times I kind of feel like my system is coming back online. Like I can feel nerves that feel like they've been asleep for weeks, like waking back up and doing things. I generally feel better. The pain is going down. The funky feelings are going away. A funny one, here's a fun one I'll throw your way. I got an ice cold boner. Yeah, I woke up one night with an erection that I absolutely could not control and it was literally ice cold. Hard as it could possibly be. Temperature of an icicle. Very bizarre. That went away. Okay, penises back to working normally. Don't know how or why. Had a couple of days where I couldn't stop crying about various things cuz my hormone levels were going over. I was crying about old pets that died 20 years ago. Something that happened in third grade. The color matching on the the designs on the other side of the camera. This stuff looks nice. The other side of the camera is a nightmare is so bad. Just I highly doubt if you were on therapeutic TRT that this would have happened to you. This is flagship clomid dude. Constantly crying about stuff. All that's gone. I'm much more mentally clear now. So yeah, just because you're mentally clear now doesn't mean that your therapy is optimal though. Like I still think the Clomomen is a sub-optimal choice given this guy's situation. Yeah, all that's quite crazy. I know I'm definitely sounding like a big crazy person here. Uh the reason I make these videos is to kind of explain the absence and hopefully some of you watch this and some of you learn from my mistakes and don't repeat these because I wouldn't want this to happen to anybody. Basically, I was on a stress yin-yang, super high, super low, super high, up and down again, and a testosterone level ying between high and low, super uh up and down really fast. I had a massive lifestyle change with the injuries, putting a hard stop on daily exercise. I was at guaranteed 1 hour a day of cardio or weights or something till I'm sweaty until blip, nothing. And then everything froze and I'm I'm kind of weak to cold. So, it was like a perfect storm of three or four different things that just totally threw my system out of balance and it almost destroyed me. It I genuinely felt like my system was shutting down. There were days that I wondered if my stomach would ever work again, if my heart would do the right thing, what my lungs were going to do next. I didn't even know if my skin was going to fall off. It turned blue and weird stuff like that. It was an actual nightmare scenario. And I stopped I I don't know if you noticed, I stopped making YouTube videos, guys. Uh for reference, when I destroyed my spine and I couldn't sit or walk, I still made YouTube videos. When I was doing physical therapy while being harassed and swatted on a near weekly basis, I was still cranking out YouTube videos. I was streaming, laying in bed, not able to move. But this problem was so bad it finally stopped me from making YouTube videos. I just had I can't no just can't deal with this. Yeah. Like above and beyond like physical pain, symptoms of you know normal low tea symptoms like obviously this this is lumped into low tea symptoms but the mental fatigue the actual lack of clarity, the lack of ability to motivate yourself. Like testosterone is one of the most like dopamineergic things you can have in your system in terms of actually motivating you to get [\h__\h] done. um accomplish goals, actually have a purpose in life, and like feel like it's worth, you know, driving towards. And um you know, like when you're nuked like this, I can understand, dude, like the cognitive health impacts, not just actual neurological health, like your actual brain surviving correctly and thriving. In addition to that, your actual ability to even function as a human, it's severely impaired to the point that it can be debilitating. So, I totally understand this and I'm surprised he didn't uh I'm still I'm shocked he hasn't gotten on TRT yet to be honest. He's still on [\h__\h] Clomid. Um, and yeah, that's pretty much the whole story. Uh, I wasted a lot of doctor's times kind of dealing with this. Uh, funny thing is I got a lot of blood work and a lot of tests done for thousands of different things and my blood work is actually kind of amazing. Instead of repeating the test, I would show it to other doctors and sometimes they would reorder. But my blood work came back perfect. We I Dude, it was like four or five pages long cuz we tested everything. thyroid great, kidney, great, pancreas, great, uh, platelets, white blood cell, red blood cell, glucose levels, cholesterol, vitamin. Bro, the doctor said that my cholesterol was so incredibly low that he thought I might have been vegetarian. The doctor said that the way my muscles looked and the way my fat balance was. doesn't like something to note about that though is that's not necessarily a good thing in terms of actual um brain health in terms of actual hormone production like having super low cholesterol levels from a arterial um plaque buildup perspective like yeah maybe in the if you're constantly perpetually inflamed then you might not want you know an LDL even over not even the top of the reference range like 34s 2/3 up in the reference range because you might actually get like significant plaque deposition but that doesn't mean that cholesterol is you know the devil it still has a function in the body and a very important one. So that might be something to revisit because that's not necessarily a good thing especially when you are somebody who is um low hormone status essentially or you know working your way to achieving a optimal hormone status to feel ideal on a day-to-day basis functionalitywise. So for him that might be uh something to get dialed in. You know, some uh some people are too uh quick to think that, oh, you know, low cholesterol equals good, but they don't look at the actual functions it has in the body that are actually meant to facilitate a lot of physiologic processes that you actually need to be healthy and a high functioning individual. Like everything like the vitamin balance and everything in my body was so good that he like it was so weird to sit down with your doctor and have them tell you like, "Okay, your blood work was really weird because it was really good." He's like, "You know, we're in America. We don't normally see people that are healthy here." He said, "My blood work really reminds them of like a college athlete perhaps, which is really weird. I guess all the workouts paid off, but they were like, "Dude, you're stupidly healthy." And they told me I had psychiatric problems. They told me for the most part that my problems were entirely psychiatric and didn't seem to care a lot about the testosterone, which is a little bit weird. So, I'm getting better every single day now, almost. It's, you know, some days are a little step back. It's a little wobbly, but the overall trend is positive. I would like to describe it as like a change in seasons from winter to spring to summer. Not every day is going to be hotter than the next. you know, it'll go up and down and you might even have a couple of days that dip, but the overall trend over the couple of months is up toward warmth and that's basically what my body's doing. I'm feeling good right now. Obviously, recording and editing this, I might not in a few hours, but if the trend continues that the amount of time that I feel bad is going to get lesser and lesser every day, my current number one and number two problems are some lingering weird nerve pains and tinglies that are getting better over time. And I'm pretty tired. Okay, this this whole thing has put my body through like I feel like I've been squeezed by a steamroller. I feel like I just got done boxing Muhammad Ali in his prime. I feel like I just survived a monster movie and like Godzilla's been defeated and I'm like the ground team that's somehow not dead. Like really really tired. So I do want to come back. I want to kind of resume my normal life. I want to get back to working out. I want to get back to making videos. I do like making videos. Sometimes taking a break reminds you how much you uh do like the things that you do. But I don't want to push my body too far. I need adequate time to rest. I probably don't need to push really hard and stress myself and screw up that other balancing hormone some kind of way. So I'm going to slowly start resuming content. probably going to start a little bit heavy on Twitter videos in short, so only like 30 seconds are easy to do. Sprinkle in YouTube will be the next focus. Daily seems a little bit unlikely. Every other day, every third day, maybe we'll start sprinkling in some streams. COD content is going to resume tomorrow. I actually already have two Call of Duty videos already done for you guys. So, that'll be really nice. We can self by the end of the month. And we're going to sit here and we're going to pray, okay? Together, whatever gods you have or don't have, just wish me some good luck. I'm not out of the woods yet. There's a chance that my problem might not be testosterone. might be something different. The tea levels might dip and rise and I get more weird symptoms again. But I've been doing good for like a couple of days now. It's feeling So for me, I would, you know, like if this were me in this position, I would still be looking at the androgen deficiency side of the equation, but from a broadspectctrum point of view rather than just thinking, oh, if Clomid doesn't fix me, then it must be something totally unrelated to test. It's like no, you have to look at the fact that your downstream conversion to estrogen is being it's not inhibited, but the actual action of your bio identical estrogen you're producing, it's not getting to do what it needs to do fully in the body. So, a lot of things and if if you have side effects in a neurological aspect, if your mental health feels [\h__\h] up, if you're randomly crying at [\h__\h] if you're not super locked in and dialed in, there's a lot of even if your libido is [\h__\h] up, there's a lot of things estrogen modulates that are totally overlooked. And you might think, "Oh, on paper, my testosterone estrogen looks good." But what you don't understand is the actual drug is occupying a receptor that would otherwise be occupied by estrogen. So this entire time you have this drug doing things on the receptor and your estrogen is not able to get to the receptor to do what it is trying to do. So downstream, you know, how long can you go with this? Uh is this like a long-term sustainable approach? Like Clomid I don't even think is an optimal serum for monotherapy purposes long term. I think nomophene would be a far more suitable alternative if that was the only choice that was uh available. But ideally like I would I would really think about TRT. You know that's the only thing that is going to hit all different angles, hit all of the receptors that you know a big chunk of the replacement part is being inhibited from working correctly right now with that estrogen receptor being occupied. So I think he's getting like a toned down version of what he could otherwise be achieving with actual broadspectctrum TRT which I think most HRT clinics in the country now would look at Clomomen monotherapy as a for the majority of people in this position as a subpar choice and more of like a uh perhaps a test the waters kind of thing or just something that somebody doesn't want to inject [\h__\h] So oh here's like an easy oral fix that's bioavailable. you can actually just like pop a pill and be fine, but at the end of the day, you're not getting the same thing you would get out of TRT, despite the fact that your testosterone levels on paper are in range. So, and that's in a variety of things downstream, too. It's not just straight up at the androgen receptor. It's also in terms of your ratio of testosterone to free androgens and stuff like that and how that's going to interplay with your motivation, drive, muscle building potential, etc. I think it is definitely worth exploring further. So, that is my uh response to low test almost killed me. [\h__\h] crazy story. It's just uh goes to show if you think something's wrong, dude, like get it uh get your [\h__\h] sorted right away. Like this, I feel like he knew. But again, when your brain is so like mindfogged trying to come to a logical conclusion like this, maybe it's not even something that's easy to do. You know, in his position where he was so inhibited to the point that his mind is just not barely even functioning. Maybe he couldn't easily come to the conclusion that, oh, maybe it's just maybe it's the fact that he came off Clomid and I've got to like fix this. Like I would think you would, but I mean you never know. Like it sounded like he went uh pretty pretty uh hard on the opposite side of the spectrum of uh you know suboptimal. So perhaps even worse than he was probably worse than he was before he started it sound like. So the likelihood that you're going to get to again if you're hypoganatal clinically the likelihood you're going to recover to adequate baseline function after intervening with some sort of medication like is low dude. So just keep that in mind. You don't want to be cycling TRT. This is not something you need to cycle off to upregulate your receptors like some [\h__\h] idiot doctors in the country will tell you. Like they actually will tell people on TRT, you need to come off for like a couple months to like reensitize your androgen receptors and go back on TRT. It's like, dude, do your balls like stop producing tests for a month when you're natural in order to like sensitize your androgen receptors? No, they [\h__\h] don't. They're pumping the [\h__\h] [laughter] out on a daily basis. So, this is why you need that elevated level all the time. You don't just like come off cold turkey and then go back on, come off cold turkey. it's not going to be the right approach. So anyways, glad to hear he has uh rectified his issues for the most part and hopefully he makes a full recovery. But again, I would look at uh really explore TRT. That would be my suggestion. So anyways, thank you guys for watching. Like, subscribe, check out my blog more.com. Follow me on Instagram_dates, Facebook, Snapchat, [\h__\h] Twitter, Tik Tok, a couple podcasts. If you want to support the channel, you can check out anything I'm associated with in the video description below, including my TRT clinic. It's all tele medicine from the comfort of your own home. We have qualified PCC's and doctors I vetted myself personally who know this stuff inside out and can oversee your care with the highest quality oversight and uh know how to interpret labs and not throw you on suboptimal therapies cuz that is uh the last thing you want is somebody who thinks you should uh be cycling off your [\h__\h] HRT in the middle of it when you were literally walking into the clinic however many months ago or years ago clinically hypogonatal. So anyways, check that out if you're interested, as well as my recommended lab tests and diagnostics and anything else I'm associated with. It's all in the video description below. Thank you guys for watching.