viaviaviaviavia. as well, which is no good, because even though you're this jacked, sometimes confident guy, other times you're, like, you're unreasonably insecure, and you, like, a very common outcome is for guys to think their girlfriends are cheating on them just out of nowhere by being on trend. Really? Yeah, and they end up becoming, you know, oddly behaving. Sexual deviancy is also a very common... I've heard of that. Yeah, on trend. And it's thought to be the progestogenic activity because it's derived from nandrolone, which is a progesterone receptor agonist as well, and progesterone is thought to be very implicated in gay sexual tendencies as you grow up if you had heightened exposure to progesterone in utero. And highly dopaminergic drug as well, which in excess can cause, like, really weird sexual deviancy as well. And, yeah, it's, like, really f***ing potent and good at what it does. It builds lean mass, and it's, like, a really dry compound. It doesn't make you watery. Also has a unique anti-catabolic effect, so you don't... In a deficit, you keep muscle and sometimes even grow while you're cutting. Whoa. Yeah, so it's not like steroids don't all do that to some degree, more or less, but this drug is, like, uniquely potent in its anti-catabolic action to where you could be, like, extremely nutrient-deprived and still hold on to a lot of your muscle. Wow. And because it's so good at making you extremely strong, too, without an excess of body weight, it's, like, highly sought after in many sports because you don't have to worry about jumping up in weight class while you're getting the strength increase that is, like, humongous. Wow. Yeah. So it was one of the drugs that was used in the Dutchess cocktail, which is what Rod Chankov would have his athletes swish around in their mouth. Oh, really? Yeah, and it was absorbed bucally. Whoa. So it was, like, it was almost like the equivalent of IVing the drug right into your bloodstream. You would swish it around in your mouth in this alcohol, and it would absorb bucally into the bloodstream immediately so you wouldn't have to actually have it go into your stomach and then get processed through a first-pass metabolism so you could get it in and out of your system way faster. Wow. Yeah. Wow. So why is that one good for fighters? I would think that, like, getting super emotional, though. Yeah, you could argue that the emotional instability is not good. Yeah. But it makes you very aggressive. The psychoactive effects in the gym can be very helpful for training and stress resilience. And some people, it's not everyone who becomes paranoid on it. It's highly individual dependent. Some people, you will often hear people say, oh, people overblow the side effects of training. It's not that bad. And then other people who will say it ruined their life. So it's highly individual dependent like any drug. But it's very good at making you extremely f***ing strong without blowing you up with water retention and staving off loss of tissue while weight cutting.