Welcome everybody to the uh I guess podcast here with Farasa Hobby. Thank you for joining me today. Um highly requested that we did a little collaboration before the fight based on that uh kind of sequence of video. So you had your AMA which a lot of people wanted to know what your stance was on the uh drug testing and you know who is going to be using what or who do you think is going to win and why? Do you think it's going to be an unfair advantage for one or the other because of that? And you had a pretty bold stance where you said Jake Paul is going to be you think he's going to be on an array of peeds and Tyron's going to be totally natural and you got some quite a few articles, man. If you go to Google News, you're like all over the place right now for that one statement. That's just honestly that's just my honest opinion. And you know what? I take I take uh Jake Paul's fighting skills seriously. That's why I'm saying that. I think he's gonna it's going to be a hard fight for both of them. I don't think it's going to be a one-sided thing. Either guy can knock the other guy out. They both prove they have knockout power. I mean, um, a lot of people are are knocking Ben the Ben Aaskan win. No, that's a legitimate win. Ben Ascin has taken shots from some of the hard hard hitters in the game, you know, including Robbie Lawler and he's taking multiple shots and he just keeps coming back like a zombie. Yeah, he took one hard one hard shot from uh Paul and he went down and and I thought the stoppage was actually correct. He was still wobbling. He didn't make the 10 count. He didn't make it. That's the truth. You know what? You got to be up and ready by eight. If you're not up and ready by eight, they stop it. So, uh, generally speaking, a good referee will stop it. So, it's a legitimate win. The kid has legitimate power. But the reason why I said what I said was one, I hate, first of all, I don't I don't like talking about PDS because I create so much controversy. But that's what I was asked and I'm going to give an honest answer. Yeah. Why do why do I say some guys are on PDS and some guys are not? Why why what's the differential? I always look at the broad picture. I don't just look at one thing. Okay, the guy's got a pimple. He's on PDS. The guy's muscular. No, no, no. In my opinion, that's not how it's done. You have to look at the training history. Go look back. If the guy had a major leap in ability, not skill necessarily, but ability, then that's very suspect. Why? You know, I've trained thousands of people. I've trained countless pros. I've been training professional fighters for 20 years. Okay, I can tell you that I know the level of uh growth somebody will go through. And there are exceptions. There are guys who are genetic freaks, okay? Like when I first saw, this is a very important point. When I first saw Enanu fight on my podcast, I said, "Look, he Enanu loses." I said, "But it's inevitable he becomes world champion. It's a matter of time now." Why? Because he has this god-given talent that you can't train for, you can't prepare for, you can't uh you can't duplicate is what I'm saying, right? You know, uh that god-given talent is not going to be stopped by anybody. Now, why did I say that? Because the guy has his god-given talent, but he's still green in terms of skill. So, you could pick out a guy, you could be like, "Hey, this guy's got one or two fights, but we see something." A coach will see him a mile away. Like they will like they do when they're scouting for hockey, football, soccer. That guy's got something special. Like for instance, if you show me McGregor's first fights before I ever knew him, I would tell you that guy's really special. His ability to to his eyes, his his counter punching ability, his his timing, his reach. Okay, the eyes that he has a ref very very special. You can't really train that. Okay, you can improve it, but you can't get to that level. If I saw McGregor's first fights, you know, when I first saw his first fight in UFC, I knew he was talented. If you showed me his first fights in Cage Wars or whatever that event was, uh, whatever event he was in, I would tell you that guy's really special. He has something very special. Now, look at Jake Paul's first fight, which was three years ago. He looks very novice. His athletic ability is good. It's not great. It's not like an it doesn't stick out, you know. There's not something that sticks out like as a thunderous power. His mechanics are off, but that could be fixed. Thunderous power is it's a talent. Okay. So, you know, sprinter sprinting coaches have the best saying. They say we can't make you fast, we can make you faster. Okay. So, you have to be really, really fast already. And then we can give you a skill that makes you faster. Power. Power is a similar thing. Like for instance, how did they discover Mike Tyson? He got into a fight in the street. He was a young kid. Knocked the guy out with one shot. They're like, "Hey, this guy's really good." Kustom met him and he's like, "Hey, this kid hits really hard. I can polish this guy. I can take this god-given talent and take this guy to the moon." Okay. So yeah, when you see an amateur fighter three years ago, doesn't have the great punching power, doesn't have great skill, and then fast forward in just such a short period of time, in three years of training, all of a sudden he's much bigger, much thicker, and he's he's got thunderous power. Okay? I I I'm telling you, he's a very effective fighter. He's a dangerous guy. So if you do that in three years where you started I don't know if you you're familiar with his first opponent. Have you seen his first opponent? Yeah. against his little brother. Yeah. A complete beginner. A guy who doesn't do any boxing at all. Like he's very novice. Like as green as they get. Okay. Like and it was a very 50/50 fight. Yeah. It wasn't even that one-sided given that like the level of guy who was fighting was like exponentially lower than what he's doing now. Round one and the other guy was banged up. They were both banged up. It look like an amateur fight. Between two young guys who are getting in the sport. You know, we all started at that level. I'm not knocking them. GSP used to be at that level. Uh Mike Tyson started at the Everybody starts at the be beginner level. You know, nobody starts at black belt. Okay. But you could see that the talent level was good. Not great, not phenomenal, just, you know, above average. Let's call it above average. It wasn't something so stellar that you're like, "Hey, in three years that guy will be in a mega fight." So, my explanation is that I've seen guys make that kind of leap. I've trained countless fighters. Some on gear, some not on gear. Okay. Many not on gear, many on gear. And that kind of leap usually it involves type of gear. Fair enough. So like obviously my response was more so to like the lack of drug testing like it's actually been confirmed there's been no drug testing to date. So, not only in your offseason preparation, but the actual leading up to the fight, at least in boxing, they'll typically have VATA enforce, you know, 8week to 12 week out testing or something. For an actual, you like pro boxing fight for Jake and Tyron, it's like zero up to date. Well, that's all stipulated in a contract. Like, boxing is a very different animal. It's not like UFC. UFC, you have to do it. Yeah. You have to be in the testing pool for six months before your first fight. Uh, in boxing, it's all about the contract. Do we agree to VA? Do we agree to to testing? You know, we don't have to agree. We can only do the state testing, which is mandatory, but you know, you know the day you're getting tested, right? You'd have to be pretty you'd have to be pretty uh late, you know, foolish to get caught if you know the day you're getting tested. You're getting tested on a Friday or on a Saturday. So, you're getting tested at the weigh-ins or after the fight or maybe even sometimes before the fight. They call you in, they tell you, "Hey, don't pee. Once you get to the locker room, don't pee. Call us when you're going to pee." And they're not taking blood. They're just taking urit. So, you know, I mean, it's not the most, you know, broadsp spectrum way to test them. Yeah. Right. So, with with Woodley, obviously, the argument is that because there's such a lack of testing, like Woodley has a lot on the line in terms of his credibility and reputation. I would say like if he loses to Paul, who's seen as, you know, like a social media clown still by a lot of people, it doesn't really reflect well on UFC, you know, the MMA world. it kind of makes him look, you know, not as uh I it kind of reflects poorly on his skill set, you know, his elite, you know, history and whatnot. If you lose to Jake Paul and on the other side of the spectrum, Jake Paul obviously has a lot to gain. And if he loses, were people really expecting him to win anyways? Like I guess maybe now there's this hype train behind him. So perhaps, you know, maybe there is a bit of disappointment if he loses, maybe people are a little bit surprised. But in general, I think Woodley's reputation has more to like fall than Jake does, of course. So, I think there's definitely incentive on both sides. But your is your push back to that more so that Woodley doesn't doesn't need anything. Like you mentioned how like they both know there's no drug testing essentially. So like why would they not both be doing something? Well, the thing is I don't think Woodley does it. I'll tell you why. Okay. Because he has receipts, okay? We've seen him train and fight for over 10 years and his his progress has been steady. This guy's been training his entire life. Don't forget like if you show me a guy who's really really skilled, really really powerful, really really explosive and and you tell me, hey, he he got there in a short period of time, I think that's suspect. If you tell me he's been training since he's born, since he's, you know, Tyrone's been wrestling since he's six years old. Okay. And it's a very grueling sport wrestling like they build athleticism. It's not uncommon to have a physique like Tyrone in the wrestling world. It's not uncommon at all. Okay? So, you go to a collegiate wrestling tournament and you're going to see these kids are specimens. Why? They're in a highly anorobic sport and they have to weigh in. So, they they can't eat junk food. They can't get fat. They're they're they're dieting from when they're young and eating clean and any fat on the body is just uh you know pushing you on a higher weight class. So, they're highly muscular and they have they have a great body composition. Okay? And it's a very grueling anorobic sport. Now, if you look at boxing, boxing is much more an excuse me, much more aerobic. Plenty of anorobic work, but much more aerobic than wrestling comparatively. Okay? So, um you're doing a lot of jump rope, running, hours of bag, and sparring. How do you gain so much muscle and size when you're doing something aerobic? You're doing something so aerobic. And you could be you could say, "Oh, the guy's young, you know, there's a growth spurt." That's possibility as well. But generally, you won't get huge. And you know about getting big, right? When you when you're trying to get big, you're doing the most anabolic workout, anorobic or anabolic workout. You don't want to go anywhere near the catabolic workouts, right? Now, look, his first training camp was in Big Bear. Okay. He's training with Shane Mosley. Are you familiar with Shane Mosley? Vaguely, but yeah. Okay. Shane Mosley is notorious in boxing for getting caught once upon a time. There's a huge fiasco. So he got caught for steroids and EPO. Okay. And he was working with Victor Conte. He tried to say that he didn't know Victor Conte was giving him steroids. He was giving him EPO. And then after that he recanted that in court saying, "I admit it. You know, I knew what it was." etc. You could look it up. I'm sure you could do a plenty of videos on this. But it was a major major scandal. He beat De La Hoya. You know, De La Hoya was one of the top top fighters to ever box. And Mosley beat him and and it was a very very close fight. He won a split decision. turned out he busted for peeds and that's that that was also a guy working with Jake Paul. So for me like I know he's working with that guy he's training in Big Bear. He went from that fight his first amateur fight looking very average and normal to his first pro fight looking much bigger, stronger, explosive, knocking a guy down who's much much better than the first guy he fought. Yeah, we're talking about a year turnaround here. And he's bigger in size, more explosive, just like a whole different caliber of muscle quality. And that tells me, look, you know, I know what goes on in Big Bear. Like, I'm not crazy. Like, I've been in the fight game for a long time. You don't go you don't go train at altitude to get huge. When you train at altitude, you actually get smaller. Why? Because you're I don't know if you ever train at altitude, but it's much harder on the cardiovascular system. Your your heart has to work faster. So you if you if you run it's like it's like if you run a mile it's like you run 1.5 miles like it's much more catabolic much more uh catabolic than anything else so you lose weight it's a great place to lose weight lose size right so you know I mean there's there's a lot of drugs in all sports but definitely there's a lot of drugs in combat sports now I'm not saying the guy I know the guy did it no I'm not saying that at all um but I'm just saying in my opinion to go from A to B in that short period of time. It's It's very difficult. Yeah, I think I'm on the same page as far as Jake Paul. I just think knowingly if I'm I don't know. I can just imagine in Woodley's head, he knows how ridiculous it would look if he loses this, if he gets knocked out, whatever it is, even even if he's getting paid a large sum of money, it doesn't reflect well on him in any capacity where he has any kind of excuse other than I got, you know, laid out by a clownish YouTuber, what a lot of people are going to see it as. So, like you still think with all that being said, even if historically he's, you know, clean as a whistle according to USA, um you don't think he would be deploying any sort of assistance despite the fact that he is just as aware as Jake Paul that there's nothing stopping him from doing it. When you have a lifetime of training, you have that confidence because his his his his life is fighting. You have to understand like he's not scared of Jake Paul at all. He's fought guys. Every guy who's ever fought Woodley, yeah, has had at least minimum 10 years of training in the last 10 years. All of Woodley's opponents have had at least 10 years of training. They were all expert fighters. Like guys who've been training since they can walk. Okay, 10 years is like a it's a small amount. They've been training 15 years plus. Okay, he fought Wonderboy. Wonder Boy has been training since the age of three. He fought Kumar Usman. Kumar Usman who's been wrestling, you know, his entire life. He's fought the Gilbert Burns. Like, he's fought guys who are world champion in different arts, in different sports. He's fought monsters. So, I don't think he would be like, "Hey, this time I'm going to get on gear because this guy's really scary." No, I don't think so. I don't think he would go there. You have to understand, he's been hit by the who's who, you know, right? He's been in there with, you know, guys who would But again, MMA is even scarier because I'll tell you something, MMA, you're allowed to elbow the You're allowed to kick the guy in the in the neck with your shin bone. You're allowed to knee his face. I mean, you're allowed to grab the guy his head and knee him in the face. Like, it's it's a scary sport. Yeah. Um, if he went through all that, I don't think he's going to I don't think he's going to freak out because he's in a boxing match to be honest with you. Like, I don't think he would get so um overwhelmed by this. I mean, the guy's fought everywhere, you know, and he's fought the who's who. So, fair enough. Um, one thing I wanted to run by you is, so I just put in the chat box. I don't know if you're able to click on that link that I just sent you. It goes to Instagram. Okay. Okay. Let me know if it if it opens up. I'm not sure if you're logged in through your desktop to to Instagram to be able to see it. I'm not even sure I can log in. Okay. Here. Yeah, it opens. Oh, it did. Yeah. Okay. So this is Jake Paul's purported hit list where he has he has his first three opponents crossed off and then he has Woodley next and then after that he has Canelo Alvarez, Nate or Nick Diaz, Camaro Usman, Tommy Fury, Tyson Fury's half brother, McGregor, [laughter] KSI Gervant Davis, and then Logan Paul with a question mark beside it. So listen, I got to say he's great at marketing. I love his I love his marketing. I love what he's doing in the sport. He's bringing money and eyeballs to the sport is great. I have nothing against the guy. Okay. I'm all for it. Plus, somebody asked me a question. I gave my honest answer. Yeah. And I'll tell you like a great example actually if you look at his board. Before we get to your question, look at Nate Diaz's career. Mhm. He started as a guy very average and he went all the way to beating a world champion. Okay. He beat Conor McGregor, a legitimate world champion. He has a legitimate win over a world champion over a guy who's supremely talented. If you follow Nate Diaz's career, he didn't go from, you know, let's call it a C++ fighter to an A+ fighter overnight. No, he had a long journey. That's a guy, well, I bet my life is natural. Yeah, I bet my life on it. He's natural. Okay. Besides weed and all that, forget all that. No, not real peeds. This guy's never touched anything. And he's a guy who went through white belt to black belt legitimately. And he fought the who's who on the way up. And he fought and this guy had he had setbacks, kept coming, kept coming. And you saw a natural evolution of a guy who's working full-time around his game. He's constantly wrestling, boxing, conditioning. I mean, this guy's a real fighter and he's gone through an incredible journey. And you see him get better and better as the years come along. And that's that's what a natural journey looks like from an a for an average guy. Now you see McGregor who in my opinion is more talented uh even though he loses to to to Nate Diaz in in the future. A more talented guy you could see him explode but you saw that talent. A trainer will see look this guy's really really talented. He has something special. He's predisposed to fighting. So therefore he has this advantage. Um so that that's a good because when I saw the Nate Diaz name it just kind of popped my head. That's how average Joe goes through a career right? If uh Paul is ready to fight Woodley after fight one looks so amateur-ish fight three he's ready we all think he's gonna give Woodley a good fight because that's what we're all in our heads we're thinking how did you get there in three years it wasn't by doing yoga and having some guy lifted by his feet has nothing to do with it right and yes you jump rope we jump we jump more rope than you you hit back we hit more bags than you we hit miss we hit more miss than you sparred we sparred 10 thou these professionals have sparred 20 years. These guys are just getting in the game, you know? So, it's it's just it's crazy. But sorry. Yeah, the list. Yeah. So, if he beats Woodley, do you think any of those fights like besides KSI and his brother because that's kind of just like they're not technically like fighters, I guess. like, you know, arguably they are because they've, you know, done well in their social media arranged fights and whatnot, but the actual highlevel fighters like Canelo, Nate or Nick Diaz, Camaro Usman, Tommy Fury, McGregor, etc. Do you think any of those fights are realistic to happen if he beats Woodley? No. No. No. Canelo Canelo is a really bad idea. Like really bad. Like I I like the fact that he put it on the board. It's It's fun. It's cool. It's funny kind of but it's not realistic at all because in my opinion that's going to be really really Don't forget Canelo's also popped for [laughter] for substances. Okay. The the one reason why we give uh Paul a chance against Woodley is because she's bigger and stronger. He's not a better boxer than Woodley. What do you think about the Canelo drug test positive by the way? Because the Clenbuterol thing is pretty iffy given the uh presence in uh the meat contamination in Mexico and whatnot. Could it could be it could be I mean I don't know but that's again that guy has receipts he has a lifetime of training. Yeah, he's been in the ring. So, I don't know. I can't tell you. I know. But I know for a fact fighters do it, you know. They It's We have scientific evidence of that. People have been busted. People have admitted to it. You know, like uh it has happened. So, I can't tell you. But that guy because he has receipts plus, you know, there's tests that are positive. I don't know the ins and outs of that particular case, but regardless of that, he's a very, very dangerous guy. I mean, he beat he beat triple G for goodness sake, you know. It's just just another level. Uh Nate Diaz. Nick Diaz also a bad idea. I mean, those guys are just too far ahead. Kumaro, I mean, Kumaro is just like I don't know. Kumaro, you don't want to say his name. I would leave his name out off the list, but again, I think it's more of a marketing idea, you know, and the whole list is is not good. Do you What do you think is the most realistic one of any on that list? Oh, KSI definitely KSI is doable. Like I mean he there's so you know he could fight his brother, he could fight KSI, but I mean Connor would be you know bad if he if he beats KSI or his own brother and then he's he's going down this hit list like of the actual fighters you know like actual I don't say it like disrespectfully. I just mean like differentiating between the guys in social media and the guys who are like you know professional fighters for a living. Who of that list do you think is would make sense next or would even plausibly agree to step in a ring with him? I mean I mean if he beats Woodley, man, I would like to see him f fight Nate Diaz. I think it's uh they're more similar in size and it would be a huge payday for Nate and Nate would sell the fight. It would be brilliant, you know. Yeah. Um but I don't think Kumaro because he's the world champion. I don't think they would let him do it. Uh I mean Conor McGregor is going to be busy with other fights. He's got other mega fights waiting for him. I mean KSI I mean fighting his own brother I think will be probably too people think it's fake. I think KSI and probably Nate Diaz will be great because I think the Nate fight would sell uh probably more than anything else. You know, maybe Mazidal also would be great because he has a BMF title, right? Maybe they can put that on the line because it's not an official title. I don't know. Maybe they can work something out that's super, you know, marketing friendly. I like these kind of fights to be honest with you. I like these between MMA fights. We watch these these very intriguing boxing fights. I like it. I think it's it has a place. So, if he loses, do you think the hype train when it dies down and it's over, if he loses to Woodley, do you think he can still he still has any leverage to finagle like big fights in the future or what do you think happens? As long as he fights well. Okay. If he fights well, he could fight and a loss won't mean nothing. You know, I think it won't mean nothing as long as he takes it well. I mean, if he cowers in a corner and runs around in circles, which I don't think he's going to do, then, you know, he'd lose all credibility. But if he stands up there and trades blows and fights and like puts on a good performance, people will watch him again, you know, and we'll support him. We'll push him, you know. He's bringing a lot of big paydays. He's got the views. He's bringing people into combat sports. I like it. I think it's great. I'm really happy that Tyrone is making a big payday and he's Paul is making a big payday and everybody on the card, you know, so the fight community, I think we should support him, push it, you know, and so what he has a lot doesn't matter. He's still bringing eyeballs. He's still bringing a production. I mean, they put Tyson and and Roy Jones together. I mean, you know how complicated that must that must be and in like for boxing promoters to do that. That would have never happened if it wasn't for this uh this company. So, I think it's it's great. And if you had a Nate Diaz versus a a Paul, I think it could be really huge. A Mas Vidal versus Paul, I think it would be huge. You know, just just the intrigue. Just the intrigue. Doesn't matter who wins. We just want to see, you know, we want to see what happens. Yeah. Do you think that the like the what he's fighting in right now essentially he's been unchecked as far as testing parameters like this is the most strict it's been and it's literally like testing you on fight day essentially at best. Do you think that that plays a role in why he does these fights? The fact that he basically can get away with doing whatever he wants. Do you think that if he was under the scrutiny of more like USA level testing, do you think he would still be trying to go after these big fighters or what do you think? Because you think it has a pretty big role on his progression, right? You know what? He's got a he's a real fighter. You know why? He's getting in there with Woodley. Yeah. Like this is not a joke. Like he's really he's really he's not taking easy fights. He's not like taking a guy who's a YouTuber. He's taking a real fighter on. Mhm. So these guys when when you have that kind of that kind of warrior spirit, that kind of fight mentality, I don't think he's doing that for the drug test. I don't think I don't think he's thinking to himself, oh, I can I can get I don't think I don't think that's in his mind. I think he really wants to fight. Fighting is very addictive. Okay. So, I mean, like anybody who's ever fought and won, it's extremely addictive. It's it's it's magnetic. You want to do more of it. And look, he's got the guts to call out the big names, you know, he's doing it. So, the fact that he's stepping in with Tyrone, I think he has that he has that he has my respect. You know, he's he's a fighter. He's a real fighter. He's not uh you know, this is a real deal, man. Someday he's stepping in there. He signed the contract. So, yeah. You know, it's it's a real deal. What What do you think the like I know you probably you've given your prediction on your AMA, but just for like my audience, what how far do you think the fight goes? What do you think is the actual outcome? because you think he has like some sort of a a fighting chance. He's not going to get completely decimated, I'm assuming. No, I think because I think he's he's very strong. He's a very strong guy and he's he's never been hurt, so he doesn't know. He doesn't know what it is to get hit. So, you have that you have that confidence in you that it can help you uh but it can also get you in trouble. I think it's going to be a competitive fight. Okay. Because Tyrone Tyrone is a great striker, but he's not just a boxer. He was great with kicks, knees, elbows. Like he had he had a great Muay Thai. He trained with Duke Rufus. So he's not just he's not a boxing is not as he's definitely good hands. Got great hands, but he's more of a Muay Thai guy going into a boxing fight. A wrestler Muay Thai guy going into a boxing fight. And Jake just does boxing. So I think there's that advantage for uh uh Paul because Paul is used to crouching slipping whereas in Muay Thai if you do that you get kicked in the neck you get knee you get elbowed so there's not as much bending at the waist for Woodley's there are small advantages for Paul but ultimately Woodley has the greater advantage why he's been fighting at elite levels for a long time I just think it's going to be competitive because Paul is a very good athlete he's he's filled out really he's very strong very explosive he show a lot of power against um Ben Asprin. So, I think it's gonna make it for an intriguing fight. However, these guys can knock each other out at any moment. They both hit really, really hard. They both hit really, really hard. True. Yeah. Yeah. I think it'll be uh closer than people think perhaps with Jake Paul. I think a lot of people He can have one punch also. He can also end one punch. They both got that power, you know. So, a lot of people are going to want me to ask this is what percentage of UFC fighters do you think are on peeds now post USAata versus preusata if you had to speculate? You know what I asked that same question to VA once upon a time and they told me 70% of the roster this is before USA. They said like 70% of the roster we estimate is on gear. I would say it's probably 60% now. You think it's only dropped by 10%. Yeah, I think guys found new ways to get around it. I think they found new and innovative ways. Yeah. And u a lot of the guys play the odds, I would I would think, you know, they because they test for 300 different banned substances. You never know what they're going to test. And u guys are still getting caught, you know. So if they're still getting caught, it's because they're still doing things, you know. And I I feel like, you know, there's a lot more to it, you know. Um sometimes you get results that are very questionable, but they don't know what to do with it. you know, I I don't want to get too much into that. I don't want to get myself in trouble, but there has been some questionable things going on. But I think I think there's a lot of, you know, there's a lot of money on the table. There's a lot of like, for instance, when I'll give you one that's really well known is Anderson Silva when he popped against the Diaz fight. He popped nine days before the fight still happened. Yeah. Yeah. The guy he popped nine days before. Yeah. So, I mean, um, so you mentioned earlier, too, how you, one of the main points you had before we started this whole thing was how you think Jake Paul, his whole, you know, uh, crusade against um, underpaying fighters is is good for the sport. Like ultimately it might help people, you know, bring more attention to this not often talked about issue potentially. Do you think it's going to eventually be able to swing in favor of MMA fighters getting paid more when he's like putting all this heat on Dana and stuff like that, or do you think it's going to make a difference? I mean, I'm I'm not I'm not sure on his method of doing it, but the fact that he's getting Woodley in there is because he threw a lot of money at Woodley. Woodley would not entertain this fight. Yeah. Unless it was a major payday. I don't know what Woodley's getting paid, but I'm sure it's plenty because he would not have put his time and energy in this fight. I heard Ben Ascrin made a million dollars on that fight. That's amazing. That's crazy. I mean, if that's true, if it's true, I don't know if it is, but if it's true, I'm really happy for him. Yeah. And uh that's a great payday. If if if Jake Paul is doing that for the sport, he's doing a great thing. Yeah. I know. Uh uh Paulo Costa was one of the most like outspoken against being annoyed of lack of fighter pay. And I don't know what his like current deal is. Like I'm pretty sure he's going to be fighting um um Vtori I think pretty soon. Mhm. Uh I'm not sure if that's confirmed or not officially, but um I don't know if he's getting paid more for that now or what happened that swung in favor of him actually like you know agreeing to something. Do you have any uh predictions on that fight? Um I think uh Costa wins that fight. It's a it's a tough fight for Vtori. I think Costa, you know, that's another guy you see what a what a leap he's made in his career. If you look at his earlier fights, he was more of a grappler who was getting tired and a bit sloppy and then all of a sudden one day he's knocking people out in less than a round. Every guy he fights, he's locking out less than a round. And then, you know, you you question his background and you have to speculate. I think that uh and Victoria is another guy who's who's pissed hot in the past. Yeah. But I think there's two levels to this, you know, and I think I think Costa has the edge there. Yeah. When Costa went into the Ultimate Fighter Brazil, he was he went in as like a bodybuilder beforehand. Yeah. And like we all know, I don't know if there's drugs in bodybuilding. I'm not sure exactly. I never seen a bodybuilder eat ice cream. You know, I heard the that's the one way you can know that a guy's not on PEDs. If you eat like [\h__\h] [laughter] apparently you've never taken drugs before, right? Yeah. I don't I don't I didn't get I'm an Ohio boy and I eat [laughter] like [\h__\h] Therefore, I don't take BEDs. Okay, Jake. Yeah, that's amazing. That was amazing. It was funny. I guess I just didn't know what to say. No. Yeah. Like, how do you even [\h__\h] respond to that, right? It's just like, [laughter] oh, like you've definitely proven yourself clean, dude. Like, congratulations. From now on, you satis testing you. They they they call you live on Zoom and you have to eat ice cream in front of if you can't eat ice cream. Yeah. [\h__\h] You know, therefore, you're on steroids. [clears throat] Did you watch the the True Jordy podcast where they kind of like reacted to your I watched your reaction only to them. So, that was funny. Yeah. So, like the guy who was interviewing Paul, he came to the defense. Like I don't know if they're actually friends or not or if he's just like, you know, being favorable because he's interviewing him, but he's sort of like more on the social media side than the actual, you know, you in the trenches kind of side with actual fighters. So, he was saying how he was kind of making a comparison to GSP and saying how GSP, you know, one of the most athletic jacked looking fighters historically. he was, you know, very successful in a pre USATA era and he was saying if you're in a glass house, don't throw stones. And I thought it was a pretty bold statement to be like he was basically insinuating that GSP used to take [\h__\h] left the UFC when you said it came into the picture and then who are you like you to claim that Jake is on peed given the the evidence is way more in favor of we started the whole testing uh thing self- testing. Yeah, George hired VA to test himself and his opponents, paid out of pocket. It was an out-of- pocket expense. Mhm. It was an out-of- pocket expense. Now, uh, you know, we wanted Johnny Hendricks to test with VA and VA's, uh, protocol was that they post the results. No matter what the result is. Yeah. They post it. It's out of your hands. Once they test you, that's it. It's completely out of your hands. It's random. It's And I was on the call with the Johnny Hendricks camp. It was me, the UFC, their lawyers, our management from Georgia's team, Johnny Hendricks's management, and we're trying to make a deal where we're all going to sit down and make sure everybody's happy. And they wouldn't agree to VA testing. They wanted the Nevada State Commission to test him. Johnny didn't trust nobody with his They didn't want to do anything with VA. And UFC didn't want to deal with VA. I assume there's like a political beef. I I uh I offered to pay for my own pocket. George would pay VA. I would pay the Nevada State to to do it. So, we'd get private testing from both sides. And no, they didn't want to. So, George ended up testing by himself. He ended up doing VA testing by himself. Johnny Hendricks did no testing for that fight. And we're we're all about that. Okay. When uh when whenever we're asked to test this and I I've said this years ago, okay, when George was in the his prime, I said we're ready to do blood testing, blood, hair, and urine anytime. Anybody want to challenge us? Nobody ever took us up on it. We did it. We tested our camp ourselves just to prove to the world. Now, here's the thing. George is a freak athlete. Yes, he is. But do me a favor. Go see the receipts. Go see his first fight. What age did he start training? Go read his biography. His father was a black belt. He started training since the age of five. Now, it's not uncommon to train somebody from the age of five that he's going to be a rip freak by the time he's in his 20s. Of course, obviously, the guy literally has 15 years of training under his belt. He started training before puberty. I don't know if you're familiar with the work of Tudor PMPA. Tudor PMPA did a did a massive massive research on every world champion and what age did they start? No, no, I've never seen that. It's a great book called periodization and he starts off explaining to you that he's collected data from all world champions. What age did they start? It's always before, during, or right after puberty, but never a too long after puberty. Okay? So you'll never find a gymnast that started training at the age of 20 and made and who won a gold medal. It'll never happen. Why? They all start before puberty. Why? Because there's a lot of theories why, but generally speaking, when you're young, your brain is is less wrinkled. And as you age, your brain wrinkles. Okay? It wrinkles to a further degree. Of course, a baby's brain is wrinkled, but it's much it's much smoother compared to an adult brain. You become hardwired. That's why they treat they teach you to read when you're young because it's very hard to read learn to read or a language when you're older. Yeah, like you learn I don't know if you're whatever languages you learn, you learn them just by hearing. You don't know the grammar rules or anything that you know them intuitively. If you grew up listen hearing two two or three different languages like my kids speak three languages. Why? They grew up hearing three languages. They didn't go to French and English school before they could speak. They could speak before they went to school. Yeah. Just by hearing it. If you ask them grammar laws, they don't the rules. They don't know. They don't understand the the the ins and outs of of grammar. However, they can speak the language. So if you learn at a very young age and different sports have different uh ideal ages to start but boxing if I remember correctly is around the age of 12 or 13 like just when you hit puberty not before and not too long after. Yeah. Now there are exceptions. There are exceptions. You could find the guy you could find like for instance Bernard Hopkins really started boxing at 27. But this guy you could see right away this guy was a he was a a great athlete. He was a freak athlete. After his first fight we could tell he was very special. Like in Ganu for instance, you know in Ganu he hit the power cube. Okay. You know the power cube? He hit the power cube. A sledgehammer is 100 100,000 on the power cube. If you take a sledgehammer and hit the power cube, you'll score about a 100,000 uh score. Like when I hit the power cube, I hit like 60,000. Okay, which is like uh it's a good punch. It's not a great punch. It's just a good punch. Andu hits 240,000. Jesus Christ. You understand? So, if he hits you, you're getting hit with a sledgehammer twice. You know what I'm saying? He's that dangerous. Now, um Michael Kogan wrote the best like one of the best uh books I've ever seen I've ever read. Honestly, it's called The New Power Program. He talks about what creates human power. Like why do some people hit harder than others? Why do some people jump further than others? And and and number one, it's not a muscle type, fast twitch or slow twitch. It's where your muscle is attached to your bone millimeters or or miles in this case. So for instance, like if your bone, you know, it's leverage like let's say let's say if your bone is a is if your muscles attach a little further deeper, a little farther on the lever, which is your bone, you'll have more power. You'll create more power. It's like a crane, you know, like a crane, it has to lift at the right spot. There's a right amount, there's an increased amount of leverage if your muscles attach at a certain place in your bone. These things you cannot, you know, by the way, the Germans, the Nazis, they tried to experiment with reattaching muscle to bone trying to create super soldiers and carry more geared uh, you know, travel further. They invented drugs, by the way. All these peeds, they invented it when there's no, it's not an accident that the Russians were the best at the Olympics after the Germans. They're the ones when Berlin fell, the first to to get all the data of of drugs was Stalin. Stalin the the Russians. So you have these Germans that were incredible in the Olympics, they they they were already on peeds and then after that you had a boom in in the USSR. They had a boom of athletic performance. Why? They had all the data from the the German scientists who invented drugs. They invented meth etc. They invented all sorts of uh drugs. But still the number one factor on the list of power is not fast or slow twitch. It's not skill. It's where your muscle is attached to your bone. So if you want to hit like a Mike Tyson and you have the same exact mechanics as a Mike Tyson, you won't hit like a Mike Tyson. Why? Power like the sprinters say, sprinting coaches say, we can make you faster. We can't make you fast. If Hussein Bolt never trained uh track and field, and I trained my entire life track and field with the best coaches. Yeah. And me and him lined up in a prime of our athletic fitness and we ran 100 meters. He would beat me. Yeah. He would beat me. Why? Because the level of there's no skill involved. There is some skill to sprinting. I know people are going to jump on me now. Like you're like, "No, sprinting is also skill." Yes, there is some skills to sprinting. I think I think everyone knows like generally what you're trying to say. Yeah, it's torque. It comes down to torque. Now, for instance, by the way, uh what's that guy's name? I forget his name. Uh he was a great runner anyways. But even even Hussein Bolt's critique for his technique. His technique his running technique is not perfect. Mhm. However, he's still the fastest guy on the track. Why? It has to do with genetics has to he's predisposed for running. Now if you ask him to run 100 kilometer race, he might not be the best guy. Other guys are more predisposed to that sport. So predis predisposition has a lot to do with your success. Now, if we're talking about soccer, it's not the fastest guy that's going to win. Now, there are other skills involved. There are other tricks. I can use uh ball control to beat your speed. I can use all sorts of different uh you know, I can use creativity, memorize more plays. MMA is like that. Just because you're more explosive than me doesn't mean you could beat me. I can use my wrestling to wear you down. There's a lot more strategy and skill involved. Even though athleticism is still very important, but when it comes to sprinting, sprinting is highly uh dependent on your athleticism and not on your skill. It doesn't take me long to teach you how to run, right? You just have to run good enough to beat that guy who has less torque than you. No, that [snorts] makes sense. Yeah. Yeah, definitely. Um, the one thing about the uh, like circling back to the USATA thing, the enactment of it, um, and kind of the criticisms of GSP and whatnot, like obviously we know your stance essentially, but one thing I found that was interesting was recently, like as of a few days ago, apparently GSP did a podcast where he said, um, not only did Johnny refuse to do the drug testing, but he learned that UFC told Johnny not to do it, apparently. Yeah, from what I understand on being on that call, I think there was just a beef between them and VA. I think uh I don't want to get too much into it because I don't know if I'll get in trouble for saying for being on that call. I think it was privileged. But there was just I think it was a political thing and or maybe they maybe Johnny's team didn't want to be tested. Yeah. Well, yeah, he was definitely one of the guys who fell apart after you sat. It's pretty obvious why he wouldn't want to do it. He he agreed to it at first publicly. He was asked publicly, "Would you do testing?" And he said, "Yes, done." I was like, I I told I told George's management, "Send him the paperwork. Don't even ask. Just send it to them." He said, "Yes, we just have an agreement. Send it to let's start VA right now." And uh no, we had to get on a call. It was it was it was uh you know, we all everybody wanted to meet and the first thing they told us, "Well, we're not doing VA. There's no VA." So, at the end of the day, we said, "No, we said it publicly. We're doing it. We're going through it." George Shampir went through it alone. Yeah, he went they took blood and urine. They tested him at random and he's the only one who went through it. He kept his word. So for me, you know, I hope that makes everybody happy because what else do you want us to do? And I for years asked people who have doubts, test blood, hair, and urine anytime. Mhm. And nobody ever took me up on it till we tested ourselves. Show the world. But here's here's the thing. If you look at George, since he's young, since he's a young teenager, he was always ripped. He was he's an ectomorph. Okay, this guy whether he changes his diet or not, he's still very very lean. There are there are there are there is about like 20% of the population we all have a friend like that. He eats whatever he wants and he's still lean. Now being ectomorph or meomorph or endomorph is usually um upon conception what part of the fetus, believe this or not, what part of the fetus the you're um I'm forgetting the the egg is attached to. So I'm sorry I read it vaguely once. They're explaining what influences of course your parents your genetics. So you have more chance to become an ectomorph. Both your parents are ectomorph. But if you have a mother that's let's say endomorph and your father is meomorph, what are you going to be? You could be a blend because you could be a blend of the of the two. However, you can fall endomorph, you can fall meomorph, you can fall even ectomorph. You have smaller chances of it, but it's still possible. So I mean they have a science for it. That's not my field, but I've read about it in the past and it explains a lot. you know, explains why some people can eat what they want and never gain weight. Now, ectomorphs gain have a hard time gaining muscle. Yeah. So, you have two ends of the spectrum. Endomorph and ectomorph. Okay. Endomorphs gain muscle really, really quickly and fat very quickly. They're usually more like an H. They look like an H. Whereas, you have ectomorphs. Ectomorphs usually look more like an I or a V. They have very slender hips and then they go into a V. or they can have very slender shoulders as well and they're look like an eye. The ectomorphs have a hard time gaining muscle but they're more predisposed to long long distance endurance but also have a hard time gaining fat. Knowing this, we spend a lot of time making George do heavy lifting. Why? Because his weakness is putting on muscle. Now, if you ask George what's the perfect training regimen, he's going to tell you Olympic lifting, explosiveness, just explo. But I tell George that works for you. It doesn't work for that guy. The guy who's an endomorph, the guy who's, let's say, a, you know, very short and explosive, he needs to hit the track. His weakness is anorobic endurance and aerobic endurance. That guy, if I make him lift weights, he's going to add 20 pounds. He's going to die at the way wein. Yeah. You understand? I need to train that guy differently than you. But if you ask George, what's the best thing? Oh, I never run. Only short runs. Only short runs are the best. Yeah, we make George do short runs because it's more anabolic. Mhm. He's already predisposed to long runs. Like George can run forever, you know? He he'll just stop running when he's bored. We wanted to keep muscle was a was a muscle was always the first priority for George. Keeping muscle on his frame because if I made George do long hours of training, he would have got really really he would have lost weight. He would have got small quick. What did he walk around at? Like you know how in general like guys like Costa they will you know cut down to just make weight and then they'll super compensate up to like 215 when they step in the ring or shortly thereafter. Like what was George's like super compensation weight that he'd actually walk in the ring at? He he'd fluctuate between 185 and 190 but not much heavier than that. He was not a huge welterweight. like when he started his career, what was his kind of like how much muscle did he gain from the start of his career to like peak prior? Well, I would say he was pretty stable, but the thing is we kept the muscle on because don't forget when you do long hours of training, you can get into a catabolic state where you start to lose muscle. Like boxers for instance are not very muscular, but they don't have to wrestle. Comparative again, boxers are muscular, but I'm comparing them to wrestlers now. Yeah. And MMA fighters. MMA fighters and wrestlers would generally be generally be more muscular than boxers. Why? Because we have to wrestle and you need more muscle. It's more it's more ATP. It's more glycogen than aerobic when you're wrestling. You know, it's force against force. So, we put a a heavy premium on George maintaining his muscle because fighters can like if you look at and Nate Diaz for instance, he's not overly muscular at all. Why? Well, he does long iron man workouts, which I think is a problem for him because he's an ectomorph and he's doing long distance running. Why? I would have him doing the opposite. I would make him do 100 meter, 200 meter sprints. I would have put a lot more muscle on him. That's why in my opinion, he never developed as a really good wrestler. Because you're trying to you're training aerobically and then when you get into an anorobic exchange, wrestling exchange, you lose, right? So, if you look at Kabib, he's very muscular and and he's got a lot of meat on him. That's exactly what a wrestler is supposed to look like. I have to give you that build for you to wrestle. So a Nate Diaz in my opinion will never out wrestle a Kabib. Not because of you. You can make Nate wrestle just as often as Kabib, but he's not built to wrestle. He's built to strike. That's why he always excels in striking. Striking is more anorob excuse me, aerobic, right? So he's training aerobically too much. So he's going to fall behind in the anorobic portion of the MMA fight. Whereas, you know, you have you have the some guys that do the opposite. they lift way too much weight and when it comes to striking they're just a little bit slower, a little bit weaker, they get tired from the exchanges. So there's there's a proper balance. George was always predisposed to striking and aerobic work. So we did the opposite because George also grew up doing karate, So for him punching and kicking, he was very efficient. He'll never get tired punching and kicking. So like one of the things from what I understood, one of his main motivations to leave the UFC in I think it was 2013 was the last fight against Hendricks, right? the UFC 167 before he came back in 2017. No, I think he was he was just he had two ACL tears. Okay. He had I think he had one or two ACL tears because he had ACL tears soon after. I can't remember if it was before or after the Johnny Hendrickk fight and just basically I don't think he had the motivation to keep training like he did. He did he did do USA testing when he fought uh Michael Bisby. He went back into the pool and he was tested before and after the fight for a prolonged period of time. you know, you have to stay in the pool of testing. Um, so he's done it and he's been tested in the past as well testing himself when he fought Johnny. So, we were all for USA like nobody, but it was at the tail end of his career. He was in the Guinness Book of World Records for most hours spent in the octagon at that point. I think he got surpassed later by Frankie Edgar, but his knees gave out for him from underneath him. That's the truth. He [clears throat] had two ACL tears and uh that's a very long journey. That's basically your six months in a cast. It's a very very long journey. And also, you know, he was 30 plus now. He wants to have a, you know, family, some, you know, he he's been fighting full-time since he's, I would say, 19. And the UFC after the Johnny Hendricks fight, they wanted him to fight three months later. And he's like, man, like he's not going to go back into uh training camp right away. You know, it's being champion, you have to fight every three to four months. Yeah. It's a lot of pressure. Like, and it's difficult to live that lifestyle. He did it for nine years straight. Think about it. He He had a stellar stellar run. It's got to end sooner or later, right? [clears throat] Makes sense. Like so is the one of the main questions too and this sort of came up in that interview the other day is he mentioned how the Anderson Silva super fight when they were in their prime never happened partly because UFC did not have strong drug testing procedures at the time. is that like I can understand why somebody would say that given that Anderson's popped multiple times now. So maybe that was a smart move to never actually do that. But um like is that do you think that was the primary motivation like when when you guys talked about it? Here's the thing. Everybody thinks everybody's on steroids. You know, everybody thinks every So for sure we want testing. For sure we wanted testing. And there's a lot of discussions behind closed doors. Okay, do you guys want to fight? Okay, here here's our list of demands for the fight. and they have their list of demands and one of them for sure was drug testing. George always wants to drug test his opponent. He got to the point where he wanted to drug test everybody and that includes himself. Yeah. And you know I can't go into back room discussions but if they don't agree they don't agree but that's the way it is. So George was very adamant about his opponents drug testing if they want to fight with it. And especially presumably Anderson just wasn't on board with the same scrutiny as George. Everybody has everybody has their demands and that's one of George's demands that his opponents test on you know we wanted to pay out of pocket to have drug testing. And he did and he did and he ended up doing it alone. Think about that. I if I was Johnny Hendricks I would have done it out of principle. I can't let my opponent do it alone. I have to test too. He's giving blood hair. Like they weren't taking hair but it should be hair. In my opinion it should be blood hair and urine. But anyways, I think uh you shouldn't cut your hair during training camp. You should keep a certain length, etc. But you shouldn't bleach your hair. You shouldn't do it like that would be my ideal. Okay. Hair and urine. Excuse me. Blood and urine. I'll accept. I think that's that's that's good enough. They you know, we didn't we didn't both sides didn't agree. Let's leave it at that. But we're definitely on board at all times to do drug testing, blood and urine, at all times. So a guy like Anderson, like you mentioned how you typically look at their training progression and their skill acquisition and their power throughout their career to kind of as a reflection of if they're suspect or not rather than just do they have acne, do they have hair loss, could they have gynecomastia, etc. So for a guy like Anderson who was popped multiple times like on the latter half of his career rather than in his like pinnacle of smoking dudes in like dramatic fashion. Yeah. Yeah. Do you think his progression is reflective of being on [\h__\h] like the whole time or what do you think for him? You know what? I'll tell you something. I don't just go by physique. Physique is one factor. Yeah. If you put on 20 pounds of muscle in one year and you're already a developed athlete, I find that very suspect. I'm not saying he did that. I'm just saying that would be a flag for me. Okay. Because if you take a guy who's never trained a day in his life and you make him lose 10 pounds of fat, put on 20 pounds of muscle, but he had all that potential because the guy's never lifted anything heavier than a paper weight and you got him deadlifting. Yeah, for sure you could put on 20 pounds of muscle. Sure. If the guy's been wrestling and kickboxing since he's 10 years old and now you tell me all of a sudden you put muscle on him like that, that's very almost it's almost impossible. So musculature is one aspect. Now, I didn't think at that time that uh Anderson was on peeds because he has receipts, man. I've seen this guy fight in Brazil. He was he was a gem. Okay, if you look at his early fights, the Brazil, he's fighting in the ring with the who like just killers, man. He was he was a gem. He was very quick. He had amazing eyes. He had the long reach. He was very creative in the ring. The guy was a gem. He was like a like a Muhammad Ali type of Muay Thai. had a movement to him that was fluid. That has nothing to do with peeds. Now, there was a infamous episode of MTV cribs or cribs or something where they go to famous people's houses and you should look this up because you'll find it, I'm sure. And they went to Anderson Silva's house and there was like he opened the cupboard and there was like these needles or something like that and people like you got to look it up. Okay, so just Google cribs Anderson Silva peed and you're gonna somebody's going to highlight that picture. Now, as when I was really, you know, I was like, nah, that's circumstantial. It could be something else. Maybe somebody in his family is diabetic. Who knows what that is, you know? Yeah. It was just like such a like it went in the media. Everybody was talking about it. Now, today, because the guy failed, I think two two drug tests now. And now I would say, okay, it's very possible. Brazil has a peed culture. They do, you know, all all beach cultures. Anywhere where you go, there's a beach. Yeah. you're very often going to find uh steroids or performance-enhancing drugs like anything to make you ripped and muscular. Why? Because you got to take your shirt off. It's a beach culture. Beach culture, you got to be ripped. If you want to go to the beach, you can't go there, you know, chubby or whatnot. So, oftentimes anywhere you go, California, Florida, uh you know, Brazil, all places which I love to visit, but you you're going to see guys on on gear just you're just going to see lots of it. You're gonna see women on gear, you know? So, this is I don't know if you know this, but Anavar was legal to buy in in in Brazil at the pharmacy. Yeah. This is like maybe 10, 15 years ago. It wasn't a banned substance. You can literally go buy it over the counter. Uh so, he might have grown up around it. Just like a normal thing. I don't know if you found what I was talking about, but that was the one thing that people were like, "Oh, look, no, he's taking PDs." But because he had receipts, because he had such a long uh history of fighting and you could see his progression was uh you know he he he was very talented and he has the fights to back it up. So but if you put PDS on that then you have a legend on your hands and you have a guy who's like something special in there, you know. Yeah. What do you think in general about cuz the way you sat they kind of outsource who randomly tests in certain countries because it's not like they can physically be present especially nowadays with everything going on it's very difficult to be physically present in a lot of these different countries not just domestically in the states do you think there's a lot more leniency for guys who are Brazilian or guys who are I heard I heard yes I I heard that when they went to test Jose Aldo they called the cops on And the cops went and got their the sample back, Jose Aldo sample back. This is when he was fighting McGregor. And they're like, "No, we're going to test him. You have no jurisdiction here. You're not you don't have a visa to work here in Brazil." And this is what I heard. This is what I understood. So, and you could tell they're fans of the fighters. And Brazilians, like I love Brazilians, but they're ultra loyal. Like, if you're Brazilian, you're you're loyal to Brazilians, you know, like they're super ultra loyal. It's a good in one way, it's not so good in this particular instance. Okay. Um but I I do believe yeah it would be tougher to test them. Yeah, probably. Yeah, that's like one of the things that's rough because it's like there's only so many resources for USA to, you know, aggressively go after people. They can only deploy so much high sensitivity testing to begin with and then above and beyond that. It's not like they can physically be present worldwide randomly all the time with ease, not get like flagged when they, you know, go through the airport or something and alert the fighter. all this stuff that could go on behind the scenes. Like even McGregor said some like random Irish company was like coming to test him on behalf of USA, but it's like it's Irish people testing him. So it's like obviously there could be Yeah, there could be some, you know, behind the scenes [\h__\h] going on. Listen, there's always listen, Lance Armstrong, he he popped, right? Yeah. Most tested cyclist. Armstrong, he got popped and he was like the most tested guy on the face of the earth. There's always whenever there's money, power, fame, there could there could be corruption. So the you know it's it's it's it's a tough thing to be certain either way. Sometimes you can you can get away with it. Sometimes you you can get a guy who was innocent and you know maybe he just had a tainted supplement or a meat or it could be not it's not it's not logically impossible. So then you got to you got to look at other factors and I think you got to be e extra um extra careful with those athletes if they flag and there is a possible because there's also like tainted supplements for me like you might know that supplements already tainted like a lot of these supplements are fronts for guys who are selling drugs. Yeah. Yeah. A lot of people I don't think they realize that sometimes reverse engineering which drug you take is based upon well if this is tainted with this how about let's third party test a bunch of supplements find a tainted one and then oh it has this in it maybe I'll start taking that because I have this excuse now of the [\h__\h] that was tainted and you can like reverse engineer your drug selection process based on [laughter] like what is tainted I don't think a lot of people realize that you could have a friend who sells you peeds and he also sells a powder protein powder and you know that the peeds you take are in that powder as well. So one day when they bust you like, "Hey, that the powder I take, maybe it's uh maybe it's tainted, they go and they buy buy them off the shelves. That guy's selling PDs. His powder is just a just a front." And then all of a sudden they test it. Oh, yes, it is tainted. Yeah, it's tainted. I knew that. He knew that. And the guy selling me the drugs knew that. We all know that. So there's there's so many ways to get around the testing. Yeah. Uh at the end of the day, it's you know, it's it's a game, you know, like I mean, you should really read up on the Victor Conte mostly story. It's quite interesting actually. Yeah. Yeah. I'm pretty familiar with the Conti one. I just forgot that Mosley worked with him. Like I forgot all the athlete names. Like I more familiar with the uh the sprinters that worked with them, but like I'm I'm pretty familiar with, you know, the designer drugs he you know had created for him by Patrick Arnold, the kind of way they circumvented testing and whatnot. Very very interesting [\h__\h] Obviously, one of the most insightful stories in uh you know surrounding the peed world. One one one interesting case because we're talking about certainty, right? We know we're certain that Chill son, he admitted to it. He was on PDS when he fought for the first time. Yeah, he tested 17 to1. Yeah. Look at that fight. You remember watching that fight? It's one of the most epic fights in UFC history. He's literally out striking Anderson, dropping him on the floor. He's just all over him, standing on the ground, just all over him. Then they bust him and the next fight he's allowed six to one. This time they're more stringent on it. Look at the difference in fight the fight. Like one fight he's toying with the guy. He's out striking and and if you look at look at the receipts. What was what was Chosen striking like before? Okay. But he was winning only with wrestling. Now he's knocking down Anderson Silva like he's tagging him. He's just beating like he's just Anderson has nothing for him. Then they take that away. They bring him back down to six to1 because it was actually legal back then to be six to1. I don't know if you know this, but for a while they allowed TRT in UFC legally. Yeah. Yeah. And the six to1 cut off is like ridiculously lenient in itself. Yeah. It was It was just insane. And I didn't even know about that at that point. I was making my guys compete against guys who were on TRT. I didn't even know. I didn't even know. It came out later. I'm like, "What do you mean that guy my guy fought was on TRT?" Yeah. I'm like, "What? Nobody told me when they signed the contract." They said because, you know, they didn't tell me, "Hey, this guy, by the way, you're fighting on TRT." I would have been I would have been had a different mind about it. Anyways, so look at the rematch. Now, there's a lot of factors, but one major factor is that he's six to1 now, not 17 to1. Look what happened in that fight. He had to revert back to wrestling. The striking exchanges were take because when you're on PDS, you can hit harder. You could take more shots. You have much more uh I would say explosiveness, speed, like you're just you're just at a higher level. You're operating at a higher level. It just goes to show what kind of difference it can make. There we have almost a controlled experiment almost. Yeah. you run it back with half the testosterone, even less than half the TRT, excuse me. It just doesn't doesn't give the same effect. Now, of course, it's just one one one anecdote, but I can give you many. For instance, Sean Sherk. Sean Sher got busted. Oh, yeah. That guy was He couldn't get in the top 10. What's that? I said that guy was sauced out of his mind. Oh my god. Listen, I remember uh one of the guys I was training was fighting him and they showed me his uh his his doing like a countdown show where they film his fighting and then they filmed like they're showing you everything he does in fights, right? George was fighting him and another guy was also fighting him uh throughout the years. And I was watching his training. He did three he did three anorobic trainings in a day. He did mits and double leg drills like a really aggressive and he did like a caveman training basically circuit training and then at night he went to run hills with weight training. this. There's not enough testosterone in a human body. It would be counterproductive. Yeah, you would get weaker. If you train like that naturally, you would get weaker. Yeah. Now, maybe he's a genetic freak. Possible. Let me see the receipts. I go back. Look. The guy was a very normal looking human being growing up. You know, he the guy was on so much steroids after they busted him. He couldn't win a fight in the top 10. The guy who was taking everybody down, never never slowed down even the slightest bit. All of a sudden, he's struggling with a guy who's ranked number eight. Tim Sylvia is another great example. Tim Sylvia knocking I think he knocked out like I can't remember like nine or 10 guys in a row. He wins the world title. Knocks out a Rico Rodriguez with a one shot. Touch of death. Touch of death. Just dropping guys. Then he gets busted, gets cut from UFC. The guy's just not able to maintain. He's not able to even stay at that. He's not even able to stay inside UFC. He gets knocked out later on by Rick Mercer with one punch. a 45-year-old exboxer with literally one punch. What happened to that guy who was landing one shot, one kill? Yeah, by punching. The Thiago Elvis before and after. Pretty dramatic, too. Yeah. God, that one was hectic. There there's a lot of there's a lot of night and day. It's like, look, if you're a black belt in jiu-jitsu, a legitimate black belt, you don't just fall off. You don't go from black belt to blue belt level. You don't fall off that far. you have 10 years of intensive study. You don't you don't if you're a PhD in math, you don't just wake up one morning and you forget everything you know about arithmetic. Like it would take it would be a slow decline. If you have a quick drop in skill, something is wrong, man. You're missing a fundamental part. For instance, if you if you train somebody in boxing on on PEDs, they're they're not going to have the same movement and skill they would have if they were off PDS. Why? Because they they prefer going toe to toe. They're bigger and stronger. So they develop a style that reflects what what assets they carry with them, right? Like a great example of this is Reandial. Regandial, one of the best boxers to ever come out of Cuba. He had he has two he won 200 fights in a row. Listen to this, okay? Amateur boxer in Cuba. Look how special this guy is. He won 200 fights in a row, lost one, and then went on to win 200 more fights in a row in Cuba. You understand? Like Cubans are the best boxers. And this guy won 200 fights in a row twice. Yeah. But he's notorious for having the the weakest chin ever. Freddy Roach trained with it. Trained him. I never got to work with Brandon. I'm not in that boxing world, but he told me he's the he has the greatest defense he's ever seen. This is what Freddy Roach told me about Reandio. The greatest defensive fighter he's ever seen. And look at Reandial's first fight. This is how amazing this guy is. His first fight in America. He's just toying with this fighter. just toying with the guy and then his corner man saying like you got to go after him now. Put on a show for the Americans, you know, because Cubans are sometimes heavily criticized. They're often criticized for like a boring style of just like perfect point boxing. He's like, "No, put on a show so we can get that big money." Okay. He goes in there and kind of starts slugging with this guy that he's just annihilating. The guy hits him with a jab and drops Reagondiel. Now, Reandio hasn't been dropped in 200 fights. And this guy who we don't know his name just dropped Reggandia. Why? Because Reandanda abandoned his skill and he's like, "Let me duke it out with this guy. That's how poor his chin is. He's known for having a glass chin." But good luck trying to hit it. Now, if you put if you put on peeds and he maybe he could take more of a shot, he probably wouldn't have developed that sophisticated defense that he did in his in his entire career because he he realized his chin was frail. So he developed an entire system to keep his chin from getting touched. Yeah. And you see in his first pro fight, you see exactly he gets dropped by a jab, which is very rare. You get dropped by by a jab. Usually it's a hook or a cross or an uppercut. Yeah. I wonder how many guys develop their fighting style just purely based off the anabolics you're exposed to. Like Costa's fighting style, for example. Like he's definit he's definitely improved in all the aspects you talk about in your AMA. like you're you're one of the people who I referenced in my kind of speculation about his use versus not, but he has like a very just he abandoned this during his last his Addisia fight obviously, but prior to that it was just like push forward aggressive as [\h__\h] Just like the most testosterone style fighting you could [laughter] possibly imagine, you know, rock suck. Yeah, exactly. Look, here's the thing. If I can't teach a regular Joe to do what you do, I have to ask myself why. Well, in in the case of Costa who takes torque, if you try to fight like Costa and you don't have his torque, it won't work for you, right? If you're not if you don't have the ability to absorb shots like he does, it won't work for you. So, you could say that about almost any style, but there's there's a raw talent there or a synthetic talent that we need to cultivate because if it's not there, it does the system doesn't work. It relies on this. So, that's why I don't I don't believe there's one fighting style for everybody because everybody has different uh traits. Everybody has different gifts and some men's talent or is is based on synthetics. If I take away the synthetic hormones that they take, their style falls apart. Yeah. And we've seen that after you said we've seen guys, I don't want to name names, but we've seen guys who are elite can't beat a guy in the top 10 now, but they were in the elite 1%. Now they can't even beat a guy in the top 10. They've completely fallen off. Yeah. With touching on the whole Costa, like I mentioned the Edisonia fight briefly. Um, do you think if he stuck to his original game plan it would have gone well actually obviously his game plan was a bit different than what his normal fighting style is but do you think if he did his traditional grind forward just to super aggressive you know testosterone I think he tried I think he tried but he couldn't on ada's lateral movement and switching of stance was too much and the kicks were below Costa's radar right the kicks were in and out hitting their target before Costa could even react um that was one of the most masterful performances I've ever seen. I got I got to say Adasa when he beat Costa, I believe it was his 100th win. Mhm. Uh he's got the receipts for it. Okay. He he's a you know he's a that's a lifetime of training, a lifetime of precision practicing of precision. Those kicks were surgical and then he ended up landing the combinations with the hands. But in my opinion, the whole setup with the hands was was done with the kicks and the kicks were below the radar of Costa. Costa was getting hit without even seeing the shot coming at him. So in my opinion, he was a sitting duck trying to that's that's true martial art. That's like that's a that's a true matador. Yeah. He was in and out in a way at a and at an angle that Costa couldn't deal with and torque didn't matter. That's the ultimate u goal of martial arts. We're trying to give put torque in the back seat. Now, it's not jiu-jitsu, wrestling, and boxing is not perfect. Torque is still a factor until we perfect until we understand martial arts better at a and at a higher level, torque is still a factor. One day, torque won't be a factor if we keep pushing the envelope of of martial arts skill. Do you think if they run that fight back, same thing happens? Yeah. Even worse, I think, honestly, even worse, because Yeah. Ultimately, I guess that's his goal to get back to that spot again, but I don't know if he uh like what he could really fix. Like he got dismantled, you know. Yeah. I don't think uh I don't think he ever beats Adisagna to be honest with you. Um Okay. So, one thing about the Adisania thing that's notable is during that fight, he had the most brutal gynecomastia ever and it [laughter] caused a lot of like people were like, "You think Costa is on gear? Look at Addis right now." Oh my god. explain that to me. Okay. So, there's like ultimately it's like a hormonal input kind of equation where you have if you have a lack of testosterone relative to your estrogen or any kind of mis imbalance as a result of in general peed use, you will end up in a position where you're estrogen dominant and you can have glandular development. And for him, the onset was so aggressive and fast that it's really hard to kind of give it allocate it to anything else other than that. Now he claims it was his copious marijuana use which can increase can it can have some stimulatory input on breast tissue development but for a guy who's been smoking weed for years on would it have happened so suddenly and the onset to be so aggressive like he literally went from essentially nothing to within six to eight months seemingly having a giant tit. So, [laughter] so like for me the kind of hormonal equation thing it's kind of hard for him to you know skirt around that and kind of I never seen a guy I I've you know many guys smoke weed and you know I never seen a guy hanging with gynomomas and I never seen that from weed. I mean is that is that a thing? I've never heard of that. I think it can uh inhibit your testosterone production to some extent. It can have a little bit of a it can push you in the towards developing it but not in such a dramatic fashion that you develop it kind of out of nowhere I feel like. So it's really hard to justify and give him the benefit of the doubt. Although historically it does not really seem like he aligns with a guy who you would traditionally think like oh this guy's on peeds physique hasn't changed substantially. you know, his skill development. I think everything looks pretty aligned with what you would say is, you know, natural, right? Or what would you think in that regard? You know, the thing is physique is just one factor. If he's if he's taking gear and he's doing a lot of aerobic work, he's not going to put on muscle. And everybody, you know, some guys take gear and they balloon up and some guys take gear and they they don't they get more ripped. They don't really balloon up as much. It also depends on your diet. He's also very ectomorph, you know. So, I I don't know. I've never heard of a guy smoking weed and getting a tit. Personally, I've never heard that. I saw one doctor trying to break it down and said maybe he got hit and the soft tissue was No, that was I don't think so, man. I don't think so. Doctor was I had like a big kind of bad that guy got a lot of heat after he put out his video because he basically came out with a totally incorrect statement and said it's very rare to get uniateral gynecomastia development where you only have like one side and it's like that that's the most common type of gyno in guys who are using steroids. Is it? Is it? Yeah. You will typically get asymmetrical gyno development. [laughter] So for him, he kind of like [\h__\h] his own his own credibility. A lot of doctors don't know. A lot of doctors don't know because they're not trained in that per se. They're not trained in in working in gear. They might not know. You know, they they're trained in certain realms and they now they went out of their wheelhouse and all of a sudden they're making mistakes because they probably, you know, just repeat what they've heard over the years. Just because you're a doctor doesn't mean you're an expert in all medical aspects of of medicine. Yeah, that was one of the things because I got a lot of push back on my video because it was like this doctor came out and said this and you're wrong because he's a doctor. I was like bro get the [\h__\h] out of here. You'd be amazed how many things doctors don't know even basic nutrition sometimes they don't know. It's like oh yeah man. Yeah. It's it's brutal some of but they're not trained in they're not trained in nutrition. They're not trained in gear. They're not trained in PEDs. They're not trained in these things. So they have to research it like everybody else almost. you know, of course they have a better understanding of the body, but if they're not in it, if they're not like some doctors deal gear, some doctors give gear to their patients, they think it's good and they have a different philosophy and that's how they practice medicine. I know doctors who take gear themselves. They think it keeps them healthier and stronger and but if you're not in that world, you know, you might not know. But it it was very very peculiar to me that he had a he had a gym mast had gyno that fast that quick all of a sudden. It's still there too. Still there. It's insane. quite insane. Yeah. Yeah. And he just it's funny because he just he brushes it off too because like obvious who wants to talk about that I guess like if you're in a in a press conference and reporters are asking you about your tit like who wants to address that, right? But look here's a good uh so we so we can be certain. Let's talk about a case that we know is it's a matter of fact. It's not a matter of speculation. Like if we look at Dan Henderson, Dan Henderson earlier on his career, he was named, he was known as decision Dan. Yeah. Why? Dan Henderson, one of the great fighters to ever do it. Greatest fighters to ever do it. He would always go to decision. Mhm. Always. Then he gets TRT exemption. He gets on TRT. His physique doesn't change much. Not a huge change in physique. He was always very muscular. He comes from wrestling background. But all of a sudden now we're calling him his new nickname is the Hbomb. He's knocking guys out silly with a right hand. Like out. He always had a good right hand. When he fought Vanderlay Silva, he rocked Vander Silva with a right hand, but he didn't put him out. Yeah. And he never had a good left hand at all. And if you saw him hitting back boxing mits, he didn't look smooth at all. He was kind of more of a tough wrestler. Fast forward, he gets a TRT exemption. Of course, they're not going to stay six six to1. You only have to test six to1 on the week of the fight. Yeah. Yeah. You could be 20 to1 through training camp. You know, of course, you could train harder. You take more more bone mass, musc musculature increases. Uh you're more you could train longer hours. You could put yourself through more strenuous training and recover. So this guy now all of a sudden he's the hbomb. Not only does he have an explosive right hand that could knock you out silly. I don't know if you saw the Bisbig knockout. He knocked out Oh yeah, that was intense. Very badly. Now he knocked out Vand Vanderlay Silva in a rematch because the first time he fought Vander Silva, he got a complete beating, you know. Yeah. Yeah. He had a few moments, but he he got beat back. On the rematch, he kills Van Silva with a left hook. Now, he's never hurt anybody with his left hook ever. All of a sudden, he's got two H bombs. He's got two powerful one-touch, one kill type shots. Where did that come from? His punching mechanics, and believe me, I'm I'm an expert in body mechanics when it comes to martial arts. Like, I I that's what I that's what I do for a living. Okay. Yeah. Fighting is what I do for a living. His mechanics are not any better. Where did this power come from? Where did this surge of extreme power? Hormones make a difference. Look at the the the current weightlifting champion in women's division. The guy couldn't place even in the men's. He he wouldn't be in the top 100 in the men and now all of a sudden he gets a sex change and he's the best in women's. Like, is that insane? Why do you think it is? Because he he improved his technique on his clean and jerk? No, it's because he's been he's been a man his entire life. Yeah. Yeah, that true Jordy guy like in his kind of comparison of GSP and Jake Paul and him saying, "Oh, GSP is Jack." Jake Paul is not. His physique is not, you know, reflective of a guy in PDs. I don't think a lot of people even at TRT levels like forget the fact that Jake could take whatever the [\h__\h] he wants because he's not being tested at all. Even at even at TRT levels, oxygen carrying capacity is increased, motor unit recruitment is increased, your ability to recover, and as well, if you have like a hard training session or even are overtraining, the average guy is going to have their testosterone nuked into the ground. You're going to be walking around like borderline hypoganatal with that much intensive training in an MMA capacity. Whereas a guy on TRT, you could literally go drink, eat like [\h__\h] train however you want, and your level is manually maintained and stable. It does not even a natural peak hormone production if they weren't training at all. They would like a few a handful of hours of the day maybe have like a 800 nanogram per deciliter total and then it'll dip down like a dal rhythm. Whereas a guy on TRT you're manually maintaining it stably at like a thousand and never having to deal with any dips whatsoever regardless of what you're subjecting yourself to. So above and beyond the fact that on paper your levels look natural. The performance-enhancing advantage of TRT is [\h__\h] massive. Exactly. Here's what people don't you should never forget. It's stress plus recovery equals adaptation. Mhm. You have to have stress. You trained. You stressed your body. You recover and then you have an adaptation. You're a little bit better than before. That adaptation period is a rest. I have to push pause. Yeah. Not so if I take synthetic steroids. That's not not as much. Why? Because I depleted my testosterone. I depleted my hormones when I stressed my body. Now I have to let them I have to eat, sleep, rest, let them come back up to what they used to be. And now I I have super compensation. I I'm I'm better than I was before. But that cycle takes time and you got to repeat it over years. If you look in studies of natural bodybuilders who've cut for competitions, and we all know how aggressively guys in the UFC weight cut, the amount of hormone diminishment you get from weight cutting, it can take months to get that back up to baseline. It's not like you have a good night of sleep and you're back up to to baseline, like you're [\h__\h] for that entire weight cut. You're at like very suboptimal levels versus the guy on TRT peaked the entire time. Exactly. You know, uh, the strongest gym in the world is Westside Barbell. And they say, "Okay, you got to you got to max out every week." Now, we have we have control studies where if you max out week one, week two, you're a little bit stronger. What max out means you you bench your maximum weight. Yeah. Week two, you're a little bit stronger. Week three, you max out again, week two, you're a little bit stronger. Week three, you're a little bit stronger than week two. Week four, you're weaker than week one. Why? They call it CNS overload. Your body has to go through a resting period. You cannot max out more than three weeks in a row. So some people, you know, they they have a three-week program. The fourth week is a Terry week and then the week week four uh sorry, week five you start again a new cycle. Okay, makes sense. He says you got to max out every week. How does that work? Well, they're on PE. Yeah. He he wrote an article, what's the best way to recover from your workout? Number one, peeds. He's open about it. He's open about it. Yeah. How are you gonna max out every week if you're not on peeds? That's the what people need to understand. I can get to where I need to be a lot faster. If I can eject testosterone in my system. Why? Because it would be counterproductive for me to keep working when my testosterone is depleted. Now I go in a catabolic state and eat up the muscle that I've been trying to build. I need that muscle to make to do these movements. I'm shooting myself in the foot. That's why I'm saying when you show me a Tyrone Woodley, you need to show me also he was training since he's very young or he was that uh athletically gifted when he was very young and he has those receipts. That's why, you know, I I I I don't I Tyrone Whidley was not was didn't didn't get where he is overnight. He didn't. I'm sorry. He He's got the receipts now. I've seen guys get really good in five years. Let's say get their black belt in five years, whatnot. It's nowadays it's generally because of PDS. There were there was a time where jiu-jitsu was so it was so unknown. It was such a like a underground martial art that in five years you were comparative to the rest of the jiu-jitsu world a black belt because it goes by comparison like if you could beat a brown belt you're higher level okay we give you a black belt so that's one that's part of the equation of how we give you belt today if you're going to get a black belt in five years man it's almost impossible why the information is out there so everybody's doing jiu-jitsu and the guys who get their black belt in five years are usually on a lot of gear like I haven't seen a single case in the last 10 years the guy's on a lot of gear because your body can't take that much training without breaking down. Yeah. Competitively in Brazilian jiu-jitsu, it seems to be one of the most drugridden Oh my god. Oh my. It's worse than MMA. It's worse than MMA. You got guys going in like local tournaments, blue belt level, and they're jacked out of their mind and they're resting some little kid. It's like, it makes no sense. It's insane. It's insane. Like, and the thing is their jiu-jitsu is ugly. Like to me, when I see their jiu-jitsu, it's just it's just tough. It's just it's just brutish. It's not sophisticated at all. But they don't know it. They think their jiu-jitsu is the same as that other guy. Why? Because it's effective. There's a difference between efficiency and effectiveness. Yeah. Like for instance, there's a guy named Paul Harris in our sport MMA. Okay. He would just drop down, grab a guy's ankle, and rip it off. Now, the guy was effective, but his jiu-jitsu was not sophisticated. My opinion, it was good, but it wasn't as refined as other practitioners. Now, I always said, my opinion, I thought he was on peeds. Then later on, he got busted. He got busted on PEDs. Why? Because the way he's torquing the ankle is not correct, but the ankle still broke. Yeah, but it won't work for you if you're not as torqued as if you're not as jacked and powerful as him. I wouldn't trust that. Like if you grab my ankle, I would tap because the guy's strong enough. Doesn't mean he knows how to maximize leverage. That's a whole other topic. What do you think about guys like um are you familiar with Gordon Ryan? He's like one of the top of course. I've trained with him for many years. He's actually I know him very well. So, like what do you think about I don't know what his goals are specifically because I know he's dealing with a lot of GI issues right now trying to just get back to work like being able to train properly and you know compete at a high level again. I don't know. Do you know if his goals long term or to get involved in MMA? And if so, do you think that's a avenue that a guy going from a pure BJJ background can transition to well, especially given the, you know, like uh reputation of the drug use in BJJ relative to MMA? Well, we're both black belts under John Danahar. Okay. So, we I grew up training under John. And then Gordon's like the generation after. Yeah. Okay. So, I know him well. I know him since he's very young. He's a very very intelligent guy. If he puts his mind to MMA, he could do it. Especially with John in his corner, John Danahar, which is in my opinion the greatest jiu-jitsu mind ever. Um, he's changed the face of jiu-jitsu. He's created so many innovations. All the trends of jiu-jitsu are today or a lot of them come from him. A lot, not all, but a lot. Uh if he really puts his mind to it, uh he can go very far. Will he do it? Because in my opinion, he's making so much and doing so well in jiu-jitsu right now that um to start back at the bottom of the totem pole might not be something that's that's financially the best because right now he's at he's at the tip he's at the tip top. He's at the top top of the jiu-jitsu world. He's arguably the greatest jiu-jitsu guy ever, Gordon Ryan. And I think he could cement that and just, you know, be uh, you know, be that legend in the sport. Not directly comparable because obviously Ascarin did compete in another like MMA league and he wasn't like, you know, a pure like he he wrestled was his main kind of like vector of, you know, beating guys, but he sort of had like a similar a similar kind of situation where he was like the peak of his smaller niche. And then when he went into the big leagues, it didn't exactly work out well for him and it probably like bursted his career, you know, to some extent. Do you think that's a potential risk for Gordon Ryan that may sway his decision to Yeah, because you know what the thing is? MMA has has there are more there are more complicated things in MMA. MMA there's obviously there's striking and the thing is I'm sure he could figure out striking. I'm sure you can get really sophisticated with striking. But the thing is with striking, it also has a lot to it has a lot more to do with natural ability and your ability to absorb a shot. Now, here's the thing. We never know. You never know by looking at a guy how well he could take a shot because obviously you don't want to take shots, but you're going to take shots. You got to make your peace with that. If you're going to fight MMA, there's no there's no guy in the in the sport who went to the highest level who never got hit. Now, some guys have great jaws and some guys have glass jaws. If you go into another sport and you find out you have a glass jaw, well, guess what? It's going to be really complicated to make it to the top. So, we don't there's a lot of question marks we don't know, you know. So, there's there's been some guys who've made the transition and it didn't go well. Like, for instance, I'll give you a great example. Marcelo Garcia, arguably the greatest jiu-jitsu guy ever. Mhm. He tried to make a transition to MMA. It didn't go well for him. Why? He just never took to the striking. Why? That's kind of complicated. It just didn't go well for him. and he he one of his fights he takes a guy down on the ground and gets his back. So he's on he's in the best pos jiu-jitsu position you could be in and he couldn't finish the guy for like eight minutes where usually he only takes a handful of seconds to to tap somebody out from that position. What was the difference? If I put that guy with Marcelo Garcia in in that position on the mat in a grappling scenario, he would choke him out. It wouldn't take long. I guarantee you it. However, in an MMA scenario, it just it wasn't working for him. Why? In my opinion, it was the stress of maybe getting stood back up. The stress of like, you know, being in a new environment, trying to process what's going on. The guy's kind of punching you at the same time. He's not reacting the same way as a jiu-jitsu guy. So, there are all these unknowns that we don't know until we get we get them in the water, so to speak. You know, we got to get them in the water and see because a lot of the guys also buckle under the pressure. There's there's AI'm not I'm not saying Gordon would or would not. I don't know. That's that's what I want to find out because that guy across the ring from me is allowed to hit me as hard as he wants. There's a psychological pressure and reality that people don't know unless they they fought. Yeah. You know, when you're sitting down on the couch watching a fight, you I always tell people, I would love people always like, "Why didn't he do this? Why didn't he do that?" I would love to see you in that position. Feel the pain and fatigue he's feeling right now. Like I wish, you know, there's a virtual reality where you pick a fighter and you're going to feel whatever that guy's feeling. The fear he's feeling, the nerves, his legs are numb. He's he's he got hit in the jaw. Maybe his jaw is cracked. Uh maybe he got hit to the body. His his rib is really out of place and the guy's he can barely breathe. That all affects the decisions he's making. People are like, "It's so obvious. He just should have shot a taked down." It's like, dude, it ain't that easy. Maybe he was worried about the knee. Maybe he got hit with an elbow. Sometimes guys get hit in the octagon and people don't really notice because it's not them getting hit, but that guy got tagged. Sometimes guys get tagged with a little elbow. People think it's not much, but look at the way the guy's reacting. It is actually something. So people don't know fighting is very complicated, man. That's why when I see people in the street starting a fight, I'm like, "Dude, you don't know what you're getting into. Let's let's try to walk. Let's try let's try to part ways, man. Fighting is a dangerous thing, man. You don't want to be fighting. It's not a It's not a It's not something you should take lightly. I've seen people get really really hurt in fights. Really hurt badly. Do you know what Gordon's goals are by chance? Like you're relatively like familiar with them, obviously. I know ultimately he wanted to do MMA. Mhm. Uh, you know, I haven't talked to him in a while, but um I think I think he's having so much it's jiu-jitsu is so hot for him right now. He's doing he's selling instructionals. He's the number one instructional. Him and John are they're doing amazing there. I think they should just like I think they're probably just going to uh you know dominate the jiu-jitsu world, make their mark as the greatest jiu-jitsu team ever. Mhm. And that's something that I think is uh just as important as a UFC world title for them, you know, because it's really they're at the forefront of jiu-jitsu, right? It's it's it's really really special because he's a no gee guy because you know before they used to tell us you have to do the ghee. Gordon is the first no guy to beat all the ghee guys. Yeah. In Abu Dhabi. Like he he didn't just beat them, he just like crushed them. like he he's devastated the the no ghee world and now he's basically starting he's almost creating a divide like like judo and wrestling. Imagine there was a time where judo judokas with the ghee would take it off and win all the wrestling tournaments and now they're they can't the guys who were freestyle wrestling their whole career. You never see by the way you never see a judo guy win in freestyle Olympic gold. You never see it. Okay? Doesn't exist. The the objective is the same. Put you on your back throw you. But you have a ghee that changes the entire game. In jiu-jitsu, it was medley together for a while, but John and me would always say, "Look, that's going to change over time because they're two different worlds. To learn the ghee, you you're there's an opportunity cost, right?" And to because there are things in they don't work with the ghee and no ghee. So anyways, basically no ghee and gear are about to break past in jiu-jitsu. And Gordon and and and John are a big part of that that break the because Gordon's not known for ghee. He doesn't do ghee. He's never won a world title in ghee. Mhm. He's the first guy to go to that level without the ghee, right? Like legendary status. All the other legends had championships in ghee also. The sport is changing. Jiu-Jitsu is growing. Jiu-Jitsu, Mark, one day jiu-jitsu will be the most dominant sport in MMA again like it was in the past. Okay, jiu-jitsu is innovating and growing at such a rapid rate. It's the youngest of the sports. So, boxing's been around forever. Muay Thai has been around forever. Wrestling's been around forever. It's so refined, there's no room for wacky innovations. Jiu-jitsu is so young. What we're doing today is so different than what we're doing five years ago. The guillotines we're doing five years ago were lame compared to what we're doing today. The takedowns, the the the arm bars, everything has changed. All the subs have become more sophisticated. All the entries, the sliding into the legs into leglock. Of course, the leg locks have made taken a major uh leap in in innovation. The future is of jiu-jitsu is looking super bright. They're gonna there's going to be a day where you you if you touch a juice guy, you try to take him down, he's gonna sub you right away. It's the innovations are coming fast. Yeah. Yeah. It should be interesting to see where it goes. I'm I don't know. Like I think uh like obviously objectively I don't have enough experience to really make a comment on it, but it seems like if you're at the peak of your sport and then you try to go to something you could high risk as hell and completely compromise like everything you've worked towards potentially like I don't know. Is it worth all the brain damage and [\h__\h] too potentially? Maybe they make him an offer a contract that secures, you know, this is what you would have made in jiu-jitsu. Well, here's a contract that's, you know, a little more than that coming to our sport. It could be. You never know. Yeah. Um, you never know. Maybe he makes so much money he's like, "Hey, let me do let me take a crack at MMA." But I think there's it's not just money. It's a status. You know, John and and Gordon are doing something extremely special in uh in jiu-jitsu. They're really like reinovating jiu-jitsu. Yeah. What' you think of the uh Logan Paul Floyd Mayweather fight? You know what? That's what Ben Ascrin should have done to uh Jake Paul. Tie him up. Wrestle him. Tie him up. Why the hell? You know, I love Ben Ascarin. I think he's a brilliant fighter. But I think he underestimated Jake Paul. And and Woodley is going to benefit from that greatly because Woodley's taking Jake Paul seriously. And I think Ascrin to unfortunately didn't and that's why he paid the price. He put his chin up and his left hand down which should have been the opposite. His chin had to be done, his left hand up and he has very very competent trainers and he knows this. Ben Ascrin is a very intelligent guy. I think if Ben Ascrin went in there with the fear of losing he he could have actually come out on top. I think Benask could have done a lot better than what he did. Now look, making no excuses. The guy had a hip surgery. He didn't look like he's in great shape to be honest with you. Didn't look like he's in great shape. But still, he lost fair and square. Jake Paul beat him. Jake Paul did what he had to do. I mean, after that fight, I went on air. I did my podcast. and said, "Look, I take Jake Ser Jake Paul seriously as a serious fighter. We all have to." He knocked out a guy that many guys hit on the chin and couldn't put away. And he put him away with style and quick and easy. Yeah. So, we got to take him serious. And I think Woodley is and this is the first gunfight we're going to see Jake Paul. And I'm excited to see it. Now, you know, a lot of people want to see him go down. I just want to see how how how good he is. And I think Woodley is going to answer that question. He whether he wins or loses, we're going to know how good he is. Yeah. And it's exciting. I want to find out the like I guess Logan he like to me he probably looks more impressive when he's fighting than Jake. Although I don't necessarily know that he's more effective in the ring especially given the fact that he hasn't never won a fight ever. And I don't know like what do you think is next for uh for him? Like the Floyd fight I guess it was impressive that he survived. I don't know. Listen he he he just wrestled him the whole time. The referee could have made a huge difference if the referee took away a point and or stopped the clinching right away. The guy he clinched the whole time. He did exactly what Ben Ascin should have done. And kind of wear out Jake and see what Jake has in the later rounds. That could have been interested. But he didn't. It was a wrestling match. I honestly I didn't watch the whole thing. I just kind of fast forward. It was just too much clinching clinching clinching. I was like I know exactly like what they're doing. And Mayweather's a much smaller guy than Logan Paul. I mean that's the end of [snorts] the day. But Logan, hats off to him. He he survived eight rounds with the man. you know, he survived their rounds, but if they actually boxed, it would have been a different story. I think when he's not gassed out, which for him, like I don't know if it's just because his muscle mass, his, you know, lack of his general size, like obviously his oxygen caring capacity is nowhere near somebody like Mayweather. Um, like what do you think happens if Logan ever step in the ring with Jake given their current skill set? I think I think Jake is just mentally tougher. Like I'm sure Logan is really mentally I mean he got in there with Mayweather for goodness sake. I just feel that um it's hard to quantify but Jake has more of a killer instinct. Again I'm just speculating here but Jake I I'm I'm impressed with his ability to pull the trigger whereas Logan I think he would he's thinking too much. He's not reacting like uh Jake, you know, he's not. So, by that I mean he's not well rehearsed enough like Jake because I saw his fight with KSI. I saw both of them. Yeah. And um the first fight he had the few first few rounds in the bag, he started to fade. Second fight, I felt like he wasn't adapting to KSI. Whereas we've seen very little of Jake Paul. But he's been so perfect in those that very little that he finds that little window and he pulls the trigger. He's great at pulling the trigger in that little window, which is something very special in a fighter. Like it reminds me like McGregor was always great at that. If you give McGregor the smallest window, uh he'll destroy you. You know, it's just he he's so good because you know, punching happens in a blink of an eye. Like you throw a punch, you got like milliseconds to react and some guys have such great reaction. And Jake Paul's one of those guys. Yeah. I think in sparring sessions and whatnot, Logan just looks objectively more impressive to the layman because he's so athletic. But in the actual ring, in a real fight, Jake is like obviously more effective, you know, proven to date. So, you know, but then again, he didn't fight Mayweather, right? I mean, Logan Paul fought a much tougher guy. Yeah. But the KSI I'm I'm referring more to the KSI fights because the thing is boxing there's a there's a game of adaptation. You do one thing in round two and you do something else in round four. Why? Because the other guy changed what he was doing. He's not doing what he did in round two no more. So now you got to kind of adapt and there's like this back and forth chess game that's being played. Um I feel like Logan played that not so well against KSI. Again, he's still growing and learning in the sport. Whereas Jake Paul as of date, even though his fights were really short, he really played his hands well. Like he did a great job with Ben Ascrin. Short fight, but he got hit with a shot against uh Jake. He stepped out, circled out, got right back on Askin. Excuse me. Askin hit Jake with a shot. Paul just circled out, came right back on him. Stayed on him. He didn't like show any uh uh he didn't drop the game plan. He stayed right on it. He reacted really well. He acted like a true pro. Yeah. And I think he has that killer instinct, which I I think is a very important thing at high level fights. For a high level fight, super important to have that killer instinct. You you you start strong and you finish strong and you look strong throughout the fight. Whereas Logan, I felt like he was wearing his emotions on his sleeve. You know, he was getting caught up in the drama. And I think that's that's something that uh it it lacks a little maturity, which I think will come come together over time. Yeah. Um yeah, I think this would be a good spot to wrap it. Like I I want to try and get this video up ASAP and try and uh scoop up some of the algorithm before the fight. And uh um I appreciate you coming on with me and, you know, hashing this out and whatnot. And it's really fun to dig into some of this stuff and get your expert insight on things. Like it's not every day that we have somebody of your caliber who you can just run bounce questions like this off of, you know. So really appreciate you coming on. Is there uh everyone go follow Faras at it's Tristar Gym on YouTube, right? That's right. Tristar. Okay. And is there any other social media? Like you mentioned you're not really on Instagram, but is there any other places that you want to plug or anything like that? No, that's it, man. I think that's pretty much it. Okay. Awesome. Thank you guys for watching. Have me on anytime. Okay. It was fun. Killer. I appreciate that, man. Really. Thank