 almost entirely. A lot of people will demonize 5-alpha reductase inhibitors, and justifiably so in some cases. But even when you look to literature that compares placebo versus finasteride versus dutasteride, side effect profiles are pretty similar even. Yeah, dutasteride and finasteride being two drugs that block 5-alpha reductase used initially for reducing prostate size because DHT disproportionately drives prostate growth, but also used for hair loss now. Yeah. But yes, and we have talked about this on two podcasts previously about post-finasteride syndrome, which is a debatable idea. In other words, there is not a clear consensus in the urologic literature about even the existence of this, let alone the prevalence, let alone the reversibility of it. All of these things are really unknowns. And actually, it's created quite a bit of a conundrum for us because we have a number of patients who take finasteride or dutasteride for hair loss. And what's your stance on 5-alpha reductase inhibitors just at a... Yeah, I mean, look, I think I'll be honest with you. I never really paid enormous attention to it until about a year ago. And I think right now our stance is I probably wouldn't start somebody on it. And if a person... So in other words, if a person has BPH, we're not going to manage that anyway. But a urologist has far better tools to manage BPH than 5-alpha reductase inhibitors. So I feel pretty strongly that if you're presenting with BPH, you should not be on a 5-alpha reductase inhibitor. It's simply unnecessary. It's like if someone came to me and said, you know, my ApoB is too high, and I gave them a bile acid sequester in circa 1981. I mean, it's just not necessary. There's no upside. If you're talking about it from a hair loss perspective, again, not something I obviously know much about, I would say... And they're going to go and see a hair doctor who's going to try to give them 50 different proprietary compounds, which by the way, I want to come back to that in a second. I would encourage them if they've never taken it before, not to, because I think there are enough other compounds, oral minoxidil, topical minoxidil, topical 5-alpha reductase inhibitors, PRP, transplants. I think there are enough other tools that you can do to avoid the small, but not necessarily zero risk of something going wrong in terms of sexual side effects that, in the worst case, might not be reversible. What about you? What do you think? I think that several of the drugs you just said have either comparable side effect profiles, like topical finasteride, you end up with the same burden of 5-alpha reductase inhibition systemically, despite the effect that it's marketed otherwise. Topical dutasteride is interesting because it may have some capacity to stay local, especially if you do mesotherapy, which we'll get to in a sec. Why do you think that's... I wasn't aware of that difference. Yeah, it's thought to be the molecular... Is it just hydrophobicity? It's more the molecular mass of the drug. So there's this like, it's like an arbitrary rule, but if the drug, if the molecule is greater or less than 500 daltons, I believe it is off the top of my head. It's been a while since I've revisited it, but there is a lesser or greater ability to actually absorb it and get systemic circulation and distribution across the body. With dutasteride, I think it's like 600 or 700. And with finasteride, it's like 300 or 200 or something like that. And to be clear, you're right. I mean, I don't think that systemic minoxidil is necessarily a benign drug. And the other thing is nobody really can give an explanation for what the right dose is. If you look at how people are dosing oral minoxidil, it's insane. So yeah, I don't, again, I don't like to be in the business of prescribing things for which I don't have a great understanding, which is why I'm not in the business of treating hair loss. Not because I don't think it's something worth addressing if it bothers someone, but I think the bigger issue is it would be really awful if in trying to treat a cosmetic condition like hair loss, you induced a devastating consequence on your endocrine system. That's really where I find myself concerned. Now, it also appears that if you've been on finasteride for a long period of time and you're not experiencing any of these side effects, you're probably fine. So I also don't want this to turn into like someone listening to this who's been taking Propecia for 10 years, who's never had an issue going like, oh my God, I got to stop this stuff. The literature would suggest, and there is a pretty good review we'll link to, that if you're going to have these side effects, you're going to have them in about six months. Yeah. Yeah. My, in general, when it comes to hair loss, the problem is oftentimes the treatments, if it doesn't actually interact with the AR or inhibit the potential for stimulation or agonizing the AR through DHT reduction or even systemic antiandrogens, not that I would recommend that, you are essentially just putting a bandaid on the issue. So if you stimulate growth with minoxidil, you are still not preventing further loss. If you get a transplant, you are putting hair on your head, but you're not preventing further loss of, you know, your actual existing hair. So oftentimes it's like you're almost trying to row against a current or something. And it's like, you are continuously getting pushed back and eventually you're going to get to a point where you have so few visible hair follicles even left that are healthy that it doesn't matter how much you've been on minoxidil or what have you. And oral minoxidil, it's like, you know, it's definitely effective. But I think it should be reserved for people who have weak response topically because topical seems to be far more tolerated side effect wise and a lot more predictable with like hordes of literature and great outcomes. And there are ways to enhance that and also turn yourself from a non responder to a responder, which we can get into. But finasteride in itself, it seems to be like, I don't want to try and come out and say I'm a proponent necessarily. I try to play a balanced, take a balanced approach to it. But the prevalence of side effects is not nothing, but it's quite overblown by the opposite camp that wants to assert that, you know, why would you ever inhibit, you know, a hormone that is the primary androgen you rely on. But similarly, why would you inhibit, I don't know, ApoB or something like there is a clear outcome whereby there's benefit. And when there is, you know, DHT and somebody who's prone to hair loss, it's hard to overlook that this is the primary thing dictating if you go bald or not. And some people that that hair loss, some people care a lot more than others, obviously. Yeah, I guess. So so I do think there's a difference because I think ApoB serves no benefit, we would actually, if someone created an antisense oligonucleotide that knocked out ApoB, all it would do is guarantee we don't have heart disease in our species. We wouldn't suffer, we would still be able to use all the HDLs in the world for cholesterol transport, which we currently use LDL for. But I think to take your analogy a step further, what you're basically saying is if a person cares as much about hair loss as they do about heart disease, and by that logic, DHT is causal. Which sounds absurd, but let's just, you know, run with it. I would posit that there are lots of people who care more about hair loss than heart disease. The psychological stress for some people is significant and should not be overlooked by the seemingly like, you know, the silliness of, oh, just lose it and just shave it, bro. It's not a big deal. There's tons of successful people who are bald. It's like, yeah, sure. But maybe I just deal with it. Although I think, I think there's a statistic that no bald person has ever been president of the United States. So there you go. So there's, there's a couple of, a couple of occupations you got to take off the list. Now you mentioned when you were going through your insane anabolic steroid use, you at a very young age, if you're in your early twenties, we're already starting to lose your hair. So how did you reverse that? So part of it was just dropping the dose significantly and eventually just going down to replacement therapy, but it was the introduction of five alpha reductase inhibitor, initially finasteride. And then thereafter I introduced a, and I wouldn't necessarily recommend this blindly, but a topical antiandrogen that's experimental and never actually received FDA approval. There are some that are in the FDA pipelines right now that actually look promising and have safety data behind them and whatnot that I'm watching closely and hope one comes to fruition because these are essentially compounds that compete for the androgen receptor locally, but do not have systemic antiandrogenic activity. So you can maintain all systemic androgen levels with just localized activity in the scalp essentially. So I use a topical antiandrogen coupled with a five alpha reductase inhibitor. Those were the main two needle movers for me. I also use a ketoconazole shampoo, but it's like a very mild antiandrogen. It's mostly just a good shampoo, but those two things and decreasing the burden of androgen significantly were fairly effective at getting me not to baseline, but you know, meaning you never regain. No. Yeah. And that's the thing with hair. That's the sketchy thing is even if you're trying to decide, Oh, you know, maybe I should treat it. Maybe I shouldn't. I'll think about it for a bit. I'll see if it gets worse. The visual representation of loss is typically not apparent until you've lost a lot of ground because you could pull a handful of hair out of your head and see no difference whatsoever. Once you finally notice diffuse thinning or recession, it's not something you've been looking for carefully because you've never dealt with it. So oftentimes once you actually notice it in a picture or in heavy downlining or something, you've already lost 20, 30% plus of your hair and there's no guarantee that's coming back. So preventing. So you're saying, so did you regain hair that you had lost with this protocol or just completely stop the some some regrowth, but expecting yourself to get back to baseline where you had, you know, like 17 year old immaculate perfect hair. If you've been exposed to androgens at a level where you're like visibly noticing it, it's relatively unlikely. Yeah. Yeah. So that's not to say it's impossible. Like if I took minoxidil as well as micro needle and did a the longer you wait and let hair follicles miniaturize, the more permanency you are risking. So getting, making back ground is way harder than preventing yourself from losing in the first place. It's almost like maybe analogous to building muscle when you're younger. So then you don't have to try and build it in old age when you have like anabolic resistance or what have you. So what are again the names of the, cause people are going to, I don't, let's make sure we give people the names of these compounds you're using. So. So finasteride is like the main primary five alpha inhibitor. And you take one milligram of that daily? I take dutasteride now. So you take 0.5 milligrams. Is that, or is that 0.5? Yeah, I take 0.5 a day. So that is a soft gel that essentially wipes out systemic DHT. Um, and your DHT level is close to 0. It's like worse than a teenage girl. Yeah, it's terrible. So, but I smoke care. At least now. I think one of the guys with the highest IQs on the planet has been on dutasteride for decades. If that's notable for anyone. Okay. So then what else are you taking besides dutasteride? Dutasteride right now is the only thing I take more of convenience because a topical application schedule can be quite burdensome. But when you were doing that, when you were doing that big salvage effort in your early twenties, what was the rest of the stack? Oh, it was topical application of something called RU58841. It was like a experimental antiandrogen. So I don't necessarily recommend people use RU58841 when there are actually alternatives with human safety data on the horizon. With that said, it's also hard to tell me, you know, however many years ago that wait, you don't, you only have so much time, right? So I'm not going to sit around. And what are these things that are on the hoop that have more safety data coming down the pipeline? This company called Kintor has a compound called pyroludamide and it seems to be a pretty well tolerated and comparable outcomes of hair count increase to dutasteride. If I recall off the top of my head, which is pretty substantial, given that there are very few things that produce outcomes that are even make it worth taking another drug. Like right now, the most effective things are going to be five alpha reductase inhibitors and minoxidil. On top of that, everything else is like little sprinkles on the cake, essentially. Like some people might get better benefit from, you know, PRP than another person or what have you. But in general, the main meat and potatoes are going to be minoxidil, potentially microneedling with minoxidil. If you're not a good responder, or have low sulfotransferase enzyme activity in the scalp and the inhibition of free androgenic signaling in the scalp, whether you do that through five alpha reductase inhibition or antiandrogen activity locally, that's kind of up to you. Or some people are going to couple both of them like I did, but those are the main needle movers ultimately. And some people go super hardcore. And like the most crazy hair loss reversals you will see are always in men transitioning to women who use female hormone therapy. I would never recommend anyone do that. But it's a pretty interesting data set to like pull from from estrogen and progesterone would promote hair growth. I mean, we do see it in women actually during HRT, especially progesterone can really thicken hair progesterone and women. I mean, I have no idea. Yeah, I would more more. I'm more talking about anti androgen plus estrogen. So somebody transitioning would typically use a cyperterone acetate, bicalutamide, something of that nature, plus exogenous E2 or a synthetic estrogen. And the first two, which I'm not even familiar with, are drugs that just block the androgen binding to the androgen receptor or block? Cyperterone is a very potently anti-genadotropic, I believe. So it's like it will actually prevent, it will actually inhibit you from producing I see, you know, uh, GNRH. So it's, it's, it's a, it's effectively a chemical castration. That's like a steroidal anti androgen. And then there's a non-steroidal one. And yet it's effectively chemical castration. Um, the non-steroidal variant bicalutamide seems to be a bit better tolerated. It's not as liver toxic and it will actually raise your hormone levels on paper. Your test levels go up. It's just, you can't actually interact with the receptor because it's occupied by bicalutamide. So it's like a silent androgen receptor antagonist. And yeah, those are like extreme options. They're like essentially irrelevant for anyone watching. So maybe I shouldn't have brought it up.