here now after 30 years. No one has smelt this smell for 30 years. I want you to be able to smell this smell and feel those feelings that you get from a vintage bottle of Paraboli. No one else has access to this. No one else knows how to do this. Now, what's up, guys? Derek moreplace smart8s.com. Today we are going to be talking about sniffing pharmarmacra trying to get [\h__\h] hy in the gym. Indeed, you heard me correctly. This is um the next level techniques that are being deployed by IFBB Pro bodybuilders apparently. So obvious obviously when I saw this I was like [\h__\h] perplexed, dude. But I am not close-minded enough to consider possibilities of performance enhancement above and beyond the traditional means that you're probably familiar with. Like I know the uh you know efficacy of smelling salts for hitting PRs for example. And in this video we have IFBB Pro Robin Strand. He is a Canadian IFBB pro and um I think a pretty young guy still. Um I think he's in his 20s and he um I don't know he was kind of like I remember seeing like a super absurd shot of him pre-contest like seven years ago or eight years ago or something and the guy looked absolutely nutty like he started to uh pick up some steam on social media after this one like viral picture in the mirror pre-contest one time and um he uh has been grinding his way to into the IFBB pro ranks um and still taking it [\h__\h] seriously, you know, grinding out lean tissue every year and making progress. And he is not opposed to, you know, trying unique and kind of interesting things. Evidently, cuz in this video, it's called Hoola Hypnosis Triggers Parabolan. IFBB Pro Robin Strand here. I'll let his uh trainer coach, I don't know who he is, I guess just like maybe uh one of his coaches for this particular method um explain what they're going to be doing. What we want to really focus on today is our ability to be able to go in and out of the perfect state at the perfect time. And during today's session, I'm going to do an exercise with Robin and with you as well between being able to set a trigger, fire a trigger, and enjoy the benefits of a trigger. And I think this will be really beneficial for all you guys watching, all you girls watching, because I get this question a lot and I often see it in my clients is how can I optimize each training session or what do I do if I don't have a good workout? And people kind of carry on that I had a bad workout and then the next day is not so great and the next day is not so great. This guy's like the most androgenic [\h__\h] voice I've ever heard, dude. Like it doesn't even sound real. Godamn, son. It's like literally if Giga Chad could speak. eliminate that from your thoughts forever. Every training session, every training session going forward is going to be the best one you've ever experienced. So, the exercise we're going to do with Big Rob today is called the circle of excellence. Isn't it funny how many people's names get the word like big put in front of it if you're just like a big like certain names work but some don't. Like big mic. How many [\h__\h] big mics are there? Like come on. Big Rob like but big like I don't know like big uh I don't know big Kevin. Is that a [\h__\h] one? Um big uh big Ronald. You know like there's certain names just like don't work. Dude, I'm going to have an imagined circle in front of him. I'm going to place that circle down right now. Now Robin, what I want you to be able to do, I want you to be able to imagine this is a test of your imag in before comments about this in the comment section. The perfect back. It can be real, can be a hero of yours. It could be imaginary figure. Whatever it is, do that now and just close your eyes and your ability to be able to do that becomes stronger. Just place your hand on top of mine. Push down harder, harder, harder, harder, harder, harder. sleep all the way down. That's right. And imagine the perfect perfect imaginary person inside that circle. Now, when you got it, just give your head a little nod. I want you to step forward into that circle. And I want you to take on all the qualities of that perfect back. I want you to see what he sees, hear what he hears, feel what he feels. Okay? I don't know if they actually believe this works or if they're just trying it because they're trying to be open-minded. But I mean, like I if I'm in the gym and I'm like hyped up, I'm on like a [\h__\h] like grams of gear and I'm trying to grow a huge back, the last thing I'm able to do is achieve like a meditative relaxed fall asleep state. I think the muscle the [\h__\h] music's blasting probably you're like hyped up as [\h__\h] Your sympathetic nervous drive is through the goddamn roof because of all the androgens. And then I'm just like able to sleep like that. I am skeptical. Each and everything that you need to be able to develop the perfect back is inside of that circle now. It's inside of you. That's right. And feel just inserted him with 5 g of tren into the chest, bro. It's now inside of you. Feel the difference. Take all the time you need over the next couple of seconds to lock those things in. That's right. We just lock those things inside the mind. Now, step back out of the circle. Now, one thing I should say is I'm not opposed to the idea that the mind is extremely powerful and can do make your body do things that it otherwise wouldn't have been able to do if you didn't believe it truly. like I don't know like individuals who've like willed themselves to I don't know like individuals who've like made themselves sick for example just by believing they were sick or individuals who had uh were so upset and they had like no will to live that they just like died like I think heartbreak syndrome or something or heartbreak something is literally a cause of death that can happen like I'm pretty sure I forget who it was that passed away and then their mother ended up passing away shortly thereafter from heartbreak syndrome or whatever. Like the mind is extremely powerful, but I even with that being said, I'm skeptical that the mind can just like unlock like capabilities of muscle fibers that just like physically aren't there. Like if you have muscle cell limitations, myionuclei um like banked up to a certain extent and certain gene expression of the androgen receptor, like will your mind tell them to somehow just like all of a sudden there's just going to be like triple the number of them because your mind thought about it, you know? Obviously not. At least I would think. But anyways, I'm trying to not be close-minded here. So anyways, let's get back into the video. Relax. Feel what? Oh yeah, I feel the pump already. Yeah. Starting in my lats. Really? Oh, yeah. Well, wherever attention goes, energy flows. So, it's a good thing to, you know, it's like I'm thinking all these negative thoughts today. Why can't I get a good workout? It just makes perfect sense that if you can eliminate those thoughts, start thinking positively or what we're doing today. We're thinking about a back. We're thinking about building a back. So, if I can imagine that back, my attention is in my back right now. I can already feel the blood flowing there. I can literally feel my back starting to get pumped up already. It's pretty cool. Yeah. So, like I guess if you were able to like focus more on a body part, then hypothetically you could, you know, definitely enhance a workout cuz like I think one of the main reasons like I think a lot of I think a lot of the reasons certain genetic predispositions occur is just straight up their genetic predispositions rather than the person doesn't know how to activate them. Like if somebody has like a horrendous bicep peak, are they suddenly going to develop a peak because they learned how to like [\h__\h] like flex their arm properly? I don't know, maybe back is a bit different. Maybe like calves or like I don't [\h__\h] know. Like at the end of the day, it's something that I do believe has utility. Like for example, there's a reason why spotters and you know, pro bodybuilders will like put their hands on each other's back. So then you can like if you feel a physical like touch on a certain area it becomes a bit easier for your brain to connect with that spot and squeeze adequately. Um so maybe this is like accomplishing that to some extent and you know that could be worthwhile. Maybe try it out at home. Put your hand on top of mine. Push down. Push down. Push down. Push down. Harder. Harder. Harder. Sleep all the way down. That's right. And that's another ind instant induction. Now this time in the circle I want you to imagine yourself with all those qualities. That's right. Imagine yourself with all those qualities. Each specific muscle that you need to change and develop now back to the future. Each and every breath you take big, strong, powerful back. step into the circle and imagine those things now circulating, pumping all the way through the back, all the way through the mind, all the way through the body. Okay, so I was actually not expecting all this hypnosis stuff. Um, and it seems like it's kind of long. So, I'm going to skip to the parabolan part because that if you thought this was wild, like wait till you see the [\h__\h] next part, dude. For you to be able to feel the difference. Now, hold relax. That's Oh, back when I was a competitive bodybuilder, one of the things that always fascinated me was your ability to be able to recollect, to revivify an experience through the use of smell. Now, back in the day, I recall breaking open a parabola, a bottle of Parabol. As I set it on my kitchen table, I walked into the other room because the phone rang. It was a disturbance. It threw me off a little bit. As I come back into the room, what's that smell I smell? I I couldn't believe it. Then I realized, well, it was the actual parabolone that I was smelling. It's the [\h__\h] guolle or glycol, bro. That's what it is. At least what that's what I think. I don't think you can actually smell Can you smell raw trenalone hormone? Any chemists here? Maybe you have a better idea than me, but as far as I know, it's like the the solvents and the [\h__\h] that is suspending the chemical is otherwise like if you've ever smelled underground lab I've never had parabolan myself personally and you've probably never had parabolone yourself. You've probably had underground lab [\h__\h] called parabolan. These are the literal parabolan amps that were designed by Negma Pharmaceuticals in France in the 80s for a legitimate clinical purpose. like this was the original dosing regimen for actual trenalone parabolan amps in uh I believe it was actually designed for uh the use in women you know it's it's actually a steroidal androgen receptor modulator so this is you know often it's kind of [\h__\h] ridiculous how you see this anabolic to enerogenic ratio chart and you see trenlone it's like 500 to 500 instead of test which is 100 to 100 and then this like rumor has basically been circulated throughout the industry over the years that trend is fives times more potent at anabolic activity than test which obviously isn't the case as well as five times more androgenic which definitely is not the case. It's actually more tissue selective significantly so and that's why it was designed like any anabolic steroid that was designed after testosterone was you know discovered was to try and improve on its selectivity for use in a clinical setting for you know the elderly for the androgen sensitive like women children this is not something that would be worse than testosterone from androgenic act androgenic activity perspective so anyways if you want to see the breakdown of the exact tremblone protocol was prescribed in the 80s with these amps You can check it out in this video. I kind of dissect it out of this uh uh package insert, but these were the original trend amps that are pharmaceutical grade. Now, it was discontinued, I believe, either in the 80s or '9s. Um, and then people were basically like back then, you know, sourcing was so difficult and the internet was not around and made it as easy as it is now. You would have people like flying to [\h__\h] Italy, flying to France and like collecting smorgesborg of different drugs in order to design their stacks and they would kind of just like get what they could or go directly to a certain country to source a very specific compound. And I am skeptical that this random vial has parable in it to be honest. Like I'm going to I would assume this would be I don't know like I guess if he just put it took it out of the amp and then put it in a multi-dosese vial and like knew he wanted to keep it forever. Maybe that's possible because you can't just keep it in a broken amp obviously forever. So, it's possible. But I'm going to assume you're smelling the I don't know how to say it. Glycol. Glycol. I don't know if glycol was in this [\h__\h] too, by the way. It would show in the composition. Actually, here we go. Alcohol. Uh let's see. Yeah. I Yeah. So, I at least with uh UGL trend, that smell, as far as I know, is the glycol, if that's how you say it. But as far as the parabolan that you know unique scent that it has, I've never smelled it. So I couldn't say what this is exactly here. Now after 30 years, no one has smelt this smell for 30 years. I want you to be able to smell this smell and feel those feelings that you get from a vintage bottle of Parabol. No one else has access to this. No one else knows how to do this. Now no one else knows how to do this. like smell it. No one knows how to inhale the smell of steroids. I don't know. That's kind of wild that he's had this [\h__\h] for this long and like thought this was a legitimate like means of inducing aggression on the weights or something though and he's the first guy he's going to use it on. Through one side smell through the other side smell. Imagine just [\h__\h] like rages out like breaks the guy in half and just like picks up the machine [\h__\h] toss it across the gym. Now, if you want to revivify it even stronger, of course, just reach up, squeeze your nose together yourself train. Oh yeah, get it inside your mind. Now you have access to that ability to be able to feel those things. Look at the veins coming out. That's right. Spread those lats. Feel those lats. That's right. All the way down. Deeper and deeper inside your mind. Now I can smell it. Smell that smell. It's uh it's as close as we're going to get to smell vision right now. Man, where do I hire a trainer who's going to walk around with a bottle of Trend, shove it up my nose every set? [\h__\h] dude. Definitely. So, how does that smell? So, this smells good. This smells like power. You know, we're talking about like how different smells affect us and every human being has their own kind of body odor and pheromone. And that is one of the biggest attractions especially for me. me I I find that scent is like very important for me. So if I have a partner and they have like a distinctive scent like I want to smell that when they're around me or if it's a not a distinct not a good smell distinctive smell I don't really like that it's not the right partner for me cuz it's it's something that's kind of like innate you're going to have these these senses right and they're very they're very powerful. It's kind of interesting cuz I know that people who use underground trend like they often sometimes you'll see you know threads on Reddit and stuff where people are saying there's like a unique like girls can like scent sense the trend scent on you and it's always made me wonder like is that you just like leaking [\h__\h] like shitty toxic solvents like out of your goddamn body essentially and trying to excrete them or is this the actual trend like manipulating your biochemistry to a point that you're actually changing your like pherommones? I don't know. And not only that, you're just not remembering the smell. You're revivifying the smell. So that you're actually transporting yourself through time. What is he saying? Revivifying. Relivifying. I like don't even know what [\h__\h] is that even a word. The smell so that you're That's right. these senses, right? They're very powerful. So, and not only that, you're just not remembering the smell. You're revivifying the smell. Revivifying. Give new life or vigor to revivify. They revivified a wine industry that had all but vanished. Revivified. Okay. Does that make sense? Give new life to a smell. I don't know. I'm revivifying the parable and amp from the 80s. I don't know. I don't know if that makes sense. So that you're actually transporting yourself through time to that particular event. So obviously when it's a great event, that's what we want to be able to harvest. We want to be able to marshall together all those events that are going to help us with our training, be able to fire them off as an act of will and utilize those things. Another thing, you know, like women like to wear uh men's clothing, like if it's their boyfriend, like I want your sweater and I'll wear at bedtime. So it's comforting for me because not only is it like physical, but there's a smell associated with it. So you smell that person. and it feels like they're there with you. What we're really doing today is we're blurring those lines real and what's imagined. Hey, how can you go back to a time that you weren't even alive in though? So that you're able to get back into that perfect state, that perfect frame for you to be able to utilize all those things when you train. Like what did you think of the eye isolation exercise? Right. Yeah. This is like putting blinders on the racehorse where you're only focused on one thing. You can't see anything. That's right. And because vision is so such a dominant scent sense for us, so we're always kind of taking in all these visual cues and everything just isolate one one ce like the bicep. That's what we're focused on. That's right. And where the attention goes, the energy flows, of course. So now that he's physically done it, it's easier for him to do mentally each time so that if he wants to focus in on whatever particular body part it is, he's able to fine-tune that right down to that specific muscle. So, if it's one romboid as opposed to the other, whatever it is, this is going to give you way much more symmetry and balance. Not only that, but I can take this and I can isolate my gym crush that way. I can find her wherever she is. That's always very important to be able to do that now. No [\h__\h] excuses, bro. Yeah. Like, that was uh interesting. Um, is there any validity to it? Like I guess if it helps you mentally like think you're dialing in and you're like more motivated and get more connection out of the you know the muscle like [\h__\h] maybe it helps a little bit but I don't know I think genetics dominate all at the end of the day above and beyond what you can like believe happens you know like ultimately at the end of the day a guy like a Phil Heath or a big Ramy is going to look at [\h__\h] weights and grow while they're on drugs versus you know somebody else might deploy all these tactics and you know not do nearly as well and just you know are limited by their genetic structure andor you know muscle um inserts u actual myionuclei banked up that they can actually you know induce hypertrophy with etc like there are I don't know limitations unfortunately that I think um the reality needs to be uh you know wrapped your head around before you kind of I don't know get into this [\h__\h] that there is some accountability that has to be taken for your own genetics like obviously this guy's an IFB maybe pro. I'm not necessarily talking about him, but in general, like I've seen a lot of people push the envelope, trying new exotic tactics and weird [\h__\h] all the time to try and like, you know, trick their body into doing something it's just not capable of or taking more and more drugs and doing more and more things that they think are the secret when in reality at the end of the day, the top top pros are guys who just explode and genetically hyper resppond. And that's, you know, why they're where they're at. It's the work in the gym, the eating, but also the drug response and their genetics drive them there. Um, no matter how much harder you're working in the gym, like you know, James Hollings said, for example, this guy is like [\h__\h] modern Dorian Yates work ethic essentially in the gym. But at the end of the day, is he going to beat, you know, a top guy who even does like fluff training who has uh, you know, just better genetics? No. And we see this played out in the results all the time, unfortunately. So, if only it was, you know, hard work beats talent every time. That would be great. In obviously, hard work plus talent is the lethal combo. But, um, I don't know. It's it's especially in this sport where it's like if you have hard work and no talent, like you will not even get to an IFBB Pro card, you will basically bog your body down with excessive amounts of drugs and hinder your health for no reason whatsoever. And I think a lot of accountability needs to be taken by guys in the sport to not just end up grinding away at regional level shows, ruining their [\h__\h] health for no reason and thinking that the next show is the one where they the secret, you know, they're going to double the dose and then it's going to make the difference and mutate them. And it's just like, no, it's not going to happen, bro. And it's unfortunate because the guys who often end up abusing themselves the most are guys who don't genetically respond well because they think the secret is always more and more and more different different. Um and they never saw like crazy results at like a reasonable dose and a reasonable workout routine, reasonable diet. Um they start pushing the [\h__\h] like way too aggressive way too soon. Whereas, you know, a lot of IFBB pros, they escalate up the and use heavy amounts of [\h__\h] too at some point, but it's like, you know, a titrated progression sometimes, sometimes they go full board, but ultimately like the one of the genetic factors that determines if you're a top pro is going to be your tolerability of the drugs, too, which is often overlooked, too. If you're somebody who can even stay healthy or you make use of this [\h__\h] to begin with and not walk around in a permanent state of like perma toxicity essentially. So, um, anyways, bodybuilding is, uh, continues to interest me in, you know, the links people go to at both the lowest and highest level cuz it's so paradoxical in that a lot of the information is like very out there, but a lot of people either don't want to believe the information, but then there are also people are lying and underplaying their use. And it's like this whole convoluted, ambiguous [\h__\h] mess of a sport that ultimately just ends up with people abusing their bodies unnecessarily in my opinion. And it's unfortunate how to get to a top level. You do have to actually, you know, induce a level of stress and danger upon your body. But um I don't know, it's just uh at least the least you can do is evaluate yourself objectively and uh decide if this is a route you actually want to take and if it is worth it based on what you could actually do. And I think for most people, the obvious um go-to decision is that this is not the sport for them. This is like very few people can make it in this sport and be accomplished at it. And often times it seems like you'd be better off on social media anyways as a fitness enthusiast who's not a bodybuilder because you're going to have more energy to make content and like produce high quality information or whatever it is. So anyways, as far as if this trend sniffing [\h__\h] works, as far as the hypnosis tricks, let me know what you guys think in the comments down below. All the comments help the algorithm. Much appreciated. Like, subscribe, check out my blog. Moreplace.com. Follow me on Instagram at moreplace dates. Facebook, Snapchat, Twitter, Tik Tok, Apple Podcast. If you want to support the channel, you can check out anything I'm associated with in the video description below. Check out Robin Strand's YouTube channel as well as Instagram and see if he is uh I don't know, like be interesting to see if this makes a difference for him. Um like I speculate it would be negligible, but um who knows, bro. Who knows? So anyways, you can check out his stuff. He's Robin Strand on YouTube, presumably on Instagram. And uh yeah, if you want to support me, check out anything I am below. My preventative medicine, hormone replacement therapy platform, Gorilla Mind, neutropic formulas, Gorilla Mode, pre-workout formulas, design myself from scratch, recommended diet model for gaining muscle and sports performance whilst being mindful of micronutrient intake, something commonly overlooked. Um, in addition, clothing company that sponsors me. Anything else I'm associated with, it's all in the video description below. and as well through the preventive medicine hormone replacement therapy platform. If you are a bodybuilder who needs a non-judgmental doctor who actually understands how to attenuate the risks of what you're doing, I understand a lot of bodybuilders are going to do what they're going to do anyways. understanding things like angotensin receptor blockade, understanding things like uh blood pressure modulation, left ventricular hypertrophy, how to attenuate the risks of all the things you're exposing yourselves to. Um, sleep apnea diagnosis, like all this kind of stuff is so [\h__\h] prudent that you stay on top of it and understand it thoroughly. Um, having regular diagnostics, imaging done, interpretation of that stuff by high-quality professionals who actually understand the things that bodybuilders are doing. Um, if you want a high quality doctor who's non-judgmental, you can check us out. Links in the video description below. And anything else I'm associated with. Thank you guys for watching.