 The effects of betaine supplementation on homocysteine, and what I like to call the vasodilation brick wall. Research has shown that betaine supplementation may reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease as well as improve digestion and liver function. One of the primary ways it facilitates a cardioprotective effect is proposed to be its acute and dose dependent effect on plasma homocysteine concentrations. So optimizing vasodilation isn't just about, hammering yourself with nitric oxide precursors, or attenuating their activity. An optimal approach to not just gym performance, but broad-spectrum health accounts for all angles, in my opinion, and homocysteine is very impactful on blood pressure and cardiovascular health. Elevated homocysteine impairs the clearance of something called asymmetric dimethyl arginine, ADMA. This is a biomemary, marker that is assessed, not commonly, but it is becoming more widely known for its, uh, being a proxy for, uh, vasodilation potential, which we'll get into now. Nitric oxide synthases, NOSs, or a family of enzymes catalyzing the production of nitric oxide from L-arginine. ADMA is a naturally occurring endogenous inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase. So ADMA competes with L-arginine for NOS, nitric oxide synthase, and as a result, the expression of nitric oxide decreases. So almost think of it like a anti-androgen of sorts, you know, like, uh, anabolic steroid, you know, testosterone competing for the androgen receptor. If you have an anti-androgen competing for it, it attenuates the capacity of testosterone to do what it does and imparts gene expression. So ADMA competes with arginine for NOS. So by inhibiting nitric oxide formation, ADMA causes endothelial dysfunction, vasoconstriction, elevation of blood pressure, and aggravation of atherosclerosis. Elevated plasma ADMA concentration has been identified as an independent risk factor for progression of atherosclerosis, cardiovascular death, and all-cause mortality. Homocysteine can be lowered, though, via adequate intake of bioactive B vitamins. And in some individuals, betaine can be very impactful as well. A single dose of orally administered betaine has an acute and dose-dependent reduction in plasma homocysteine concentrations, even among healthy individuals with normal homocysteine levels. So it's not just in those who are really sick with super high levels, it's even in those who are healthy with normal levels. So if you have an influx of NO precursors, but ADMA is preventing NO synthesis, it may not even matter what you throw at your body. Like, a systemic production limit threshold is not optimally overcome simply by adding more substrate. Rather, it would be via attenuating the NO-inhibiting blockade while concurrently increasing NO precursors for NO synthesis, thus resulting in like a 1 plus 1 equals 3 effect on vasodilation. So you would ideally want to increase the capacity for production via substrate, but also make sure there is nothing on the back end inhibiting it from working, because otherwise you're just fighting a losing battle. Well, you know, it's like the anti-androgen example I gave, hopefully, is something that could be an analogous illustration of what I'm talking about. Or even like an aromatase inhibitor, you know, preventing estrogen from being produced. Even if you have a ton of testosterone, that would normally aromatize into tons of estrogen. If you have an aromatase inhibitor that is, like, competing for the enzyme, you know, it doesn't really matter how much substrate you have if it can't interact with the enzyme appropriately. So with that, the question then arises, what is the optimal dose of betaine, trimethylglycine? Because we know it has a dose-dependent reduction on homocysteine, so is more better? What is the best dose? So what we do know is more isn't always better. There is a sweet spot threshold, and that is what we are at in our new formula. So Gorilla Mode 1.0 had 2.5 grams, as that was what's shown in the performance athletics literature to be enhancing. It's efficacious at 1.25 grams twice per day, 2.5 grams per day. That's what we had in here. However, in nitric, we've had the 4-gram dose since launch. Reason being is this is the dosage that can dose-dependently, also, lower homocysteine to an extent that will not only attenuate to the maximum capacity possible, the NO-inhibiting component, but also not induce side effects. So we'll get into that now. So this is one of the most integral components of our pre-workout formulas. So given that, and given the literature that I hopefully elucidated adequately just now about ADMA and homocysteine and NO competition, NOS competition for NO synthesis, that is where the 4-gram dose is the sweet spot, and we integrated it into the mode upgrade to match. So being, you know, one of the most useful ingredients in the formula, and it being the sweet spot, you know, in this upgrade, we felt it worthwhile to match it to nitric. So in general, the utility of betaine and mode is to support cellular integrity, fluid dynamics, and also lower homocysteine levels to lower ADMA-mediated NOS competition. So what happens when you go above 4 grams? So no higher dosage than 4 grams per day has shown to exhibit greater ergogenic properties. We already know the dosages for that are 2.5 grams per day based on, you know, the athletics literature. However, when you look at the cardiovascular disease literature and the vasodilation capacity enhancement literature, dosages above 4 grams have shown to do something else, which is adversely impact lipid profiles. A 2022 systematic review and meta-analysis found that 4 grams per day expectedly lowered homocysteine, but that was the threshold dose for long-term safety as adverse effects on lipid profiles began when the dose exceeded 4 grams per day. So that is where you get the sweet spot of homocysteine reductions, inhibition of ADMA-mediated NOS competition to maximize vasodilation potential via the substrate you're actually providing, but also not pushing into lipid, dyslipidemia territory where you could end up with making yourself potentially more unhealthy via higher dosage. It's tough to say exactly what happens if you go above 4 grams, but in general, the net on it via the systematic review and meta-analysis data has supported that 4 grams is a sweet spot. Anything above it is risky territory for long-term use. And we already know that 2.5 grams is the lower threshold for athletics. So it's like, okay, well, somewhere between 2.5, 2.5 and 4 is where you can escalate in order to max out the cardiovascular vasodilation capacity benefits. And above that, you're in risk territory that probably doesn't make a lot of sense for long-term safety. So that is where the 4-gram dose comes from and why it is integrated into both Gorilla Mode and Gorilla Mode Nitric. And going above it does not yield any additional benefit that is worthwhile of the risk profile.