 naringin.viaviaoulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloulouloul Yeah, that was kind of like a one-off because I had never talked to the guy in my life, and I just saw this back and forth transpiring online, and I knew at least for a snapshot in time of somebody who has no idea they would otherwise be told on a whim, hey, dude, if you want to give some credence to your likelihood of being natty, if you just go on a whim in the next 24 hours, there's no way you could have planned for this. Go donate blood or go get your blood taken and do a urine analysis and we'll check what's up. And he was into it. And he passed, right? Were you surprised? I always say I wish he wasn't natural because I have to accept that even my genetics. That's annoying, right? Yeah. Let's hope he was lying. Yeah. I see him pass, you're like, fuck this guy. But then, yeah, I see him and his brother. His brother looks the same, like just jacked out of their minds. But I think Gordon still firmly believes that he's taking stuff. Like it would be psychopath level planning to have figured his way around. Like it was only one test, so it is that snapshot in time. But just the circumstances that led to it, like there was no bias on my end as to if it was or wasn't. I just saw it transpiring. Like this would be cool content. And if the guy's down, great. And if he's not, it just looks kind of bad. So, and yeah, within 24 hours. And he got supervised too. I sent Zach Ellender to like accompany him to make sure he didn't cheat. To make sure it was his blood. Yeah, I think that actually ended up saving, not saving his life, but didn't he have some health markers there? Oh, yeah. I don't recall exactly what it was, but it was significant enough that it was a red flag to change either something dramatic in his lifestyle. Well, probably. Yeah, like the way he was handling his diet, but also some people just genetically, unfortunately, the leading cause of death is cardiovascular disease. Even in naturals, this isn't just like, oh, I'm natural, so I'm fine. Like most people will die from heart disease. And oftentimes it goes completely overlooked through unaddressed high blood pressure, but also atherogenic burden. So like through your blood work, you would see high apolipoprotein B or LDL, people are more familiar with. That's what it was, right? Yeah, I think he had like really high lipids, if I recall correctly. So Gordon actually saved his life. You saved his life too. Maybe, maybe. Because catching that stuff early is actually pretty important because you don't actually end up with, you know, a significant enough amount of plaque in your arteries to cause an issue until you're, you know, well into your 50s, 60s typically. So for him in his 20s, catching it now, he can get well ahead of it. So a lot of people don't realize it's happening though, even from teenagehood, they're stacking plaque. Does taking tests mess with your cholesterol levels? For sure. Oh, really? Yeah. So maybe. Nicky Rhodes, it's the after all. It would, I, I'm, that would definitely bull in favor of working against him if he was to prove his status or whatever. But there were some markers that are like irrefutable. And I've seen tons of naturals who have mangled looking lipids that are even worse than some bodybuilders. So it kind of depends on the person. I think he was eating red meat every meal. Yeah. Didn't he say he was like full blown carnivore diet essentially with like. Yeah. He's one of those guys. He'll see a guy go on Rogan and draw out a diet suggestion. He'll be like all in on it. Yeah. And there's nuance, by the way. It's not just like, oh, I have high LDL equals heart disease. There's absolutely nuanced family history to be considered, et cetera. But in general, if there's red flags in that area of your labs, like you should be at least looking deeper into it to figure out what you should do next. And if you need to pivot. I'm trying to remember how bad mine was. Yours. I took a skim earlier today. I only had like a short amount of time to look, but it was like low HDL, not horrendously, but it was low. And then your APOB was slightly elevated, which is like the primary marker you would look to for atherogenic burden. I think Nicky Rod actually had like a genetic element of his lipids though, too. His LP little a, which is like another highly atherogenic meaning like propensity to causing plaque build up in the arteries. This is a marker LP little a that doesn't change with diet and lifestyle. So regardless if you're natty enhanced, if you're have a good diet, bad diet, like this number almost does not change that, that dramatically to a point that you could fix it naturally. So with him, I think I recall his was very elevated or at least significantly enough so that it was like, okay, you have a genetic outlying extra risk factor. You don't have that fortunately, but you have the classic steroid induced dyslipidemia.