people people accusing me all the time and um and I I haven't really told the story but so I one day I I saw like people kept tagging me in this video and there was this some [\h__\h] guy some dumbass that that's on YouTube that that swears he can spot people that do you know peeds. Oh it's probably more plates more dates maybe. I don't I don't know he's been on the podcast before so Sup guys, Derek moreplace.com. Today we are reacting to getting called a dumbass apparently by Camaro Usman. Yes. Yes indeed. Camaro Usman responds to peed use accusations and apparently I am called out specifically and called a dumbass of all things. Go [\h__\h] figure, dude. The Joe Rogan experience. It's it's it's funny to me because um I get it all the time now, of course, like people people accuse me all the time and um and I I haven't really told the story, but so I one day I I saw like it was this some [\h__\h] guy, some dumbass that's on YouTube apparently. But is it that that swears he can spot people that do, you know, peeds? Oh, it's probably more plates, more dates, maybe. I don't I don't know. He's been on the podcast. Yeah. So, he's like, "Yeah, I I know that guy's doing it because I can see the marks on him and stuff like that." And so, you know, of course, expectedly, you know, the first person you probably think is, you know, that's me. you know, like it's probably a [\h__\h] pretty strong educated guess. But then this clip goes on and the pretense is that it's me who did this. So, let's continue. As if, you know, did I actually say this? Is this even me we're talking about right now? That is what we're under the assumption of. But, let's continue. So he starts point they they start pointing out cuz I have uh like like five scars on my stomach like you know like burn like discoloration on my stomach and it and he starts they start pointing at that and he starts talking about it and and making up this whole theory and it kind of it it kind of hurt my feelings a little bit because it but you're making because I was I was I Okay, so here's the story. I was a little self-conscious about it because so this is what happened. I was in college. This was my I want to say junior year, sophomore, junior year going into my junior season. And uh actually I think it was after my junior season. So I I started getting these I got like a a mole on like my stomach and I got one like on my my hand and I I'm one of those I'm kind of like a clean freak. like I shower, you know, after practice right away. So, I started scratching it and then it started bleeding. So, I'm like, "Fuck, that's not a regular." I thought it was like a pimple. That's not a regular like a zit or something like that. So, then I, you know, over time it was like maybe it was like five little was like tiny. You could barely see them. So, I'm like, you know what? I'm going to ask the doc. We have a team doctor. I'm going to ask him about it. So, I went in for a physical and then I before the season, I asked him, "Hey, you know, I have this right here. I don't know what they are." So, he looks at him, he goes, "Oh, these are uh non-cancerous moles. They're just little bitty moles. You know, it's very, very common." I'm like, "Shit, not for me. I don't that's common for me." He's like, "Yeah, they're very common." I'm like, "Yeah, well, how can I get rid of them? I try to scratch them and they they bleeding." He's like, "Yeah, you don't want to do that." Uh what we could do is we I can burn them off. And I'm like, "Okay, [\h__\h] it. Let's do it." Cuz hey, uh spring break was going to come up. Like I I started I started I started I'm I'm lifting now. I got a body now. You know, I'm a you know, I'm a junior and I I I've look jacked. So I'm like, "Spring break is coming. I want to look jacked. I want to look good." So he gets them burned and then he ends up with what is now presumed to be or that's his excuse presumably for what many believe to be injection marks. So this is uh we've seen this kind of a thread pop up multiple times now. Usman's stomach bumps/marks change every time he fights left his most recent signs of juice injection emoji. And you can see all these marks all over the place. These circles around them going from all the way up his abs all the way down to his belly button and then underneath to the left here and just marked all over the place and you know literally circled with identification marks for you to see like injection here, injection here, injection here, here, here, etc. So that is what a lot of people think and that was like a big prevailing evidence piece to kind of uh you know speculate about his hormone use injections into his stomach and just visible actual like manifestations of injection sites that are you know irritated from the actual mark that he [\h__\h] pinned himself and then him talking himself out of it with this uh you know mole story is what you know a lot of people think but is that actually the case you know so I don't care walking around with those [\h__\h] No. So he's like, "All right, I can burn them off." So he burns them off with, I think, nitrogen or something like that. Mhm. So he burns them and then he goes, "Hey, those are going to fall off in a couple days, you know, just give them time." So I'm like, "Okay." But I was so like I was still training heavily during the summer because I was just like an addict of of wrestling. I wanted to for me, I wanted to get catch up to everybody and I wanted to exceed everybody. So this was my time the summer that that was my time for me to catch up. So my dumb ass I go back the next day I go to school and um back to the school and I go in and I go drill. I go wrestle. I couldn't stop. I was just training all summer. So I wrestled and I didn't think anything of it. I was like, "Okay, they just burned those but nothing has happened yet." And so I wrestled and then later that evening I'm sitting in my I go I get down I get in the shower and I'm showering all of a sudden I just burning down there and I look down and I had like scraped them off like so as soon as he burned him he said don't do anything they're going to fall off on their own but my dumb ass wrestled and it rubbed up against it and now they all fell off. So then they scarred up because now I was like out for like seven days like putting Neosporin on it just so they can heal and then they scarred over. So I have those from just that moment. So then this [\h__\h] guy is like, "Oh, he's he's doing peeds. Look, look, he's got the marks on his stomach and it hurt my feelings." I'm like, I'm I'm like one of those guys who I'm like I don't even think about peeds because my work even if I don't care. I probably have Yeah. I'm like the best in the world, but I've never even [\h__\h] It's never even crossed my mind, bro. I've never even heard of them. What the [\h__\h] is a PE? I don't know. Dealt with someone that was cheating or competed against someone that was cheating. But my work will far exceed all of that. And so when I see idiot, there's PDs in MMA. The [\h__\h] It's online or saying, "Oh yeah, I know for a fact he's doing PD." I'm like, "Have you ever been to [\h__\h] Africa?" So again, like I think hopefully a lot of you guys know by now and shaking your head that this isn't about me. It's actually not. He's talk Well, I don't think so cuz he actually doesn't say my name. So Rogan says my name at the front of the clip and then a lot of people are under the pretense that this is me that he's talking about this whole time, but I don't definitively say anything in my videos ever. That's like a very very I'm very very careful about that. And in addition to that, the injection site thing, I actually specifically touched on that, but not for the reasons mentioned here, but I'll let him finish. You go to you go to Africa, what do you find, bro? Have you been to Africa? There's a lot of Francis Gallos walking around. There's a lot of guys like me just walking around. And because of the work and because of the way that I fight, they're like, "Oh, no. He's definitely got to be doing something." Because they can't explain why you are the way you are. why your performance exceeds what their their mind is mentally capable of. They There's a photo of you. We're on top of the cage after one of the victories and you're like this like [\h__\h] It looks preposterous. Like if I didn't know any better, I'd be like that motherfucker's on some [\h__\h] Same. It's um genetics are real, man. Genetics are real. This is not Everybody did not get the same deck of cards. Oh yeah. Yeah, that one. Look at that one. Come on, son. Jesus. If I If I saw that [\h__\h] I'd be if someone said, "Do you think this guy's on the juice?" I'm like, "Highly likely." Yeah. Adrenaline. You know, and I think this Yeah. This is right after uh the Masadol fight. Oh man. So again, circling back to the beginning where, you know, apparently, you know, some [\h__\h] guy is talking about the injection site marks and it's making him feel self-conscious and whatnot. What exactly is he referring to? Is he referring to my video? I don't think so. Because in my video, so this is the video I released uh last year and I talk about the injection site marks or you know what those might be or might not be. We talk about his backne, we talk about him having acne in his mid30s, you know, these weird marks on his body and whatnot. And when I actually get to the spots on his stomach, you'll note that I actually say specifically that I do not actually believe that these marks are indicative of peed use whatsoever. In fact, I think this is totally irrelevant to almost entirely irrelevant to any sort of assertion that he might be doing something because at the end of the day, are you going to be pinning oilbased anabolic steroids into your stomach fat? No, probably not. In addition, if he were going to, are you going to choose an area that has, you know, very low amounts of fat to actually inject into? Or you going to inject intramuscularly into an abdominal? Of course not. You know, you would be injecting water-based peptides, GH, things of this nature around this area like a diabetic would for their insulin. You would not be pinning anything up here ever. Like, there is no reason why you would be injecting literally anything up here. And the likelihood that it's going to yield a mark that looks like this is extremely unlikely. like the fact that it is vertically going down his abdominal wall from top to bottom like literally almost to his goddamn dank. You know, I would be if I was going to look for an injection site mark, I would be looking for like some sort of irritation in this area in general. All around this area would be where I'd be looking for injection site marks. And in general, you know, when you're using a slint pin for peptides, GH, whatever it is, the likelihood that you are going to actually see some like visual manifestation of, you know, a tiny [\h__\h] skinny gauge needle that is essentially unnoticeable, even when you're [\h__\h] injecting into yourself, the likelihood you're going to see the manifestation of some sort of scarring or anything of that nature on the spot is so low. Like if you look at a diabetic stomach, do they have, you know, like giant [\h__\h] welts all over the place like this? No. You know, like they might have uh, you know, some irritation after, you know, thousands and thousands of shots, but it's nothing nothing like [\h__\h] this dude. like this is I think as you know weird as the story sounds you know I think that's probably more likely the case than that he's actually injecting any sort of anabolics or any sort of performance-enhancing drugs into this vertical alignment pattern that you see here. So no I don't think it was my video that he's referring to. I think he was actually referring to this video by the MMA guru. I think Kamar Usman is on roids more specifically HGH expose UFC 268 at more plates. He actually mentioned to me in this video, shout out uh MMA Guru for the shout out. And um yeah, he goes over these uh injection marks. HGH should always be injected subcutaneously just below the skin into the fatty tissue. As I mentioned, best sites are stomach, deltoid, and thigh. Simply pinch along the skin and inject the hormone into the roll of fat. Um is his thumbnail. Now again, like even looking at these marks here, would you ever pin your HGH down here? Like there is such a lack of subq fat to be used as opposed to across this area where you would have like if you weren't shredded you would have you know a bit of a roll potentially or just some sort of fat deposition that is more prominent in this area but down here like you are getting pretty close to like crotch area like there's going to be a complete absence of like this is just not the vertical alignment pattern you would use whatsoever to be administering your peptides. And like I said, if you were even going to inject it, you would not risk putting it in a spot that made no sense that might have a weird arai situation happen. Like if you were worried about something visually showing up, you would definitely not be choosing this area or this area or this area, you would be going, "Well, maybe this area, sure, but I mean like all around here, not any of these areas right above your belly button. Like some of these areas are so weird that you would just never be pinning there." So, no, I don't think it's indicative of anything to be honest. I think it's just a coincidence. However, I'm not to say that he isn't using it. In my video, you can actually see my conclusions and I think it I just think administrations with a subq needle are going to be essentially undetectable visually to where he would be injecting around here. And I think this is, you know, as clean as this area looks, I think it's more likely he'd be pitting something here than here if he is indeed doing something. You can see my conclusion in this video of what I think he might be doing or not doing. But ultimately, I don't think this was a mentioning me. Although, it is interesting nonetheless that he completely overlooked my video and all the points I made and simply referred to these injection site marks. Is that the only thing he saw? Like, I think it's pretty highly unlikely that when he says, "Everyone was tagging me in this one video that he noticed all the tags on this video, but then didn't notice any of the tags on this video." Like I'm pretty [\h__\h] sure you saw this video too, bro. With that said, it's an hour long, so maybe you didn't watch it. Maybe he was like, "Holy [\h__\h] not not even going to bother trying to uh sit down and get through that one, but I mean, I think you probably saw it. Let's be honest." And he completely overlooked all the things said in this video, which is fine. You know, he doesn't have to do anything. And I'm not saying any of the [\h__\h] I said in this video is factual whatsoever either. So, for me, I just think that this was an easy copout because this is actually probably what [\h__\h] happened. And I think he actually had these moles that probably got burned off. That's so, you know, it's just interesting how he went on a, you know, 5minute tangent about the story and then completely overlooked all the other stuff that was mentioned cuz, you know, people hold that against them, too. And if it was complete horseshit, you know, you would think you just squash it really quick and be like, "Yeah, I've heard, you know, this about, you know, my my pharma connections. I've heard this about my previous my team that I was on. I've heard this about this, my performance before and after. I've heard this and this and this." And you know, he's on the biggest podcast in the world. I can understand where, you know, you're probably not expecting to get hit with responding to peed accusations, especially after, you know, a rough match. You know, the first time he's got knocked out in [\h__\h] forever. So, understandable that you wouldn't think you'd get hit with this kind of a topic within the first five. Like, it's literally the first 5 minutes of the podcast to get into this right away. So, you know, I get it if he doesn't want to talk about it. It's not like he's obligated to talk about it, but um I thought it was just interesting how none of this stuff came came up whatsoever. Like literally nothing in this video came up at all and that's fine. You can do whatever the [\h__\h] you want. So let me know what you guys think in the comments down below. All of your comments help the algorithm are much appreciated. Like, subscribe, check out my blog moreplayates.com. Follow me on Instagramplay, Facebook, Snapchat, Twitter, Tik Tok, a couple podcasts. If you want to support the channel, you can check out anything I'm associated with in video description below. Also, if you want to see a rematch with Camaro and Leon, who do you got? Do you think it's going to go Camaro's way? Do you think Leon's going to get, you know, a lucky shot again? Do you think it was lucky? Or do you think it was, uh, you know, the amount of preparation that allowed him to get lucky? Do you think that's something he could repeat multiple times in a row? Or was that just like a if this fight happens a hundred times, that scenario occurs one time, or what do you think? If this gets run back again, what is the outcome? And um yeah, any and all comments help the algorithm, support me, anything in the video description below. Thank you guys for watching.