What's up guys? Derek moreplacemart8s.com. Today we are going to be talking about Logan Paul again. The reason being is a ton of you guys sent me this picture of him from his uh Instagram story. So this is uh him the other day with a face mask on and his hair tied back. And man, the balls on this dude like he just does not give a whatsoever. And uh he's uh he'll show whatever he wants and uh doesn't care how flattering or unflattering it is. He's uh like presumably there's only one of two reasons you would be posting this. It's either to show the face mask that you have on or it is to show that you have a receding hairline still and you just don't care. So this sort of goes against what you know a lot of people have been talking about since uh the past year and a half where his hair just you know miraculously started gaining density back hairline improved significantly and it almost looks at least in the way he took this photo that things are not better and in fact they're just as bad which to me I actually don't think is the case. I don't think things are just as bad. I think things would be much worse than this had he not done anything um by now because this is like not representative of anything worse than we saw, you know, four or five years ago. So, I did a video on this before, you know, where I speculated how he took hair loss medications and then I did a follow-up video after he talked about uh I think it was like turkey and hair transplants in a recent uh podcast. Shortly thereafter, he actually showed his hairline on the podcast, which is interesting. And um I didn't want to dig through all the episodes to find it again. And a bunch of you guys sent it to me before and it was very shortly after I posted my first the hair transplant video. So I was like, "Okay, I'm not going to make another video again. This is sort of just reinforcing what I said in my transplant video. So I'm just going to, you know, leave it be, let it roll." And, you know, some other people made videos following up talking about it cuz he did indeed show his hairline. Um, notably I'm going to uh bring up a clip from Hairiciously. This is another hair loss related channel and the reason being is because he has close-ups from that episode and I didn't want to, you know, dig through the whole thing to find it myself. So, shout out to Heriliciously for having this in his video. So, basically he has uh Logan zoomed in with the guy literally pulled his hair back to show his hairline while wearing headphones, which is like the balls, dude. The balls. Like, he just does not give me a And it looks, you know, a lot better than it did. And it looked like even if you were the same compared to like at 21 years old when he was like really you would be skeptical, you know what I mean? Or like 22 or whatever it was cuz he was like well on his way and now it's it's only improved, you know? Like he goes uh in the podcast he uh is literally showing his head with uh no fear. Like here he is showing these sides and you can see the hairline is not as bad as it was or it would be now without some sort of intervention in my opinion. And he grows it out a lot to really like hide what's going on obviously and it look it looks good dude. Like don't get me wrong, no one's hating on his hair. Um it's excellent for especially given his genetics, you know. So and he knows that you know he knows his hair loss genetics are aggressive. So presumably, you know, he works with what he has and uh doesn't really give a otherwise and people who want to uh speculate about stuff. He just, you know, he just lets it roll. And the picture though that he posts is pretty telling in that it sort of just makes it seem like, okay, the lighting, it sort of makes you question like was everything in his podcast like did he actually do anything or is it exactly the same? And to me, I just think he this thing is like aggressively pulled back as much as possible and is showing the worst circumstance possible and shining like broad daylight right on his scalp to try and make it it's almost like he's trying to make it look as bad as possible. Like I guess the lighting is a lot more favorable maybe in his uh podcast studio or whatever, but the hairline still looks better than it would otherwise in my opinion given the fact of where he was a few years ago and where he is now. So yes, I literally had hundreds of people DM this to me. So this is this is why we're covering it. And obviously I am a hair loss, you know, pharmarmacology, endocrinology related channel, so we got to cover it no matter how uh uninformative this actually is. Like for me, I think the end story is basically he is just not an insecure guy and doesn't give a if posting a picture of his uh face mask with his hair pulled back makes him look worse, you know? He just doesn't care. And he obviously does care about his appearance cuz he's talked about getting like uh I think he talked about getting Botox before. He's done like uh a lot of cosmetic, not like aggressive surgeries or anything, but he's done, you know, he keeps he takes care of himself. He's in shape. He works out. He uh grows his hair out to hide his hairline, you know, pro probably does certain in terms of medication wise and or transplant wise. And I stand by that. Even though this is a very unflattering angle and makes it look like he might have been doing nothing at all, I highly doubt he has made it to this point with like no significant difference between where he was back in I don't know what it was, but I know that when I did my video how Logan Paul reversed his hair loss, you can clearly see that his hairline literally years ago was worse or the same than it is now at Like this was I don't even This is Jake Paul, by the way. Where's the Logan one? This one like this is years old at this point, guys. And this is like full-blown like exactly the same potentially as we're seeing here. Not that not much different. And then, you know, throughout the podcast, his hair had this wispiness and I talk about that. He's got cornrows before to show his hairline. Um like the guy literally does not give a But then through the podcast, you know, things just randomly for no reason seem to get a lot better. like his hair is all wispy and and then he dyed it uh you know blondish throughout the podcast. uh where's that clip where he does it and then by the end of it it goes from this brownish color to like a more uh blonde color and then he sort of gets an in between dirty blonde look here where the density just significantly improves to the point where it's like damn dude like what have you been up to cuz you can't just like gain the density if you don't have like some good hair you know what I mean like yeah maybe your hairline hairline's going but he still like got good hairs in the antigen phase like covering them you know covering his ass and by now he would be to the point where he's like considering shaving it, bro. You know, the just shave it, bros. Cuz at this point, however many years later, if you were so aggressive at the point you were when you were like 20, 21, unless you're on medication or had a transplant, like you wouldn't have staved it off where you're exactly the same or above baseline. So, my opinion is he just gives such a little and maybe has even seen the videos about his hair loss that he he's just he I don't know, maybe he just wants to like on those videos and be like, "Yeah, actually, I do have hair loss still." Or I just do not care what people think so much that I want to post this for everyone to see with the most unfavorable circumstances possible. I'm not really sure what the point is, but at the end of the day, I still stand by the statement. I think he has still had a transplant and or uses medications. So hopefully he still holds up for a while cuz um him and Jake obviously a very aggressive loss and I think his hair looks great, man. If he can hold on to this like this again, this was uh like where's the before? Like this was at the uh the start of the podcast, you know, he had the brown wispiness, then he went to the blond blonde wispiness with a bit more density, and then he went to uh full board like dirty blonde density, and then he's just been chilling like that since. And if he can maintain this for a while, dude. Like, awesome. Like, hats off to you. You know, that is a success in my opinion given where he was at. So, anyways, I think, you know, that's that's my thoughts, dude. Let me know what you guys think in the comments down below. Do you think he's done absolutely nothing his whole time? Do you think it's uh he's just, you know, gotten lucky and it hasn't gotten bad enough to actually notice and he just grew his hair out more and it's somehow like the entire thing just got more dense and he's just like knows how to comb it better and blowd dry it better and better products. It's just longer and he layers it differently. or is he on meds and he got a transplant? Cuz you know some of those shots in the uh the hairliciously video. Like they certainly show improvements in the hairline to the point where it would be very hard to discount the likelihood that he had some sort of surgical intervention in my opinion despite the fact that this picture is extremely unflattering although probably done on purpose by him to show the most unflattering circumstance possible. So why you would do that, you know, could be a few reasons, but let me know what you guys think. Comments down below are much appreciated. They help the algorithm. If you want to support the channel, you can check out anything I'm associated with in the video description below. My TRT clinic, it's all tele medicine from the comfort of your own home. We have pharma grade hair loss medications notably. Um, as well as my pre-esigned lab test panels, including the comprehensive prefiner panel I designed myself, Gorilla Mine, neutropic formulas, Gorilla Mode, pre-workout formulas I designed myself from scratch, and anything else I am associated with. It's all in the video description below. Thank you guys for watching.