 d converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter acid, and one more variable. Those are the primary six characteristics. And then we do a full panel on looking at anything pesticide or, you know, otherwise related. And it's, I think it's something like one to 3% of the global harvest meets the criteria. It's a, it's a small number, whatever the number is, it's small because they usually wait later in the harvest. It's higher yields. And that's, yeah, when we did our research, extra virgin olive oil was one of the most powerful whole body foods one can eat. And is that primarily driven through the polyphenol content or what is like the major underpinnings of why it's so great? One of the things is it reduces oxidized LDL. So when you eat, you know, you're creating a lot of damage in the body. Oxidized LDL is the damaging portion of it. So looking at my oxidized LDL, uh, ref range was something like, uh, I forget the data. I was in the 97th percentile optimal for oxidized LDL. It's like basically none, uh, which maybe explains. So I have no plaque in the arteries. Um, is it via CT angiogram or how do you assess? Uh, we did ultrasound for plaque. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. I've got a, uh, Phillips Epic here for whole body. We haven't done the CT because we haven't, uh, we don't think the, the, the radiation exposure justifies doing it for my risk profile. Yeah. If your blood work is super clean, then your atherogenic potential could be like so negligible that it's not worthwhile. Presumably. Yeah. And then, yeah, the polyphenols, you know, for the extra virgin olive oil. But if you look at the evidence, it, you know, we can't say this publicly because the FDA strips down the language you can use to basically you can say nothing. You can say something like helps promote blank or may support blank. But the evidence we saw in terms of across the spectrum from every indication, it's just one of the most powerful foods. And so, yeah, I do 45 ml a day, three tablespoons. Huh? That's interesting on the claims because there was a couple I had written down that I thought were pretty strong that I heard on the diary of CEO podcast. Um, you know what? That was before we went through the process. And so when I did that podcast and we started going through the whole process, like, Oh my God, I really should have cleaned up my language. Okay. So yeah, that was before. Okay. I will not say those. Thank you. Yeah. One thing I do want to say though, because this is a trial and wouldn't be asserting anything. It's just a fact of what occurred is you mentioned there was a study where individuals consumed extra virgin olive oil for nine weeks and lost 5.2 pounds. And it was in addition to what they're currently eating. So, and then you said it's, and again, this is like not a statement of, uh, disease prevention or anything. You just simply said what I would interpret to be opinion. It's better than ozempic. Look at the evidence we, we just shared about what this does. It's unbelievable, uh, in the ways it improves health and wellness. It's better than ozempic. Really? It is. Okay. So explaining what Xem, Xempec is, that's the diabetes drug that people are using to lose weight. Yeah. So it's like ozempic is like the fire alarm. And so for example, there's a study where people, lost 5.2 pounds, uh, taking Evo, consuming Evo for nine weeks. In addition to what they're currently eating. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So I'll leave out the other statistics that were, yeah. So like that kind of a claim, is it via like, how is it facilitating this weight loss mechanistically? Yeah. I was with that statement. What I did is I created an infographic and I said, here's why I consume extra virgin olive oil. And I listed out five things. That's different from me saying, I personally am doing this thing for these reasons versus, hey, this is Blueprint's olive oil and here's what you can expect. Yeah. So we tried to parse out so I could say within FDA guidelines, something to that effect. And the, the entire statement I was saying was, I said, extra virgin olive oil is better than, uh, NR cold plunge heat therapy, your favorite podcast and something else. So I was being cheeky. You know, I basically, I was basically saying, look, I understand your, you know, most likely you who's listening, you're out and about trying to find out what you can do for your health and wellness. And you're picking things, what to do. Like, do you buy a cold plunge for your house? Do you do sauna? How often, et cetera. And oftentimes when people are making that consideration, you're not looking at effect. You're not saying like, how significant is this intervention to my wellbeing? And if it's not, if other things are higher into its effect, then I want to prioritize those things, even if they're not sexy or they're not socially, you know, dominantly talked about. And so what I was trying to say is if you're looking for effect, you might have a power law, an extra virgin olive oil that exceeds the power laws, all these other things that are trendy because it works across all these different variables inside the body of things you really care about. So I was really trying to get to that point of the difficulty of someone finding out how to decide what to do and why. So like, I am not to dispute its utility. Like, I think it's, you know, a no brainer if people can handle the calorie burden without it resulting in overeating as a whole. I guess my curiosity is in the mechanism by which it's accomplishing the weight loss. Like, is it such that it's like, I couldn't find the study by the way. So I was hoping you could speak to it is, is it, did they find that it enhanced some metabolic output or was it more that they perceived they were eating the same diet, but in reality it was attenuating hunger signaling dramatically and they were portion controlling just by indirect subconscious behaviors? I don't know. We can pull it up. Okay. Let's pull it up. Sure. Let me see if I can find it. Yeah. I don't remember what the mechanism was. Yeah. I'd say I tried Googling the, what you said, you know, nine weeks, 5.2 pounds, Evo. I can, I can find it easily, but, um, like I would think by law of thermodynamics, there's some sort of proportional change in the way people are eating the other stuff to like, you know, accommodate the olive oil. And perhaps there's some upregulation health processes that helps to some extent, but you know, like 5.2 pounds in nine weeks is pretty solid for adding calories. If it was actually on top of the current diet, it's like, that's the best fat burner in the planet. If that's the case. Yeah. And so like, you know, is it truly comparable to a Zembic, you know, like I'm, I'm trying to, I want, I'm not doing a straight comparison, trying to really accomplish an objective. Okay. Yeah. Here we go. Consumption. Oh wow. I can't type consumption of extra virgin improves body composition, blood pressure and women. Okay. Awesome. Thank you. Let's see what it says. Fat loss was roughly 80% higher on extra virgin olive oil compared to the control group. It also reduced diastolic blood pressure when compared to control. Um, let's see. Yeah. Results indicate daily high fat breakfast containing 25 milliliter soybean oil or EVO during nine consecutive weeks. Okay. So breakfast were part of an energy restricted, normal fat diets in 2019. Huh? So like, I wouldn't be one to state there's no difference between the oil comparisons. Obviously olive oil is going to be superior, but would you, would you discern from this result that it is like an appetite satiety signaling regulated mechanism more than likely, and then some fringe health benefits that are more impactful on health status, but not necessarily metabolic output? I, yeah, the gas, I wouldn't hold you to it. Yeah. Like I'm just guessing myself. Yeah. I, I have tried to stay within the bounds of my knowledge. Sure. Sure. On all things. Okay. Yeah. I try to eagerly lean into what I don't know. Fair enough. Fair enough. Yeah. I respect the not answering too. If you don't feel comfortable chucking out a, I would consider it an educated guess, but I guess nonetheless. So like, I wouldn't hold you to, you know, the thing is if I made an educated guess, unquestionably, someone would say, you said this and they wouldn't, they wouldn't parse out whether I said I'm making a guess or I, I feel like that would further in discredit press that are trying to take you down personally, because it would be very clear contextually that I've framed out the question with so many aggressive caveats that who can you trust now? Who's shit talking Brian Jones? Yeah. No one cares about context. Okay. Fair. They all just want a headline. Sure. Um, okay. Well, yeah, I think olive oil is a def or extra virgin olive oil is definitely worthwhile if you can find good stuff. So in general, I know there's a similar to fish oil. It's often said everything's bad. The grocery store is terrible. Everything's even to the extent of the rancidity might be make it worse for you to take it. And so not with olive oil, how difficult is it? Like, I would imagine the answer is what you've already said. You had to search for foreign wine. Yeah. It's very hard. We just tested a batch out of, uh, Portugal. I think it was, it's, um, a year and three months old from harvest, something like that. And yeah, we found that the oxidation was extreme that, you know, wine gets better in time. Presumably, I guess, you know, whatever people value wine that age longer, but evil is a declining curve. So you want to eat it when it's fresh. And yeah, we found when we do the chemical analysis, it's a really tight window to get the specs we need for the health objectives.