Sup guys, Derek moreplace.com. Today we're going to be talking about RAD-140, also commonly referred to as Tesla alone. Um, this is going to be the most comprehensive video on the entire internet about RAD-140. I assure you that. So stick around if you want to see everything from uh future clinical trials, perceived anecdotal benefits, side effect profile, pharmacodnamics, pharmaccoinetics, um what I think of it personally, reviews anecdotally, its effects, mechanism of actions, uh etc. Let's I'm going to get into everything in this video. So what is RAD-140? RAD-140 or RAD-140 is a selective androgen receptor modulator developed by Radius Health Inc. There are several unofficial slang terms for RAD-140 in the fitness community. One of the most popular being Testolone. RAD-140 has all the hallmarks of an effective SARM exhibiting a high affinity for the androgen receptor with tissue selective anabolic effects in muscle and bone with a relatively minimal effect on prostate seinal vesicles and other androgen affected tissues. RAD-140 has a high level of oral bioavailability and demonstrated high invivo tolerability. It is still in the pre-clinical stages with recruitment occurring right now into its first phase 1 human trial and has yet to be tested on humans. In addition, it is often referred to as a potential alternative to testosterone replacement therapy in the recreational bodybuilding community. Its potential efficacy in a hormone replacement context is implied in some of the pre-clinical animal data, but scientists also acknowledge the potential limitations of RAD-140 when considering it being used in this capacity. Its lack of aromatization is all that is needed to make a definitive judgment on its overall efficacy profile as a hormone replacement therapy alternative, which I will delve into later. Recreational users are quick to label RAD-140 as the safe nonsteroidal version of testosterone which uh this is mostly because it doesn't require any injections and hasn't um ex exhibited any notable side effects and it's pre-clinical data. Obviously with no human data it's extremely presumptuous to make a statement like this and uh later in the article I will delve further into the limitations of RAD-140 and SARMMS in general. So, RAD-140 is purported by many to be a very versatile SARM that provides a complete replacement for TRT without any of the side effects, which is not the case, but I will get into that. Mechanism of action. After ingestion, RAD-140 binds to the androgen receptors in different tissues in the body with a high level of selectivity. After binding to the androgen receptors, RAD-140 exerts tissue specific anabolic effects in muscle tissue and bone and neuroprotective androgen-like effects in the brain with a relative lack of stimulation in prostate and seinal vesicles. So, RAD-140 is a potent androgen agonist in the levator annie which is you know basically the muscle tissue that they use to evaluate anabolic activity in rodent models. um and is also a much weaker partial antagonist on the seinal vesicles and possibly the prostate. But RAD-140 demonstrated a excellent affinity for the androgen receptor with a KI equal to 7nm. To put this in perspective, the affinity for the androgen receptor in this pre-clinical model for testosterone was 29mm and 10nm for DHT. So in other words, RAD-140 has a greater affinity to bind to the androgen receptor than testosterone and DHT. in this pre-clinical animal model. Um, comparing it to human trials of other, you know, uh, SARMs with high binding affinities, it's kind of difficult to do when it's in this context. But anyways, those are the numbers given in the pre-clinical model. So, RAD-140 does not aromatize into estrogen and does not undergo five alpha reduction into a more androgenic metabolite. One thing that needs to be noted is RAD-140's pre-clinical characterization referring to it as a partial antagonist in androgen affected tissues. While this implies it's much less androgenic than all the other SARMs, this is not necessarily the case. Uh most other SARMMs are classified as partial uh agonist in androgen affected tissues. And while RAD-140 is classified in its pre-clinical profile as a partial antagonist, partial agonist may also be considered lians which display both agonistic and antagonistic effects in affected tissues. So this is important because at a first glance, the majority of readers will assume that RAD-140 is the only SARM that has antagonistic effects on the prostate gland and is therefore the most viable candidate for SARM therapy to date, which is not necessarily the case. And all androgen receptor ligans have that have extremely selective functions indicative of assum have demonstrated partial agonist activity in the prostate gland. RAD-140 included despite what its pre-clinical profile may imply. RAD-140 effects increases muscle mass. So RAD-140 is very potent at low dosages and exhibited a mean weight gain of more than 10% in 28 days at only 0.1 milligs per kilogram in a preclinical primate model. So in a pre-clinical rodent model assessing the efficacy of RAD-140 in comparison to exogenous testosterone propinate RAD-140 significantly outperformed testosterone in myotrophic to androgenic selectivity. In this study rats were castrated and either given placebo 1 milligram for per kilogram testosterone proponate or graded dosages of either 0.03 03 milligs per kilogram, 0.1 millig per kilogram, 0.3 milligs per kilogram, 1 millig per kilogram, 3 millig per kilogram, or 10 mg per kilogram of RAD-140. The sham group of uh the sham group are untreated rats that weren't castrated that serve as a reference guide for how much anabolic to androgenic activity occurs in a normal healthy rat with normal endogenous testosterone and DHT levels. After castrating the rats, muscle mass and prostate size decrease because there is no longer sufficient androgen stimulation occurring in the body as there is no testosterone or DHT being produced. So by using RAD-140 or testosterone, this study exhibits exactly how effective these two compounds are at replicating the anabolic activity necessary to maintain normal amounts of muscle and bone mass and how much androgenic activity will occur in the prostate relative to that. By referring to the figure above, you can see that the lowest dosage of RAD-140 capable of maintaining normal levels of anabolic activity in the body was the 0.3 milligram per kilogram treated group. While testosterone at 1 milligram per kilogram was able to outperform the 0.3 milligram per kilogram RAD-140 group in muscle growth, it stimulated prostate growth as well to a much greater extent. So for therapeutic purposes, RAD-140 exhibits a greater efficacy profile at low dosages than testosterone as it's able to maintain normal amounts of muscle mass but greatly decrease the amount of androgenic activity in the body. The 3 mgram per kilogram group uh radin 140 treated group was able to replicate the same level of muscle tissue growth as the 1 milligram per kilogram testosterone treated group with about half of the androgenic activity in the prostate. So I think it would be interesting to see how the same testosterone treated group would respond if they were given dutasteride to inhibit the five alpha reduction of testosterone into DHT and if that group would still exhibit a less favorable selectivity than the RAD-140 groups because for all we know it could be more beneficial to use testosterone concurrently with a five alpha reductase inhibitor than rather than using RAD-140 especially considering testosterone aromatizes into estrogen which is a severely ly limiting flaw of SARMs in general. But all that remains to be seen. In a therapeutic context, RAD-140 looks very promising based on the pre-clinical data given and it blatantly has the ability to selectively increase muscle tissue even at superphysiological levels. Fat loss, no fat uh direct fat loss was noted in the pre-clinical trials conducted on RAD-140. However, as a human acrru more muscle mass, their basil metabolic rate will increase in parallel. So this is a given. Therefore, anything that can increase lean muscle mass in a human would theoretically increase total daily energy expenditure. So the net result of that would be an increase in the amount of calories expended just by having more muscle tissue via RAD-140 usage and greater overall fat loss. Therefore, it is likely that RAD-140 can indirectly increase fat loss to some extent um dependent on the amount of muscle growth it induces. essentially increases bone mineral density. All SARMs that have reached human trials have shown the ability to inhibit bone turnover, stimulate bone formation, and retain bone mineral density in a state of catabolism. While Radwood 40 hasn't gone into human testing yet, its tissue selective anabolic effects in bone have been demonstrated in pre-clinical animal models as exemplified via other more thoroughly studied SARMs like Austrine and LGD4033. These effects will very likely translate in humans just the same in further clinical trials. Reduces prostate size. So RAD-140 has proven capable of exhibiting tissue selective anabolic effects in muscle and bone equivalent to that of a therapeutic dosage of testosterone while simultaneously reducing prostate size by approximately 70%. RAD-140 has a much lower level of androgenicity in the body and simultaneously suppresses natural testosterone production. The net result of this in hypoganatal males would be a fulfillment of testosterone's important functions in an anabolic context with a lack of androgenic activity or a relative lack. The net result of this in healthy males with normal testosterone levels would be a drastic decrease in prostate size and androgenic activity in parallel to natural testosterone suppression. And the reason being that healthy men still operate with a significant amount of androgenic activity occurring via their natural testosterone production and its five alpha reduction to DHT and testosterone's inherent androgenicity to begin with. When a healthy male has their endocrine system suppressed um they will produce less testosterone and consequently DHT as well uh which will cause a dose dependent decrease in muscle size, bone mineral density, prostate size and the size of seinal vesicles. This is what makes radwood 40 and other sarm so interesting as they will suppress the endocrine system and can reduce systemic androgenic activity while keeping anabolic activity exactly the same or even increasing it to superphysiological levels depending on the dosage used. Uh there are a variety of therapeutic applications in which a very selective potent agonist in muscle tissue with a far lower level of androgenic activity would be beneficial in a clinical setting with just one of those being a potentially viable treatment for benign prostatic hyperplasia in men. And notably it's not just via indogenous androgen suppression that these SARMs work. It's also via the high binding affinity and competing for androgen receptor activation. And so RAD-140 simply is not only suppresses HPTA, indogenous testosterone and DHT, it also competes very effectively at the androgen receptor for binding and knocks a lot of those androgens off in order to fulfill its anabolic effects in muscle and bone and you know thereby reduces the androgen index via two mechanisms of action. The next effect is suppresses breast cancer. So the androgen receptor is frequently expressed in many estrogen receptor positive um estrogen receptor negative and triple negative breast cancers. As RAD-140 facilitates its effects via the androgen receptor, assessing its potential clinical applications in this context was worth exploring. In a pre-clinical study, RAD-140 significantly suppressed the growth and proliferation of breast cancer cells in invivo and in vitro models of androgen receptor uh/estrogen receptor positive breast cancer. RAD-140 has a promising pre-clinical profile and Radius Health is currently in the process of recruiting 40 post-menopausal women with hormone receptor positive breast cancer into its first phase 1 clinical trial on humans. The main goal of the study is to evaluate its safety profile, tolerability, and pharmacocinetic characteristics in hormone receptor positive breast cancer. So this is the current RAD-140 pipeline via radius health. As you can see, it's being developed for potential treatment of patients with breast cancer. Neurodeenerative disease protection. SARMMs target androgen receptors in different areas of the body and RAD-140 has also shown neuroprotective effects in the brain of androgen deficient rats. Indogenous androgens are responsible for several important functions in the body and brain the majority of which are mediated via androgen receptor activation. In hormonally deficient rats, RAD-140 activated those androgen receptors in the brain and prevented neurodeenerative disease progression from occurring in the absence of sufficient indogenous androgens. RAD-140 was able to activate androgen receptors in the brain, protect hippocample neurons from cell death, and induce anabolic activity in muscle tissue and bone as effectively as testosterone. All with a near complete absence of stimulation in androgen affected reproductive tissues. Is RAD-140 as strong as steroids? So sort of and I'm going to get into that now. RAD-140 purportedly, not officially, has an anabolic to androgenic rating of 90 to1 and partially antagonizes the negative effects of testosterone on the prostate. The anabolic to androgenic ratio is essentially a ratio which exhibits how much anabolic activity a specific compound will exert in the body and how much androgenic activity it will exert in the body and anabolic meaning that they promote anabolism cell growth and androgenic viralization meaning they affect the development and maintenance of masculine characteristics. The anabolic to androgenic ratio of a compound is a very important factor when determining the potential clinical applications of it. Granted, these ratios are typically way off in most compounds, or at least a large number of them, but they still give us a good reference point for what we should try and should potentially expect. Initial steroid research sought to synthesize a compound which retained a high degree of anabolic activity coupled with a lack of androgenic activity. The goal being to produce a compound with a high anabolic effect yet low androgenic effect. Essentially, because SARMMS were intended for medical treatment, uh patients could include men and women and even children. So, the last thing you want to do is give a girl a bunch of testosterone so she can prevent muscle wasting only to have her end up with a myriad of masculineizing side effects like deepening of her voice, acne, clitoreral enorment, body hair growth, and all the other negative side effects associated with anabolic androgenic steroids. The androgenic side effects of steroids in men aren't insignificant either. the risk of gynecomastia, man boobs, endocrine shutdown, infertility, testicle shrinkage, negative effects on cholesterol, increased risk of heart disease among many other side effects are very real side effects of anabolic androgenic steroids. I'm not saying that these will absolutely happen at all, but there is a chance of them occurring with anabolic steroid use, which with some of them occurring with SARM still to a significant extent, which is notable. Considering this, it is obviously very important to synthesize compounds that have as low of a risk of any of these side effects of occurring. And those were just a handful of side effects of much more, which I'm not I'm not going to name them all off. I'm pretty sure you're mostly aware of what those are. So, you know, obviously the goal would be to synthesize compounds that have as low of a risk of these occurring while still maximizing the anabolic efficacy of the treatment given to patients. Compounds with a high ratio of androgenic to anabolic effects are the drugs of choice in androgen replacement therapy. But in the context of muscle and bone wasting prevention, compounds with a much higher anabolic to androgenic ratio are exponentially better candidates for treatment. Based on the pre-clinical data, RADIN 140 has shown that even with a complete absence of testosterone, it could still induce just as much anabolic activity in muscle and bone as testosterone would with several fold less androgenic activity. This would consequently eliminate and replace the need for anabolic enerogenic steroid use in degenerative muscularkeeletal disease treatment. In addition, RAD-140 synergistically works alongside testosterone to induce greater amounts of muscle growth in the body if they are used concurrently while simultaneously decreasing testosterone's negative side effects on the prostate. And this is done via androgen receptor competition essentially. RAD-140 dosage. So dosages of 10 to 30 milligrams per day are commonly used in a recreational context for muscle building purposes. But there is no established therapeutic dosage of RAD-140 as of now. That awaits uh clinical trials to uh assess that. So the halflife the halflife is purported to be roughly 20 hours. So this has not been confirmed by Radius Health or by any scientific data whatsoever. So how this 20our number was arrived at is uncertain to me and I don't know if it's accurate at all to be honest. RAD-140 side effects. One thing you will often read is how there are no side effect reported side effects from RAD-140. This is not the case though both anecdotally as well as in the limited clinical data. So I'm going to delve into that now. potential ventricular inflammation. Unpublished pre-clinical toxicology studies with RAD-140 indicated that it induced focal inflammation of the right ventricle in male and female sprag dolly rats. With that being said, the same side effect was not noted in the male or female symus monkeys treated with RAD-140 and pre-clinical rat models have some underlying issues in regards to cardiovascular risk. Androgens cause 11 beta hydroxilase inhibition in rat adrenal glands. Inhibiting this in rats causes an increase in the adrenal output of 11 deoxycorticoststerone uh which can cause cardiac lesions in rat hearts. Also in another preclinical rodent model high dosages of RAD-140 had a protective effect on the heart. This was the first occurrence of rat cardiotoxicity reported for a sarm. The data supports that the focal inflammation in the rat studies cannot be extrapolated to primates and humans. So, it is very unlikely that this same outcome would occur in humans. The fact that it didn't occur in monkeys with dosages as high as 1,000 milligrams per kilogram per day is very reassuring that this outcome would be less likely to occur in humans, but it is notable nonetheless. Hair loss. While RAD-140 exhibits one of the most impressive myotrophic to androgenic pre-clinical profiles, it cannot be ignored that there was still blatant increasing androgenic activity in a dose dependent manner in all animal models. All but limited due to the high level of tissue selectivity, RAD-140 still exhibits androgenic activity in the body and will potentially lead to accelerated hair loss. Uh however, it could also potentially reduce hair loss if you used at a dosage that suppressed endogenous androgens and or antagonized endogenous androgens at the androgen receptors enough that the androgen load on the body was lower than baseline while still fulfilling the anabolic functions that would have otherwise been fulfilled via indogenous testosterone. This does not exclude temporary shedding though acute tigen oflovium which can be triggered by any hormonal fluctuation. This is not to be confused with androgenic alopeescia which is literally follicular miniaturaturization caused by androgens. On the efficacy data comparing S1 to finasteride, it is likely that RAD-140, if anything, would reduce the progression of hair loss at therapeutic dosages based on its tissue selectivity. Anecdotally, recreational users report hair loss quite frequently with RAD-140 usage. However, this is with dosages that likely greatly exceed what the therapeutic dosage will be in a clinical setting. Whether this hair loss in the bodybuilding community is real androgenic alipcia or just acute telogenofluvium is unclear and would require more data. Gynecomastia. While the risk is relatively low based on anecdotal reports, it is safe to say that all sarms can cause gyno as they impact the HPTA by binding harder to the androgen receptors than indogenous androgens or with a formidable binding affinity to indogenous androgens. There can be a a diversion of more indogenous testosterone to aromatize into estrogen. Also suppressing testosterone production in itself can cause an imbalance in the ratio of endogenous androgens relative to endogenous estrogen in the body creating a androgen to estrogen hormonal imbalance that encourages gynecomastia development. So estrogen management would be prudent during any usage of SARMs. Lowering of lipids. Just like any other SARM or anabolic steroid, RAD-140 exhibits a dose dependent lowering of lipids, LDL, HDL, and triglycerides. One commonality among all anabolic androgenic compounds is that they will all suppress HDL cholesterol, good cholesterol, in a dose dependent manner, and this has been consistently demonstrated in clinical trials conducted on SARMs as well. Every single SARM that has been evaluated has exhibited this same dose dependent suppression of lipids. Testosterone suppression. Just like anabolic steroids, SARMs have all consistently exhibited suppression of luteinizing hormone and follical stimulating hormone through the HPTA. The result of this is a decreasing natural testosterone production in a dose dependent manner. Anecdotally, RAD-140 is one of the most suppressive SARMs in a pre-clinical primate model assessing its effect on indogenous testosterone production. Young monkeys with testosterone levels between 600 to 800 NOGS per deciliter, which is similar to the average testosterone level of 25 to 54 year old human males. Uh were treated with RAD-140 for 28 days. In all treated monkeys, testosterone levels dropped to about 50% of baseline with the average testosterone level decreasing to 200 to 300 nanogs per deciliter. And this would be hypoganatal levels in humans. And this occurred even with dosages as low as 0.01 milligrams per kilogram. Increased estrogen or decreased estrogen. So RAD-140 does not aromatize into estrogen. uh but it still has a large impact on the ratio of testosterone to estrogen in the body. RAD-140 binds to androgen receptors um purportedly with a higher affinity than uh I say that kind of with uh you know some skepticism but based on this pre-clinical data anyways it looks promising binds to the androgen receptors uh with a higher affinity than indogenous androgens and can encourage increased amounts of indogenous aromatization of testosterone to estrogen by occupying vacant receptor sites. So in addition, dose dependent suppression of indogenous testosterone can lead to a testosterone to estrogen imbalance or I should say an androgen to to estrogen imbalance is more accurate. The systemic elevation of estrogen levels in the body is often misinterpreted as the result of pro hormone laced sarms which is almost never actually the case. High dosages and or long-term use of RAD-140 can cause a decrease in systemic estrogen levels and this is facilitated through higher levels of endocrine suppression. Estrogen facilitated physiological functions in the body are mediated through the aromatization of testosterone into a sufficient amount of estrogen. If RAD-140 usage suppresses indogenous testosterone levels too low, it can result in estrogen levels dropping as a consequence of the lack of aromatization occurring in the body. in a suppressed state. So when estrogen levels get too low, a new set of delletterious side effects can occur and you know I have listed these many times before but you know some of them it I don't want to detail them all but you know loss of bone mineral density is a notable one. low libido, irritability, mood swings, uh you know, erectile dysfunction, common common things, liver toxicity. Even at dosages 10 times higher than the efficacious dosage required to replicate the therapeutic anabolic benefits of testosterone, RAD-140 did not increase liver enzymes or exhibit any liver toxicity. While this was just a pre-clinical animal model, it is promising for the development of RAD-140 because other SARMs have shown potential liver toxicity concerns, all but minimal, at their therapeutic dosage amounts. Increased aggression. RAD-140 users commonly report very blatant increases in aggression. While this is anecdotal, it has occurred consistently enough in the bodybuilding community that it should be considered. The interesting thing about this is that typically increased aggression only occurs when androgen index increases in the body. This is why more androgenic steroids are commonly used pre-workout for a quick boost in aggression before training. The fact that RAD-140 is resulting in increased aggression in recreational users could potentially be indicative of some of the following outcomes. One being RAD-140 isn't as selective for anabolic activity relative to androgenic activity in humans as it was in the pre-clinical animal studies. Two could be the dosages humans are using recreationally is far higher than needed. And three could be their RAD-140 is fake and is another hormone entirely. But I believe the second potential outcome is the most likely reason where the dosage people are using is just way higher than the therapeutic level of anabolic activity where you know anabolic functions or anabolic levels of anabolic activity in muscle and bone fulfilled via testosterone would be achieved and people are using dosages way higher and they're leading to dose dependent increases in androgenic activity. That's sort of my guess on that potential as a hormone replacement therapy alternative for men. So, this is going to be the last note I make on RAD-140, but RAD-140 is often labeled in the recreational fitness and bodybuilding community as a potentially safer HRT alternative for men. This has yet to be proven in clinical trials, and there is one massive inherent flaw that prevents RAD-140 monotherapy from being a standalone effective TRT alternative. This is its lack of romatization into estrogen. So, RAD-140 does not romatize into estrogen and also greatly suppresses indogenous testosterone levels. The net result of this is suboptimal estrogen levels to support basic physiological functions in the male body and a myriad of low estrogen side effects with long-term use. Even if RAD-140 was a viable alternative to testosterone, it would either need to be used in conjunction with exogenous uh testosterone or estrogen would need to be administered concurrently with RAD-140. Uh RAD-140 is not a viable standalone treatment for hormone hormone replacement therapy due to this exact reason. While high levels of estrogen can cause numerous negative side effects, low estrogen levels can be just as delletterious in men and you know, arguably even worse to be honest. Okay, so that is my comprehensive overview of RAD-140. Hope you guys enjoyed it. Hope you learned something. Please like, subscribe, hit the notification bell. Um, if you want to stay up to date when I post, please drop a comment. Helps the algorithm out. Helps push my content to new viewers. Follow me on Instagram, more plates_ates, Facebook, Twitter, Snapchat, etc. Check out the links in the video description below for uh products I've either formulated or am affiliated with if you want to support the channel. Uh check out the podcast link if you want guys could drop a fivestar rating. That helps spread the content as well and is always much appreciated. Um thank you guys for watching. Talk to you soon.