So, we ran those tests and it turns out that your FSH and LH were so low they were undetectable. Wow. And your testosterone was so low it was about 5% of what it normally should be. What's up, guys? Derek, more police.com. Today we are going to be reacting to 27year-old man hasn't reached puberty with the doctor. So this is a very old video but it has uh it blew up 25 million views and still cranking on the views today. And I guess this was suggested to me not only by YouTube cuz it knew I was publishing those videos recently on the uh young teens or early 20s guys who had uh you know unexplainable levels of low tea. Some of them you know had medical conditions, pituitary adenomas. Some were anorexic, some may have had uh, you know, exogenous exposure to things that downregulate HPTA function. Um, stuff like that. So, in this one, this guy's 27 and presumably never had that spike in testosterone and subsequently DHT that you would have to experience full maturation in uh, your puberty phase. So, he's basically full grown in like height and whatnot, but never experienced that like full-blown um you know, what would otherwise occur from having a high level of androgens in the body. So, for this, I thought it'd be interesting to react to cuz it ties right into what I was just talking about, and I'll see if this uh the doctors have anything interesting insightwise to give on the situation. Maybe it might have some uh relatability to some of my recent content. So, uh let's get into it. And our next topic is something we've all gone through. It's not always easy talking about puberty. Now, puberty brings body changes. It can feel confusing, even humiliating. What could be worse than that, right? Well, how about never reaching puberty? My name is Brandon. I'm 26 years old and I have not hit puberty yet. I haven't had any facial hair growth. Very little arm hair, leg hair, very little penile [snorts] growth, very, very little testicle growth. So notice how he says very little penile growth. This is why you should not be inhibiting DHT in your in puberty. Like even if you have it's like when if you're experiencing aggressive hair loss early, it's like yeah, it's really shitty if you're experiencing it during puberty. But if there's one time to not inhibit indogenous like physiologic functions and get in the middle of hormonal processes, it would be during puberty where you don't want to [\h__\h] with anything cuz that is where you can actually permanently inhibit the growth potential of certain things. Now obviously down the line you could argue that uh like there is evidence to suggest that even after puberty if you somehow you know if you had something like this guy or he never made it through puberty you could otherwise exogenously administer like you like topical DHT creams and [\h__\h] like that and maybe get kind of like you know make up for lost time in some extent and that doesn't work for people postpuberty who have like full maturation already by the way so don't go out and try that or anything but um for this guy in particular I just wanted to tie it back because there are a lot of guys who do consider finasteride during puberty and you may otherwise induce a state of essentially being a you know like a uh almost in between normal and a pseudo hermaphrodite when you do it. It's almost it's not going to be as bad as this guy's experiencing but you might may induce a state sort of similar to that you know by inhibiting DHT during a time when you otherwise need it maxed out. No no no change in my voice. It [music] affects every everything I do from the moment I wake up until I go to bed. I have no dating life at all. I have no sex drive at all. I I like [music] women, but I don't really have a drive to go and pursue them. So, you have to understand too though when I mentioned that before is that like this guy presumably has no it's not just a lack of DHT like he lacks tea as well probably. So he's almost like uh you know uh sort of like similar to the castradi that you saw in my video before where I mentioned how they're functioning essentially off of adrenal steroids and kind of residual um like that's literally what they're operating off of as far as androgenic hormones. So for this guy presumably as some sort of some sort of hypogonatism induced by we'll find out. Um, but he does not have any testosterone to work with. Whereas, you know, if you were a teen using finasteride, it's not like it crushes your testosterone to zero. But I still have the giant disclaimer that do not use finasteride in puberty because the DHT component is still important. It's not just about if you have testosterone or not. Like the the pseudo hermaphrodites that are DHT deficient, they had peak test levels and they would still end up with the micro penises and whatnot. Everyone's different for me. I don't feel like I'm at the material level I need to be. I don't just I don't look like a guy. I don't feel like it physically. I don't like to go out in public. I don't like to be seen. If I apply for a job, they think I'm younger and they don't want to hire me. They think I don't have the experience. I didn't think it was an [music] issue until my early 20s because you always read online about late bloomers. You think eventually it's going to happen. you don't [music] think that it's never going to happen. I don't have a job right now, so I have no way of getting medical help. At this point, I'm desperate for answers. I [music] just I I need to know what's wrong with me and how to fix it. Brandon's situation called for a male reproductive specialist. So, we sent him to board certified urologist, Dr. Aaron Spitz. Hi, Brandon. Hello. I'm Dr. Aaron Spitz. Nice to meet you. Um, I had a chance to look at the chart you filled out for me. Okay. And I understand you're here to see me about concerns about your growth and sexual development. Is that correct? Okay. And uh you have difficulty with [music] getting erections. Yeah. And you say that you've never reached a sexual climax. I don't really have any desire for sex. Now, one issue that may be a factor here, just looking at your notes, is [music] your potential to be fertile. Okay. Um is this something that uh you thought about or that concerns you? It it does [music] concern me. portal. Would you like to have kids if possible? Surprised you even asked, "Does this concern you?" It's like, "Yeah, [\h__\h] it." Yeah, obviously. Um, [music] what I'd like to do is examine you. Okay. First, I'm just going to feel your neck, feel your glands here. Go ahead and swallow. Um, I'm going to go ahead and listen to your heart and lungs now. I'm going to take a listen to your lungs. Okay, Brandon. [music] Um, I do agree with your assessment. Um, your genitals are underdeveloped and it does appear that you have not completely gone through normal puberty changes. Yes. Um, [music] one immediate concern I have is your hormone balance and uh, it is highly likely that your testosterone is too low. So, I'm going to have you get some blood tests that look at your testosterone level as well as [music] the controlling hormones that stimulate your testicles to grow. I'll follow up with you once. So here when he's talking about the hormones responsible for producing testosterone, he's talking about the ginadotropins, LH and FSH. You guys are probably familiar with them. Luteinizing hormone follical stimulating hormones. So these would be used to determine if uh the man in question has um primary hypogonatism, secondary hypogonatism, and see exactly where the disconnect is. Like does he have enough luteinizing hormone and follical stimulating hormone? He otherwise just has like non-responsive testes. or does he not have sufficient gonadotropins in his testies are working just fine? Like what's the deal? So presumably that's what he's going to be looking for in the blood test results. And this video only has 10 seconds left. So it's kind of I don't know what the [\h__\h] they're going to if that's it. That seems the testing is complete [music] and hopefully be able to provide you with a diagnosis as well as a treatment plan. That sounds great. Thank you very much. Okay. So presumably that is uh just AI don't know a teaser. It's not like there was a follow-up that was shown like immediately after in some playlist or anything. So, I found the uh what I presume to be the follow-up video. Um it was the most closely related one I could find quickly on the side here. Um it's delayed puberty explained. The weird thing is it's on the vasectomy reversal USA YouTube channel with 3 and a half thousand subscribers. So, it's not on the doctor's YouTube channel anymore or if it's there. I don't know. They got reposted here. I don't know. But anyways, this is definitely the same case. See the same uh same Brandon, same doctor, same uh same everything. So Brandon 27 says he's never gone through puberty despite being 6'3. Feels he has the appearance of a 12-year-old boy. Um let's see, leads he believes he has Calman syndrome. Unable to receive medical insurance. Brandon has not seen a doctor about his problem until today. Um pediatrician Dr. Jim Sears and urologist Dr. Aaron Spitz explain this rare issue. So calman syndrome would be if you did not have enough gonadotropen releasing hormone being sent to the pituitary consequently resulting in a deficient amount of uh LH and FSH. So if you otherwise if you don't have enough G&R going to stimulate the LH and FSH pulsations then you are not going to downstream have enough actual testosterone production in the testes. So to figure that out, you would have to look at a few different biioarkers. You know, mainly the endocrine parameters of your total D, um your LH and FSH, see where the disconnect is. See what's going on. Is it primary? Is it secondary? Is it tertiary? Like what's going on here? And perhaps even intervene with a um HCG or a G&RA agonist to kind of see where the disconnect is again in the HPTA. Um, so hopefully they have some answers for this guy. And um, typical, you know, therapy if this is what he has would be like HRT. There's really not a whole lot you can do. The treatment might vary though depending on like where the disconnect is and what they determine to be appropriate. So, let's see. And Brandon, first of all, let me just tell you, you are a brave man because [applause] I I'm so glad cuz you you're 27. Yeah. Be 27 next month. And you've never had this looked into because you just kept thinking someday it's going to happen. I'm going to go through puberty. Yeah. And this took courage. And I wanna I just want to applaud you for that because [applause] the first step to figuring out what's going on is is addressing it. Yeah. Brandon, I'm curious. At what point in your life did you first think something's just not right with your body? In mid- teens, 16, 17 years old, I noticed everyone else, you know, looks different and my body is not developing at all. We should clarify that not going through puberty doesn't mean that you can't grow tall. You're a big man. You're 6'3. Yeah. 6'3. So, interestingly enough, going through puberty is actually what may prevent you from getting too tall. So, this is where it gets into the cast and kind of how testosterone aromatization to estrogen certain growth factors and the axis between them all sort of dictates uh what is it? epithesial uh plate closure. So this would dictate, you know, where you essentially stopped growing. And then the castradi, these guys who were not that this guy was castrated at a young age presumably. Uh but castradi historically that were castrated to preserve their angelic singing voices. They would grow to much taller than you would otherwise expect them to. And they had, you know, lowquality bones, but it was because they had this unregulated growth essentially because they had such low estrogen levels the entire time they would have otherwise been going through normal puberty. So this guy may have just had, you know, well, like presumably he had low estrogen going through his entire, you know, teenagehood. So he did not have that, you know, plate closure that would otherwise dictate when he just stops growing in height. So for him, like maybe he would have grown, maybe he would have stopped growing as tall if he didn't have this happen. Not that this is a, you know, a good thing or anything. I'm just saying that it may have had some sort of effect on him reaching the height he did, which is an interesting kind of a side [snorts] effect of having a lack of sufficient hormones. So, and if you want to see more details about that, I go into it in greater more elaborate detail in my cast video. I'll put a card up in the corner to the cast video I did recently. A lot of interesting uh history that went with that one. So, anyways, let's continue. You know, so physical development may not coincide with sexual development. Correct. And so you ran a number of tests to try to figure out what might be going on with Brandon. Yeah. Exactly. On the physical exam, what I observed is that Brandon has not gone through the typical signs of maturation. He's got a lack of body hair. He doesn't shave. Uh his voice is not deepened and his genitals are underdeveloped. Also, the fat distribution on the breasts and the hips is not what you would typically see in a mature male. And an interesting finding too is that his arm span is a little bit longer than its height. And normally your arms span is your height. And then finally, there was a very interesting sign which was a lack of a sense of smell. Yeah. So then we got blood tests. We focused on FSH and LH. These are two hormones that are secreted by the pituitary gland which sits right behind the eyeballs in the brain and they surge during puberty. The FSH or follical stimulating hormone surges to stimulate the testicles to produce sperm. And the LH or luteinizing hormone surges to stimulate those testicles to produce testosterone, which then gives you all of those signs of puberty, the body hair, the deepening of the voice, the enlarging of the sex organs, uh muscle and bone strength, etc. So, we ran those tests and it turns out that your FSH and LH were so low they were undetectable. Wow. and your testosterone was so low, it was about 5% of what it normally should be. And the takeaway here, so he says 5% of normal levels. Um like presumably he's talking about a range um like an average of like 600 nanogs per deciliter. That's kind of a generally accepted, you know, average for a guy, you know, a 27y old male. Um, so 5% of that like we're talking like 30 nanograms per deciliter of total tea. So like this is essentially just like functioning off of adrenal steroids like I mentioned or it's you know it's similar to some of the cases I presented with uh the pituitary adenoma case in the young man that I did a video on as well as some of the uh the severe anorexia case that I covered as well. Like these are um like similar test levels. So for him, you know, it's it's pretty obvious why he didn't go through puberty properly if he's been operating with these levels his entire um teenagehood, which presumably he has been or else he'd, you know, not be sitting here with the problem he has today. So the LH and FSH being crashed that gives some indication that the problem is upstream potentially. here is that understandably, you know, every year you kept waiting. You kept waiting. And Jim, the question I have for you is when should a when should someone worry? In a boy um at age 14, if we're not seeing the the beginning signs, enlarging of the testicles, then we do something about it. In in girls, if we don't see the first sign, which is breast development by age 13, then we run the blood tests. And so, normally, you know, we run the tests. Often times, they come back normal and we say, "Okay, you're just a late bloomer." it'll kick in in the next couple of years. Sometimes we do find something and you know like in you we you know your blood test suggested uh a diagnosis of common syndrome and uh you know what that is it's basically a a genetic problem whereas when your brain was developing in the womb the the neurons that eventually were going to cause those hormones to be stimulated didn't develop. Oh okay you know and those hormones and those neurons are actually right next to your smell uh neurons too. So those that little part of your brain just didn't develop. And so as a physician, you look at Brandon and say, "Okay, putting two and two together, lack of smell." Yeah. And not going through puberty. That leads you to think about calmness. Yeah. I mean, all the arrows really pointed towards that. But to complete the diagnosis, Brandon also had an MRI done, which is an important piece of this. And I know we're not going to talk about it until after after the break, but MRI is very important here as well. Well, the reason it's so important is because uh although Colin syndrome fits this pattern, what's much more common is a tumor of the pituitary gland throwing off hormones in men. So, this is what we saw most recently actually in one of my videos where we had the uh young man, like I said, I think he had 19 no peril test levels or 14 or something like that. And this was the result of um an adenoma that was found uh during imaging of the pituitary gland. So that is what they're looking for here to kind of rule out, you know, see what's going on. And because that is much more common, we want to rule out a tumor. Exactly what I [\h__\h] said, the pituitary. And so we do that with an MRI. So Brandon did get his MRI. We're going to share those results with him as well as you when we come back. Okay. So, [sighs] I don't know where the next clip is. I have an update here in my queue. Future Reddit AMA information. Um, let me see if I can find the next clip. Like, cuz there's basically nothing here, man. Um, oh, it's a Uzoma. Sick, dude. Um, let's see. I don't know where the update is. It's kind of annoying. Hopefully it is on here somewhere because now I am very very uh interested in seeing the outcome. So, I don't know. I guess let's see this uh AMA and see if it's the information's in here. So, I know a lot of people have been requesting me to post update videos since I've been on the doctor's TV show. And more recently, I've actually been contacted by a few people um because they a post on Reddit about me going on the show. And something that was suggested was doing an AMA. For me, this is something I' I've actually been considering for quite some time. Um, a couple months ago, one of my my friends had actually allowed me to take over their Twitch stream. We were doing like a um a subscriber Skype call. So, his voice sounds deeper already, so presumably he's on HRT now, but I'm kind of annoyed. I can't find the uh the the update. One of the top comments that's not even his final form yet, bro. [panting and gasps] Uh let's see. Next time on Dragon Ball Z. Uh, you look older and your voice sounds deeper, man. Good for you. I wish you the best. Um, let's see. Okay. Well, I don't know where the update is, but that's kind of annoying. So, let me see. Uh, let me just type in update or doctors. Doctors hasn't reached puberty. Man, who hasn't reached puberty? Oh, here we go. MRI. Let's look at the MRI here, Dr. Jabbor. and highlight what you're looking at and some concerns you may have had when you saw this MRI. Thanks, Travis. Well, what we have here is a beautiful midline sagittal view of the brain, which looks normal, but we need to zone in on the pituitary to really look at the anatomy. When we um magnify just the pituitary looking from the side, that's front and that's back. we see a normal pituitary uh enc casement the shape of the pituitary it's called the celotica and the hypothalamus are in a good position and on the next image when we look from the front see this is if somebody you know the quite a few people not quite a few but there are individuals who saw my videos about you know pituitary adenoma the anorexia induced uh hormone deficiency HPTA suppression all those videos and people with, you know, issues have been reaching out. And this is great educational material to like learn about how the body works and what you may want to be looking for to kind of assess your own um health profile cuz some people they just assume, oh, you know, I'm genetically [\h__\h] and I'm just I just have low tea or whatever. And some people don't actually even look into this stuff. Like this guy, it took him years and he had to end up on this, you know, massive show before he even got his stuff checked. So, if you are a young male who is uh experiencing a similar issue with unexplainable low hormone levels, like this is the kind of stuff you want to be looking for. And for everyone watching right now, you may be looking at this image and thinking to yourselves, oh, that's just a small little part of the brain. But the pituitary dictates the production of so many hormones in the body, including sexual hormones. That's why the focus right now is pituitary gland and what may be going on there. So in this image there were some things that that looked interesting to you. So there there's an asymmetric shape with this bright signal on this side not seen on that side but we do have a midline hypothalamic stalk. You're pointing here with this arrow because there's white over here that you're not seeing on the other side. That's the asymmetry we're talking about. So Dr. Shannine, you're a schoolbased expert where the pituitary gland lives. When you're looking at this, what do you see concerning, not concerning? Fortunately, in this case, uh, in Brandon's case, and I congratulate you, uh, this is a benign lesion. I'll draw it. This is the normal pituitary gland here in yellow. This is the corateed artery here in pink. And there is a hockey stick lesion that you can see just between the two in blue. This hockey stick lesion is a benign overgrowth of the skull, the bone where the pituitary sits. So it is extrinsic to the pituitary. I want to thank Dr. Jabor and Dr. Shahinian for helping us out. Thank you gentlemen. Now Dr. spits. A couple other things I want to look at because we mentioned before, Brandon, you lack a sense of smell. And this image from the MRI shows potentially why. That's correct. These bright areas right here, there should be the nerves for the sense of smell and they're gone. Be a darker signal there. And the nerves for the sense of smell when they form, they also bring along with them the nerves that stimulate the pituitary gland to release those key hormones for puberty and sexual development. And since those nerves for the sense of smell are gone, those nerves that control the pituitary are gone. And that's why Brandon has this syndrome. So testosterone helps us mature, but it doesn't help us get taller. In fact, it stops the growth of the bones by closing the growth plates. But in Brandon's case, because his testosterone is so very low, these growth plates never closed. So when he says the testosterone dictates dictates the closure of the growth plates, he's more referring to downstream aromatization into estrogen. I want to see, look at this right here. You see where the bone is a little bit lighter through here. That is an open growth plate. The bone, it should be like the rest of the bone, that darker white. And and because you see that growth plate, it means that literally his bones, he never had the signal from the testosterone to close it down. The other thing you can notice a little bit on here and also on a bone density scan that he had is that the bones themselves are weak. Uh and this is because testosterone is critical in bone strength and bone density. And as a result, Brandon has osteoporosis. This makes him more prone for easily breaking his bones. This is the same thing we see in the cast. We see like brutal brittle bones. We see osteoporosis. And this is why bone mineral degradation. We see the use of things like androgens. The things like selective androgen receptor modulators are being used for uh are being looked at for hip fractures specifically with LGD. You know, a lot of this stuff interplays very uh directly, you know, with androgen signaling, anabolic activity, etc. With testosterone, the bones can strengthen up. Not only does it close the growth plate, but it keeps the bones strong. And that's the silver lining is Brandon, there is treatment. Thank [applause] you. You can be treated and you can go through your sexual maturation, go through puberty, and get on with a more normal life. Awesome. What you need is that missing testosterone. And fortunately, it's very simple and straightforward to give that to you. Testosterone comes in a variety of applications. It can be injected, there's pellets, and there's topical applications. This one's very easy to use. It's called Axeron and it's a pump bottle. And what you're going to do is you're going to put a squirt in that little cup. You're going to rub it on your underarm. You're going to do it again and rub it on the other and that's it. Wow. So, I'm not a really big fan of this kind of an application to be honest. Like if I was going to use topical anything, it would probably be the compounding pharmacy scrotal application of a um cream as opposed to, you know, an andro gel on the on the arm or inner thigh or something like that, like trying to achieve um serum concentrations that I would deem as like optimized, especially for pushing you through puberty. I would not be relying like I would way rather and that would be like the worst case scenario. Personally, I think injections are far far superior. Um, especially because you can manipulate your SHBG and your free androgen index so much more significantly with exogenous injections than you can with these daily or multiple day applications of these gel/ creams. Um, as far as if this guy's going to be fertile or infertile for the rest of his life based on this situation, that is something I will touch on uh after. See if he touches on it once a day. It's that easy. Now, I know you live in a different part of the country. So, I've made arrangements with a very good friend of mine who's a top level expert in testosterone replacement and condition like yours, Dr. Ed Kim at the University of Tennessee in Knoxville. And he's agreed to take you on and and transition you and get you going, follow your testosterone levels, make sure that all the doses are right, and everything's going to get turned on. Okay, you're ladies, [cheering] WATCH OUT, LADIES. BRAND, IT'S BEEN A real pleasure having you on the show and I hope the inspiration that you've provided people at home is if you have a medical problem and Brandon opened up discussing a problem he's dealt with his whole life and now there's a chance for a cure and for Brandon to live the kind of life you've been waiting to live and we we we look forward to updates, my friend. Closer about time. That's Thank you. That was pretty cool. that was uh a lot more informative than I was expecting to be honest. I didn't think they were going to touch on any of the you know explanation of the pituitary output of the gonadotropins any any of that kind of stuff. So, um, interesting to see that. Um, as far as him being on TRT now, like that's going to rectify the hormone deficiency. You know, it's going to help, uh, backfill the testosterone, aromatization to estrogen. It's going to cause the, uh, the plate closure that has otherwise, you know, been skipped over by not having adequate hormone levels. It's going to five alpha reduce into DHC and help actually develop those secondary male sexual characteristics. So, as far as if he's going to be able to have children though, is is he ever going to regain fertility? Is that something he's going to be able to do in his future if he's on TRT and he has this pituitary tumor? Well, that would be determined by they would have to use like a an LH mimic like HC HCG and kind of see if it's going to turn things on enough and have enough uh intraesticular testosterone production. use a um maybe like a recompant FSH or use HMG alongside it to kind of uh stimulate the cerolei cells and then get that concurrent um everything going that should be cuz right now with TRT nothing's really you have to keep it you have to remember he already has like clinically low gonadotropen levels even going into therapy. you know, like you can almost guarantee he's infertile going into therapy as is. And then adding TRT on top of the equation, like it's not like he's going to suddenly, you know, develop some sort of ability to have children that he otherwise wouldn't have. In my opinion, I think he would probably need to intervene with some sort of um gonadotropen mimetics and kind of see exactly what his testes are actually capable of, which um for all we know could be sufficient. you know, we we don't know if he's actually going to have primary hypogonadism until they administer something like a LH mimic like HCG to see if the testicles will then respond accordingly. So, we don't actually know that was not determined by this. We just know that he was deficient in the gonadotropins and that consequently is why he had low tea, but we don't actually know if he is responsive or not to LH and FSH because he never had any to begin with and we couldn't tell. So, um hopefully he is responsive. I don't know how likely that would be given the period of inactivity for this long. It's almost like the equivalent of being on I don't know like an exogenous something that is shutting down your HBTA for you know 13 14 years or whatever that you should have been you know maintaining um the proper you know structural integrity of everything. So I don't know you know that's to be determined and we will see uh maybe he'll do an update in the future. He said he was going to do a Reddit AMA. I don't know if that happened or not, but that was 5 years ago, too. So, maybe there's more updates, but obviously, you know, the therapy seems to be working cuz um the YouTube video with the uh announcement of the Reddit AMA was uh several years ago. So, maybe he did uh you know, provide some insight in that. I'm sure he has a lot more uh insight on his condition now and what's going on, what he can expect. But, um that would be interesting to see a follow-up. That was a um cool episode to see. Honestly, I've never uh watched that show fully. I've just seen clips here and there, and that was uh that was a cool one. So anyways, like and subscribe. Uh comment helps the algorithm when you guys do. Um thank you guys for watching. Follow me on Instagram place more dates, Facebook, Snapchat, YouTube, Twitter, Tik Tok, a couple podcasts. If you want to support the channel, you can check out anything I'm associated with in the video description below, including my TRT clinic. It's all tele medicine from the comfort of your own home. We have very qualified patient care coordinators and doctors who I vetted myself. um including some that I've actually uh met via some of those videos I did relatively recently where we talked about um hyper prolactinemmia when we talked about pituitary adenomas when we talked about all that kind of stuff I met some qualified you know candidates through that and it's uh awesome to see my content actually have a a viewership of you know doctors people are interested in this stuff high highly intelligent individuals who are actually uh finding their way into my community and uh being a part of the discussion so that's awesome to see and is um makes me very proud of the way this channel is going to be honest. Um anything else I'm associated with too, it's all in the video description below. Thank you guys for watching. Talk to you soon.