 So they had to cut his leg, cut his f***ing tibia bone, and shift it down, so that it's flat. So they could run flat bone on bone. That's f***. Dude, it's madness. Dude, it's even more madness, is the guys who get their tibia smashed open and femur and then get height increasing. That's crazy. Did you ever find that one guy was like 6'2 who did it? Dude, I'm doing a podcast with him in two days. What is it called? I got my knees done? Is that what he did? He took his cage down though, didn't he? Yeah, I think he was off social media for a while, and I was actually going to do a podcast with him last year, and then it didn't end up working out, and he's available and into the idea still, so. That's, well, is he fully healed now? He went from 6'2 to 6'6. Jesus Christ, look at the size of him. And this is him wheeling himself around. And he was a massive guy, too. Like, look at the size of his f***ing arms. Yeah, the guy is like a genetic freak for muscle, for sure. And- Let's become taller. They're cranking their legs. This is nuts. So basically, they go in and shove these rods into your legs, either in the tibia or the femur, or you can do both if you want to max out. Oh, my God. And you can basically micro adjust stretch it to create a separation between the bone, which then fills in with new bone over time. And- This is him seven months after the lengthening process. I want to see what your legs look like, dude. Why you got sweatpants on. See what those little toothpicks look like. Wow. That's nuts. I don't know what his original height was, but he's six feet now. And he was like, I think five, six or five, seven when he started. Wow. That's crazy. So I have a lot of questions about, is your athleticism permanently f***ed now? Right. Are you ever going to be able to squat again? You know, like- Right. What's life like now? What was the surgery process? Rehabilitation? Yeah, what are your mechanics? Yeah. Like, you have to change- You have to learn how to f***ing do everything. Yeah. The distance between your shin, like your kneecap and your foot. If that changes dramatically, like your whole timing is different. Yeah. You have a different leverage. Everything's different. What does it do to your hips? Yeah. You know, are you going to wear your hips out earlier? Like, your body's probably like, has to compensate for these freakishly long shins now. And this guy, too, he's a unique phenomenon, even among the people doing this crazy surgery, because he got the full six inches, which is not necessarily typical, having both bones broken to do it. And then, maxing it out at the weight he's at, too. So, he has to support the recovery on like a, I can imagine, seemingly like 300 plus frame or something. Jesus Christ. Like, a lot of people who get it done are like 5'6", trying to become like 5'5". They weigh 150. And it's like more- Right. It's still probably f***ing insane, regardless. It's insane. Yeah. Well, it's just, you're only stretching one bone, right? Yeah. I have to- Are they doing the tibia as well? You pick. So, the tibia and the fibulae, rather? Are you doing both of them? Yes. Femur or tibia or both. Oh, you could do femur? Yeah. Oh. Yeah. I could be misspeaking, but I'm pretty sure it's one or the other. Or both? Yeah. Oh, Jesus. And he has both done, and he like maxed it out. Jesus. Yeah. So, he's- What is the recovery like? Yeah. Good question. So, this is this guy after how long? It's a couple weeks after. He's still on how he can jump, which is not much. A couple weeks after he gets his surgery done? No. No. No. No. No, no, no. No. There he is! There he is! There he is! There he is! There he is! There he is! There he is! There he is! There he is! There he is! There he is! There he is! There he is! There he is! There he is! There he is! There he is! There he is! There he is! There he is! There he is! There he is! There he is! There he is! There he is! There he is! I think like a year probably or I don't know. So for a year, you're walking around with these like iron shin plates. Yeah. Yeah. It's pretty nuts, dude. And getting all the bitches now. Yeah. Looking all sexy and tall. Now, there was one guy, Jamie, that you pulled up before who had it done and they showed him doing some athlete athletic drills like cone drills and coordination drills. And he looked fucking great. He looked like a real athlete, even though he got it done. It didn't look like it was unless he's just unbelievably athletic before and maintained a lot of it. I would like to know, like, did you have a decrease? Like, could you? I mean, you obviously look insane right now, but what you used to be able to do? Yeah. Some of the stuff I'm curious about, too, is like how much of the content you see online is like sponsored versus actual like user content, just reviewing their experience. Because you could see like, for example, hair transplants. Tons of people get sent like fully paid to go get a transplant done as long as they speak positively about it. Right. Whatever. So imagine a guy who's getting like specialized attention, which you would want if you're getting your fucking legs broken and you're getting it covered or whatever. You just make sure you talk about it positively. Right. How much of that content is like legit versus, you know, somewhat manufactured? That's a very good point. Yeah. That's also one of those things where if you're a social media influencer, you probably want to appear like you're doing all the right things. Yeah. You would never want to admit that you fucked yourself up for height increasing surgery. I can't walk right. I'm in pain all the time. I can't run anymore. You'd become the case study for like why to not do it. Yeah. Yeah. I wonder like what kind of an effect that would have on your mechanics. I really do. I would imagine for martial arts, like you know where everything is. Like if I'm throwing a kick, I know exactly where my shin is going to land from the distance that I'm at. Yeah. Like I've got like this mind. My mind is coordinated for this short body. I know exactly how much distance I have to cover. If all of a sudden you add six inches to that. Oh, yeah. You're all you're everything is weird. Dude, even gaming, even gaining a bit of muscle can throw off your depth perception of how strong. Like, for example, when I was in high school, I played basketball and I started working out in grade 11 and gained like 50 pounds in a year. And my three pointer that used to be just like just fucking money every time I knew exactly how to shoot the ball. Like it was, you know, just second nature to because you've been doing it for a decade or whatever. And then all of a sudden you add this extra force production that you're not accounting for. All of a sudden everything's thrown off. And also you're sore all the time because you're always lifting, which makes you tight. Yeah. I became a brick house after that. It's a giant problem with pool, you know, because I'm addicted to playing pool. When I lift weights and then play pool, it takes like an hour before I can loosen up and play good. Oh, man. Everything's off. It's like my arm's not listening right. It's all stiff. Like for pool, you want to like when I'm playing really well, I'm barely holding on to that cue. It's like I'm almost letting the cue do all the work. It's like a very gentle thing. But then when I do like a heavy kettlebell session and then I try to play pool, it's like everything's just tight and goofy and clunky. And you don't feel it. Like pool is like a feel game. Like you're feeling how many rotations you're putting on the ball to get it to move to the next position. Like literally you're within one or two rotations correctly. Yeah. And that's the difference between getting into an area where you can make the next shot or not. Yeah. So it's all feel. Like these guys, like Fedor Gorst, who's like one of the best players in the world, he changed cues. He changed cue companies. The same weight, the same like taper, the same tip millimeter. And he said his shot was about 10% off. He goes 6 to 10% off. I was like, what? Like how? He's like, you just, it's off. It takes a while to recalibrate.