Yeah, Bob's not not too bad. 146 over 87. You're not You're not hypertensive. Let's write that down. 146. What's up, guys? Derek.com. Today we're going to be reacting to James Hauling said um and him getting his blood work annual visit with Dr. Matt. So here he's showing a little behind the scenes of getting a health check in a PCT. So a lot of people sent me this. You know, there's been a lot of uh lab work videos lately. I'm trying to get caught up on the ones that have been most requested. And this one was uh interesting cuz this is a guy who's like a top, you know, Olympia contender. So, um it's going to be interesting to see what his blood work is like, especially the fact that he's in PCT to see what kind of uh being in PCT does to his biomarkers, you know, what the logic is in going through PCT instead of going down to a TRT replacement amount when presumably you're, you know, on a like you're probably not going to be recovering very much actual HPTA function to begin with, you know, after you're coming off of a heavy blast and then doing a PCT for like, I don't know, 6 to 8 weeks. But you know it can take burden off of certain organs and physiologic functions that otherwise are uh taxed with excessive androgens in the system even at you know like athlete TRT amounts which a lot of people are not actually going down to TRT they're going down to like 200 300 millig. So um it'll be interesting to see what exactly the logic is there what the blood work looks like what the doctor says etc. So let's get into it. I'm going to put on 1.25 two five times speed by the way just to get through it a bit quicker on my end cuz otherwise the video is going to be like an hour and I'll try and skip around a bit too so then it's not like you know I tend to ramble right guys we are at work and we are doing something very important today we're getting our blood work done obviously it's been a very busy year with shows and uh one thing that my coach Patrick has requested and actually asked me to do is to see my blood work done is wearing [\h__\h] on one t-shirt he's done already so yes so yes obviously we do at the same time because we both done our PCC So, uh, yeah, basically come get your blood done so we can feed back to Patrick. Um, and to see that we're in a good spot to go forward with next year's preparations for the Mr. Now, where is going to be? So, let's go see Matt. Right. So, he wants to see his baseline, what he's at essentially, like this is where you should be at your healthiest ideally if you are if you're going to have no transition time from after PCT and letting yourself kind of reach homeostasis. Um, cuz presumably he's probably on H like uh PCT drugs right now, too. So that's going to have some sort of impact on your biomarkers and other things in the body as well. So um we shall see. I was going to say we are we're literally peeing in cups. We're peeing cups. Yeah. Okay. Okay. So what we looking for pee? What we're looking for? Two things going on, right? So we got seven different markers. So firstly we're looking has Louis got any infection? We're not you know. So we're looking for what's called white cells. Okay. Um if you got bacteria in urine some certain type of bacteria produce nitrates as breakdown products we look at them look at protein now it's very important for you boys as bodybuilders is if your kidneys aren't working so well you start losing protein which get pissed yeah you should you shouldn't do yeah so this is something that often goes overlooked like basic you know getting blood work done that's the thing that everyone says to get make sure you get your blood work but no one really talks about other stuff like a basic urine analysis you would think is like common practice but no it's often overlooked and guys will just be getting your standard lipid panel, hematology, endocrinology, metabolic parameters, etc. And then foregoing actually seeing like how your body's excreting things, if there's excessive things that shouldn't be there in the urine, stuff that you want to be looking for to ensure you have adequate organ function. And then as well on top of that, ideally you would be getting some sort of yearly imaging at least of your heart, echo cardiography, stuff like that. So um I'll continue from here. Okay. Uh and also we're looking for mainly sugar in you guys. A lot of you guys sometimes depending on what you're taking. If you are a lot of guys taking growth hormone, it can raise your your sugar levels and you come. Um so I've heard a few girls do. So and I'm looking yeah for any any free sugar in your urine and if you and also out of interest let's say you were doing intermittent fasting or you a low carb diet to see how many ketones are in in your in your urine. So that's that's a urine sample. We're going to we're going to go through things with a fine. I haven't seen you since before. Yeah. So before my shows I've done two shows in Yeah. You've been a physical one. Let's start with now. We'll we'll now So right now PCT has been complete. You've done the same. So I've done um I've done four weeks 3 weeks of hg. So, you know, the one thing that stood out to me off the bat, I'm not saying this is, you know, he should be doing something else or whatever, but the title is my annual visit and that he's saying how he did two shows since he saw him last. So, like I don't know how frequent this is done. I'm sure he I don't know. Like, I can only speculate, you know, but I'm just going to tell you guys right now like I would recommend more than one annual visit. So like I'm assuming this title is not indicative of how much he's actually checking, but annually is not going to be frequent enough if you're exposing yourself to super physiological amounts of drugs consistently. Sorry, sorry. Um with tomoxifen and extremely low dose test prop. So this is not really actually coming off. This is see this is where like the discrepancy between like when pros say, "Oh, I came off and I PCT." like no one believes them anymore cuz there's always like they always say that but they actually mean actually like nothing is 300 migs a test or something like that. Now I'm assuming he probably wasn't on that much and test prop like presumably it's to get it out of your system faster with the short Esther and to get to a state of hormone clearance quicker and perhaps it was just to keep him like functioning at a normal level while he kind of transition into the PCT. I don't really know. But either way, like this is not actual post cycle anything. Like you're on testosterone still. You know, when you have any amount sitting there until it's cleared out of your system sufficiently, you're going to be suppressed from it. So your PCT is not really like a PCT like you know what I mean? So anyways, that's just of note. Yeah. And then we did uh how much? Uh 30 m a day. So we think we think how many weeks have you was the last time you had a proper dose of anabolic? or a proper was about 6 weeks ago. Six weeks ago. What I was saying to Louis is I think the so a proper dose of an anabolic which presumably means a synthetic anabolic agent derived from testosterone but not testosterone itself. So testosterone is still in the equation which is not traditionally anabolic steroid. It is an androgen but it is still a you know anabolic androgenic steroid by most of our definitions. Um and is something that will you know keep you shut down. So anyways that is of note. studies show that if you take a PCT, your normal testosterone will come back what your normal roughly whatever that what that is if you do it. So he's like I I have no idea what the [\h__\h] that is. Uh which like when you've been blasting cruising for that long, it's like the likelihood that you you think you're going to get back to what you should be like whenever you last had natural testosterone levels is, you know, extremely low. Like first of all, you're already going to be getting slowly suppressed as you age just by the aging process. But then when you like literally stress the [\h__\h] [\h__\h] out of your HBTA on a continuous basis with blasting and cruising all these synthetic drugs um for years on end like expecting yourself to return to some sort of baseline that you've seen previously is like a [\h__\h] long shot, dude. Like even like it would literally take some of these guys like over a year to restore back to like a baseline that would even allow you to function as a human naturally with some like inrange level. For a lot of people it's not as a matter of just like clear it out of your system, do your 4-week BCT and then you're good to go. Like no, for most of these guys it's not going to be that simple unfortunately. Not that it matters though because they're not planning on being off for months on end. they're planning like the whole goal of these PCTs is essentially to honestly try and restore health as much as possible but you know often times I will see it's more of a way to like achieve a good-look blood test result which transiently is like kind of irrelevant when you're literally fluctuating up and down to the point that you're just on a [\h__\h] ton of stuff and then you crash yourself and then you go right up to a [\h__\h] ton of stuff like what it often times it's just it seems like it might even be healthier to just go down to HRT rather than let yourself like crash into the abyss and take potentially toxic serms, um, aromatase inhibitors, whatever it is that you're deploying during your PCT regimen when you could otherwise just go down a physiologic replacement instead of put yourself in a neurotoxic, neuro, cardiotoxic, etc. environment for 6 to 8 weeks while you try and like achieve a reasonable looking HDL level that you know is only going to be reasonable for [\h__\h] 4 weeks. So that is sort of my stance on bodybuilders trying to like PCT after like blasting for 10 and 1/2 months straight or something like that. Um let's see um without anything. So um about 3 months. Yeah. So see I don't get actually that much benefit. So if you go cold turkey you get it takes another month and I think it's normally around sort of what a month off you start feeling. It's a funny thing cuz I feel actually really good. Yeah, you do. It's never felt fresh mentally. How long you having off? Uh we release well we only TRT in like January I think lowest. So we're still watching more weeks even though this TRT for you. Um I haven't last year yet. It's going to be quite low. It's going to be probably about 175. Okay. They do 500 every week like two weeks. It's too much. So okay. So I'm having I'm like not exactly following what the plan is here. So he's doing a PCT which he had test prop in the mix and then he's going to TRT after transitioning off of the PCT. I'm not really like like what is the point of taking temoxifen and HCG during the PCT phase if you're not actually trying to restore anything wouldn't you just wouldn't it just makes more sense to just stay on the HRT then rather than have these fluctuations I don't know like uh I just don't see the logic rather than if it's to just like transiently restore like a good-look blood panel for the sake of like feeling good about it and being like look I had a good HDL for 6 weeks like I don't really see what other point there would be unless you had I guess if you had like fatty liver or something like that and you like really wanted to pull out androgens and relieve a lot of stress that may otherwise have accumulated but otherwise you know I see the fluctuation of an introduction of these PCT drugs just to go back to TRT after and the goal is not even actually to restore indogenous tea levels it's like well I don't know I might have just like stayed on the TRT then and it sounds like test probe is in the mix during the PCT so I'm like maybe I'm just like not following but to me It sounds uh I don't know. So it'll be ended once we know what when offseason begins. How long we going TRT for? Depends when the offseason begins. We have to start quite soon because obviously I got to get ready for Yeah. What I would say with the the TRT is it's always interesting to know to do a level test level on the day of your next dose of TRT to see where you're at. Cuz a lot of guys I see who think they've taken TRT, they're double the normal range. But don't get me wrong, I'd want you to be right at the top of normal range if not a bit higher because testosterone levels now are not what they were back in the 60s. Right. So uh yeah. Yeah. So, they're talking about, you know, doing like actual TRT, you know, within a physiologic range rather than doing the classic, you know, like I'm on TRT, bro, but I'm actually on, you know, 300 megs of test. Just so happens my HRT clinic prescribes Deca, too. So, you know, 200 DECA and then, you know, some like ridiculous clinics will be like, you know what, here's like anadrol for your HRT, too. Like, like obviously you're outside the realm of HRT. Well, before you even threw in the Deca and the anadrol. So, you know, that's what like some bodybuilders are doing for their HRT, which obviously is ridiculous. And like both these guys can see that that's not what is trying to be done. What What sort of supplements you taking, man? Everything. I forgot to say I was going to get you to bring a bag and literally freaking you name it. Vitamin D, vitamin E, um K2, [\h__\h] um cumin, right? Um Toddka, Ashwagandanda, ubiquininal. Oh, yeah. Like all of it, mate. fish oil omega3 I take. You got a friend that gives it to you as well cuz we get it through sponsor. So yeah so I make sure I'm taking everything glutathione liposone make all that sort of gone through there and all of it. They got quite a lot of stuff but not that I have to get them bit myself right they more sort of protein. Yeah. We do have a good product called medkit which has got like a lot of the stuff in but the more like um kind of um let's say higherend stuff like the TUDCA or the glutathione li you have to get individually. I was saying to Louis that and some of this stuff is really cost prohibitive prohibitive because it's like I want to sell a lot of the stuff through my uh through my company as well. But like Ubiquinol for example, minimum order quantity insane with the amount you're paying and the amount you have to order and then the amount of people that are actually going to buy it and how niche it is. It's like it's really hard to actually afford and justify some of these products. Like some of them are a bit easier citrus bergamont. some of like the things that are not um in soft gel format that are a bit easier to uh make work, you know, estragalus extract, um curcumin, um enhance the bioavailability with biopearing, you know, basic [\h__\h] like that is not that hard to do and that's why we have that through Gorilla Mind as well. But some of these soft gels and stuff like you get into like competitive when you're trying to even match the you know big dogs like Gerros, Doctor's Best, etc. you know, it can become like pretty [\h__\h] difficult when you are uh that's not like your main focus. You're not like a health supplement company and you know that you're just like not going to sell very many of them. They're going to sit on the shelf for a while. Even though you want to be the company that has every single thing, you know, it gets pretty complicated and it gets pretty hard. And that's why, you know, even Redcon, one of the biggest companies, doesn't have some of these single ingredient stuff that's like really everyone should be taking. You know, Omega3, I don't think they have that. Ubiquinol, they definitely don't have that last I checked. um and other stuff like that that is uh you know just some just the numbers don't really make sense unless you're like really [\h__\h] gung-ho about trying to be like an industry leader in that particular super expensive niche product. Not that fish oil is niche, but I mean like it's it gets into like rough territory when you're trying to justify some of these like massive order quantities with some of these products that are a bit more uh um highly specified. There's a there's a phenomenal pharmaceutical fish oil that I recommend. What is it you like? Omega-3. It's pharmaceutical. It's phenomenal. Good omega3 is a very important supplement. It's essential. Absolutely. Essential. Do you need pharmaceutical fish oil? No, you don't. Your coach says if I know it was Ian, I think you said if there's one supplement, if there was one supplement he had to pick like to give people off of all of one, he said omega3. That's his one. But yeah, I think a quality multivitamin, vitamin D, uh, creatine. Yeah, creatine is actually really good for you with It's a new trope as well. It's great for you. I think it is. Um, yeah. Yeah. A lot of people don't realize how many benefits creatine actually has aside from just intramuscular volumization, strength, etc. Myostatin inhibition, neurology, fertility. There's so many [\h__\h] things that creatine does that a lot of people don't account for. And it is a very, very useful broadspectctrum ingredient. Takes reduces methylation demand off the body. if you have MTHFR polymorphisms, a lot of things that aren't talked about because it's just seen as a muscle builder and that's like pretty much it. But um anyway, yeah, vitamin D. I would take a decent magnesium supplement last night. Magnesium. I'm not sure if it really makes that much difference. Um I kind of disagree. I think that the format of magnesium actually can make a big difference. And there's a reason why I spend more to put bislycinate in Gorilla Dream rather than some cheap [\h__\h] that is um not going to absorb as may not be tolerated digestively as well. Um, a myriad of different reasons, but magnesium, the format you choose, there is a big difference between the cheap [\h__\h] and the good [\h__\h] before bed and and yeah, on a budget and then and and then the fish oil quality fish oil. I was talking to Louis, if a fish oil taste a fish, it's rancid and it's actually doing more harm to your body than it is. Some good one taste fish. That's a good point. That's a great point of that. Yeah. Um, if you burp up fish, then you know you've just wasted your money. You just had some rancid oil. Dead oil. Yeah. Yeah. And sort of cod liver full of mercury and other toxins and all you know we we digress. So yeah. Is there any other supplements? Um wow. Um yeah cuz I use like the C the CV stack which has like a lot of heart health. So it's um in I can't even name them. Yeah. Who make your supplement? Something make a lot of the health ones we use cuz they're just um Dr. Dean, you know. Yeah. I' I've looked the good thing about them is that they actually have pharmaceutical grades. So fast grade us the uh the bio and the appropriate dosage because a lot of these supplements when you go to the cheap oh man it's got ashand there it's got and it's got yeah it's nowhere near but you know yeah that's a pretty common practice for supplement companies to include a dosage that is so minuscule it doesn't actually provide any benefit whatsoever but just for the sake of putting it on their label so they can be like look we have this and it does this and it does all this crazy [\h__\h] and when it's like you really just went out of your way to put like one milligram of the thing so you can list it or something if he's got um I presume they got testo booster things like you know that boron will have a milligram of boron in his head which is obviously but it looks like it's got everything in so I think the supplement need some they don't have propens he has every item and he has the dose so and and the things are evident aging yeah yeah and aging we've been using the straulus a lot so that's another the strragulus is good in my opinion I use it too interesting so literally just trying to stay that's the difference with so you so you're all those there. Staple staple. Absolute staple. So hopefully it reflects in blood, but we'll see. Yeah, like your HDL levels and things like that. Um, they do like a glucose one control. Yeah, I use um I use a bourberine um uh I use a few different ones sometimes. We got one RPG when it's in stock. I use it obviously which is a bourberine based with I think it's like bit melon extract and this maybe bit. I'm surprised more bodybuilders aren't just like on a background dose of metformin year round to be honest. like they often will use these GDA products which there's nothing really inherently wrong with them but it's like metform is so tried and true it's like I don't know why more people don't deploy it or look at incorporating it for health as well as potentially performance if leveraged correctly in there as well um so yeah we use those if they sell out then I just grab another bit of bourberine you can get online check your bushings uh I used to but with Patrick I haven't felt any fluctuation in them so I haven't because I felt really stable my pretty much back I was I was very efficient with the carbohydrate uptake. So what what about insulin? I don't use insulin now at all. Patrick doesn't like it cuz I started off it. So obviously with my previous reps I used to dangerous. There's no point. There's no point. You might as well just keep your body sensitive yourself. I've realized now if you eat the right if as long this is the problem. I previous coaches tried to eat force feed. They use insulin to try and suck them in. It's [\h__\h] Just eat enough that your body requires and train hard enough to demand it because you actually do have a pancreas and what it does sees it sees a sees sugar and it it produces insulin. Yeah. So let it rather than Yeah. Then chuck force feed carbs pre-training as well. Problem is people also they're trying to like add an addition. They're trying to add addition all the time. So with insulin they're not looking at it. They're not trying to use insulin even to help their self like to take stress off the pancreas or anything like that. They're like I'm going to throw another 100 g of carbs in. They put another 10 I use in Dave Palumbo stress off the pancreas. Yeah. I know which is shot fired. Doesn't like doesn't like Dave Palumbo's theory. I guess [\h__\h] So yeah insulin as well. Yeah. It's just insulin is one of those things especially when people don't know what they're doing. insulin is is the drug that will kill you if you don't know in bodybuilding. Don't get me wrong, everything else is a slow burner. Don't get me wrong, steroids do cause a myriad of issues if you if you abuse. Um I don't know if this is like if a lot of bodybuilders have actually died from insulin or not, but like in the clinical literature, it's like people who literally try and kill themselves using insulin are often unsuccessful. So, I'm not sure why it got this I'm not saying it's safe. I'm just saying it got this rap is like the most dangerous thing when in like I don't know like I can't uh like I can see how you could get like [\h__\h] up pretty significantly if you thought your 10 IU was actually like 100 because you don't know how to count on a influence range or something but it's like it's a lot harder to than people think. I think I'm not I'm not trying to like argue against it. I'm just saying like that is a pretty big myth that is not backed up in the clinical literature really at all. But in the one if you just get that wrong on one day if you haven't if you've got no let's say you took it and you forgot your [\h__\h] meal. Yeah. And you're driving instead of instead of like 10 IU you took 100 which is easy. It's easy to do if you got the wrong set. Oh yeah. It's just it's too worrying. And the other thing as well is it has I found it had a really detrimental effect on getting in shape. Yeah. It holds fluid. You look you do look very different. Especially if you're taking it like not around your training because guess what where those carbs are. They're not going anywhere. I know some people who literally use insulin to lose fat faster. So, it's not always about it's the storage hormone, but it can also be leveraged in certain ways to expedite fat loss if you know where to put it, how to use it, how to integrate it in very specific applications. It's not something that you can just use all the time year round, but it's not really true to just be like it's going to make it harder to get lean cuz I know people who literally use it for that purpose. But they go everywhere everywhere and anywhere. I I think that's part of the look now with this just fullness insulin. I'm not trying to promote insulin by the way either. It's like for [\h__\h] most people it's probably not worth looking at whatsoever. But anyway, all the guys taking insulin up to these big shows I pro because a lot of because you just don't get the cuts anymore. That's what I think. Do you know what I mean? Yeah, it does affect separation. And that's something I was trying to say before like loaded because like you say if if you if you're holding subq water then your condition strong at drawing water. Yeah, Bob's not too bad. 146 over 87. You're not You're not hyper. What was that? 146 over 87. So, this is something I see a lot, especially with like family doctors and stuff, is they will um like if you're young and healthy, they will just like disregard a high blood pressure reading and not look into it and just be like not even say anything like you would have to bring it up yourself to even get it like attended to. So, he just had a 146 over 87 blood pressure. You're not you're not hyper7. So, and then they say, "But because you're so massive, that's like normal." So, no, like that's not normal. That's literally stage 2 hypertension and you're in PCT right now when you're supposed to be the most healthy or the least drug burden throughout the entire year. So, if you're at 146 over 87 right now, what's that going to say for the rest of the year when you're using everything else, you know, like that's that's definitely not a good baseline like in my opinion. Like this would require like significant intervention like right now like aggressively before you even consider going into anything more. So like for me this is literally like the progression of kidney failure like in front of your eyes and a young guy like I don't among a myriad of other things unfortunately like this is one of the most common things just unadressed high blood pressure like why at your baseline just because you weigh a lot it doesn't mean that you should be walking around at almost one like literally stage two hypertension at baseline like that is not a baseline that is something you can really go off of in my opinion and really do anything significantly if you're not hypertensive let's write that down 146 now. It's like one thing if he just walked in and sat down and got this, but he's been sitting there talking for like 10 minutes. So, like this is I would get a few more readings and average it out and kind of get it a few different times a day, like multiple times over the week and see what the average is. But, I mean, like that's not a good first impression, obviously. This is measures how much oxygen in your blood? 95. That's all right. You're warm. Let's have a listen to your heart. So, it's like unfortunately like all these health subs, it's like yeah, they can be helpful in different ways, but at the end of the day, if you have a 146 over 87 blood pressure, it's like at baseline, they're not going to do a whole lot for you. You know, like sure, you can like modulate your lipid profile a little bit. Sure, you can increase your eGFR transiently with some estragalus and argue about the telmir lengthening and whatnot, but it's like all these things are not going to replace an angotensin receptor blocker or an ACE inhibitor or a beta blocker or any of this [\h__\h] that can actually have a major impact on like cardiac remodeling as well as the stress on your other organs. So, like for me, when I see, now I'm not the doctor or anything, but like for me, if I saw 146 over 87, I'd be like, "Bro, like, can I get a [\h__\h] ARB, please?" That's cool. Your heartbeat's nice and regular. I can't hear any added sounds on your heart. Leave yourself. Let's have a listen to your phone. Take a big breath and down at the activity of your bone marrow. So testosterone stimulates your bone marrow to produce a lot of stores. We're going to give blood count first. Blood count looks at the activity of and your platelet count. So sorry we cut you you got cutting croiden. Yeah. And we want to the bad fat. your total cholesterol, your HDL cholesterol and LDL red blood cells. So, you know, okay, it sounds like he's just like explaining what these blood tests are. I'm trying to cut the video off cuz it's getting long. Um, over the 3 month period, their fun, their function, you know, we age, don't red blood cells. Yeah. So, what they're done for where we're at now. Okay. Just going over hematology parameters now to see what you should look out for. I get them to my hospital this afternoon. They're straight on the on the um on the analyzer, not like a pin brick blood test sent off the red blood cells in the full blood. Right. So these these go off to the lab. I will be in contact with you on Friday. Beautiful. So what what I'll do is I'll send you a copy of your results scanned via your email. Okay. Um and also I will voice record a bespoke report for what I think and little little things that you need to be doing. I want you any questions? We got a pan. Let's see what he looks like. Okay. So, just like like I'm probably going to cut it off there cuz it's not like he actually has the results in this video, it looks like. So, um like what would I get on top of that? So, obviously I don't actually know all of the markers they got. I'd have to see the blood test results to give my full comprehensive opinion and whatnot. um as well as to even give my opinion on the results and like some sort of follow-up that should be maybe done that might be wise to do but in general I mentioned echo cardiography at the beginning I would highly advise anybody who is doing this get a echo cardiogram at least once a year of your heart um ideally every couple years or every few years get a um ultrasound of your kidneys and your liver as well just to make sure there's no uh um the actual function of them is not only on point, but as well that you're not growing like a [\h__\h] tumor or they're not falling apart on you. Like, this is not something that necessarily is going to get picked up in blood work. Just because you don't have an elevated A and ALT on your blood work, it does not mean that you're not developing fatty liver, that you're not getting a [\h__\h] tumor on it from excessive androgen exposure. There's a million things you're not going to just pick up in your blood work transiently that could otherwise reveal themselves on your actual organs during imaging. And this is why um bodybuilders will you know suddenly seemingly at the snap of a finger when they had healthy blood work just like you know pass away unfortunately and it's because a lot of these guys aren't proactively getting imaging of their organs and actually seeing exactly what is going on like straight up looking at it not just seeing what's going on in your blood. So yes blood work is important but imaging is just as important and often goes overlooked entirely. And yes, it's it's very cost prohibitive, but it's like the sport is cost prohibitive if you can afford a year of GH or whatever it is. Like you should be able to afford at least an echo cardiogram, like in my opinion. Um, as far as anything else, like I I would circle back to the blood pressure thing like the 146 over 87 or what it was. That's not that's not like prehypertension. That's stage two hypertension. That is not necessarily something that should just be overlooked as, oh, you're a heavy guy, so it's fine. It's like, yeah, you might be able to get away with it for a long time, but I mean, this is like, it's called the silent killer for a reason. It's something that is going to become more burdensome as you expose yourself to more and more um exogenous hormones, as your body weight climbs during the offseason. Like, this is literally post show as far as I know. And there's going to be a, you know, a point where he's going to do a pretty like substantial offseason, I would think. um I don't know if he's trying to gain more sides or what the deal is, but either way, there's going to be a significant amount of time in 2021 where there's more drug exposure above and beyond what he's using and likely going to, you know, exacerbate things that are currently already not where they should be at a baseline level. So, you know, for me, I think all bodybuilders realistically that are exposing themselves to these drugs should probably proactively be looking at angotensin receptor blockade. So whether that is through which drug you use specifically and how aggressive you want to go, you know, that's ultimately up for your doctor to decide how selective of a um A or B you want, how powerful of one you want. This is like a proactive thing as well as something that not just something once you get to stage 2 hypertension you should deploy. Like I think this is something that should be proactively used to avoid getting to that point to begin with. And the this is going to be like probably the most kidney protective thing you can do. This is something that I would highly recommend most bodybuilders look into. Um, regardless if you're an open body or what, whatever, if you're exposing yourself to super physiological dosages of anabolics, androgens, etc., this is something that should be on your watch list for sure and looked into more thoroughly. And I think a lot of people would probably benefit from it and probably live longer lives if they looked into it more seriously than just brush off a stage 2 hypertensive result. So, for me, that is the main thing I would look into if he's not already doing that. But um you know, I'm just some [\h__\h] guy analyzing stuff on the internet that guys have told me to uh react to. So this is my reaction. And let me know what you guys think in the comments down below. All the comments are much appreciated and they help uh push the algorithm. Uh if you want to support the channel, you can check out anything I'm associated with in the video description below. Uh follow me on Instagramplay Dates, Facebook, Snapchat, Bitu, Twitter, Tik Tok, Apple Podcast. Um if you want to check out James, his uh channel is IFBB Pro James Haulingsh. I recommend uh if you're a fan of bodybuilding, definitely give him a follow. He's a uh um upand cominging well he's not really even up and cominging he's already Olympia qualified he's a um progressing very quickly um him and his coach seem to have found a winning formula in terms of what they're doing so obviously uh um very exciting to see him progress and uh carry on the legacy of his uh one of his good friends uh Luke Sando who uh unfortunately passed