viaviaviavia.viavia.viavia.viavia.viavia.viavia.viavia.viavia.viavia.viaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviavia I think I was driving to San Francisco and I didn't want to stop. And so I peed in a cup and I drank it. And I was like, ah, that's not that bad. And I liked the energetic. It's like a hair of the dog. It's like you're a biocomputer, right? You're a complete intelligent being, right? And then this just came out of you and you put it right back in. And it's like a diagnostic tool. It's like a hair of the dog. It's like, this is what's going on with you. And now it's like, there's too much coffee. I'm like, oh yeah, I don't like that. I can feel things. You can tell. I can feel things for sure. It's a diagnostic tool. I snort it. I age it. And it's amazing to sunbathe with it. Really? And how long do you age it? I mean, look at the color of my skin. Yeah. I mean, I'm Irish and I use zero sunscreen. Wow. My sunscreen is my nutrition. And I'm not advocating for anybody to do it. I'm just reporting live from planet Earth. Troy Casey reporting live. This is what I've done for the last two decades. What? So I thought this guy was a troll. Is it a parody? I thought it must have been, but I have seen, he's been, I've been tagged in his videos multiple times since. And I've looked at least at a cursory glance through his existing catalog of stuff. And I have not seen him break character ever. And he seems pretty convinced that this is something to do. Now, maybe I am like socially oblivious and it's actually all a big joke. That's so good. But there's more people talking about it recently. I don't know if it's just my algorithm that's just feeding it to me now. But have you heard of this before? Just recently. Not the same guy though. Maybe. I don't know. Yeah. It's creating some, a bit of a stir seemingly. Yeah. Oh man. I don't even know what to think. There's so many things about that. So I'm assuming your team doesn't think it's worthwhile. We have not talked about urine drinking. You gotta show them the video. But yeah. But you know, like if anyone's urine should be, you know, like my urine would be at the very top. Yeah. If possible. That's true. It'd be like a premium quality urine product. Probably. Yeah. I mean, what do you think? That's your next blueprint right there. I don't be like, I'll sell my fecal matter, my urine. Yeah. My plasma. There you go.