And I did two more cycles and on on the third one I didn't fully recover. So my testosterone went down. I had all those negative symptoms associated with low testosterone and they did not go away. What's up guys? Derek moreplace.com. Today we're going to be reacting to a SARMs video. So, this is something that is kind of piggybacking off of uh the recent SARMs, I guess, like the Dylan McKenna video I did. A bunch of people started sending me this one, too. And I just did the uh what SARMs cause hair loss. So, I'm kind of on a hot streak right now of SARM. So, I just figured this this was a pretty good video to respond to. It was SARMMS can permanently shut you down. How I ended up on TRT at only 24 years old. So, let's see. The video description says, "Sarms LGD4033 will shut you down eventually, even with a PCT. Be careful." So, uh, let's react to this guy, the Bro Scientist. In this video, I'm going to be completely honest with you. I'm not hiding behind anything. By the way, I have his speed on 1.25 times so we can get through it a bit quicker. See how the guy's not, you know, on crack or something like that. if he ends up talking quick though because uh most people can't even notice but like when I did the Jothetics video um everyone thought he was like everyone thought he was on like [\h__\h] speed at the time which was uh pretty funny my pictures and like this is how I need to look prof you help me and then your mate goes like I know exactly what you need. So anyways here we go one uh 1.25 25 time speed. I'm sharing everything upfront with you in hopes that this will help some people not make the same stupid stupid mistakes that I've made. And boy, have I made stupid mistakes. I'm 24 years old and I'm on testosterone replacement therapy. 140 milligrams of testip per week. Pretty weird for a 24-year-old to be on TRT. It didn't come organically. I made some serious mistakes that put me in this situation. Mistake number one. Three years ago, I did my first SARM cycle. SARMMS are selective and receptor modulators currently in research and development for the use on keptic patients or patients with muscle wasting diseases and disorders in an attempt to improve their quality of life through increasing bone density and increasing muscle mass without the male characterizing side effects that would normally come along with typical anabolic androgenic steroids like testosterone. SARMMS can actually be easily ordered online, which is exactly what I did. I had read that they were essentially the baby steroid and had basically none of the side effects of steroids with all of the benefits. And that couldn't be further from the truth. So I also agree like non like realistically all the anabolic enerogenic steroids that exist to date are technically sarmms and you'll actually find in the and it's cuz the definition of sarm is just so vague. It's like pretty much if you're more tissue selective than testosterone you get deemed a sarm in many of the clinical studies. So pretty much every steroidal anabolic created at this point is classified as a sarm. You'll go look up trend blown in the studies steroidal sarm. A lot of these compounds are steroidal sarms on paper. The only difference with like traditional sarms the way we see it are they're non-steroidal in nature and they're meant to just essentially just agonize the AR and do pretty much nothing else which doesn't necessarily uh happen in practical application. There are a few you know downstream satellite interactions that are a bit unexpected and are actually you know quite complicated to explain. um compared to even like how uh anabolic steroids work. But um anyways, continue from here. SARMMS have a suppressive effect on your natural endogenous testosterone as well as your HDL or your good cholesterol very similarly to regular anabolic androgenic steroids except for they lack in the muscle building department in comparison to regular anabolic steroids. Funny enough, people do suggest on forms that you do not need a PCT with like tmoxifen and clomid and HCG to get your natural testosterone working up and running again. when you use SARMS, they think that uh most people are young enough to bounce back on their own and their testosterone will be back up and running within a month. I did three cycles. How dumb is that? The reason I did three cycles is this. When you get onto SAMS, you fluff up and you fill with glycogen and you build more muscle tissue and you look great and you So, I'm assuming he kind of like glanced over it, but I'm assuming he's implying that you will not recover if you do not do a PCT, which I don't believe is uh accurate. You know, I think as long as uh whatever you're using, if you cut like obviously the compound selection, duration of exposure, dosage is all going to play a massive role at the end of the day on what is the outcome. If we're talking about 10 milligs of ostrain versus 20 milligs of RAD-140, you know, there's going to be a massive difference in your final hormonal profile. And at the end of the day, if your gonadotropins are in range, you know, are you in a position where you like must get on a, you know, blast of serum or something? like do you need to you know that's up for debate but I don't think it's accurate to just say every single person you know needs to have a PCT or I don't even know if that's what he's implying like I guess uh I guess let's see you think you look great um but unfortunately for me 4 weeks into my 8we cycle I started feeling like garbage so I got off of it and guess what I deflated so all that glycogen stores went away and the muscle I had built came crashing down because my testosterone was so low I couldn't build muscle anymore and I didn't have the energy to go to the gym and work out as hard because my testosterone was so low. So, thus began the psychological cycle of getting back onto arms and fluff and pump and feel good working out again. And I did two more cycles and on the third one, I didn't fully recover. So, my testosterone went down. I had all those negative symptoms associated with low testosterone and they did not go away. I didn't have really erections at all. And when I did, they were really weak and soft. My mood was horrible. I already had depression. It was way, way worse after my third cycle. And my anxiety was horrible as well. Like, okay, so is it just me or does it seem like there's no blood work yet? Like he's talking about how he's already depressed, already had what appears to be symptoms of low tea, and then he's going into a cycle, getting some progress, and then, you know, going to a suboptimal hormone profile, taking a minimal time off, and I guess he's implying he didn't do a PCT, so he, you know, had low test and then he just got back on a SARM whilst having low test and presumably low estrogen. too, which obviously is going to make you feel like absolute dog [\h__\h] And he's just like cycllically going back and forth to SARMs and back to off while simultaneously having no adequate testosterone and importantly estrogen in his system the entire time, exacerbating his existing what seems to be pre-existing issues. Social anxiety was through the roof, dude. It was so bad. Never quite fully recovered from that. And so I decided, you know what? I think my testosterone is still low. And I made the second mistake that put me where I am now, which is using test boosters. And okay, I don't He's saying now he's saying he's let me get that wording right, which is using what I think my testosterone is still low. I recovered from that. And so I decided, you know what? I think my testosterone is still low. I decided my testosterone is too low. So I haven't seen any blood work yet. I don't know if he's planning on bringing it up later or what, but it seems like everything is very anecdotal. what you're perceiving of yourself. And this is all, you know, potentially in a like he's in a depressed state trying to interpret what's going on with a clear mind. And you know, obviously that's the last thing you should be doing is trying to guess what the [\h__\h] is going on without blood work. So, you know, like I'm uh, you know, empathetic for this guy and I feel bad that he went through this, but I mean like I don't see any kind of like uh, you know, biomarker tracking or anything so far. And I made the second mistake that put me where I am now, which is using test boosters. And people think that test boosters don't do anything and they're [\h__\h] That's actually completely false. They do do something. The problem is they work in the beginning and then for whatever reason, we don't know why. They stop working over time. It has a paradoxical effect somewhere along the HPTA. It it somewhat disconnects your brain from your testes and your brain downregulates FSH and LH, I assume, although I didn't get blood work done. And bro, didn't get blood work done. So, like are we're making conclusive statements based on no blood work? Like I I don't know, dude. Like uh like yeah, like symptoms mean a lot. Like I'm not going to, you know, disregard symptoms at all. Like this is, you know, if you don't feel good, you don't feel good. But I mean like so far I don't see very many uh you know like uh measures taken to kind of like optimize your situation naturally to try and uh like presumably this whole like cascade of events is eventually leading to him going to get on TRT without having tried really you know properly assessing things first. Your natural endogenous production slows down even more. So, I took these test boosters. And I did feel better at the beginning and I I remember actually having a wet dream and going, "Holy cow, this stuff is working because I haven't had a wet dream since high school and I did feel better for a time and then the effects went away. I didn't feel necessarily worse than I did in the beginning, but I definitely felt exactly the same. The benefits of the test boosters went away and I felt like crap again." Then the final nail in the coffin was alcohol. So, after all of that, I felt like such garbage. I turned to alcohol to help me make me feel better. And for like 6 months leading up to when I finally got help with TRT, I was drinking probably 10 to 12 beers, 10 to 13 beers a night. Okay. So, you know, for somebody who is maybe already had pre-existing low tea, for all we know, based on the fact that he was already depressed, um cycling on and off of SARMMS, that can obviously exacerbate things if you're not, uh, you know, approaching your biomarker tracking very, uh, accurately and not doing any sort of post cycle intervention whatsoever and then hopping back on something that's suppressive. Um, and then like obviously it goes without saying that drinking every day is going to completely prevent you from recovering adequately. So, um, I don't know like what this seems pretty clear like why this is going the way it's going to me like I don't know. I guess let's hear some more info on most nights during the week. So, yeah, not good. All three of those things. SARMMS definitely definitely a big one as far as symptoms go and then test boosters and alcohol. All those things have been shown to have a suppressive effect on testosterone. So, a bunch of stupid mistakes on my part. Okay, so he's acknowledging like all of the, you know, scenarios in which obviously didn't help. I went and got tested. My total testosterone sat at 262 nanogs per deciliter. Unfortunately, I was not privy of the necessary blood work and I did not get free tea tested, nor did I get SHBG or LH or FSH. Uh, apparently my TRT clinic didn't know any better either because they didn't order that for my blood test. But I got into testosterone and because of testosterone, funny enough, I was able to get out of that cycle of drinking cuz I had a much better elevated mood to where when I was in that withdrawal period of, you know, of alcohol, being withdrawing from alcohol, the outcome wasn't so bleak. I could ride through it, get to the other side, and I was fine. So now I can enjoy alcohol in moderation and I have no desire to binge drink whatsoever. First, biggest one, SARMMS. They shut you down. Anyone who says they don't shut you down is stupid. They may not shut you down the first time. They may not shut you down the fifth time you do them, but eventually, just like every bodybuilder ever, steroids and stoms will eventually turn off your HPTA, you will not produce your indogenous testosterone anymore, and you will not bounce back after a cycle, and you will need to get on to testosterone. It's a fact. Anyone who says that it doesn't have the potential to shut you down completely, is completely and utterly stupid and wrong. And I'm a prime example of one of the bodies that SARS has left behind. You don't hear people talk about it on the SARM subreddit. All they say is you don't need a PCT and you'll bounce back in no time. The fact is SARMMS can shut you down. I'm a prime example of that. At the very least, SARMMS was a catalyst of negative symptoms associated with low tea that just led to me making worse and worse decisions and eventually is what put me onto TRT for the rest of my life. I don't Okay, so obviously this guy was in a, you know, rough position to begin with. Um, and then you get on a SARM that is, yeah, suppressive. It's going to crash your SHBG2. It is something that is going to lower your testosterone levels, but it's transient. So for somebody to not give yourself a chance to recover really like it sounds like he basically put himself in a low t and low E normally like actual notably I mean not normally environment you know came off didn't recover or feel the way he wanted to I guess like started losing progress went back on the SARMS and just like cycllically kind of [\h__\h] himself and then after that you know his lifestyle went to [\h__\h] and just like you prevent basically inhibiting himself from adequately recovering and then not even getting blood work to assess your gonadotropins or your free test or your SHBG to see if there are residual effects of things going on you know or just what's going on in general cuz you know having like a 200 and something nigg per deciliter total it's like yeah that's shitty but it's like what what did he say he was having like 10 to 12 beers a day or something and like presumably like not exercising properly probably pre-existing low T2 potentially subpar lifestyle, everything conducive to crashing your [\h__\h] Like you can show, you have to understand too like your testosterone secretion is a dal rhythm. It's not like you're just like constantly bleeding an adequate amount. So if you have like a night of shitty sleep, you binge drink, blah blah blah, like yeah, you can show up looking like transiently hypoganatal as [\h__\h] And you know, for somebody who's chronically living this lifestyle after coming off of his arm cycle, jumping into heavy alcohol abuse, um probably not exercising, probably not eating well, depressed, probably shitty sleep. I could, you know, see how this would have turned out the way it did, you know. Um does that mean he didn't need TRT? you know, like I don't really know what his baseline looked like, so it's really hard to say what's going on for certain, but to me, this seems just like uh almost like assigning blame like unnecessarily. Like I understand that testo like okay the overall message is good because he's trying to explain that sarms are very suppressive and there is this you know message that goes around that's basically implying that they are side effect free non-suppressive basically side effect free steroids which is not the case whatsoever. I did a video on this a while ago called our SARM side effect free. I'll put up a card in the corner and uh all of my video breakdowns on all the SARMs I've done in the past too. Basically break down all of the uh side effects and some of those are actually pretty outdated though too. Like some of my uh like knowledge has been you know evolved like honestly I feel like every year the previous year me like I think is an idiot compared to like the current me. So some of even even that information is outdated and like missing pieces and [\h__\h] So, um, as far as like that kind of stuff, but that was like even back then, you know, people who were researching it understood at least what you were getting yourself into. So, I don't know, for somebody to have dug into it and just like I don't know, it seems kind of like haphazard the way he approached it when he could have otherwise at least had some like baseline to [\h__\h] go off of, you know, like that. I don't think anyone would advise against having like a baseline hormone panel for example like even um I don't know where where he was getting his advice but I mean um I don't think anyone would advise against that and um anyways getting a bit off track only 24 years old. I must say though, despite all this, I'm kind of glad it happened cuz I had depression and anxiety before I ever had done a SARM cycle or touched a test booster or got on to TRT and all that is pretty much gone. Okay, so he had depression and anxiety before taking SARMMS. It's alleviated now on TRT. Like connect the pieces in the puzzle, dude. Like it seems like there was something wrong to begin with that should have been addressed prior to exacerbating the issue. So I think this is more of SARMs revealing an underlying problem rather than the SARMs inherently being the one to blame. It's like yeah if you take a selective androgen receptor modulator, a steroidal SARM, a anabolic steroid, a whatever you are going to suppress yourself like that is an expected outcome. So, you know, like uh that's your own uh pros and cons that you got to weigh out, you know, but it's like uh I think at this point the majority of people who have like aren't listening to like the most simpleminded of the simple-minded people like marketing this stuff who are like blatantly lying about it are, you know, like everyone knows at this point that they're suppressive, at least in my opinion. Or, you know, maybe they don't. Maybe I'm being uh far too uh generous to uh say that, but I mean um this is like it to me just sort of highlights uh a lack of proper attention to detail and care for your own personal health, you know. So if anything, this is a good example of what not to do during a cycle, which is, you know, get your baseline panel, see if you're even in a place where getting on exogenous anything would be a risk worth undertaking for your performance-enhancing goals. Um, decide if a SARM is the way to go for you based on what you're like, why you're using using a SARM. Would you not just jump straight to gear? Like what is the point of using a SARM? Do you have a very particular reason for using it? Are you a girl? Are you somebody who is otherwise extremely prone to androgenic side effects? Are you somebody who is afraid of injecting [\h__\h] Like what is the reason here? And weigh out exactly what you're getting yourself into and what to expect and prepare yourself accordingly. And you know, at least have like a serum on hand. like get some uh like I know if it were me and I was going like first of all I wouldn't do sarmms only anyways but if I were like I would definitely have at least like some enclophene and something to inhibit gyno if it were to present itself on hand at minimum. So for I don't know like it just seems like this guy didn't plan properly, didn't get any blood work, wasn't prepared for postcycle practices. Um, yeah, it's just uh unfortunate like but at the end of the day, it sounds like the outcome for him was overall net positive where his issue might have it might have just revealed his issue. Maybe he would have gone on for years without uh addressing it. But I guess again circling back to why were you depressed and anxious and low tea to begin with? Was there some sort of lifestyle factor involved in that that probably led to that to begin with? That's a totally different conversation than like the SAMs thing, you know? So, this probably just led you to uh led this guy to figuring out his issues quicker than he would have otherwise to be honest. So, sounds like he's interpreting it as a positive. Like, it's it's it's amazing. I don't know where my testosterone sat beforehand. Perhaps it was already relatively low. I don't know. But, I feel way way better. I I my outlook on life is way less bleak. My depression is like 10% of what it was, 5% of what it was. Same with my anxiety. And I feel like I can enjoy life like a normal person with a normal amount of energy without having to nap every day. and feel like garbage and rely on alcohol to make me feel better. And it makes me wonder, is this what everyone's been feeling this entire time? Because I knew when I watch people like go through life, I was like, there's something there's something they have that I don't. There's something about the way they interact with other people and the way they go through their own life with all the tasks they accomplish and the things they're able to do with with vigor and energy. I was like, I don't have that. There's something missing. I thought it was my personality. And to some degree, possibly it was, but testosterone made me feel like, okay, now I'm on the same page with these people. I have I'm on the I'm on a level playing field. I can get a freaking job done and I have the energy to do things that I enjoy again. So, I have testosterone to thank for that. And despite all the stupid, stupid, dumb, naive mistakes I've made, I'm glad where I ended up. So, please be careful when it comes to SARMs or steroids or test boosters even. do do your research because these these things can possibly hurt you and it's a difficult situation when you see people who don't know any better and they get themselves into into months and months of just just misery from low testosterone and they don't even know what's going on. That's a sad picture and that's where I was and I know just how bad it can be and just how bleak life can get. So, please be careful. Thank you for watching. I want to Okay, so yeah. So, it sounds like, you know, I think we've all pieced together the puzzle here for him or he sounds like he pieced it together as he was talking to be honest. So you know what's the out like the overall takeaway from the video? I guess in a general sense will suppress your natural testosterone but you have to understand too what is going on too. There is SHBG involved which is often completely overlooked when it comes to these oral agents. And when you're lowering it significantly, a lot of people don't realize they're like pushing their SHBG into the single digits when they're taking uh monotherapy SARM cycles with heavily suppressive compounds like RAD-140, S-23, etc., crashing their estrogen to nil while simultaneously dropping their SHBG into the single digits. um and consequently resulting in this, you know, very low tea environment that is recoverable from though if your baseline function was adequate to begin with and it's just a matter of what is the half-life of the compound in question once it's out of your system and it's no longer suppressing you. How long is it going to take for your body to synthesize these binding proteins again? In addition to that being regulated in the synthesis and actual transportation of these things being regulated by adequate estrogen levels which you also don't have right now because you just crash them with the SAR in question if you're using a heavily you know suppressive one or your dosage or your dosage used or your exposure duration was like excessive or whatever. You know how are you going to get your testosterone and estrogen back to baseline as quick as possible? you know, do you have um a good ser on hand like anomophen that you can deploy to kind of assist in that process? Has the ser worked its way out of your system? are using RA140 that has a 60 hour halfife or whatever it is and you're like highly underestimating the clearance time of it and you're getting your blood work done like a week later and thinking that your low uh you know low tea means that you need TRT when in reality you just need to wait for the thing to [\h__\h] clear and your LH and FSH should get to where they should be and things would have corrected themselves in short order. You know, there's a lot of things that I feel like go overlooked with this stuff that uh need to be taken into account. Like if like when you're planning whatever, like a cycle of anabolic steroids of whatever, look at the pharmacocinetic profile of it and understand how long it's going to take to get out of your system. It takes five half- livives for a compound to get out enough for it not to be suppressing you to a point where it is absolutely, you know, impossible for your body to even kind of like kickstart and get back going again. So if you get blood work and you know things are still looking shitty, it's like it doesn't necessarily mean you are screwed for life and you need TRT. Rather it may just be that did you even plan for the phogo kinetics of whatever you're using? Like I know some people they'll [\h__\h] they'll take like EQ and then they get their uh you know they start PCT 2 weeks later after their last shot and I'm like do you understand what the halflife of undesate is? It's [\h__\h] massive. So you know just understand what's going on. understand the binding protein issue too because the negative feedback and kind of the tie-in with the HBTA with these binding proteins with your estrogen levels and testosterone is often overlooked completely. The turnaround time on all the stuff being manufactured again and then for your HBTA and gonadotropins to shoot down and kind of get things going and get everything back up to homeostasis. It is a process and your body needs time to get there and it needs adequate planning on your part and it depends on the compound selection, the dosage, the duration of exposure, etc. But these are all things that you should plan for before you deploy any of these agents. And um as far as like actually using like SARMs on their own and how problematic that could be, I've touched on this before actually. I'm not going to go on a deep dive cuz this video is going to be pushing 30 minutes, but I did a video about how, you know, like uh low E on estrogen during a SARM cycle, why it could be problematic, why it is problematic, and when it sort of makes sense to uh intervene or to, you know, maybe a SARM cycle doesn't even make sense for your goals. For a lot of people, they just uh you know are overlooking something that may otherwise be a healthier alternative through actual synthetic anabolics simply because of ease of administration and how easy it is to obtain the compound when you know you may be better off just using straight test. You know that's often the case with many individuals. So but again it comes down to your goals and your actual scenario you put yourself into. Like there's a very specific reason. I experiment with SARMs myself and have many times in the past and it is certainly not the same reason for a lot of people who are seeking performance enhancement or you know other practices and you have to understand again like why you're using it. Is it just because somebody's told you it's side effect free steroids? Or is there an actual like outcome you're seeking that actually justifies the intervention with some experimental compound or something that is almost approved for human use but isn't quite uh like what like what the [\h__\h] are you doing, you know? And like do you know what to plan for given the lack of research on whatever you're using? Like some of these some of these compounds you don't even know the halfife when you're going into it. So obviously, you know, a lot of planning has to go into this and it's not as simple as just like take the [\h__\h] and you stop and then all of a sudden just like you're fine like 2 seconds later. It doesn't work like that. So anyways, take from that what you will. Thank you guys for watching. Please like, subscribe, check out my blog moreplayates.com. Follow me on Instagram at moreplace_dates. Facebook, Snapchat, Pre, Twitter, Tik Tok, Apple Podcast. Um if you want to support the channel, you can check out anything I'm associated with in the video description below. uh my TRT clinic, you know, coincidentally. Uh you can check that out if you're interested, but do not go to it if you are done a SARB cycle and haven't assessed your blood work properly and think you need TRT. If you want to get a blood blood panel done and get somebody to actually interpret it um for you who's not going to just uh you know half-hazardly throw you on TRT without actually checking your gonadotropins and your free tea and your SHPG and kind of assessing what your overall hormonal state is and why you're there to begin with. You know, check it out for the lab portion, but do not just haphazardly jump on TRT if you do not need it or if you haven't determined if it's the best uh you know, if it's what you actually need for your current situation. And uh anything else I'm associated with, it's all in the video description below. Thank you guys for watching.