What's up, guys? Derek, more plates.com. Today, I'm going to be reacting to Lee Priest's steroid cycle from the '9s that he went over with Tom Plattz. Um, obviously really insightful. um gives a inside look into what you know top pros with top 0.00001% 00001% genetics were doing in the 90s to achieve their physiques. And obviously, you know, guys could be lying, but you know, I don't see any reason to lie other than to downplay how much of an abuser you seem like. Like, I don't know. To me, these interviews were supposed to be uh every bodybuilder except Lee Priest opted to stay anonymous and Lee just he was the only one that didn't care and just went uh didn't blur his face out or change his voice or anything like that in the post production to, you know, hide who he is. So, I'm pretty sure he's probably telling the truth. I don't know. Anyways, uh I'm just going to start it and you guys can be the judge and I'll comment along the way. My first question basically uh would be um what situation in your life or what specific circumstance um brought you to the uh the need or the feeling or the desire that what what really made you feel that you had to take steroids in order to compete or or was there a particular time in your career that you felt that that was the case? It wasn't really like a need to or like I had to. So, it's more like a personal choice cuz I'd won a few national titles beforehand, done a few shows, and then as the level got harder, the guys were getting bigger. So, came down to more of a should I or shouldn't I, I'll just do it for an experiment. And I just decided to I'd give it a go, take a small dosage, see how it affected me. So, wasn't like I had to because I was winning shows anyway without them beforehand. And I trained for like five or six years before I even done my first course on steroids. So, it's like one of those things after it's competing at such a high level, I just want to go ahead and give it a go and see how they worked. Now, you mentioned you were competing five or six years before you took uh steroids. Um, so how old were you when you first started taking steroids? I was 19. 19. Um, since we're See, a lot of guys think he started way younger than that. They think he started at 16. And interesting to hear him say 19. You know, I don't know if it's truthful or not. Um, I see no reason why he would lie, though. So, other than the obvious trying to downplay your use, but I don't know. Lee to me doesn't seem like the kind of guy who would lie about it. He's, you know, a lot shorter, so muscle packs on a lot easier, or it appears to anyways. So, you know, 5 lbs on him is going to look like what 20 lb looks like on a really tall guy. So, is it completely unorthodox to think that, you know, somebody could have looked the way he did at 18, 17 naturally? Honestly, I have no idea cuz I have nowhere near the genetics of this guy. So, I'm not really sure. Only he knows for sure. But anyway, so we're speaking about steroids at this point. Uh uh what specific steroids do you find effective in your training? I've always stuck to a basic like Deca was the very first one I used when I was 19 and put on 20 I did a six week course on it. That's all I used like two cc's a week. I found I put on 20 pound. Yeah, sure carry some water weight. So that's probably like I guess depending on the concentration of DECA at the time maybe anywhere from 200 to 600 milligrams a week approximately. I don't really know like obviously quantifying in cc's isn't like a way of measuring when the varying concentrations but you know these guys were using I'm assuming pharma stuff back then or most of it was probably more so pharma than UGL I don't really know to be honest but it could be anywhere from 100 milligs per milliliter up to 300 milligrams per mill milliliter just educated guess I'm going to say probably around he's probably taking like 400 milligrams a week in this you know cycle reference with that. But then even now I stick to the basics like deca prima bowl and I don't like tested or stay away from testosterones but just the basics like that. So I never really deal with the end of the sign. Yeah, some guys like stacking six or seven, but I've always two. Mhm. So, the interesting thing about that he's talking about how he likes Nanderlon is a 19 no and then you have uh primabolan DHT derivative and he doesn't have any androstane in his preferable cycle whatsoever. Like he has nothing that's aromatizing heavily into estrogen which is you know maybe he was I'm sure he'll delve into it more. So, I'm just going to continue. Um interesting though like in terms of uh some of the drugs you just mentioned uh steroids you just mentioned uh specific dosages um could you give us some idea of what specific dosages you use prior to a show and and how long you use these dosages? I'm getting ready for a contest. I normally start dieting 12 weeks out. So I'll start with maybe like which is same as Winstro. I'll take like two cc's every 3 days. Then sometimes I get sick of taking an indoor I might increase it every four or five days. So, they've been a pin cushion. Then I was taking one Enadrol 50 a day cuz like they're one of the worst on your liver. So, I hate using them, but yet for keeping the size and strength, they're good. But I only take one a day of them. I was taking um two I use a growth hormone every day for the last six weeks and then just Novaex. Okay. So to a lot of people this cycle probably makes no sense but it's like back in the day you have to understand there's no internet there's no like cycle theory there's no like anything really except for a few random like underground encyclopedias of bodybuilding written by you know random dudes who theorize about stuff and uh so he's talking about using Winstrol like what do you say every 3 days or something when it has a halflife of you know obviously it's going to be in and out of your system pretty quick and and 50 milligs of Anadrol per day. Two IUs of GH, which is not not a significant amount. If you're using pharma, that might put you at like I don't know like 300 a 300 IGF, which isn't like that that far out of range. It's not like crazy high or anything. And then he's talking about Novidex here, which I'm assuming just uses as antagonized estrogen in the receptor to dry out a bit before a show, but I'll just let him continue before I comment. That's about all. Getting ready for a contest. Okay. Um, so how about in the offseason then? Would you take offseason? I don't use too much. It's more like I like more on food and heavy training. Like I normally go like maybe five months before I do another course in the offse. Then I'll just take the basic like deca 2 cc's of deca 2 cc's of primma for eight weeks. Then I might go off it for another three months before I do something else. So I never really been a big believer like in you know people get the mentality where you need steroids to grow, you need steroids, but if you get that in your mentality then they can't. So growth phase, I guess he only uses around 400 deca and a couple hundred primo. I don't know. It's kind of hard to tell based on, you know, varying concentrations. I have no idea what the concentration is of what he's using. So when he refers to cc's, I'm just going to assume based on what most of those products are dosed at per milliliter. So um let's continue. about and I might just use them for like an assistance rather than rely on them. That's why at contest time I might take a little bit more because I'm doing more training. I'm doing more cardio. So like even dieting you cut your food back so recovery harder. So the drugs only help me more for recovery than anything. Is there a certain time during the year and you mentioned it was uh four week four months prior to a show you start getting ready? Normally three to four months before a contest I'll start preparing and then I'll start as soon as I start my diet and start restricting the food I'll just start on one steroid like standard I'll get the size and strength on cutting back calories then maybe like six weeks before the show is I start the growth hormone then like eight weeks I'll put the anadrol in eight weeks before the show I just slowly I don't take them all at once from the beginning I just slowly start on one and increase the other and as the show gets near I start tapering off them again. Uh well it brings up a point prior to the show. Um so his pre-contest stack is more or less Windstrol I guess injectable Winstrol which is obviously far more efficacious than oral at least in practical application from what I've seen. 50 milligs of anrol. I don't know if he's like titrating up or what the deal is. It's kind of ambiguous here but it sounds like pretty mild doses of Winstrol anadrol and a couple I use of GH. That's nothing crazy. That's very That's nothing crazy whatsoever compared to what most guys are doing. Do you stop taking steroids completely at a certain point or do you continue steroids through the show? Normally a week or two before I'll stop them. I just so sick of taking them anyway cuz I don't really feel sometimes my stomach feels sick when I'm on them and I can't sleep sometimes. So I just look forward to stop taking the needles. So as soon as the sooner the better for me because if the show comes close I just can't wait to get off them. So normally like a week or two before I'll stop them all together. Um, depending upon the number of shows I guess you enter per year will determine how long you're on steroids for that for that year. Uh, is there any specific time you don't take steroids? A number of months, weeks that you don't take steroids at all during the year? Uh, normally if I when I do my contest, I try to group them all together so the shows are pretty close together. But then like after a show like a big show I did last year, I didn't touch them again for like seven months. I just went totally off them. I had like maybe a shot of DECA twice because I had like sore elbows. So mainly just for the joints I took two shots of Dicka, but that was about it for the whole seven months. Mhm. Um so your doses are actually quite low. Uh he makes probably anyone feel like a drug abuser cuz his doses are so mild. I don't know if he's telling the truth for sure, but again, I see no reason why he would make this up other than I have no idea. Like I don't think he really cares to be honest. compared to what I think people think about very I've read um magazines where they say you know guys usually professionals use these large amounts and we just sit there and we laugh about it you know we read you know we spend 40,000 a year 50,000 to get ready for a contest and it's like you know bodybuilders you know people say we're dumb but we're not that stupid it's like you know if the prize money is 10,000 who's going to spend 50,000 to get ready for a contest so yeah well in fact one of the guys I was talking to uh uh earlier uh mentioned that uh you know time is 15 on or up to 50 and even $100,000 a year. And that's you don't you don't do anything like that. I I can tell you from my past experience, my last show I did a big contest, I didn't spend any more than $2,000. That's only because I started using a bit of growth hormone, which I've never used prior to two years ago. But before then, I wouldn't spend any more than $600 to get richer. Do you find the growth hormone to be the the magic substance that it's touted to be? Not really. It's like people say it's a wonder drug, but the before I started using it, you know, I come in great shape. I come in hard and full. I started using it. I'm not sure whether because I'm growing too each year. Each year I'm like 10 pounds heavier. So it's like whether, you know, we come this time I might be a bit fuller on whether that's from the growth or not because I've come in shape without and I come in shape using it. So whether it just adds to help keep that size, I'm not sure. So it's hard to say cuz when you're using the growth, you're using other ones with it. So, it's hard to say whether the growth is doing anything. I have to take the growth by itself to see whether it did anything or not. Cuz if you're mixing drugs together, it's hard to say what's working, what isn't working. So, true. Have you taken the by itself? No, I haven't. So, um how about uh insulin? Is that something that goes along with G? I've never I've never tried I know a lot of guys that do, but to me, you know, I've spoke to a doctor before and he says for the small difference it makes, it's not worth the risk. You become a diabetic. Some people take too much and go into comas. So for me, like the risk in that is not worth it. So I never really messed around with insulin. Mhm. Like to me, this is so indicative of somebody who just has insane genetics because it's almost like he has like he obviously like somewhat knows what he's talking about. Obviously, I'm not like, who am I to critique what he's saying, but just the way he describes the mechanism of drugs and like how what would happen if he took insulin and whatnot, like it's pretty obvious that this guy is just a hyperresponder to whatever he takes. And you know, obviously very cautious as well, but I mean, it's like his uh everyone's knowledge is pretty limited, I would assume, in the '9s about what stuff actually does, but the fact that he like barely touches GH, hasn't done insulin, low doses of gear, it's like this guy's pretty much like running baby cycles year round, and he's massive. It just goes to show genetics. And I've done a video on this before about uh not taking advice from guys with top tier genetics. And it's because of stuff like this cuz it's like if a guy who responds to this is going to try and get a guy with average genetics to grow, it's probably not going to work out cuz his knowledge is limited to the scope of just insane hyper respponding to everything that he does. Well, um, do did you have any, um, u scary episodes with, uh, things you may have taken? No, one time I brought some contaminated stuff, you know, cuz course, you know, once it's been pushed to a black market, you get guys out there who will bottle anything to sell. There's still some stuff that was contaminated and got blood poisoning. So, I sort of embedded for a week and couldn't war. Okay. So, obviously, it does buy underground UGL stuff. Obviously, I wasn't around in the 90s to like see what the UGL scene was like, but you know, obviously there was stuff going around back then talking about getting contaminated product and whatnot. You know, I had to take antibiotic get shots for that. So, stuff like that sort of makes you scared if you're buying stuff off the black market or stuff from different people. Of course, it can be anything. They be could be selling cooking oil for all you know. Yeah. Or stuff could be put together in someone's dirty room. So, stuff like that always scares you because that can it does happen. There was a case um a couple of years ago where a guy died because he thought he was using growth hormone, but it was actually insulin. Someone sold him in too much and went into a coma and died. So people do anything to make money these days. So it's always scary. I guess you got to be careful upon you know where where your sources. Exactly. So but you know stuff I got came from a friend. So but he could get off somebody else. So it's always it's a risk you take I guess when you do any sport really. So whether you're a car driver whatever you hop into a car and race around and get killed. So, it's just one of those thing, you know, it's lucky of the draw. Sometimes it's going to be bad, sometimes it'll be good, but if you get the bad stuff, you know, it can kill you straight away. I mean, other than getting impure products or bogus products or counterfeit products, uh uh are there anything? How do you feel about the the whole sport in general as far as the steroids issue? Is it something you wasn't there or it is there and you just tolerate? Sometimes you wish it wasn't there, but it's like guess with any sport, it's going to be there. It's just that sometimes bodybuilding is like the poster child for steroid use. You know, footballers use it. You know, the Chinese swim team used it. Like any sport you go for, everyone uses just because bodyguard looks so different. We get pointed at the most as being big users because, you know, people that use steroids don't look like us. They're like, well, they must be using more. They must be taking more. But like at CS, I just accept it. You know, you got the choice. If you don't want to use it, you don't have to use it. You know, there's shows out there to compete in. We don't have to use it. But if you're good enough without it, you can compete with guys that use it. Well, more luck to you. So going to have their preference. You know, you can tell people the bad effects. You can tell them the good effects. It's like drinking or smoking. You got to make your own choice whether you want to use it or not. You know, your parent I don't want you ever touching it yet. A kid will go and use it anyway. That comes down to personal preference on if you want to try it, you can. If not, well, don't do it. Mhm. Um how about uh other items or drugs like diuretics? uh something that you feel works in terms of uh bodybuilding application. I think they do work because you know get a little bit of water you got left but then due to some like lasics I tried and I felt like near death trying lacy just like took everything out of me which I got some molder ones out there we can use and which spares potassium which I find work well but even now they got natural herbal lyrics I've experimented with and the herbal ones sometimes work just as good sure they're not exactly as great but yet they do the same job without the serious side effects you know where you're draining all the minerals out of your body because you're at a fine state anyway your body fat's down, you hardly got no minerals left in your body. And if you just drain everything out, that's where a lot of deaths come from because you just drain everything out and you have a heart attack or just shut down. Mhm. Yeah, it's definitely true. like the any time I've seen a freak accident in bodybuilding like through you know personal friends or just through the grapevine people in the local bodybuilding circuit or whatever it's been like in terms of a dire health situation it's been either accumulation of gear use over the course of several you know decades or several years that leads to cardiovascular disease stroke heart attack whatever but like the only instant like going from healthy to like pretty much dying that I've seen is through diuretic misuse. And that's why you got to be really careful about who you get as a coach and just taking advice from random people on the internet or taking advice from random coaches who you have no idea if they really know what they're doing or not. Like I don't even really have advice for how to go about finding somebody credible or not other than getting one vetted to you through people you trust in your social circle or something like that because when it comes to diuretic use like I have a close friend who actually had a heart attack from diuretic misuse pre-contest and he was you know he's my age and he had like u he was sent to the hospital almost died and he was like 25 years old at the time. So, you got to be really careful about that stuff cuz it's uh you can literally just throw your electrolyte balance off so badly and just like screw up your heart to the degree where it's not even pumping correctly. Electrical circuits aren't getting around your body correctly. Everything's thrown out of whack and you can't really correct it. Like, you're just taking shots in the dark thinking you're you know how to pull water and fill out and pull water and fill up and do this and do that and like dry out and hard it up. But, you know, it's so easy to throw everything off and send yourself to the ER. So, be really careful about that stuff. And the what he just said there where the herbal stuff over the counter like works really well, too. Like, yeah. Things like dandelion root if you're if you're lean enough for a show that like you shouldn't need like Lasix or something. Like granted, obviously at like a top bodybuilding level, I have no idea to be honest. But in just from what I've seen, if you have no body fat on your body, I don't think you need to, unless you're competing at like a super high level, I don't think you need to be messing with things like Lasix, things like LDAC's terrible, and things like other diuretics that just are, you know, too risky to mess with unless you like 100% know what you're doing. So, um, what kind of dosages have you taken of some of the, uh, diuretics in terms of the use like the alactone or alacttoide? I just take like, um, half a one, maybe two days before a show or like maybe a 20 milligram one, then the night before a show, I'll take a whole one. So, you don't really need high amounts of diuretics for them to work. So, just that you know, if you're been cutting back your water, elactone's like the worst diuretic ever, by the way. It's used as an anti-androgen for women who are or men who are transitioning from male to female and it's just poor. I don't think that it does it's very effective pre-contest and it usually just flattens guys out and prevents them from filling back up from messing with uh eldoststerone and re-uptake of everything. And it's just uh I don't know the only thing that I've seen work well that wasn't too risky to mess with is dazide personally. And then you know ideally you would just get lean enough and you don't even need to use diuretic at all. But you know obviously at a high level there's things these guys are doing that I guess is a necessity for them to show up the way they need to. But the likelihood that you need to even touch a diuretic ever is very low. So just you know be careful with them cuz those are the things that are going to kill you instantly. Water for three or four days before a show and then you take it. Excuse me. that might drain everything your gut, but I always get my fluid high. Mhm. Um, uh, regarding diuretics, it's so if sometimes you use herbals and sometimes you would use the elactone or the odactoide. Yeah. But it seems like from what I hear you saying, it's like you use very little amounts of of all the esoteric drugs. Well, I've always been that way since I started. I've always used small amounts. I found a small amount worked. You know, once one time I did try a large amount and it made no difference in a small amount. So, ever since then, I've always just stuck at a small amount because if you start using large amounts, the only one who's going to benefit the guy who's selling it to you cuz he's making more money cuz you're using it quicker. But yet, you know, 2C's to me works just as good as what 10 does. And for somebody competing at the Olympia level for him to say, this kind of stuff is should be really enlightening for a lot of guys watching this cuz you get into this mindset when you're trying to bodybuild that, okay, well, I built muscle at this dosage, so next cycle I have to do more to keep building muscle. And it's not always necessarily the case. Myostatin works in a regulatory way. So that if you're always on the same dose, then you know your body is going to have a feedback mechanism of myostatin to prevent you from gaining more. And then it puts you in a position where you probably do need to use more to continue gaining. But you know, if you're going up and down and up and down and you're not just doing a permablast trying to like perma bulk for two years straight, the likelihood is you can probably get away with a lot less than you think. And you know, I fell into the trap when I was younger of being like, "Oh, I need at least 500 tests in there or else I won't grow." And it's like you'd be surprised how little you can probably get away with. Like this guy definitely has more muscle than you. I'm assuming definitely more significant amount more than me. And I was using doses higher than he was at like the most at my stage of using my most. And did I need it? No, definitely not. Especially for what I was trying to do. So just keep that in mind, guys. Cuz uh I've actually noticed that too. Like even with my TRT at first I was on, you know, 200 a week and then I was like I wanted to see how low I could get it because obviously 200 a week is probably not sustainable long term from a cardiovascular perspective when that more than therapeutic levels in terms of what my blood work showed. So you know it started tapering down. Did I muscle didn't fall off me though and I kept tapering down and nothing changed. I kept keeping my muscle on me. So, you'd be surprised what dig like half of what you're taking could do the exact same thing and probably have you feeling less toxic, have better blood markers, and actually like increase your longevity in the sport and longterm equate to more muscle acrruel. Some people get the impression, well, if if I'm taking two cc's and I gain 20 pounds, you know, six cc's I'll gain, you know, twice that much, three times the amount, you know, the more I take. But it doesn't work that way. Mhm. Um well, I based upon the fact you take small amounts, would this be a suggestion? Uh not that we're in this this particular video, are we making suggestions or recommendations for drug use at all? We're merely confronting the issues. Uh but uh in terms of your the viewers and the younger people coming up, younger guys and coming up listening to this, uh your basic thoughts would be less is more. Yeah, I've always found the better one. Always everyone I speak to, I tell them that, but yet some people got in their mind that they need large amounts because so many people tell them, you know, the pros take this much, the pros take that much, but yet the pros don't. Nearly every amateur I've met takes twice the amount as a pro does, but because we're bigger than they are, say they're taking 1500 milligrams and we're bigger and then they're thinking, well, the pro's taking 3,000 milligrams. But yet, as I said, I take maybe 200 milligrams of deca, 200 milligrams of primitive milligrams a week. I get good results from that. So you don't need large amounts. What do you say? 200 of Deca and 200 of Primo. Let me go back here. Twice the amount as a pro does. But because we're bigger than they are, say they're taking 1500 milligrams and we're bigger. And then they're thinking, well, the pros taking 3,000 milligs, but yet as I said, I take maybe 200 milligs of deca, 200 milligs of primitive milligs a So like 400 milligrams a week of gear. then little bit on drugs which I'm going to use then spend the rest of money on food cuz you know the food's going to work. So just train heavy on that but you know people want to get a quick fix straight away. They want to get huge overnight, but bodybuilding, building muscle takes years. Like I recommend training, you know, five to six years before you even decide to use steroids. It's like one thing Keith just mentioned too that is worth noting is that's something I've noticed too is I used to always think, well, the pros are doing something different. They're taking incre. But the fact is a lot of the amateurs are actually taking more than the pros. And the reason is their genetic response is so terrible, which is why they're stuck at regional level shows placing like not even winning overalls and they're using like four or five, six grams of gear a week. And then there's pros using a quarter of that and getting pro cards because genetics, that's just what it comes down to. And the amateurs think, you know, they think there's a secret and they think the secret is more and more and more. So they keep pushing the envelope whereas the pros are getting exactly where they want without even having to get to that point yet. So that's something I you know I think is actually pretty common is amateurs using more than pros if not you know maybe the same amount maybe in some cases pros more obviously and there's obviously health conscious amateurs who don't do that but it's actually a pretty common scenario to have amateurs who are way overdoing it thinking they just need to keep pushing the envelope to get you know finally get that like pro size that they just can't get and it's just it's not the case. They're just chasing a pipe dream. it's never going to happen if their genetics are, you know, inferior. It's like it's one of those things you got to build a foundation first and then maybe if you want to experiment and try them, you know, go ahead. But, you know, don't go crazy thinking you're going to get big overnight and take large amounts cuz probably going to end up sick or dead. You know, it's not going to make you any bigger taking a large quantity. So, you you you wouldn't you're not suggesting or are you that steroids are a magic form? Far from it. Like if you don't got the genetics, if you haven't got the willpower or the determination upstairs, you can take all the drugs you want, you're never going to get anywhere. You know, the guys who are champions today, any sport would be there without drugs or not. You know, like Ben Johnson, he still won the race without them steroids. It's like, excuse me, it's just a, you know, he was using stenos. Like I used stenosol before contests. I probably took more than him, but yet I could never beat him. He said the drug certainly didn't make him run fast. It's like when you look at bottles like a bottle of Stenazol you see for animals horses now a horse that's like 800 lb more takes two cc's every 2 weeks like bodybuilders getting ready for shows will sometimes take two cc's every two days I'm thinking like if we're humans who weigh you know 200 lb what are we taking two mills every two days worth of that kind of goes back to my my video I did on trend blown where I discussed the dosage used in cattle to beef them up and compared it to the dosages guys are using for bodybuilding purposes on like 185 lb physiques now. And uh that just ties in perfectly. You have guys using doses approved for vet usage in animals 10 times your size using doses 10 times higher than the horses or the cattle are using. So that's a very uh logical way to put it in my opinion and uh makes a lot of sense. you know, brain needs, you know, two mills every two weeks. You know, it just comes down to common sense. Mhm. So, um I understand that the current uh shows are only tested in terms of diuretics. Uh are there um how do you get around that? Are there masking agents or No, like I said, I'd start taking the herbal direct. There are out there now that you can take it'll be out of your system in six hours. So there's always going to be other masking agent, but then masking agents too can add to the danger because people take more stuff to try and cover up what they're taking which can either counteract or you know not mix well or some of the counter agents can be more dangerous than the steroids themselves. So even with the diuretics but you stick to the herbal ones you can do okay but diuretics that you can take the night before and next morning you can pee clean. So there's no trace of no taking diuretic. I see. Um, how about other um, esoteric uh, drugs like u, escaline or what? I've tried escaline like in the offseason once just to see what it did and you know it hurt a lot. I couldn't train properly with it. So, you know, swirls the muscle up. It inflamed the muscle or red. So, I'm thinking what's the point, you know, for a little the little bit of improvement it gives you, it's not worth it. Then a couple days later it goes away. So for a contest, people like to use it, you know, to put a little bit of more height on their bicep or in their rear delt or calf, but yet it covers up all the definition. It's like to me it's like if you go on stage and you're more defined, it's all an illusion on stage. You're going to look bigger anyway. Sickle's something that's not really talked about in modern day. I don't know if it's like totally obsolete or if it's still used in, you know, top bodybuilding competitions or not, but basically what it does is you just it after it's pinned inflames the muscle from the inside and create artificially creates a swollen look that, you know, can enhance lagging body parts or give a certain pop that would have otherwise been unachievable. And uh apparently it was really popular in the 90s and that's what he's discussing right now. Um, not even sure if it's available now, but uh, yeah, in the 90s it was uh, pretty popular from what I can tell. If you smooth that body part out, you know, it's just going to look so soft and watery. So, I'd rather keep the definition have the illusion of looking bigger rather than trying to inject something in. It's like I think too any anything you put in your body that inflames the muscle and does that to it. That can't be good for the body if you're inflaming it with an injection. So, I tried that once and didn't like it. It hurt too much and it went all red and got hot. like doesn't seem like a good thing to me. Um, are there any specific mistakes you've ever made that you you'll never do again? Uh, in terms of maybe like I injected into my calves once and then I got the blood poisoning, hit a nerve and all that sort of stuff. So, yeah, I norally stick to the There's tons of nerves in your calves. So, I highly recommend avoiding them if for some reason you wanted to pin your TRT in there or something. Not a good spot. It's like one of the most nerve dense areas of your body. So definitely avoid your calves at all costs. Probably the buttock area or the shoulder there because people go through that stage where you know if you injected into that muscle that muscle is going to grow bigger but it's like you know people forget the buttocks is really a muscle. The glutes area is a muscle. So if that was the case there' be guys out there with a glutes the size of a bus you know people so much into it. That's true. Yeah. It's like it doesn't work that way. So it's like I just put in people make mistakes by trying to put in different body parts and hit nerves and do stuff like that. Then I heard people inject it straight into their vein, which is dangerous doing that because you're going to inject into the vein. You got some contaminated stuff. Well, they get to your heart quicker than anything, then you're dead. So, just mistakes like that people will make. You know, sometimes they'll keep injecting the same spot and they'll get a cyst there or boil and have to get it cut out or removed and get a lot of scar tissue. So, there are bad side effects, but ever happened to your yourself as far as injecting the same site? No, I always keep it moving around. And plus never use large amounts in the same area cuz I know guys who put like maybe 10 C in one injection in the one spot had this big great ball there and because it won't break down and move through the muscle just sits there and it turns into a cyst or an absess. So they got to get it cut out. Mhm. How about um any effects like gyo gymastia? I had that from a young age myself naturally. So I had a high level of testosterone. At the age of 13, I had one cut out naturally so I could like like excrete stuff out of my I already know everyone's going to say, "Oh, he had gyno at 13 because he was on gear then." But I don't know. It is. It does happen where guys their natural just going through puberty spike natural testosterone spikes aromatization levels and can lead to gynecomastia. There's not a proper balance of or a optimal balance of androgen to estrogen. So definitely possible and it's well documented that pubertal pubertal I don't even know if you'd say it like that gyno in puberty is definitely a thing. So I wouldn't discount it entirely that it could have happened naturally. So just a comment there. So at 13 you had one cut out. So yeah you weren't taking steroids. No I just had a high natural level of testosterone. So it's like it just grew naturally but I've never had them from drugs. Mhm. um well some of the um newer um non-drug like drug-like items that actually makes me think that that's probably why he avoids androstain in the first place like testosterone dianal EQ if EQ was even used in the '9s cuz clearly he has a genetic polymorphism that increases the amount of aromatization he has relative to somebody else cuz normally when people go through puberty test and DHT spikes and the ratio ratio of testosterone aromatizing into estrogen is still maintained. So you don't get gyno. The only way you get gyno is if you have uh imbalance of you don't have enough androgen relative to your estrogen. So clearly Lee has uh increased genetic propensity to aromatize significantly more testosterone into estrogen because simply having a high testosterone level doesn't indicate that you're going to get gyno. It's rather if you have a high level of romatization or, you know, a genetic snip or something like that that's going to, you know, predispose you to that because you just you're the way you metabolize sex hormones in your body is not as, you know, efficient as another guy. So that's probably the reason he avoids testosterone to begin with. And interesting items, over the counter items like Andro, have you ever experimented with those? Not really. I never in the offseason with me. I've never really been a big supplement user. Might stick to a basic protein powder. I bet if you got a genetic test, too, it would show that he has the man boob gene for sure. Powder, maybe a carbohydrate drink, but when it comes to pro, you know, maybe a multivitamin, but a lot of the other stuff I never really got into. As I said, I got a natural level of testosterone anyway, so boosting it to me doesn't really do anything. I when I tried testosterone once, I used um cypunate and I actually got weaker. So, I actually found my natural level being as high as it was actually benefited me more than actually taking the synthetic stuff. So, every time I want to try that, once my weights just went down and everything, as soon as I got off it again, my strength came back up. So, well, he was probably using a dosage that was lower than what he endogenously produces like he already said. But that's just a consequence of using less exogenous hormone than you indogenously produce. So, it's not like testosterone sucks necessarily. It's just that, you know, if you suppress your endocrine function with using a dose lower than what you naturally produce, then of course you would experience a decrease in performance, strength, size, etc. So that's what I'm assuming happened. Anyways, so prior to an event, it's mostly anabolic substance. None. Not really. How to use any androgenics at all? No. No, no androgenic material whatsoever. Interesting. Um, well, it seems like uh to me it seems like your approach to bodybuilding and and drug use is uh reminiscent of my era when I was competing in the 80s. It was something that was like almost not as predominant, not uh I mean some of the uh guys I interviewed so far today talked about chemical warfare and uh you know $100,000 a year and uh uh the the risks of insulin where you could you know go into comas and things and I mean I was like sitting there going oh my god I'm more of the believer I've always been the believer in hard training proper nutrition I said the mental side of getting your mind focused and to me steroids are maybe like a 5% even if that it's more like an aid rather than so many people rely on them as a crutch, you know, to get them through and take them all the time. You know, I'll be training with people like we'll be going heavy and they can't go heavy. Like, well, I'm not on anything right now. I'm like, what excuse is that? They're like, well, you know, I'm not on drugs right now. I can't train heavy. It's like, you know, to me, you know, a lot of my best lifts I've been, you know, like when I take drugs, I don't use them to get strong or get big. It's always like I just use them for an a to get ready for a contest to help me recover stuff like that. Whereas people these days, it's like more of a crutch they want to lean on. they want to take large amounts to help them train whereas you know where I come back from before when I started los training it's always the hard work the dedication you know sure you might use a little bit of drug but it's just like to aid you get there it's not going to help you make you a champion so I just believe in the hard training more than the drug side whereas these days some people want drugs before they even start training so yeah well that's a good point I mean in terms of our younger viewers up and cominging guys watching this tape um what would you be your advice to them in terms of I mean you I I mean you already said more should is less in ter your own approach. comes one of those things like no matter what sport you're doing try try and do it your best you can without them then if you think you do need to use them or you know you've looked into it you know I would say at least four or five years on any sport you know whether it be football running whatever at least try and do your best you can naturally you know but then it's going to come to your personal choice if you want to use them and then if you do use them just suggested dose you know if it's just suggested dose is 1 cc just take that you know and it will probably work for you that's what I've always found I've always just stuck to what I've felt work for me. Whereas people have come up to me and said, "Lee, you should be take you should be taking this and that and okay, but then they'll say you should be taking, you know, 1500 milligrams." But I'm like, "Why?" I said, "You know, 200 milligram works. Why take any more?" You know, but people mainly take more because it's more he say more than anything. You know, they hear this guy's taking that, they hear this guy's taking this, they won't keep, you know, well, if he's taking, I'd better take it to keep up with him. But yet, you don't need to. If the small amount works, stick to it. It always comes down to like when someone does their first course. personally don't know themselves. They're too scared to ask their doctor or someone around them doesn't know. So they might ask the the gym who's using, you know, tons of drugs, what should I take? And that guy will say, well, you know, take a,000 milligrams at this, take five a take some of this. So the first course they start off on this large amount, and from then on, all they use is large amounts, large amounts. If they had to start off on a small amount, they'd find they get the same gains as the large amount, but yet their mind's now set on this large amount. They got to keep taking more and more if they want to get bigger and bigger, which case. Mhm. So, what's what do you account for the reason we're seeing such tremendously yourself such tremendously large physiques on the stage today? I mean, when I was competing uh in the 80s, you're over 200 pound in the 70s, you're over 200 lb. You're big. Now, some you guys are getting close to 300 and 3% body fat. Yeah, I think a lot of it still, you know, maybe genetics people coming along. Okay. Maybe nutrition's changed a bit, you know, like, you know, back in the early days it was more of the higher fat foods and the milks and this, but now it's more the diets are changing and then even training's changing, but you know, probably just kind of genetics, different body types coming through and that whereas even back then you had the freaks back then for a day and age, but now it's like maybe if you guys were training now, you too would probably look the way some of the guys do now. So, it's one of those things that might be, you know, I can't really say drugs because drugs have been there for a long time, too. Mhm. I don't think that's accurate. I think one the population increases substantially every year. So obviously there's going to be more genetic outliers with freakish genetics as the years progress. But in addition having more drugs more readily available and just having higher dosages being used um in addition to things like GH and insulin which weren't around in the 70s. I think that accounts for the freak factor in the 90s versus the 70s and 80s. I don't think it's a coincidence that when GH and insulin became, you know, abused in the '9s that all the freaks started coming out. And uh as well as mega doses of all anabolics. Like I'm sure back in the 70s it sounds like you would have to go to your doctor and like ask for a certain amount to be prescribed to you and then that's what you would be limited to. But in the '9s, you know, there's like underground labs and whatnot, and you can have access to however much you want. So, if you just wanted to abuse stuff, then it's more readily available and easier to get. Plus, there's other things that can blow you up into another dimension that just weren't available in the 70s. So, I think that's more so what accounts for, cuz I don't think the guys trained any harder in the '90s than the guys did in the 70s, nor do I think they ate significantly better. It's the same kind of food that's around. The only thing that seems to be different is more genetic outliers probably due to population and the drugs. That's what I would think. You know, they've always been a short got the more growth hormone now and that. But I don't think growth is a wonder drug that's going to add that much muscle. You know, make someone 40 50 pounds heavier than they would have been without it. You know, it's going to add a little bit, but you know, it's nothing that serious where drugs are going to change someone's wholely. I think I think it's a varies of fingers. And I kind of agree with him on like the GH is not a magic thing that's going to make you grow. It's definitely not. If you look at the clinical data, pretty much any increase in size as a result of GH cannot even be accounted for as muscle tissue. It's always just like lean body mass, which could easily just be water nitrogen nitrogen retention or whatever. But uh like there's no like clinical data proving it actually builds legitimate muscle, but the fact is is it can keep somebody leaner while they bulk up to that higher body weight that they're trying to get to. And in conjunction with the insulin creates a storm of anabolism that just wasn't available in the 70s. And I think that's more or less what accounts for it. Training, nutrition, everything, genetics. Mhm. So the whole makeup, you know. So in your opinion, you you would tend to believe then or you're stating that genetics basically we're getting better genetics in the sport which accounts largely or almost that's the main reason that we're seeing. I think so too because the sport this day is much bigger than it was back then. So back then you only had like a small group of people that did it which was still a large number but these days the group of people is getting bigger and bigger. More body types are coming into it. So you're seeing the more freaky type coming in whereas back then as you said you say you only had 50 people doing it back then. Now you got 200 people out of that 200 there's going to be maybe two or four freaks that come out of it. So you I love this like pedestal thing with a dumbbell in the background. I just noticed going to see more people cuz there you know such a like varied type of physiques these days whereas now you got a couple of thousand do it now or getting into the hundreds of thousands. M you're going to have the odd freaks come out of the woodwork who just you look at you go wow what's he taking but yet he's probably not taking hardly anything you see there some back in the you know in the farms you see these homebred farm boys you know they're massive some all they do is lift you know bales of hay and all these sort of under the trucks and you know work around the farm but yet naturally they're naturally big if they started training they could be a freak you know maybe five or six years just I think there's more people into it now so you're seeing the various types of physiques so the larger number people do it, the more people that do it, you're going to have more people coming. But even then, when you look at this um bodybuilding today, out the top lineup of say 15 Olympias, the top lineup of Mr. Olympia contest, there's 15 people. He might only have four that are really like you look and say, "Wow, he's a freak." The rest have got great physiques, but yet four of them might stand out as being like out of this world. And naturally, people say, "Well, he's taken a lot of drugs that look like that." Whereas, you know, they're going to have that genetic freak in any sport. You know like Michael Jordan in basketball people can call him a freefford why he can fly bigger all those baskets you know come to running you got Ben Johnson car Lewis the times they can put in running you know it's just because they're built for that sport so sometimes you know people who are built for this contest built for the sport they're going to be the best at what they do and then people are going to always label you know drugs because no one else can do but yet they're maybe just built for that sport. Mhm. I see. Um, have uh you ever experimented with um or do you have a need to experiment with blocking agents of any kind? No, I've never never used them. Never tried. Never really had the need to use them. So, how about things like uh Oh, well, he he did say he uses Novadex pre-contest, so that would I guess quant qualify as a blocking agent, I'm assuming. I'm assuming he's referring to SERMS and AIS here. So, yeah, he does use Novodex apparently. So, should be noted. or um testosterone enhancing uh drugs. No, nothing like that. Never. So, you have a very basic approach to this. Even my training is basic and I stick to the basic exercises. Diet, I've always stuck to the basics. I think that's where people go wrong sometimes. They might read magazines, listen to people and try and get too scientific. Whereas, you know, weight training itself isn't really a scientific sport. It's like, you know, you do the hard work, you lift the weights properly, you get enough rest, you get the nutrition, eventually you will start growing and see results. But people want it overnight. That's what the mist they're making. Whereas bodybuilding lifting weights is a long-term sport is going to take years before you might even put 10 pound on but people want overnight they're going to take drugs and think I'll take drugs lift the weight sit back in a chair tomorrow I'll be big again. So it doesn't work that way. So if you if you expect that you may as well not do it you know it's just stupidly if you got the time and you want to put the time into it training you know you got the dedication just that's all it takes is time. So just got to sort of sit back and train hard and do the proper what you need to do. And if you're going to use drugs, do it sensibly, but just, you know, give it time. You're not going to the more you take, you won't get any bigger. So, just comes down to sensible really and just, you know, go by what you believe in because really most majority of people know what works for them, but yet they want to listen to other people too much. You know, there's going to be people out there going to lead you astray and everything, but it comes down to, you know, your own what you feel inside, you know, whether it's right or wrong or if it's too much. You know, don't go along with the crowd. Just do what you feel is right for yourself. Mhm. You see a lot of guys who do take heaps of drugs and go into the gym. They don't be lifting all these weights, but yet as soon as they come off the drugs, they back down maybe to like 200 lb, they go on the drugs, they blow it up with water to 250. Then I said, who wants to be like that? You know, you puff up, you go down. Then I see guys who are using drugs. You look at me like, does he lift weights? And he's probably, it look like never lifted a weight in his life. But yet the list he'll give of what he's taken. So it just comes down to like I said, well, it's more of a mental thing to me training. Like I go by how I feel. If I feel strong that day, I you know, some days I've benched five plates, 550, but I won't expect that every day. these guys do and then they get injured. Like I'll go back. If I go in the gym, bench five plates, that's great. If I go in the gym the next time to do chess and I get the free plates and it's heavy, I'll stop at three plates and I listen to my body more than anything. Whereas people like I did five plates last time, I'm going to do five plates again. So I get the free plates, free plates is heavy, add the weight on, then something's going to tear and something goes wrong. So it's like it's one of those things you got to listen to yourself really. It's like it's an individual sport. Probably going to have people that can help you train. You're going to have training partners. you know, people prepare you for shows when it actually comes down to it's like you knowing your body the best whereas like in your sport now there's people out there who say they can help you get ready for shows and this but if you've been doing it long enough you know what works for you know what gets you in shape you know what gets you strong you know what you have to do so it's more like listening to yourself uh it's very refreshing to hear one of the you know the very very top guys in the world stating simply that this is the way it is that I don't use that much in fact I spend next to nothing compared to what some of these guys use it's very refreshing uh to me and I'm sure some of our viewers won't believe you. Yeah. Okay. As you said, but nevertheless, uh I want to thank you for coming here and and sharing. Comment down below if you believe him or not cuz I'm g I'm guessing there's going to be a lot that think he's completely bullshitting this whole thing. But I don't know the reality of the issue. It's going to come down to personal thing. But I just recommend if you are going to do it, it comes down to your personal thing, think about it. So we are going to do it. As I said, start on a small amount. I guarantee you'll get the same results. Don't start on a large amount and if a small amount works, stick to that. You know, sure the guy selling it might tell you to take more and more because he wants to get the money out of you. But you know, you don't need it. It just comes down to how you feel. Then everyone's in your sport for longevity, too. So you want to be around your 60, 70, you know, who wants to win a show and age of 50 die or age of 45 turn over and die. So that's not too healthy. So most definitely. Thank you. Thanks very much. Well, that was uh pretty enlightening to say the least. And uh I'm sure a lot of people are going to think he's lying obviously, but I don't know. Comment down below what you guys think. Um obviously very conservative use. One of the most insane physiques of all time, especially considering the use. And it makes you really wonder if even the guys who use excessive amounts even needed that much. Or maybe he's lying. I I don't really know. Anyway, that was that was pretty much my opinion on it. you guys saw throughout the commentary throughout. Um, thank you guys for watching. Please like, subscribe, check out my blog more platesmordates.com. Subscribe there. Check me out on Instagram more plates_dates. Go follow Lee Priest uh on his Instagram and Facebook and whatever social media he has. Like obviously this was a super value value packed uh interview there that I'm sure a lot of you guys haven't seen. And props to him for, you know, not, you know, being anonymous about it and just straight up telling it how it is. And, uh, can't really knock him for that. So, huge props to Lee Priest. Go give him a follow. Thank you guys for watching. Please like, subscribe. Tartis.