So, he starts off with a baby smooth face here. Um, and then he tries growing it out. Like, he looks really young here. He tries growing it out, doesn't make uh pretty much any progress. Um, this is like growing it in and then he ends up going full board protocol and ends up getting to here. What's up, guys? Derrick, moreplace.com. Today we're going to be talking about growing a beard as a guy who can't grow a beard. If you're one of the unfortunate individuals who's not able to grow facial hair whatsoever, um all hope is not lost. There are ways to intervene um with pharmarmacology, interestingly enough, where you can actually circumvent either the uh circumvent your genetics pretty significantly. I did a video on this in the past called our minoxidal beard gains permanent. And in that video, I'll put up in the uh card in the corner here. If you see the before and after picture of the guy, and I'll put up the before and after pictures here, he was able to pretty much grow a very impressive beard from pretty much nothing. Like, this guy had nothing to work with to begin with, and he just intervened with minoxidil for a relatively like not that long of a period of time. At least objectively to me, it doesn't seem that long. and then he discontinued it and still maintained his gains thereafter which is very very you know promising for any individual who you know may be interested in this but doesn't want to uh have to stay on it for life like this is something you can actually use to make a drastic transformation and then maintain it forever potentially without having to stay on the drug now is this going to be a lifelong thing where it doesn't eventually regress I don't know but so far so good for him and he literally used it for I don't remember what it was exactly but it was a year or something and then he stopped it for a full year and he just maintained everything. So, this was another story some people sent me. Um, including the guy who filmed it. I didn't even realize. Um, but basically this guy had a pretty drastic beard gains transformation. Um, so this is what he said here. My beard transformation without beard genetics. And this is Max K fit on Tik Tok. So, he starts off with a baby smooth face here. Um, and then he tries growing it out. Like he looks really young here. He tries growing it out. Doesn't make uh pretty much any progress. Um, this is like growing it in and then he ends up going full board protocol and ends up getting to here. So he basically elaborates on how he did it in this and he actually sent me an email separately um, pretty much detailing it in far more specific detail. So here he says 1 milll minoxil two times per day which is the standard dose used for hair loss too. It's 50 milligrams in a 5% solution is 50 milligs per milliliter once in the morning once at night. Um is pretty standard. Here he has the micro needling device. So if you ever heard me talk about micro needling you'll know very well at this point that it can literally double your results from minoxidil on your head but as well interestingly enough on your face too. So he used a derma roller. Um, personally I preferred the uh Derminator 2, which I link uh in my video descriptions as far as the best micro needling device I've ever used. It makes the process a billion times easier and is very accurate cuz it's literally a machine punching holes a million miles an hour and it gets it done in 10 times faster time period. It's very accurate because the depth is actually calculated by a like automated system rather than rolling a thing manually and you know pressure determining how deep, how aggressive, how much you damage, how much you whatever, you know, and it's uh far more idiot proof and it's way faster and it's just a very good investment in my opinion if you're going to be using either minoxidil on your head and micro needling to double your results or using minoxidil on your face and micro needling to improve your results too. So he used a pretty standard one. These work too. They're just annoying as hell to use and you have to replace them like fairly often and it takes like way longer. It's very annoying to use these manual rollers in my opinion. Even though yes, they are much cheaper, but it's like by the time you've used this for a while, you end up paying the amount you should have just paid for a derminator to begin with. Like these things get very annoying and they take so much time out of your day that you literally could have worked during that time and made the money back multiple fold over by the time like if you're using minoxidil in your head especially. So anyways, he uses uh niacin too, which you know, I don't really think is overly um useful, frankly. You get a bit of a flush with nicotinic acid, not the uh lung like non flush version, but if you get specific nicotinic acid, you're going to get that like heavy duty flushing. How much of a difference does that make? I would say uh negligible, but um you know, maybe I'm wrong. Basically, he emailed me separately and he wanted to break down his protocol in elaborate detail. And he said, "This is the original Tik Tok blah blah blah. This is the one we just watched." The protocol he did was 1 milll of minoxil two times per day. So, morning and night standard. Um, he used a 1.5 mm depth once a week, which is pretty deep for eh maybe not, but I don't know. Like for around here, like I would be a bit like pretty careful with 1.5 mm depth. Like I don't think you really need that deep for your minoxidil absorption. Like 1.5 mm is like aggressive like bloody head. What you do for like aggressive hair loss intervention.5 mm every other day. Um yeah, like as far as the ra there's no tried and true way to do this from an oxal absorption, but you know I would like frankly I would probably pick one of these. I wouldn't do both of them at the same time. Like 1.5 millm once per week. you would need like a full week to recover in my opinion for the most part and then 0.5 millimeters every other day would be the alternative to that potentially but I would not combine both of them but anyways obviously it works because the more like theoretically the more aggressive you go the more systemic it might go which might increase your results but it's like I wouldn't recommend trying to encourage it to go systemic more than you really need to uh let's see and I also don't recommend you apply minoxidal on the day you micro needle cuz that will enhance absorption like too much to the point where you're like literally introducing it into your bloodstream. So, he took the nasin 2. He said he was taking hydrayzeed collagen peptides. Uh, which both of those like frankly, how much of a difference is it going to make? Probably nothing. He did salicylic uh what is it? Salicylic acid face wash in the shower. After shower, wipe face with rose oil toner cleansing wipes. He uses our youth serum after which is basically a hyaluronic acid serum to um draw in intracellular hydration essentially as well as some uh antioxidants and whatnot. It's basically just a v a very basic like facial serum. Um apply poly glutamic acid serum. Um okay um has it strong synergy with hyaluronic acid for skin hydration. I'm not going to argue with that. Um I would do this twice a day. Minoxil would be applied about 30 minutes after the skincare routine to allow some time for absorbing. Now, I didn't realize this guy was using peeds too, but then he elaborates on his peed protocol, which is 25 milligs of MK-677 every day, which is very, very potent for whatever reason at growing hair. So, my hair would notably increase in density. And the rate at which it grew was even more accelerated than when I use actual like synthetic HGH. Like, I don't know why MK is so much better at it. like it's not better at actually driving IGF-1 production and things of that nature, but somehow like the GH stimulation of actual like hair growth is next level with MK. Like very dramatic relative to even high doses of GH, which is contradictory to what you would assume, but um it's very very potent at that. Is it going to be necessary to grow your beard though? No. And I wouldn't use it just for that reason. Like if you're going to use it, use it because you want grein receptor agonism and other downstream cascades that come from MK, not because you're trying to grow your beard. At least in my opinion. That's why I don't use it for my hair either, cuz there are negative implications to long-term MK usage that I um not only from an overeating context, but from a insulin resistance context and other things that is frankly not worth it unless you are trying to actually like drive some of those specific cascades, hunger, whatever it is, um in an acute time frame or whatever it is for a specific goal rather than it's not like a long-term drug that should just be a background player cuz it's going to lead to issues in my opinion down the line. But yes, it's very very good at what it does. Um, at least for its intended use. 500 milligrams of test per week and 350 trend per week. So, it's like how much is that going to encourage your beard to grow? You could argue that the majority of the progress came from this and it totally discredits this entire experiment, but um I'm just using this as an example of a before and after. I'm not saying you should do the peed protocol, but I've seen more than enough times now that this protocol has taken guys from baby face to like like not Wolverine, but like pretty good beards. like guys you would think are like decently genetically blessed to grow beards that previously had like pitiful beards like non-existent. So you know the 90 90% of the weight was pulled by the minoxidil and micro needling in this experiment. I can nearly guarantee it. Um how much is test and trend going to impact your facial hair development? Like yeah androgens are going to drive facial and body hair. Yeah that's true. But it's not going to literally take you from like a baby face to being able to grow a full beard. Like that simply does not happen even with heavily androgenic compounds. I never grew like ridiculous ridiculously more facial hair than I do now on literally like therapeutic replacement. Like it just I just don't even even with like nuke DHT I noticed a difference in my back hair. But like even my facial hair and stuff it doesn't make that much of a difference. I've literally done an experiment where I used 1 milligram of dutasteride per day nuked my DHC to zero and I still grew facial hair like very very easily. Um it didn't make that much of a difference. So, how much is super physiological amounts of androgens going to drive um changes from literally like bare baby ass to like you know wolverine status? Like not not that much, dude. Like the change here is like 80 to 90% minoxul micro needling. I can almost guarantee you that. So he says obviously the androgens and elevated HH IGF-1 levels synergize with the beard growth protocol and increase the speed of the transformation. Um, yeah, probably a little bit. But I mean, at the end of the day, the main thing here that I'm trying to touch on is the drastic difference that Minoxidil can make. Um, not only in a hair growth context, but on a facial hair growth context. And then the micro needling, which is a heavily overlooked dark horse thing that can literally duplicate, not duplicate, double your results either on your head or on your face, wherever you are using it. So, um, definitely something to look into if you are somebody who either a is looking for a very potent growth stimulant for your hair cuz your of your hair loss and hopefully you've addressed DHT and/or androgens ahead of time because just using a growth stimulant on its own is not going to be sufficient to save off further loss. But anyways, that's a video that I've done many times in the past in my hair loss playlist. Just check that out if you're interested in what I'm talking about. But it's a very it's the most aggressive and well I don't know has the most efficacy of any growth stimulant on the planet right now. Like there's nothing else that is going to beat topical minoxil plus micro needling unless you maybe want to look at like minoxidil sulfate if that is even a viable therapy. But um for people who don't have sufficient self transferase enzyme activity but anyways for the majority of people straight up minoxidil twice a day maybe even once a day would be sufficient for most people with micro needling once a week at 1.5 mm depth not applying minoxidil on the day you use it is like the best growth stimulant you can use that's cost effective works extremely well well tolerated by pretty much everyone just a great overall strategy and as far as on your face same thing dude it's very very potent what it does so u I just want to bring that to your attention in case maybe you missed my first video on the minoxidil beard transformation. Um, but like literally guys, like I've seen it make drastic before and afters and there are even like groups on the internet dedicated to minoxidil and micro needling just for this specific purpose. So it worked for this guy and it's worked for thousands of other people. I don't necessarily like suggest doing it for everyone. Like it's not like if you don't want more facial hair growth like frankly I don't want it anymore. I wouldn't even want to do this and I don't respond that well to minoxidil anyways. Like I would be using it on my head if I was going to use it anywhere. But some people want that like hella hella bushy ass beard. They want that volume. They want that um heavy duty that you just most people cannot grow genetically. Um and this can help get there very very significantly. It is going to be the biggest needle mover when it comes to facial hair growth using pharmarmacology. So yeah, if you're interested, I will put the micro needling device down that I use. Otherwise, if you want the cost effective one, just literally go to Amazon, type in dermar roller, micro needle, micro needling or whatever it is, probably just dermar roller, and you'll find like a $5 one for that'll last you like a decent amount of time. Make sure you sterilize it, you know, after you uh if you draw blood and whatnot. You don't want to be overusing the same thing that has bacteria build up on it, obviously. But um anyways, the Derminator 2 I highly recommend if you are planning on doing this for your head, especially longterm. Uh and then the minoxidil, obviously the most cost effective one is Kirkland, the generic one off Amazon. You can get a 6-mon supply for like um like 40 bucks or something like that, or you can get at local Costco or whatever. If you want the non-greasy version, this is like the fastest drying, non-greasy, like high quality one that I found. I'll put that in the video description below. This is what I recommend for people who apply it to their head especially because it's going to make if you're applying it twice a day. You don't want to walk around with greasy looking hair. So, you want something fastrying and uh higher quality. Like it's not like Kirk, they're the same active drug, but for some reason Kirkland has not revised their vehicle to not be a greasy mess. So, it is still excessively filled with propylene glycol to the point where it makes your facial hair and your hair on your head look absolutely disgusting. So, if you want the high quality one, it's far more cost prohibitive, but it is um I promise you way faster drying and looks actually like not like it a greasy piece of after you put it on. Um or a better strategy might be to get the high quality one and the the cheap greasy one and use the greasy one like before going to bed and then if you're going to go out in the daytime, you would use the high quality one like in the morning so then you can get the best of both worlds and deal with the greasiness when you're not in public kind of thing. And that's sort of how I interplay Niserol and high quality ketoconol shampoo by the way is the niserol is like very cost effective whereas the uh um the super expensive ketoconole that's in my video description where the minoxil is too for hair loss prevention. That one is more expensive but it doesn't dry your hair out and make it look malnourished. So you know there's uh that sort of strategy for interplaying which day you're going to use it or like when you use it. I think that makes a lot of sense for saving money and not looking like dog when you go out. So anyways, thank you guys for watching. Like, subscribe, check out my blog moreplace moredates.com. Follow me on Instagram at moreplace_dates, Facebook, Snapchat, YouTube, Twitter, Tik Tok, Apple Podcast. If you want to support the channel, you can check out anything I'm associated with in the video description below, as well as uh um like, comment for the algorithm. I think I probably already said that, but it's appreciated when you guys do. Thank you guys for watching. is in.