So, as far as how much of this is lcitruline, you're probably looking at like 2 2.66 approximately grams of elcitroline and 1.33 grams of actual malic acid. So, you know, you're well below where you need to be. And guys, Derek, moreplace.com. Today, we are going to be talking about Athleen X's new pre-workout. So, this is something a bunch of you guys sent me is uh the new pre-workout called PRX, Max Strength Energy Recovery. So, if you look at Athletex supplements, he has his original preworkout, he has a post-workout protein, muscle recovery product, women's all-in-one protein, omega-3 joint recovery. Interestingly enough, for such a science-based individual, he still sells BCAAs, which I was kind of shocked at, to be honest. So, his his normal pre-workout $39.99. Um, Excite has uh this isn't the one we're gonna be delving into, but as far as I know, this is his like uh main flagship parade. And then this is the new uh hyped up one. PRX max strength energy recovery makes training hard feel easy. Um, formulated for max strength and recovery. Um, doesn't look like the player is working. Watch on Vimeo. Okay, I shall uh watch on Vimeo here. M let's go. I wake up to a little bit of drool on my pillow. Feel like it's going to be a bad day. Yeah, I'm tired of [\h__\h] and the coffee ain't hit yet. Damn, ain't that great. I don't want to go to work cuz my boss is a jerk and I'm not even that paid. I need a change in my life cuz I don't feel alive and there's nothing that makes me happy. Oh, hold my beer for a minute. I'm about to quit my job. Cash in for a ticket. I'm going on a trip and I don't plan a visit. I'm going to stay there till I feel like I'm winning all. And this is just the beginning. I need a big change. Help me feel like living. I need a big swing. Home runs I'm hitting and I'll never look back. Moving on till I get it all. Okay, if that gets copyrighted, I am going to have to replace it with something that doesn't fit it. Probably it's going to be a weird song. So hopefully that does not happen. PRX is the first Oh, it's a intra-workout supplement designed specifically for fueling max effort lifting and helping you recover faster and fully between sets. So, PRX, gotcha. Okay, so it's actually an intra interesting. I thought this was a pre-workout this entire time. That's what everyone was telling me. As a direct feeder of the phosphogen energy pathway, PRX provides a constant flow of ATP to your working muscles. The strength levels and growth producing effect are always brought to your first set. you've always brought to your first sets will now be possible in your last sets. So, let's look at the full label before I give my stance here. Uh, so we got Jeff Cavalier in the most unflattering light possible, looking like a dice fest. Absolutely insane. This guy is literally the grim reaper coming to [\h__\h] assassinate you with how lean this guy's head is. Goddamn son. Um, done right, not overdone. delivers exactly what your body needs and only that. Unlike other popular energy drinks loaded with caffeine, sugars, and calories, PRX will help you fuel peak performance without fattening your waistline. Um, all right. So, it seems like it is sort of performance-based in like a pre fashion, but it is an intra product cuz I don't see anything that has to do with like fast digesting carbs. There's no cluster dextrin. There's no vitargo. There's no none of this [\h__\h] So that's interesting. Supplement fact, 40 calories, 10 g carbs, eight of it is sugar from D ribbos, a negligible amount of calcium and sodium. So it's kind of un not even a point in talking about it. Comes an atomic lemonade and powered PHT. So he has Okay, this is sort of going to be ranked like a pre-workout because the dosages and the ingredients in particular are things you are traditionally going to find in a pre-workout supplement. So we have Lcitroline melate. Now, what is uh so 22 servings of lcitrilline malate in here with 4 g. So, if you've ever seen my breakdown of gorilla mode, you can see me explain what elcitroline malate actually is. It is just lcitrulene with malic acid mixed in a vat essentially, not chemically bonded like would be actual citrine malate. None of the companies that are using citrine malate are chemically bonding them together. Rather, they are just mixed in a vat together. And that's fine because even when you ingest it, they're just going to dissociate anyways and become literally malic acid. But the problem is people who list it on their label as lcitroline malate and artificially inflate the dose to make you perceive that you're getting way more than you think. So this is 4 g. The efficacious dose of elcitrilline malate is at least six. And that doesn't mean that's the most effective. That's just like the minimum to actually get a effect out of it that would be worth actually purchasing. So this is below efficacious dosage requirements. Now the actual composition that is lcitrilline typically you're going to find a 2:1 ratio of lcitrilline to malic acid in these blends. So as far as how much of this is lcitruline you're probably looking at like 2 2.66 approximately grams of elcitrine and 1.33 g of actual malic acid. So you know you're well below where you need to be and like it just it's a bad dose. I'm kind of surprised to be honest. So in contrast, we have Gorilla Mode which has 9 g of Lcitroline as well as 3 g of malic acid. So if you were to actually, you know, artificially inflate the label like we could do, we'd put 12 g of citrine mallet on our label. But we don't do that. We put it separately and you're still getting the topped out ridiculous dose. Now obviously the actual max dose we're above and beyond that yields no additional performance enhancing advantage is 10 g of lcitrilline and that is where gorillamo nitric comes in where we have 10 g of lcitrilline and 3 g of malic acid. So anyways I'm kind of surprised Athleene would put out a product like at least put six g dude. Next we have crealkine creatine monohydrate. So this again one of those fancy branded versions of what we all know and love creatine monohydrate 3 g when we know that it is cheap ingredient to include that you could have just put 5 g in. So I don't really get why he wouldn't have done that. So you know you can obviously say the saturation dose you know 3 g is more than enough if you saturated blah blah blah you know I would rather just see five you know it's a cheap and easy ingredient to add why not co-enzyme Q10. Okay, so I like co-enzyme Q10. However, I prefer ubiquininal myself. The reason being is once you start to get older, it becomes a lot harder to actually create ubiquininal in the body. You like could supplement with co-enzyme Q10 and not actually produce a sufficient amount of ubiquininal, which downstream is the thing we ultimately want. So, in general, especially for somebody in in their 40s like Athleene, I would be just replacing this with ubiquininal. And yeah, I'll pull up a study here for you guys to look at. We see ubiquininal superior to ubiquinon also known as co-enzyme Q10 to enhance co-enzyme Q10 status in older men. So, you know, paradoxically, you would think to increase your co-enzyme Q10 status, you would just take co-enzyme Q10. Rather, the ideal way to do it would be taking ubiquininal. And I would rather um even if it's not for just older men, like personally, I do ubiquininal myself um just out of caution, you know, I would rather just uh use what I know is going to work optimally. So in here you basically can see um comparing ubiquininal to ubiquininal which one's more effective in enhancing CoQ10 status in older men double blind randomized crossover trial with twoe intervention phases and a twoe wash out. So down at the bottom the significant increase in plasma coq10 status observed after the twoe supplementation suggested that ubiquininal appeared to be a better supplemental form to enhance CoQ10 status than ubiquininal in older men. Neither ubiquininal nor ubiquininalone supplement affected the measured biomarkers of oxidative stress. So the dosage needed for ubiquininal, you know, in general, I would take no less than 200 millig personally. And in general, you know, like if I it's a very expensive supplement, unfortunately. And um like I'm probably not even going to go to 400 millig until I start making it with Gorilla Mine. But for now, I'm taking 200 even though I'd like to take 400. So anyways, as far as 100 of like a lesser efficacious version of what you're trying to get out of this, you know, it's uh a little bit of a low dose and the preparation actually used here to en enhance CoQ10 status is probably not ideal. I would be swapping this for ubiquininal and at least doubling the dose like at minimum. Now moving on to an interesting ingredient, nicotinomide adinine ducleotide. So, if you've been following the anti-aging space, you know, David Sinclair, Ben Greenfield, guys like that, you've probably heard about NAD at this point. It is, you know, the uh darling of the anti-aging space, I guess, and a lot of guys are getting NAD IV infusions in order to enhance their NAD status. Now, the reason they're doing that is because it's not actually ideal to just orderly ingest the [\h__\h] Now the reason I think that he chose this combination in particular is this study here where we had does oral co-enzyme Q10 plus NADH supplementation improve fatigue and biochemical parameters in chronic fatigue syndrome. So coincidentally they are using the combination of the two. However, the dosages are not really, you know, equated in his product, but they're close enough for me to speculate that this might be where they derived their data in terms of uh, you know, upregulating energy systems and whatnot. So, we conducted an 8week randomized double blind placebo control trial to evaluate the benefits of oral CoQ10, 200 milligrams per day. So, this is double what's in the pre, plus NADH, 20 milligs per day. So, this is only 5 milligs higher than what he has in the well, not a pre, I guess it's an intra, sorry, but you know what I mean. supplementation on fatigue and biochemical parameters in 73 chronic fatigue syndrome patients. Significant improvement of fatigue showing a reduction fatigue impact scale total was reported in treated group versus placebo. In addition, a recovery of the biochemical parameters was also reported. Uh these observations led to the hypothesis that oral CoQ10 plus NADH supplementation could confer potential therapeutic benefits on fatigue and fatigue syndrome. larger sample trials are warranted to confirm these findings. So for CoQ10, I already kind of gave my stance on what I would be supplementing instead. I would be choosing ubiquininal and I'd be using at minimum 200 milligrams. And as far as the NADH, you know, it's already not super well reinforced in the literature that this is going to confer some major anti-aging benefit and or improve cellular energy production and all this [\h__\h] But, you know, there's a reason why guys are paying high amounts of money to IV it rather than just take it orally. Now for the guys who are taking it orally, they're not taking NADH straight. What they're doing is they're taking a precursor like NR, nicotinomide ribocide or NMN, nicotinomide monucleotide. Now I might have, you know, [\h__\h] up the actual names, but they're NR and NMN. And NR, I believe, is the more reinforced one in the human literature, and NMN is the more hyped up one in the rodent models and is the one that David Sinclair himself uses with resveratrol and metformin and some other anti-aging supplements. But in general, NR and NMN are the orally, you know, bioavailable precursors that are actually shown to at least, you know, NR in humans, NMN in rodents, and, you know, soon there is going to be, maybe it's already out. I haven't been staying on top of it. The data in humans, uh, may be promising as well, but those are actually shown to improve NAD status in individuals who are supplementing with it. Now, as far as oral NADH, no one's really using it, dude. Everyone's just IVing NAD if they're going to IV it. And if they're taking it orally, they're using a precursor like NR or NMN. I I speculate that this is almost like the equivalent of being like, what's better, NAC or glutathione? Now, maybe I'm way off on that, but NAC is a precursor for glutathione and seems to be more effective than oral glutathione at actually improving glutathione status in the body. So, I speculate that this is sort of like the same thing. Like, I imagine the precursors may have more therapeutic promise. Like, there's a reason why the top guys in the community are not using this [\h__\h] So for me, if I was athleene, instead of putting in, well, to be honest, I wouldn't even use NAD in a pre- or intra-workout anyways. But if I was to include a precursor or something that improves NAD status, I would be putting in a high dose of nicotenomide, ribocide, or NMN if the literature supports its use in humans at this point. So for me, this is a pretty like uh skimpy product. And I'm assuming the reason it costs so much is maybe the fact that they use CoQ10 and NADH. Like these are not cheap raw materials like ubiquininal. Like I haven't really looked at CoQ10 cuz like there's no point. I would never even [\h__\h] sell it. I've looked at ubiquininal prices though and they're [\h__\h] astronomical, dude. So um and if you buy the [\h__\h] retail, you know how expensive it is to maintain even 200 milligs a day. So I assume this is what's cranking up the price cuz it's definitely not the creatine monohydrate. It's definitely not the elcitrine malate. It's definitely not the sugars from the dribbos. So what is it? You know, CoQ10 and NADH. even these dosages, you know, at the I just don't see it, dude. This seems like a hype product to me and this does not seem to I don't think this has a lot of efficacy in a practical setting for athletes and I'm kind of surprised he's selling it. Like his other pre-workout looks reasonable from what I've seen. It's not great in my opinion whatsoever, but it's way better than the product. Now, I keep saying, you know, preworkout, like the other one's supposed to be an intra-workout product, but it's like the ingredients used essentially or like a cellular energy formula or something to enhance nitric oxide to some little degree and or, you know, help uh lactic acid a little bit, but at the end of the day, it's not like it's it might as well be a pre-workout. the other product too. Like there's no [\h__\h] you know, claustrodextrin or something in that that's actually going to be helping me do some sort of endurance performance exercise or something like that. It is stuff that is going to be included in pre-workout. So, I might as well classify it as a pre-workout comparing it to his other pre-workout. His other pre looks a lot more reasonable to me. So, I don't know. It almost seems like this is like a a tactic to kind of see let's try like a pure marketing product and see what kind of margins we can get out of it selling [\h__\h] that most people don't know about like NADH and CoQ10. You know, there's a lot of literature to support CoQ10. There's a lot of interesting literature to reinforce that NADH is a very promising anti-aging, you know, in the anti-aging space and just cellular energy in general. So, let's hype it up and sell it for 50 bucks or three bottles for 140 bucks, maybe. I don't know cuz it seemed like when I just look at this page, it looks like a landing page like an internet marketer would make. So, I don't know. I'm not a big fan of the product personally. His other pre looks okay. This one not so much. So, anyways, that is my stance on it. Let me know what you guys think in the comments down below. Like, subscribe, check out my blog, moreplace.com. Follow me on Instagrammorates. Facebook, Snapchat, [\h__\h] Twitter, Tik Tok, Apple Podcast. If you want to support the channel, you can check out anything I'm associated with in the video description below, including my TRT clinic. It's all tele medicine from the comfort of your own home as well as Gorilla Mind neutropic formulas, Gorilla Mode pre-workout formulas I designed myself from scratch. You want to go look at the labels, stack them up to Athlete X products. You'll see pretty quick what an actual efficacious formula looks like. So anyways, hope you guys enjoyed that one. Thank you guys for watching. Takis