What's up, guys? Long time no talk. Uh, if you're seeing this, um, it is from a surgery that, uh, it was a lot more unsightly. This is actually recovery now, but I didn't really want to put off this video much longer. And, um, it's been a whirlwind of a month. Um, as you may or may not know, uh, Leo from Leo and Longevity has passed away, which was the something I never thought I'd be saying, you know, in a YouTube video. Um, or in general, this is uh, especially the way it happened and how it transpired and some of the stuff I was sent. Really, really, uh, disturbing weird [\h__\h] it is a uh you know no one knows what happened yet still. I don't really want to get too into the weeds on um you know theories or speculation or what, but um you know people like you know have done enough of that at this point and it's kind of like apparently there's invest in investigations open about it right now and it is uh um ongoing and we'll see what the autopsy report reveals. But um shortly after that um Chris, who's my business partner, his mom actually passed away and then I had this um surgery pop up that I needed to get done. So I've kind of just been out of commission and I didn't really feel like I had a whole lot to add when it comes to the Leo situation. It [\h__\h] sucks. He is somebody who um I collaborated with a lot and he was the co-host of the Bio Bros podcast. I don't know if you guys have if you're familiar with it. There's, you know, 10 episodes I think in totality between me, Vigor, Steve, and Leo. and I thought to be probably one of the uh biggest like bang for your buck podcast when it comes to pharmarmacology, endocrinology, um optimization, nutrition, um biology, information in general. And um I actually enjoyed it so much that I have all the episodes on my watch later list on my YouTube channel right now cuz I want to go rewatch them and even kind of like refresh my memory and kind of you know have some nost nostalgia. And I think I would just, you know, it's interesting to hear some of the stuff over again. Helps you re-educate yourself in certain areas that you may otherwise be uh forgetful in that. Um, we just covered a lot of really valuable [\h__\h] and I thought it was a really entertaining podcast and um, I am going to be re-watching those from scratch. Um, the Leo thing [\h__\h] sucks. You know, he had a lot of unique insight in this industry, unique value he brought, especially from the harm reduction side of things and mitigation strategies for bodybuilding. I think he's probably at the forefront of making bringing awareness to angotensin receptor blockers um as well as certain lipid modulating medications like a zetto um certain neutropics as well. Some of them have been implemented into my formulas at gorilla mine too as per his recommendations. like there was a lot that he brought to the industry that um was unique um innovative and um over the past year um it was something that you know he had certain uh personal um issues and whatnot that sort of derailed um I don't know like he kind of took a hiatus from social media and it was unfortunate that that situation wasn't handled headon because I think that he could have got through it and otherwise uh come out the other side, you know, looking uh um I don't know, forward thinking about how to be a better person and continue to bring the value he does to the industry and I don't know, like do what he does best, which was research the [\h__\h] out of new things and bring innovative new ideas to the forefront. And um he wasn't perfect, but he was uh someone who brought a [\h__\h] ton of intelligence and new insight to the kind of ecosystem that is um health, fitness, longevity, personal optimization, and I will be forever forever grateful for um having known the guy and been a close friend of his um when he was here. Um, he, you know, it was funny cuz when I first saw him, I think it was on, uh, Dave Palumbo's podcast or RX Muscle Show, and I kind of knew just like, I don't know, I had like this weird inkling. I was like, damn, this guy like really knows his stuff. He's super educated. He's um I don't know, I like wanted to watch his videos. Like just when I saw him come up, like he was just somebody I wanted to listen to, I found entertaining and insightful. And um I felt like he was like a unappreciated source of information when he was like a small creator. Um and I just somehow I don't know I just had like this feeling we were going to you know we were going to align somehow. And then he had ended up reaching out to me. We did a podcast on his channel a while ago. Um that one's like two years plus old I think at this point. Pretty good one still if I would say so. Um if you want to go watch it, it's probably worth watching still. Um, and then from there we kind of stemmed into uh me, Steve, and him, you know, cranking out. I wish we did more, honestly, because I think they were really, really great. And, um, yeah, it's uh, you know, it kind of sucked to see him go MIA for so long. like I think he again brought so much unique insight and value to the industry that um could have been uh I don't know if his if his uh focus was more streamlined on um just the the things that he gives back that everyone appreciates I think he could have been uh continued to be a huge asset for this industry and it sucks that whatever the [\h__\h] happened because he was way too young. Um, and like I said, um, he is going to be missed and somebody who is brings a lot to the table that, uh, helped a lot of people. Like there's no doubt about it. you know, he had some uh, you know, pretty wild and out there ideas at times, but a lot of [\h__\h] he said was also very, very practical, impactful, and he's probably saved, you know, multiple people, uh, over the years of, you know, avoiding [\h__\h] themselves up and otherwise improving their health markers and whatnot. Um, and even knowing what to get as far as like organ imaging and whatnot to attenuate the progression of cardiovascular disease or kidney deterioration or liver, I don't know, having a non-alco non non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. It's kind of hard to talk with this lip. I'll make another video about what the hell this is, why I got it done, what even happened, but uh that's for another video. So, anyways, rest in peace, Leo. And um yeah, [\h__\h] sucks. I don't really know what what more to add. It's unfortunate. It's terrible. I still can't wrap my head around it. And hopefully he's uh in a better place. So that is it. I would still recommend checking out his stuff, by the like he has a lot of videos and good content that is educational in the supplementation, diet, lifestyle optimization realm of things. And our podcast I think were uh very very uh I don't know, good, you know, like I'm going to go listen to them myself again. So, thank you guys for watching and uh you know, condolences to Lucy and his friends and family and I don't know that is That's