Many construed his statements as a depiction of his lack of willingness to go down the traditional route of Hollywood actors who lie about their steroid use and use a bunch of anabolic assistance to get in shape for a movie. What's up guys? Derek moreplace.com. Today we're going to be talking about Robert Patson. He is the new star in the uh Batman movie that just came out. And it's been a long time coming for him to uh get to the big screen in this movie apparently with all of the uh the stuff going on in the world, a lot of uh I don't know restrictions on filming, delays, etc. And this guy was also one of the if I think the only celebrity of all time who said he was simply not going to work out to play a superhero. Yeah. He uh refused to work out and said wouldn't stand for it. You know, there is a lot of um superhero playing celebrities that otherwise sash their faces off and gain 30 lbs of muscle in [\h__\h] you know 6 months or um you know pull a hemsworth or many other examples of that. He's not the only one. And he is not going to do that. He is not going to do [\h__\h] he is going to just show up with his uh you know studly good looks and just kill it on screen without having to do a [\h__\h] thing without lifting a finger except reading his lines. However, it turns out that was actually a joke. He comes out much later and says Robert Patson says he was joking about not working out for the Batman and it's haunted him ever since. So back in uh 2020 um an interview was conducted for the production of it. Um let's see it was conducted production of the Batman had halted due to the pandemic. Um and basically he said I think if you're working out all the time you're part of the problem. He said you said a president. No one was doing this in the 70s. Even James Dean he wasn't exactly a rip. Literally I'm just barely doing anything but sit at it. He explained that Zoe Kravitz, who plays Selena Kyle Catwoman, had been working out five days per week while home. Um, he says later, uh, more recently, um, new interview with movie maker, and this is 2022 now, 2 years later, that really came back to haunt me. The British actor said, "I just always think it's really embarrassing to talk about how you're working out." Um, he continued, "It's like an English thing. Unless you are in the most unbelievable shape where people are just genuinely curious going, "How have you achieved like physical perfection or whatever?" Patent said that playing the Cape Crusader requires physicality and muscles. You're playing Batman. You have to work out, he said. I think I was doing the interview when I was in lockdown as well in England. I was in a lower gear of working out. Lower gear. Patson likened the reaction to his workout comments to the time he famously told Extra that he probably hadn't washed his hair in weeks and doesn't really see the point in washing your hair. It just sticks for 15 years, he said. The Batman, which stars Patson Kravitz and Paul Deno, hits theaters on March 4th. So, the thing we're going to be getting into is uh his statements apparently were construed by many like many people thought he was serious and just said this guy's a lazy [\h__\h] and is not actually getting into the shape he needs to regardless if he's going to be a fake natty. You need to [\h__\h] blast your face off in order to look represent the role right. You're getting paid millions of dollars. Like, come on. You got to like [\h__\h] take one for the team and actually show up in, you know, commendable shape. Now, did he though? Apparently, Robert Penson says he was really dead after finally wrapping the 18-month shoot for the Batman I look green. And he mentions how he was literally restricting water and eating basically nothing. So, we're going to get into that shortly. But the first thing that was interesting is apparently many construed his statements as a depiction of his lack of willingness to go down the traditional route of Hollywood actors who lie about their steroid use and use a bunch of anabolic assistants to get in shape for a movie. So this was a video posted by Simon Miller. Robert Patson reveals the Batman physique. Did he troll us? Um and in the comment section I think when he said I'm not working out, what he really said was I'm not taking steroids. like the vast majority of these superhero actors. I had the same reaction as everyone else at first, but I came to that conclusion more over time and others have been saying it too. In his original statement, I'm pretty sure he was trying to allude to the steroid culture in Hollywood that perpetuates unrealistic physiques that he didn't want to take part in that his body looks great for a natural athlete and should be what is promoted by the fitness industry. Um, so yeah, he did indeed work out. And it's kind of interesting because it sort of does seem that way a little bit in hindsight where he says down here that you are how what the [\h__\h] did he say? It's like an English thing. Unless you were in the most unbelievable shape where people are just genuinely curious going how have you achieved physical perfection? you know, it would you can sort of see where he might be alluding to uh the steroid use thing because a lot of guys get in immaculate shape when they don't look like much beforehand. And, you know, they lie about it and just keep it under wraps and just, you know, do what they had to do to get, you know, in the most superheroesque shape possible. But, you know, it always begs the question and makes people kind of suspicious about what actually goes on behind the scenes. I think more people are becoming more aware of how prominent this [\h__\h] actually is in uh Hollywood, you know, to prepare for these roles and get unrealistic, you know, transformations accomplished in ridiculously condensed time frames. So, I can sort of see where they're gathering that. And this is the physique he ended up showing on camera. So, Robert Pentson shirtless in the Batman trailer. And um here he is in high- res, I guess. And I haven't seen the movie yet, but you know, I'm sure there is like presumably if this is used in the trailer, like this is the pinnacle of how it's going to get and this is basically what he looked like. A lot of people are going to be like, damn, like he should have [\h__\h] sauced it up. Um cuz yeah, like this is not really very indicative of what you see in the comments. But again, in hindsight, compared to his predecessors, like how many people really did do the Batman comics justice at the end of the day? like, you know, I think as long as you look more like Bruce Wayne at this point and you're athletic and in shape and have some muscle on your frame, that's more important at this point given the historical, you know, longitudinal progression of Batman. Like you had Kilmer, Clooney, Affleck, like none of these guys are [\h__\h] you know, that impressive physically to be honest. Um, even when they prep for the role. So, I don't think he really had to really do a whole lot, you know, like he definitely got away with it. I think this is reasonable enough for, you know, representing Bruce Wayne well. Um, he definitely looks like a Bruce Wayne character. I would say, he's definitely not yolked. He's definitely not huge. By layman person standard, though, they would say, "Yeah, this is good." And I would agree that this is pretty reasonable. Um, for the layman, you know, not for the person who was actually interpreting this based on the comic book comic book standards. But again, you know, the guys who had the comic book standards and actually lived up to them like Hemsworth, were those the more successful, you know, A-list actors who, you know, really stamped their ticket as far as uh being one of the best, you know, superheroes in history? I don't know. I don't know, man. He definitely looked the part for sure, though. Whereas Patson is uh you know, some people would be like, "What are you like [\h__\h] 13 14% body fat or something?" And apparently this is water depleted. The guy was literally meticulously counting his sips of water before the scene. So, in this interview, he talks about the uh, you know, strict, meticulous diet and how he's like sick of fish. He never wants to see it again. You literally just film and train. That's the only thing that we do. And just eating. I never want to see a piece piece of white fish with with just lemon on boiled fish. No, it's true. It's true. Do you at least enjoy the training, Rob? I started to. Yeah. training. So, a lot more it's a lot more fun when you kind of get good at it. So, he basically implies that he's eating like bland nothingness, you know, just plain fish with a lemon and like nothing. So, the guy was restricting to show up for these scenes where he is like shredded, you know? He was restricting hard. Maybe again, maybe these don't do him justice cuz it's not like I've seen the [\h__\h] movie, but these are like the trailer production quality. Like, this is peak physique right here. And it's good by all means. Like maybe this is just poor lighting and somebody's like screen capturing like a shitty version of the trailer. But the fact that this guy was meticulously counting sips of water. Robert Patson's fitness regimen included counting sips of water to achieve his character's heroic physique. So he mentions as the days of shirtless acting drew near. Patson was meticulously counting sips of water to prepare for a stripped down scenes. But let's see. He undertook months of physical preparation for the acclaimed role. I had about 3 months before the movie started. And then you're working out before and after work all the time. He told people on the Batman premiere red carpet Tuesday night. You just cut down and cut down and cut down before the couple scenes with your shirt off and you're counting sips of water. Going shirtless in the movie, he said it was motivation to look his best. Shame is my biggest motivator. 100% he joked. Um, but Patson's scenes aren't all shirtless. When he's not flaunting his abs, he's dawning the infamous and powerful Batman suit. It's funny because you read the script and you spend loads of time trying to figure out how can I play this character who does all these sort of odacious acts blah blah blah. Okay, so basically um he mentions how he had to after six or seven weeks of just eating half a little tiny bit of fish and like a crumb of rice, he explained and then you eat a sandwich and you've got on 15 lbs afterwards. Um oh for that was for a different movie presumably. He's gone to extremes for a role before. Yeah. So basically he was eating bland [\h__\h] cutting down, cutting down, cutting down excessive amounts, literally depriving himself of water to show up like this, you know, to represent the role in what he perceived to be the best way possible and, you know, alluding to the fact that he would not succumb to the pressures of using anabolics and fall into the trap of the Hemsworths of the uh other stars of the industry that have uh, you know, sauced it up a bit. Now again, I did a video a while ago called Natty Got Shredded. checked his testosterone levels three months later and was horrified. Dot dot dot. In this video, I reference a guy who was prepping for a bodybuilding show, getting stage ready, lean, uh, singledigit body fat percentage presumably, and the time points around his contest and what happened to his, uh, biioarker. So, we can see his testosterone levels starting at 922 nanogs per deciliter, dipping all the way down to hypoganatal grandpa erectile dysfunction territory at 227. T3 levels going into the gutter almost hypothyroid at this point. Um glucose levels, creatinine, estimated GFR, creatine kinase, um white blood cells, notably his red blood cell count. The guy literally goes anemic anemic while he's cutting. A lot of things that get [\h__\h] wrecked when you are cutting aggressively as a natural get dismantled to a point that you were no longer healthy. You were actually in a very unhealthy compromised state at this point. It's not just your vitality is out the window, but you're actually like not having enough androgenic estrogenic signaling in your heart, your brain, your [\h__\h] dick. Like none of these things are working properly and you are a walking disaster of health. It's just an interesting contrast for an individual who has taken a you know stance potentially against what is the traditional like mainstream Hollywood route that most actors are going. But at the end of the day, if he just didn't want to lie to his audience, you know, obviously a more comp commendable reason for sure. But anyways, let me know what you guys think. If you guys saw the movie, I'm pretty sure it comes out, I don't know, today. Um, depends when this video comes out. But let me know what you guys think. If you're going to go see it, if you already saw it, how it was. Um, no spoilers though, of course, I guess. um you know what if his physique looks solid, how you would compare it to the other past Batman roles in terms of his acting abilities, anything and everything. It's all much appreciated. Helps drive the algorithm. You can drop it down in the comments below. Please like, subscribe, check out my blog, moreplace.com. Follow my Instagram replacement, Facebook, Snapchat, Twitter, Tik Tok, a couple podcasts. If you want to support the channel, you can check out anything I'm associated with in the video description below. my preventive medicine and hormone replacement therapy platform where we connect you with highquality medical providers who understand this stuff inside out and know what kind of diagnostics you should be getting to assess your own endocrine parameters as well as your basic metabolic health CBC um liver health uh thyroid panel etc. Um, we have the most cutting edge literature supporting our choices of biomarkers, the interpretation of those biomarkers and our subsequent recommendations for protocol design, lifestyle intervention, dietary manipulation, sleep hygiene practices, etc. If you want a high quality doctor, uh, look no further. I would check it out. As well as if you just want access to high-quality labs and panels that I've audited myself and have approved, um, you can check those out and buy them yourself at checkout without needing to go through a doctor. You can get your own labs or create your own custom lab panel in the self-service lab section of the website. Um, get costefficient access to single biomarkers that you can then, you know, chunk together and create your own turnkey panel unlike other lab service companies that force you to get a $500 panel just to get a, you know, total tea with LCMS when you otherwise don't want a bunch of the other [\h__\h] that comes along with that panel. You can literally add these single biomarkers to your cart and check out. Um, just another way we separate ourselves from the competition. So, you can check that out. You will not get haphazardly thrown a protocol of TRT, HCG, and astrool like many other companies would. We actually go through the biomarkers with you in your blood work and assess um what can be done from a natural standpoint and if pharmarmacology is warranted, explain the risks, the reward, the blah blah blah, the ROI on it, what is uh should be considered before you engage in something that is otherwise a lifelong commitment. So, you can check that out as well as anything else I'm associated with all in the video description below. Gorilla mind neutropic formulas, gorilla mode pre-workout formulas, and design from scratch. Recommended diet model for gaining muscle and sports performance whilst being mindful of micronutrient intake to support adequate hormone production. Unlike what he was doing, eating just [\h__\h] fish and a lemon. Yeah, this is not the way to go about it. You can check out the diet model. It's uh literally has like breakdowns of turnkey done for you diets with different calorie aotments. So, you already have it built out for you, too. You don't need to just You can read the ebook to learn about what all of the recommendations, the literature that goes into it. But then there are actual diets that are pre-esigned for you to just pick out turnkey, ready to go in the ebook as well. Um, as well, clothing company that sponsors me, hair loss prevention products, anything else I'm associated with, it's all in the video description below. Thank you guys for watching. That is it.