So my my response to this has been if I told you I was natural, would you believe me? Me personally asked. Sup guys, Derek moreplace.com. Today we are going to be revisiting the top 10 Natty at the Olympia again cuz more information has come to light and uh it's worth kind of capping off this uh story. You know, kind of like the seab bum story seems to never end. But this this one similarly doesn't seem to ever end. And finally, we have an answer from the man himself who according to I did the first video, Rough Diesel claims there's a natty in the top 10 at the Olympia. So he posted this Instagram story. Is it possible to make to the to the Olympia stage without steroids? He said, "No one will believe me." But there was at least one in the top 10 this year. Don't blow up my DMs asking who. So, obviously, no one really believed him. Seemed inconceivable to wrap your head around. I went through the top 10 at the Olympia and kind of try to point out if I could figure out who it was of the 10, and it was not really possible to pick out a guy who was blatantly less saucy than the rest of the individuals in the top 10. So Diesel ended up making a uh sending I don't know he like told a decent amount of people I guess that he knew who it was. He said don't blow up my DMs asking who but he told some people he personally knows who it was and it turned out to be DeAndre Campbell. So I ended up making a follow-up video where I compared DeAndre Campbell's physique to other guys at their peak natural physiques. We had the Quinton um as well as Greg at their like you know claimed natty peaks and I compared it to Deontre Campbell at his uh you know natty peak according to Rough Diesel which is him at the most recent Olympia obviously and you know I speculated in this video that it was highly unlikely that he was natural and it would make no sense for him to be natural when he is trying to uh be the best in the world and he's competing beating against guys who are all on gear and what is the likelihood that he is a god tier genetic guy that is somehow naturally beating guys who are also like borderline god tier genetics themselves like obviously anyone who's in the top 10 like you would think is god tier genetics when it comes to physique development. So for somebody natural to somehow hang with the level of muscularity of god tier guys on gear while natural it's like you know what do you think the [\h__\h] answer is? But Rough Diesel claimed that indeed this truck stick and a half was indeed natural, which uh like obviously there is uh some context to it that should have been brought up and apparently was severely overlooked, which is kind of the expected outcome you would think from the story when you see this guy here and the you know natural claim surrounding him. So anyways, that gets to the most recent video by Desktop Bodybuilding who actually got DeAndre Campbell to do a interview where they then talk for um 10 minutes about his natty or not status and the rumors surrounding and stuff. So I thought we would do a reaction video to it. I've already watched it through. It's a good video. You should check it out. And uh he sort of touches on it and we'll get to that. Obviously the question that probably a lot of people are wanting to know or a lot of pe reason your name has come up a lot recently is uh more plates more dates did a video and it was discussing how that you know it's come out that maybe you're the guy that is that the top 10 um classic physique guy that's actually natural out there. So I wanted to ask you about that whole situation because it was said that Terrence Ruffin actually put on his story saying there's a guy in the top 10 that's actually natural believe it or not and then it came out somehow that maybe it's you. So, do you want to, I suppose, address that and address the rumors that are going around right now because you're getting asked a lot. Um, yeah. Yeah. So, let's address it. And so, um, I kind of figured, uh, this topic would come up. Um, so how this whole situation even came about was um John Meadows, who uh I'm sponsored by and I was doing a uh workout with him um last year uh a while ago, he had made a video talking about um making it or becoming pro- naturally and is it possible and something like that. and I made a comment on the video uh how I became a pro naturally and uh he responded with he didn't even know me then and he was like oh good job or something like that like yeah so there are a decent amount well not a decent amount it's actually extremely rare but there are more than one individual who have managed to turn pro naturally that I would actually believe now is this going to be in the open bodybuilding competition. You know, obviously a lesser amount of individuals are going to be able to accomplish that, but there are indeed guys that I believe have gone pro and classic in men's physique as well as open. It's just a very, very small minority of individuals. And, you know, expectedly, these guys are genetic [\h__\h] specimens. And they're usually guys who end up doing quite well in the pro leagues, you know, to some extent depending on genetic structure and whatnot obviously, but they're typically guys who have the ability to pack on more muscle than the average guy even with good genetics because you would not be able to go pro if you did not have phenomenal structure and or phenomenal amounts of muscle mass and/or conditioning. So, usually these individuals are like a bit more gifted than the average guy going pro that you see. Yeah, whatever. So, and I just like, okay, thank you, John. Together, working out together and making a video together last year, and I mentioned to him, and I kind of like wanted to mention like, hey, you just kind of blew me off, too. John's a great guy. I love John. So I mentioned how um you know my comment to him or whatever and how I became pro naturally and rough diesel he actually is works with John. So I never knew this. I never you know I didn't say this to John to make him go shout it out to the world or tell everybody or whatever. I just, you know, just having a one-on-one conversation with Johnny and then he must have told Rough Diesel um what I had, you know, mentioned to him and I don't even really know. Somebody sent me the screenshot of Rough Diesel saying that and um I'm not even sure how it came about. He must have started telling people um who it was. Um, and then I had a few people messaging me and you know I ignored them or whatever and then next thing you know that YouTube video come out came out uh with who is this guy you know. So uh which I thought was pretty funny. I'm just laughing and I'm watching everything you know. I'm not commenting. So did you see that first video before the second one came out saying that it was actually you and go ah is this going to come out or not? Did you see the the initial video? I saw so he when he was going down he was going Are you talking about when he was going down with each competitor? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I saw that video. Somebody sent me the link. It was like, "Hey, you're in this video." I was like, "Oh, that's awesome." And then I went and checked it out and just kind of laughed at it or whatever and he he said his comments about me or whatever. Never knew that it was going to even go further. So, I guess another video's come out and I'm not sure how many more videos are going to come out after this, but uh I think it's interesting how many people are um just continue to blow me up and ask me and um so my my response to this has been if I told you I was natural, would you believe me? No. Me personally, I've asked no no me this is me. I don't even want you. I mean, I already know everybody's answer to that question when I ask them that. Um, and I'll leave this on this note. I have I'm not even doing anything to reach my potential. And that's what something that he had uh said in the video. He's like, why wouldn't you, you know, try to reach your full potential and all that? Well, um, yeah, I just leave it right there. I'm not even pushing to reach my full potential, which I know I can. And I've had this conversations so many times with uh, you know, family members and people I know um, in the industry. So, I just leave it at that. So presumably doesn't want to push the envelope to you know if you want to kill it in the open like he's already at the weight cap essentially for his height. So if he wants to get any bigger and reach his potential he would have to go into the open presumably which would involve probably pushing the envelope way harder and then you're still if he's already enhanced like you're not guaranteeing you're going to go far at all. You may not even be a open Olympia contender. So, you know, I understand the justification for not pushing the envelope if this is the state where you're at. If you're like, you either crank your face off and try and do decent in a division that you might otherwise have no chance in. Well, not no chance, but I mean like in order to become competitive, you're going to have to go way more aggressive in what you're doing. Or you're already at the top of your weight limit for your current division. you can just kind of try and dial in better to your current division with more risk averse, you know, enhancement practices and you're already successful in this league and you would be pushing the envelope just to be probably less successful in this league. Like what is the likely logical scenario, you know? So, I can kind of get uh where he's coming from. At least I think I can. If you guys uh how what if I told you I was natural, would you believe me? You answer it for yourself. So let us know in the comments and I'm sure man like people are still going to blow you up. And we actually talked about this man interview as well because so he's basically answering without answering sort of it's kind of deflecting which is like I don't know what what's the point you know at that like you might as well just I don't know like I guess other pros do the same thing so if you don't feel comfortable with it I don't know like I know people are probably aren't going to like the deflection when it's like you know why you're coming on to be interviewed you know what's going to be asked and it's like that's your that's your answer. I don't know. I don't really care that much cuz I can kind of read through the lines, but I mean, let's see what the comments section is like. He doesn't want that Doug Miller blowback. So, what was DeAndre Campbell's height, I believe, was [\h__\h] what was it? I don't remember. I'd have to go back and watch uh watch the video again. His his weight cap was 207, I believe. So, as far as his weight, if I recall correctly, he's like 5'9 or something. Let me go back to my first uh video looking at his stat. So he his weight cap was uh 207 I think. So he says he's 5'9 and a half. So if DeAndre Campbell a top 10 in the classic Olympia is 5'9 and a half in stepping on stage like he is depleted at 205.6 I think before step carving up to step on stage. And that Doug Miller blowback. Doug Miller was 5'9, so half an inch shorter and 5.6 lb less when cutting. And unless he stepped on stage at a carved up 200, that's a bit of a different story. But still, like we're claiming that a natural prime Doug Miller is somehow only like 5 lbs less than a DeAndre Campbell who is a top 10 classic physique Olympian on gear. It doesn't look too uh promising for Doug, you know, like when people are saying like, "Oh, that's probably natural, you know, and people just are jealous of his genetics and blah blah blah." It's like, dude, these are genetic [\h__\h] specimens at the Classic O. And this is what he's weighing in at on Gear. So, yeah, maybe he's not at his potential, but I mean, there's still [\h__\h] [\h__\h] there's still [\h__\h] involved to get this physique. And he is 5'9 and a half at just under the 207 cut off. And for each inch, you have roughly 7 lb to distribute through your frame based on the Arnold calculation, whatever you want to call it. So for Doug Miller, we'd be looking at, you know, a uh I don't know, half an inch. We're looking at a 20, you know, like a 202ish weight depleted before carving up for a competition on gear would be a proportional amount to DeAndre Campbell, who is a top 10 Mr. Olympia contender. So, the comparisons to Doug sometime, they just don't really line up from what I've seen. So, this sort of ties back to the Doug uh video I did recently, and the statistics just don't seem to be too in his favor when it comes to the realisticness that he was indeed natural for his prime physique at that uh last competition he did. So, anyways, going back to here in the comments section. Um, so the Doug Miller blowback dude talked for like 10 minutes without providing any clarity or anything close to an answer. Lol. seems like a good guy, but the lack of transparency is disappointing. I think he answered quite clearly. It's none of our business. Simple question. Natural or not? If he was definitely natural, he would straight up say I was natural at the Olympia. He didn't. But also like that he didn't say he was natural when he very likely is not. If you have taken a shot of gear ever, you can't call yourself natural. Um, let's see. So, he turned proatty and then jumped on gear just like Quinton Beastwood and Ronnie Coleman. This guy's talking in circles. He's got a great physique, but it's not just not important enough to me to know whether or not he's natural or enhanced. Well, it's like why are you I don't get that. Um I honestly don't care about the natural status. I'm just interested as to why he isn't taking a full stack if he's not. He has his reasons whether it's moral, religion, liking classic more or health. There's plenty of reasons not to, but obviously being potentially one of the best in the world and open is a pretty big reason to do it. Exactly. Like if he's natural placing where he's in classic as early in his career as he is, he has massive potential in open. I don't understand why he wouldn't go down that route. Well, I think he's pretty clearly saying that he is not. How much more would he have to push to actually be like a highly competitive open guy? Seems like more than he wants to do is from what I what I gather. Uh but basically, he's not natural, but he's not willing to push the drugs hard to achieve its full potential. Yeah, that's what I'm getting. It's sad how you let him lie right to your face. Jesus. Um, yeah. Okay. So, basically, people, what a cop out. Just answer the question. Yeah. So, anyway, he's like, you know, it's an uncomfortable question to answer and he's basically saying it without saying it. It's kind of interesting how many guys like want to dance around it though instead of just being like, "Yep." Cuz it's like we all kind of get what you're saying. So, you know, just just [\h__\h] say it, I would think. But I think we all get it and however he wants to put it across, if that's how he feels comfortable with it when he's being uh put on the spot. Um I guess I can kind of understand. But that's cool that he actually came on and discussed this cuz obviously kind of a weird uncomfortable position to be thrown into where some guy is claiming you're natural on your behalf and then he ends up being incorrect and you have to come on a [\h__\h] interview to correct some guy who's making claims on your behalf and making it seem like you're a guy who's a fake natty. So, kind of a weird situation, but good on him for uh coming on and addressing it and uh taking it well in stride. He didn't get seem to get offended by anything that was brought up, any of the videos or any of the people talking about him and discussing his natty or not status. So, good on DeAndre Campbell. Good video by Desktop Bodybuilding. Check it out. And I think that's it. Not really much more to read into other than it's pretty much [\h__\h] physically impossible to be at the Olympia. Um, naturally, you know, if we're talking about classic, if we're talking about the open, like have just be logical, you know, like rational conclusions, guys. This is not I I'm surprised that a guy who is a top 10 guy at the Olympia would not have a answer to this. Like the guys who are in the top three like don't even know if it's possible to be natural at the Olympia. It's like, you're [\h__\h] there, dude. You have the best genetics in the world and you can't even figure it out. So, I don't know. Maybe it's a harder question to answer than uh than I'm making it seem like. I don't know. like uh I think Bumstead did a interview recently where he said it's highly unlikely but you never know and he's like I doubt it but he was kind of unsure and then obviously Terrence Ruffin is like way off the [\h__\h] mark. So you know even the top guys in the sport don't really know who's now you're not which is interesting. So anyways thank you guys for watching. Like subscribe check out my blog more playsmoreates.com. Follow me on Instagram at more plates_dates. Facebook, Snapchat, Twitter, Tik Tok couple podcasts if you want to support the channel you can check out anything I'm associated with in the video description below. Gorilla Mind, neutropic formulas, Gorilla Mode pre-workout formulas, I designed myself from scratch, my TRT clinic, it's all tele medicine from the comfort of your own home. Um, and anything else I'm associated with, it's all in the video description below. Thank you guys for watching. That is in.