What's up guys? Derek moreplaceates.com. Back in action and uh happy to be back on the video grind and couldn't be more fitting of a video than to come back to than somebody testing positive for steroids and sarms after a big boxing fight. So this is Ryan Garcia. A lot of people have asked my opinion. I haven't seen a lot of people mentioning the other compound he tested or may have tested positive for 19 norandroster. This is a metabolite of nandrallone, which you've heard of deca, I'm sure. Nandrallone, if you haven't, it's one of the most popular steroids in bodybuilding and in sport. It's uh pretty commonly used, at least not in tested sport, but in sport, because it is highly detectable, and it stays in your system for a really long time. One of the very few compounds that has very good human data behind its efficacy as well. But neither here nor there. Ryan Garcia tests positive for Austrin and anandrone metabolite and it was in two drug tests with VA in relation to his April 20th fight against Haney. Veteran boxing reporter Dan Raphael broke the news on Wednesday. Garcia tests positive in a pre-fight urine test on April 19th as well as a post-fight test on the 20th. And you know it's you either have Austria in your system or you don't. Like this is not something that's supposed to be there in any micro quantities whatsoever. So the fact that this is present like Garcia has tested positive for banned performance-enhancing drugs like full stop regardless of how it got in your system like it got in your system. That said, it doesn't mean that he was trying to take a performance-enhancing dose for performance enhancement. And there could be more to the story here. But one thing I do not see talked about again like I said is the nandrallone metabolite 19 norandrosterone which was screened positive but not confirmed a metabolite of nandrallone and blandon in his April 19th sample which is pending further analysis via isotope ratio mass spectrometry and we'll get into why it is pending further analysis but quick high level before we get into the nitty-gritty on it is you actually produce nandrallone indogenously. A lot of you guys don't know or maybe you do if you've watched this channel before or you just are a nerd about this stuff like me, but you na or you understand you know what to ban substance analysis stuff. Regardless, you produce some nandrallone naturally, as absurd as that sounds, in the synthesis of estrogen, you actually produce a little bit of nandrallone. And in women, it is actually a higher threshold depending on certain circumstances, which we'll get into shortly. But ultimately, testosterone is not the only bioididentical like anabolic agent that you're probably familiar with that bodybuilders inject. You don't just produce test. You also produce micro quantities of nandrallone. All but not necessarily performance-enhancing. Ultimately, the presence of it being an endogenously produced anabolic steroid essentially conflates the results when you have a like a screened positive for a metabolite of it. It doesn't necessarily mean it's not supposed to be there, which is why they have to do further analysis via the isotope ratio mass spectrometry. Him screening positive is more that he's cleared a threshold amount that is not to be seen as naturally achievable typically. So yeah, we'll get into that shortly, but basically Ryan went on a rampage on social media. The guy has been a little bit crazy as of late. Interestingly enough, he claims it was all part of the plan. He says it before the fight, he's he basically acted borderline insane and it made a lot of people basically count him out of being a, you know, in fight ready shape essentially. like a lot of people thought there was no way he was taking it seriously and he was going to get decimated and he claims it was all part of the plan. Come on guys, you really thought I was crazy. And in addition, as if this didn't further um work against him in this situation where he's trying to prove that he didn't cheat, he missed weight by over three lbs. So at the weigh-ins, he weighed in slightly over 143 if I recall correctly. 143.2 official weight for Ryan Garcia. In addition to that, to uh make matters even worse, he bet money on himself, which you're allowed to do. But when you take peeds and weigh in more than you're supposed to, like there is a little bit of a it's creating a bit of a storyline that could be used against you when it comes to trying to prove your innocence. You certainly have a lot more incentive to cheat in various ways if there was a lot of money on the line for yourself. So, he bet $2 million on himself to win, apparently netting upwards of $10 million after he won. There's this story of you bet $2 million on yourself. Yeah. I know. And then that all culminates in him testing positive for peeds now and people are wondering was this all him by design having this constellation of like achieving essentially to win a ton of money and win ensure winning the fight to win a bunch of money and take home the W. So, he says here in a recent Twitter tirade, he did not cheat and what he thinks the reason is. Everybody knows that I don't cheat. Um, what can I say? You know, um, why didn't they come out with this before, you know, the fight? If they found it before, why would they let me step into the ring as a cheater and then come out with a victory and then they post this? You know, again, um, these are people that, um, are trying to attack me for whatever reason. But um no weapon against me shall prosper. I never taken steroid. I don't even know where to get steroids at the end of the day. Um I barely, you know, take supplements. Um they're saying it's coming from the Ashwagandha. That's So at the end, big lies. I beat his ass. out of here. Everybody go to Warwick tonight. So he says he's never taken a steroid. Doesn't know where to get steroids. Like obviously it doesn't help his case a whole lot with all the factors mentioned. And he says it's the Ashwagandha is what they're saying. He then goes on to say, "I need more steroids. I'm addicted." Uggh. Uh, I'm find out who paid to create this lie. I'm going to release everyone's Time to expose the real snakes. I'm seen with Trump. Now I'm positive for steroids. This is a straight straight attack. Um, he's, you know, he's for sure gay if he took steroids. Did he paid for the drug test? Allegedly. He then has a heavyduty trolling post where he's uh thanking his ashwagandha root product for his victory because it helped him cheat. Thank you for helping me beat Deon Haney Ashra. Thank you for giving me the left foot power. No rematch. No revenge and no getting. So ah the guy's a heavy troll. Um so when you look at that product it is he says my bad. I shouldn't have taken this. It is ashwagandha root supports balance energy and resistance to stress. If you look at the back it is a proprietary extract. So it is not a patented uh extract standardized to x percentage of withanalides with a controlled procedure in terms of its its uh creation. A lot of ashwagandha products are highly variable in their yield for withanalide content which is ultimately the active component of it that you're looking to seek the anti-cortisol kind of anti-stress component of the product like that is the main attribute of its attribute of its utility is ultimately to calm you down and if you overdo it it can actually lead to some degree of anhidonia. There's probably somebody here that can attest to the fact that if you overdo if they in some circumstance overdid the ashwagandha, you almost get a feeling of draining of pleasure out of life. Everything's kind of just black and white and you don't really feel much. Um, some people that are depressed want that and there's been this uh tick tock trend at least at one point it was where you take ashwagandha to like get rid of your feelings essentially. But in responsible use, this compound or I should say the yield from the actual parent can actually create a very very potent anti-stress effect. And it's also shown to enhance testosterone levels to some extent among other things. But ultimately that's what you'd use it for. And I imagine pre-fight when you are trying to do whatever you can naturally within the bounds of water guidelines in order to decompress you know take the stress off your mind whatever like ashwagandha could be something that has some level of utility you know if your sleep is getting messed up because you're stressed out all night or a myriad of reasons like there's infinite amount of reasons why you would want to decrease stress and enhance recovery and it could be useful. However, when you have a proprietary extract and you're not using a patented, you know, KSM66 or Censoril, you know, you're taking a bigger risk than you probably needed to as a professional athlete who should really only be touching NSF certified for sport heavily third party tested, patented out the wazoo products. It's like the fact that he's taking a generic route that has, you know, undisclosed yield of or it has a claim of yield, but ultimately it's not a standardized process by which this proprietary extract is created presumably at which point you were subject to significantly higher chance of variability in what is in this product. So, it was kind of stupid of him to be using this and not a far more risk-free NSF certified for sports brand. and he's paying the price for it potentially, unless this is all part of his scheme. Because what we have seen historically, or at least what I've talked about at least a handful of times now on this channel, sometimes when people want to get away with cheating, they will find a supplement, test it, ensure that it's tainted or find something that's tainted with something they actually want to take, and then use that as a copout should they actually test positive, if they messed up the pharmacocinetic assessment of how long it would take to work out of its system, out of their system or what have you. So, for example, if you wanted to take something and you bought a bunch of products on the market and you know tested them all and you found banned substances in some of them because you will at the end of the day find traces of banned substances in a lot of stuff on the market. This is not uncommon. You then have a list of things you could potentially use that you would have a copout excuse of, oh well, I was just taking the supplement and I didn't mean to. In reality, you kind of like knew going into it that that's why you were using it in case you got caught. You had the copout ready to go. Do I think that's the case? Let's go through this and I'll give uh my opinion. So, he says here, "My levels are so low for someone who took Austrian. I was posting throughout training and none of my tests came out positive. All of a sudden, I'm positive." We know what it is. He basically says he's being, you know, he's being set up essentially. And it's interesting. So, all four tests conducted are negative. And then he has the the two tests around the fight. Fake news. Never take a stare in my life. Beat Deon Haney fair and square. He then goes on to put Victor Ki on blast because he works with Devin Haney which doesn't bold well for the opposite side and creates this very interesting conspiracy theory that is unfolding here where one of the guys who helped consult during the creation of Vada as far as I know was Victor Ki because he is um very prolific for if you've heard of the Balco scandal. if you haven't. It's a very worthwhile topic to dig into and there's a lot of documentaries that discuss it. I think there's there's one on Netflix right now that's actually pretty new. So, probably worth watching if you're interested in the situation at all. But Victor Ki was at the head of the Balco scandal and basically helped a lot of top tier athletes get away with uh cheating in the Olympic Games and whatnot. And now he has, you know, turned a new leaf. He's only helping athletes in a way that is seen as uh compliant within the rules. And obviously, he's under heavy duty scrutiny. So, it would be absolutely insane, you would think, for him to be the go-to guy for drug consultation at this point for, you know, next level skirting testing. It would be wild. But it certainly is true that he is, you know, one of the guys with the biggest target on his back to be if you're tied in with this guy, people are going to insinuate that you're trying to cheat. Even if that's not the case necessarily. Kanti has been accused of having too close of a relationship with Va and its founder. And Ryan says, "Wake up." So, you know, I could see why the conspiracy theories would be in full force here on both sides of of uh both sides of the table here. So, what is my take on it? Basically, he tests positive for ouststerin which uh and there's tons of articles now popping out about, you know, Victor and Victor saying, you know, it's uh he's not involved and it's ridiculous and, you know, Ryan's responsible for what's in his body and he just helps Devon, but it's not like it's all within the natural confines of what's allowed. Anyways, at the end of the day, he took ostine indirectly or directly. What do we know about ostring? you know, it is a non-FDA approved drug that is still in pharmaceutical pipelines. It is a selective androgen receptor modulator that does build muscle and would aid performance. There's a reason it's banned. If you want to see my deep dive video dissecting it, I posted this 5 years ago. I think it's one of the most comprehensive breakdowns of Austria and its mechanism of action, the clinical pipeline, etc. What you do want to know overall is this is something that is not yet approved. It's seen as a research chemical. It is highly anabolic proportionally to androgenic and has a lot of clinical promise for its utility in muscle wasting. And it looks like in particular nowadays, interestingly enough, it is being evaluated by Veru, a biioharmaceutical company, as a adjunct with a GLP-1 receptor agonist to offset the muscle loss that may accompany aggressive weight loss when you were inhibiting the hell out of your appetite. Pretty interesting application. I haven't actually looked at the pipeline since years ago. The last I checked it was called Inobosarm and being evaluated in breast cancer and stress urinary incontinence indications and got halted after phase 2 I believe after not meeting clinical endpoints in phase three if I recall correctly. Might be wrong on that but ultimately it's been traded around. It's with Veru now and it still is not FDA approved but has planned applications to assess including um breast cancer utility. So this is something that does build muscle, but is it as effective as you know steroids? You it could be in certain dosages depending on what you're comparing it to. But it's highly detectable. This is something that when assessed pharmaccoinetically even when they apply micro dosage literally one microgram can be detected for up to 9 days. So one microgram to put this into context, oststerine, the actual efficacious dose to get a performance-enhancing effect in a man who has a man's amount of testosterone would be in the double digit double digit milligrams likely. For it to be actually worth using, you're going to be, you know, over 10 milligrams probably. So, what is the probability that one microgram, not milligram, one microgram that can be detected for 9 days, would Ryan be intentionally taking something with an ostster product for performance enhancement right on like the day of his fight essentially or right before it? Why would he be doing that at a amount that is likely completely impossible to impart a performance-enhancing advantage? Now, I don't actually know the amount how far past the threshold he detected. I'm going to assume it is not significant enough to be performance-enhancing, but we'll see about that. Cuz if he had an amount that was worth using, he probably would have been on it days leading to the fight, not the day of. It's not going to acutely modulate aggression, cause psychoactive effects in the ring that are going to help you be more uh accurate, help with uh motor unit recruitment. It's not going to make you acutely stronger. It's not really going to do a whole lot. It's not going to do anything from a resilience standpoint. If anything, it's just unnecessary risk if he were to intentionally take this compound right before your fight. And no person in his camp, I would imagine, would be stupid enough to advise him to take it as the compound of choice knowing the detectability. Like SARMs are not endogenously produced. These are synthetic compounds that were designed by manipulating anti-androgens to create something that is tissue selective anabolic with a lack of androgenic activity. And they work pretty decently up to a certain threshold at which anabolic steroids completely blow them out of the water for anabolic sealing potential. But they're so detectable it's absurd. Like you would not be using this for performance enhancement as your compound of choice, especially at the time that he used it. So, I'm very skeptical that this was intentionally used and it is very common for dietary supplements, especially ones that are not NSF certified, aggressively third party tested out the wazoo, ayurveetic herbs that are not patented, like you are just asking to test positive for some trace almost undetectable amount but actually detectable by water standards compound like this. Like to me that was just a very very stupid move by him to be using anything that was not by you know like a thorn or something that was approved by his trainers or by somebody like relatively in the know about what you could be using as a tested athlete especially if you're in VA like you should not be test using random companies that are not NSF certified for sports and the most aggressive of certifications and thirdparty testing. cuz the possibility of you getting something like this is not as low as you would probably think. Um, and it's wild that he would have been taking this. Depending on the quantity that they found in his urine analysis, I would say it's likely that he did not intentionally use this and it was a tainted supplement. And I would not be surprised if the compound detected comes back in that ashwagandha after all at a quantity that would not impart any performance-enhancing advantage. And ultimately at that point, it's kind of like pretty close to nail in the coffin for why the would you ever use this for performance enhancement days from the fight at an amount that you know will impart no actual value to your performance. Like it's just an unnecessary absurd over-the-top risk that he would not be taking almost certainly. Now the more interesting thing in my opinion is the threshold clearance of um the nandrallone metabolite. That is a compound that has higher potential for anabolic activity, blood building especially in terms of its hematology impacts. Like anabolic steroids are going to be far superior to SARMMS for actually enhancing oxygen carrying capacity by increasing red blood cell count and increasing the production of red blood cells to begin with. So that would have some utility if he was using an amount that was performance-enhancing. So, I don't know what the amount he tested for is, but ultimately the threshold is extremely low, and I'm assuming we'll find out what the details are around that, but the likelihood is high for contamination in supplements as well, which we could speak to because there is ample amount of evidence of people indirectly testing positive for Nanderlone via its metabolites and contamination in certain meats. as absurd as that sounds. But in addition, dietary supplements. So the compound he tested or you know may have tested positive for like ultimately he has a amount that should not be really present indogenously is 19 norandrosterone which is going to be a byproduct of nandrallone. But what a lot of people don't know that I did mention briefly at the start of the video, detecting nandrallone is not very difficult because of the duration, the window of detection of these metabolites and whatnot are they're incredibly longasting. So again, a very stupid compound to be using for performance enhancement. Even if you're getting tested in the most basic of leagues, not like even natural bodybuilding federations that just use the basic GCMS detections of the most well-known steroids are likely going to pick up if you're using and not. So again, a very stupid compound to use. That's not to say though that it would be impossible to think that he used it. But the presence of the metabolites in themselves cannot be used to guarantee that that's what he used. This is why you have to have further analysis through isotope ratio mass spec in order to ensure it was exogenous versus endogenously produced. So if you have an exogenous source of testosterone or nandrallone, it is going to reflect a different carbon isotope ratio signature than you would otherwise have endogenously because of the way they actually synthesize it pharmaceutically. So here is the actual steroidenesis cascade that you would see the production of nandrallone. You can see testosterone being converted via multiple enzyatic pathways. Down here you have 19-nor testosterone aka nandrallone and this is a byproduct in the process of creating estradiol which you are probably familiar with as the main endogenous estrogen that most people like at the highest quantities you will have estradile dictates most estrogen receptor mediated functions and it is the thing most people think of when you think estrogen there are multiple estrogens in the body but the main one is estradile. So in the creation of estradiol it's impossible to not have some level of nandrallone intermediate. So having that threshold amount accounts for this indogenous expected amount because it is expected. VA knows this. W knows this. The highest levels of testing. There is a threshold set to account for the indogenous threshold but anything above that will flag and then they have to actually test further for it via this isotope ratio mass spec. And the rationale for that like I said is the different content of carbon 13 and 12 in the synthetic preparation. So if I was going to a pharmaceutical company is making testosterone they are not taking human derived cholesterol and like enzyatically reacting it down to testosterone to create something that looks endogenously uh identical identical to an endogenously produced testosterone. Rather it would be derived from plant material. endogenously produced steroids, like I said, have a carbon 13 to carbon 12 content that reflects an average of the carbon sources ingested as a human, but testosterone and pharmaceutical formulas are synthesized from soy and have a smaller carbon 13 content. And similar for Nanderlone, which is indogenously produced, all but in micro quantities. You're going to have to do the same analysis to establish is it reflective of something that came from plant material or is it something that was actually made indogenously and he just has a weird aberration that is too high. But again, this is kind of where getting around drug tests can be manipulated where if you had a indogenous reflecting signature in your test result, you know, you you could this is how people get around testosterone testing ultimately. But with Nandrallone, you're only supposed to have a tiny amount even if it was indogenous. So, this will be analyzed further and determined to be either endogenous in origin or exogenous. And the probability of it being exogenous if it's in micro quantities still I would say is probably higher than him using it as than him having endogenously produced it like in some weird genetically predisposed way. I would think that's highly unlikely. I would imagine they are going to find what is similar to the Austrian some sort of contamination that would lead to a positive test result past this clearance threshold of nor 19-nor. Now further confounding things is the fact that 19-nor DHEA is actually something that is like legally sold right now as a pro hormone for nandrallone. know some dietary supplement companies uh have sort of found a loophole in the US to get around selling what ultimately metabolizes into nandrallone. So DHEA is a controlled drug in Canada for example and in a lot of places but in the states it is you can just buy it over the counter and it is something that ultimately does lead to the synthesis of other androgens and estrogens in the body. As you can see on this chart, the steroidenesis cascade, we have dehydroepi androsterone aka DHEA. And to some degree, it will enzyatically convert to testosterone in the body. In women, it is proportionally significantly more dramatic of a bump that you can get. This is why DHEA is on the ban substance list too is it actually does metabolize into an amount in women that would impart significant potentially depending on their baseline levels performance-enhancing effects. In men though because testosterone is synthesized significantly more in the testes as opposed to via the precursor precursor adrenal steroids like DHEA. You are not getting a significant amount of your testosterone. Like if you produce 900 nanogram per deciliter testosterone levels, the amount that actually came from your DHEA is like you're still in castrate territory if you were to get rid of the the actual like main source of it. The adrenal sourced testosterone that accounts for men's total pool is so small it is essentially negligible to be you know a peed al substance list for men as well. At some quantities, it will increase testosterone to some effect in men. That could be, you could argue, performance-enhancing, all but I think it's a big stretch. It mostly just converts into more estrogen in men, but in women, you could have a bump of the full reference range essentially by taking a high enough dose of DHEA. It actually can even offset entirely the suppression of total test via the combined oral contraceptive preparations. Some of them at least, and in some women. This is variable, but I've seen pretty significant jumps from DHEA use. Now, if you had a 19-nor DHEA, could you not then expect some downstream conversion into 19-nor testosterone at a mega dose, you know, get some performance-enhancing advantage out of it? you know in men I don't really know how much nandrallone actually converts from the 19-nor DHEA that is being sold in the dietary supplement market but ultimately it will convert and you will have metabolites of nandrallone present in your urine enough to flag a drug test. So with Ryan, there was not only contamination potential via just, you know, the fact that dietary supplements are not that regulated, especially when you're looking to like the Ayurvedic herbs that are not standardized to any particular like patented reproducible thing. But in addition to that, there is actually circulating legal like pro hormones on the market right now being used in the same manufacturing facilities probably to some of these companies that are making stuff. And it's typically unintentional adulteration of these products, but ultimately micro quantities of it flag these highly sensitive tests. know, even if it's imparting essentially no performance-enhancing advantage whatsoever and it's not even supposed to be in there, you're going to flag for it and it's going to look like you took drugs just the same cuz not a lot of people are going to read into the dosage amounts, the actual yields, how much was actually in the urine, were you suppressed as a result of it, what is the ratio of this to this. Ultimately, they just saw you tested positive and you kind of did. So, this is why you're responsible for what's going to go in your body. And you should be very, very careful if you're a tested athlete using any supplements that are not highly vetted, especially random like Ayurvedic herbs. And by the way, I think ashwagandha is a very viable supplement for certain people in certain contexts and for stress management. Could be useful pre-fight, but like damn, dude, do not I would not the risk was not worth the reward on that whatsoever. Obviously, especially with the position he's in now. So, in my opinion, you know, we've seen this in some circumstances where athletes claimed, you know, innocence, like for example, the Rogan uh Hubberman discussion. This is actually before I knew either of them, so it's kind of interesting to see me reacting to them in this video talking about a situation like I would probably just talk about with now, which is pretty cool. But here I analyzed the Deca burrito ch uh Olympian who basically Shelby Hulahan I believe her name was tested positive for Nandrallone. She had an elevation of a metabolite. She claimed it came from a burrito. And in there we kind of dissected endogenous production of it. We get into uh contamination among other things. And it's a pretty interesting video. If this discussion was of any interest to you whatsoever, I would highly recommend watching it because I get way more granular and it's been a while since I've revisited since I've talked about this subject to begin with. But basically, it's possible to, you know, have been actually cheating and try and use this as an excuse if you thought you had a designer drug that was a, you know, nandrolone analog or something of that nature and it be contaminated with actual, you know, detectable 19-nor testosterone metabolites or parent compound. That's certainly possible. I just think it's highly unlikely for Ryan Garcia to have such a a low threshold allowance for 19-nor have tested positive for it have been using supplements that he probably shouldn't have been using and I'm assuming we'll see though the amount that was detected that will ultimately dictate the likelihood that it was accidental ingestion of some you know adulterated supplement or intentional and he's trying to use it as excuse. And this is all like 5D chess or something. So, my guess is it's going to come back with an amount that was essentially non-performance-enhancing, like a dose that would not impart performance-enhancing properties and it was probably a contamination similar to the Austrian. That's my guess. I I don't think that he intentionally cheated. I think he probably just made stupid decisions with what he was taking. That's certainly a copout people have used. But if you're going to use that copout, you would probably pick a smarter drug to get popped for for boxing. You would not be using Austrian or one of the most highly detectable anabolic steroids probably. And if you were going to go about it, you probably do it in a smarter way. You know, it's possible. And I just don't think it's the case. I think he probably accidentally took this given the timelines, given uh, you know, the actual compound selections. I don't think he did it but uh purposefully but at the end of the day he tested positive for performance-enhancing drugs and he's going to be dealing with the show of it for a while now unfortunately and even if he uh you know is exonerated a lot of people will use this against him unfortunately so I think it speaks to the diligence that needs to be taken by pro athletes before they start ingesting anything especially at that level like this guy is one of the most you know hyped boxers on the internet like you should be very very careful if you don't want reput reputation to get dismantled by something stupid like this that was totally avoidable. So, that's my take on it. Let me know what you guys think in the comments down below. I think this conspiracy theory angle is uh is interesting and it certainly doesn't bold uh well for his case because at the end of the day, he did bet a ton of money on himself. He did come come in overweight and there were a lot of things that could point to why it would be helpful to be taking performance-enhancing drugs given the risks he took to ensure that he was going to win. Like betting 2 million bucks on yourself after you already paid 1.5 million in like penalties for being overweight. Like holy dude. Like you better win. plus legacy, you know, everything, you know, his reputation online and in the boxing world entirely. Like there's so much at stake for this guy. Like obviously there's incentive, but with that incentive, you would choose smarter drugs in my opinion. You would not be using ostrain. So that's my take. Let me know what you guys think. Comments down below. Uh, if you want to see more deep dives into pharmarmacology, endocrinology, biology, stuff like this, shitty Reddit reactions, maybe in the future, um, subscribe, uh, hit the bell. I don't even remember how to do my outro. uh like the video and uh I'll talk to you guys