I'm going to drop some inside knowledge and tell you the urine test gets sent to a lab in Taiwan. The doctor who tests these is a paid doctor that's been working with one for years. Everyone knows one athletes are juice. Sup guys, Derek more.com. Today we're going to be talking about Sage Northcut. So, this is a highly requested topic and um our good friend Woody at Woody's Gamer Tag. If you've ever seen the PK podcast, I was on it uh earlier this year. We had some good conversations about um UFC fighters um nattronauts on celebrities and stuff like that. And he tagged me in this, the world needs your opinion on his 8week bulk two pictures. So, these are the before and after. So this is August 23rd, 2020 and then this is October 11th, 2020. So going onto this guy's Instagram to find these exact pictures. Here is his Instagram page. This is the first image in question here. He says, "Dropping down, getting leaner." And first comment, Dolph Lungren has not aged at all. I see the resemblance. Shredmus Maximus. This guy is never out of shape. Um, he's always [\h__\h] diced and he looks insane. Um, now moving forward to the aftershot here. This is him supposedly 8 weeks into a bulk heading out to wake Surf today, October 11th. And first comment, USA. And he looks bigger. Now, how much of this is just angles, lighting, pump, potentially Photoshop, etc. I don't think this guy really, you'd be surprised actually. I wouldn't be surprised if this guy photoshopped some images. Tons of guys in the fitness industry photoshopped their images. So to think that SGE Sourge to to think that Sage Northcut is exempt from this and he has no insecurities about his physique whatsoever is unlikely. Everyone is [\h__\h] with their [\h__\h] So in the before and after, you have to keep in mind, I don't think he would have gone out of his way to not make this picture look good. But just the way he's standing, the way he's flexing, you have to understand that the difference between that and this picture, to be honest, it's not that much different. Even though on the surface it appears, it's way different. Like to me, even going to the gym and getting a pump and taking a picture under good down lighting or even doing a flex in a particular angle, it literally could look like I'm on a massive [\h__\h] steroid cycle versus I can make it look like I don't even work out if I don't have a pump and I'm outside. Well, not that I don't work out, but that it is like you'd be like, maybe this guy's plausibly natural when I'm just standing out in natural unflattering light, no pump whatsoever, standing with super bad posture, not trying to look jacked, not trying to like flex my delts in certain ways. You can see here, he is clearly not really posing for the image that much, maybe to show off his vascularity in the shreds a little bit cuz he says he's dropping down, getting leaner. As you can see, the ridiculous vascularity popping out and the ab cuts showing off for uh everyone to admire over. And then moving forward, Kry is trying to look a bit more massive. And he is holding the guns out at the side, cocking his delts back a bit to give bit get a bit more 3D pop. And the abs, they're not deeper. He's certainly not leaner. He's about the same body fat, it seems like, if not a little bit softer. um just because he's probably not water depleted as much or dehydrated as much because he is covered in sweat here and here he is just standing outside perhaps cold as in didn't just exercise or something like that but there's not a whole lot of difference that I'm really seeing here but again does that mean this guy is natural that's what we're going to be digging into so going back to this guy's page like I said he has a nuts physique and historically he's always had a nuts physique and as far as how his physique looks you'll notice it varies anyone. Okay, it's hard to say that anyone should be able to pick this up, but it's honestly when you look at certain angles of certain pictures with this body composition, you'll note that it looks significantly different all the time, even though it's the same physique in almost every single photo. Here he is standing in the gym flexing his abs. Here he is in the kitchen. Does this look like as impressive of an arm right here eating this whatever this is? Um, does this look like a guy who's cranked out of his mind versus the next day he takes this shot? Does that look like the same body composition to you? No. A lot of people would be like, "Dude, you [\h__\h] hopped on something or wow, like he must be, you know, 10 lbs heavier." And in reality, it's the same physique, dude. Here he is the other day. All the veins popping. He might be holding dumbbells here and it makes everything look more uh pronounced, but look at the difference when he's eating this uh whatever the [\h__\h] it is. It doesn't look like the same thing. It doesn't even look like the same physique almost. To the untrained eye, you would think he could easily put a caption, lost 20 pounds of muscle. And a lot of people would believe him. And that's certainly not the case. Look at this guy's physique. He does not really fluctuate that much. Here's another unflattering angle of him in the forest or hiking up Santa Yanes or however you pronounce it. And he looks shredded but a lot skinnier here than he normally does. Is this just the angle or is he actually way smaller? Well, let's go back and look at some of the other shots. Here he is on the treadmill, not looking as skinny as he was in the forest. Let's look at him here with this massive [\h__\h] baseball sitting in his arms. Does he look as small as he did in the forest? Not really. Here he is um under down lighting looking [\h__\h] dice to the socks, dude. Does this look like the same it was in the forest? Nah, not really. Um let's see some other angles here. Here is him in the uh after the gym looking pumped up, looking uh sweaty and glistening. Does he look the same as he did in the forest? No. This is obviously significantly better. Here's a more natural angle of him standing there cooking, looking a bit skinnier. This is all angles, guys. This doesn't necessarily mean he doesn't use anything, though. But I'm just trying to make quite clear that your physique can change pretty significantly just by the way you're standing. Now again, when you go back, he does actually look skinnier in some of these older shots than he does way ahead in the current day, but it was a more gradual progression than some sudden blow up as is being implied by this, you know, like transformation. If you go like way back, like I said, you can find shots of him where he does in fact look skinnier, skinnier than he does now, but this is like [\h__\h] from years ago rather than in 8 weeks all of a sudden he blew up. And then again, if you dig hard enough, you can find shots like this where the angle he is holding his delt cocked back. The arm is at a good angle where it looks more 3D and all of a sudden he looks like he's 205 lbs shredded again. So, getting into this guy's genetics, this is him beside his brother and his sister. So, obviously they have good genetics in the family. They're all rocking very admirable physiques that a lot of people would be happy with of their respective gender. Now, here is another shot, the one we just looked at of him and his brother. Now, obviously, one is a little bit more jacked than the other. We have Sage, who is He's not blowing his brother out of the water, but he's certainly more developed and has a lot more shape to his muscle bellies. First comment, little brother little brother doesn't have to worry about USA, which is funny. So, anyways, looking at his brother's page now, how much different does this guy look than Sage? He has a very [\h__\h] good physique, too. I'm not going to delve into if this guy's natty or not, but when you look at them side by side, it gives at least some sort of reference that we can use as a gauge of are these guys on the same playing field muscle mass-wise? Who has the most incentive to get a performance-enhancing advantage? You know, Sage obviously being a competitive fighter. Um, and this guy being I don't know, maybe nothing. I'm not really sure. But at the end of the day, this guy's smaller than Sagees and presumably doesn't have the same incentive to take peeds. And in the pictures, we see the reflection of their physiques compared side by side quite often. And in no image does this guy really blow Sage out of the water ever. It's always Sage doing it to him. Except for this one recently, actually it was last year where Sage again unflattering angle holding up a cup of water. You could argue doesn't even look like he works out here. Again, angles. And then his brother looking like a saucy fiend right here. So again, you have to consider when you're lean, the angles, the lighting, the pump, the everything makes a massive [\h__\h] difference cuz here we are in Sage looking much more developed. Here we are in the uh Big Sky Montana. Actually looking somewhat similar. Again, depends on the angles like I mentioned. But at the end of the day, Sage is uh more jacked than his brother. Obviously, there's insane genetics running this family. Sage is 24. So again, is this kid even reached his genetic potential like Sage probably has? You know, that's up for speculation, too. But I am just using this as a more a gauge to kind of get a uh reference point of what we're trying to look at here side by side. So again, looking at his statistics, he is 24 years old, 6 feet tall, and he competes at 155 lbs, guys. So keep in mind Peloc Costa he was his similar height but he competes at well he drops down to 185 from like the 220s and then super compensates back up to like 215. So Sage what's his actual walking around weight. He obviously doesn't actually weigh 155 walking around. When you go down though, you can see 2018, November 30th, he signed with One Championship and um he basically did a fight at 170 lb or no, it was a welterweight debut actually at um 185 lbs, sorry, but um previously he was a 155 lb fighter and he announced that he would be moving down two weight classes to compete at featherweight in one championship instead of competing at welterweight because he quote unquote learned his lesson about fighting a weight class too big going back down to 155 and it'll be better for me. Northcut said in an interview with MMA News. So if you look at his uh historically he's fought in the UFC several times and then he ended up going over to one championship last year and this is the uh brutal knockout that uh you know reverberated throughout the UFC community and uh was uh pretty ruthless and kind of uh had everyone worried for this guy's future. but he is um looking to jump back down to 155 because he feels obviously that it makes more sense for you know his performance outcomes. It's going to be difficult for him to hang with the big boys when he is trying to compete at a weight that he is walking around at. And self admittedly he walks around actually around the welterweight mark. So here he is cutting down. This is what it looks like losing 4 lbs in the sauna. So this is way back in 2015. He's in the 180s. So, this is actually really hard to read, but you can tell it's in the 180s here. And then after he loses 4 lbs, he's 177.3. So, this at the start was in the low 180s. So, his actual walking around weight is in the low to mid 180s. And this is before weight cutting to get to 155. So, this guy drops almost 30 lbs. you know, like reminiscent of Costa but to less of an extent but proportionally maybe about equal in terms of the amount of weight lost relative to the weight class like going from like 185 to 155 I guess is similar to the amount of well actually costa seeing as he's basically the same height as this guy it's more significant he loses way more he loses more weight sorry so it's not a direct comparison but still he's losing like almost 30 lbs to step in the ring or to weigh in at 155 and then he super compensates back up to probably uh the mid70s that he probably actually fights at some of the comments. How much does this guy [\h__\h] weigh? Jesus. This is like the same kind of stuff you see in the Costa comment section when he talks about weight cutting. Kid weighs 181 before a sauna session. In a week, he needs to be 155. Lol. This kid's living the life. So anyways, he's in the 180s naturally or n naturally he walks around in the 180s and then he weight cuts all the way down to 155. super comp compensates back up into the 170s probably. So, is it reasonable to expect that a guy with really good genetics could walk around in the low to mid 180s at 6 ft tall shredded and look like this naturally without performance-enhancing drugs? Cuz you have to keep in mind, is this guy he's self-admittedly going to be going back to 155? So, do you think he's actually bulking right now trying to put on a bunch of new contractile tissue that's going to make it harder for him to get down to 155 when he already has to weight cut 30 plus pounds potentially? You know, highly unlikely. However, there are other vectors you can leverage to achieve performance outcomes obviously, which we're going to get into shortly. So, looking at his testing history. So, first year we look at in and we see here in 2015 he was tested three times by the UFC. 2016, but you have to keep in mind this is okay. I'll get into it after. But anyways, 2016 he was five times. 2017 six times. 2018 six times. Now 2019 zero times. 2020 zero times. He is in fact looking somewhat bigger. You know, could this work against him? Like I said, cuz he has to lose so much weight. Is he trying to push an even higher weight amount in his offseason to try and get to 190 lean and then do a pull apollo Costa and get down to [\h__\h] 155? Maybe. I guess it's plausible. I just think it is um I think a lot of it is angles, but I do think he has gained size progressively over the years. I just don't think it's as drastic as some people are implying in the most recent transition period. Cuz in the most recent before and afters, it's not like it is so significant that you can't find other similar images at a similar body composition within the past year or two. It's more so when you dig into his super old pictures that you start to find some of the smaller pictures of him where he is presumably at a lower walking around weight, which was probably an easier time for him to weight cut anyways down to what he was trying to get down to. So, is he trying to gain weight? You know, I don't follow him closely enough to know that for sure, but it's certainly plausible and he's definitely bigger than he used to be years ago. And he hasn't been tested by USA for 2 years now. Again, we already know the protocols and parameters around USA testing and what you can potentially do to get around them, which I've detailed in elaborate detail. I recommend you check out my Palo Costa breakdown or documentary essentially. If you want to see uh my deep dive into bodybuilding pharmarmacology or I guess a performance-enhancing drug pharmarmacology in order to see exactly what is being done right now to get around these drug tests. It's not everything everyone's doing, but it's certainly um a plausible um strategy, at least a few of them that I feel like people are deploying and getting away with. Is that what Sage is doing? Well, you have to keep in mind in his most recent career choice, he is now with One Championship, which is not the same as the UFC in terms of how strict their testing is. Let's talk about One Championship now. So, Demetrius Johnson talked one championship weigh-ins and drug testing. This is April 24th, 2019. One of the most recent articles I could find that was relevant. So, Demetrius Johnson spoke about certain criticisms surrounding the league. He enjoyed a successful debut last month and won uh blah blah blah. Um as far as uh hydration testing, they do that whatever they do here. Now, as far as the drug testing, another criticism of one was that they never drug tested their athletes in the past. That that has changed this year, at least as CEO Shatri Situ, I don't [\h__\h] know. Shatri Sit sit ya dong revealed. Sorry, that was rude of me to laugh at the name, but that's just [\h__\h] hard to say, dude. World Anti-Doping Agency standard drug testing would be implemented. So, we already know the standard of drug testing that WA uses does not necessarily mean that it's impossible to get away with what you're trying to get away with. But again, that seems to be the case now. As Johnson revealed the process was also smooth as could be. People over in North America might think that everyone over in one championship is on the juice. We get drug tested. I got drug tested two times. I got drug tested Saturday at my last WAN and then I got drug I got tested right after the fight. They took two samples just like I did with USADA and they took it to the World Anti-Doping Agency labs. So, first of all, it's interesting how he's saying that they took two samples like they did with USATA. He's implying that he basically barely got tested by USATA. Uh but he says here, I got tested two times at my last weigh-in and then right after the fight. as if that is if that is um proof of anything, [\h__\h] Bob's your uncle, buddy. Cuz that is not helpful whatsoever. Like to claim that because I got drug tested at the [\h__\h] event that I couldn't have easily cleared whatever compounds I was using out of my system in time by planning out the pharmacocinetic profiles of them ahead of time. It's just [\h__\h] ridiculous. So, obviously, you guys already know that. I don't need to elaborate on that. If you've seen any of my other content, you would know very thoroughly that it does uh it's not rocket science to see how long certain compounds stay in your body. And especially when you get into bioididentical hormone replacement or super physiological use of those bio identical hormones, the detection of them, not only is something that can't even be differentiated via gas chromatography with mass spectrometry, but above and beyond that, it doesn't even [\h__\h] matter. Like I don't even know what I'm justifying at this point. If you can not understand that you can clear these compounds out of your system and show up at the fight, it's not rocket science. Then above and beyond that, even if they were randomly drug tested, there's ways to skirt around it if they are not even deploying water level testing because that is what we're going to be getting into next. WADA brutally shoots down one's claim of drug testing partnership. Last week, an odd story involving one championship in the World Anti-Doping Agency arose. in it. UFC veteran Will Shopee had posted an accusatory Facebook post that won supposed testing through Wada was not exactly truthful. If you read the article, you'll realize the title is [\h__\h] Supposedly, they will be doing tests according to Wat standards. That doesn't mean Wada is the one doing them. It means their own officials will be doing the tests just like one hires their own refs and judges for their shows. It's [\h__\h] and biased. If one wants to ever get to the level of the UFC, they need a third party to sanction their tests and shows, but I doubt that will ever happen. One has an agenda and as long as they are sanctioning themselves, they can favor gyms and fighters. I'm going to drop some inside knowledge and tell you the urine tests get sent to a lab in Taiwan. The doctor who tests these is a paid doctor that's been working with one for years. Everyone knows one athletes are juice. But this style of testing will allow one to hide results of guys they don't want to be dirty and to throw guys that they don't care about that are dirty under the bus. You can't self-regulate privately and be nonbiased. And if you do self-regulate, it has to be public, which it's not. [\h__\h] one is what he says. So, and then um there's this big back and forth about uh stuff about blah blah blah blah. Testing at water labs is not enough. During Duran then pointed out that while one may conductor testings based on water standards, water themselves could not guarantee it was water compliant. So, basically, at the end of the day, they're trying to argue if it's as good as water or not as good as water. It's like pretty clear that it's not. And even if it was, could you not get around it? I've already outlined in my PO Cost Coasta video and several of my other videos how you would get around the most strict version of the testing. So, if you think that one is not u providing loopholes for their athletes to relatively easy easily get around, you are being very narrow-minded in my opinion. So, as far as what he may be using, I think it's safe to say that he would be an idiot to not be using something. So, I think it's more likely than not that yes, he is probably using some sort of performance-enhancing drugs. What is he using though? Well, I would probably not look to something that is a potent substrate for aromatase or drives a lot of significant volume. Like I said, if you're trying to get to a 155 weight cut off and you are otherwise walking around in the mid 185s with abs or the high 185s, you're going to be looking at a situation like Paulo Costa where you have to do a very aggressive cut, which obviously he's accustomed to, I guess, cuz he's done it before many times where he's been in the low 180s and shredded down to 155. But again, you wouldn't be choosing anabolic agents that um drive the hypertrophy vector too significantly because it's going to be counterproductive to your weight cutting process. So, personally, I think he is probably looking for something that is more skewed in the direction of the enhancement of high levels of force production with a relative lack of increase in body weight. So, bas basically just super clean dry gains. And this is reinforced by the way his body composition looks all the time. He's never, you know, carrying a significant amount of intracellular fluid. It looks like it looks like he is always very uh his body composition is always very uh lean, tight, dry, and um I just don't think he's running compounds like uh nandrallones and things of that nature. I think he is probably leveraging things that um like I said are more targeted towards favoring the increase in his strength as opposed to driving high levels of volume. So this would be things looking at the um DHC derivatives notably as well as potentially um bio identical testosterone in certain dosages to at least get away with the cut off you can get before you have to succumb to the limitations of a testosterone epi testosterone ratio test. So again testosterone is going to drive this hypertrophy vector pretty significantly. So, I wouldn't assert that he's using a high crazy dose or anything like that. And I wouldn't be surprised if he's using some sort of compound to push the psychoactive vector of anabolic androgenic effects to a more significant extent than the traditional protein expression you would seek from a anabolic like mandrone or something of that nature. So, when we talk about the psycho psychoactive effect, like I mentioned, we don't want to drive up body weight too much. So, we're looking for something that is focused on increasing training, stronger training through the psychoactive component of some of these agents is something that can be achieved by compounds that are skewed towards enhancing sympathetic drive in the brain. So this is something that's going to increase his strength and indirectly increase muscle size, but it's going to be in general much less significant in the muscle size aspect than common anabolics used by bodybuilders to achieve hypertrophy in their off seasonasons, etc. It's going to be things like anavar potentially things like halo pre-show or pre-event, I should say. Um, it's going to be things like uh even [\h__\h] cheque drops maybe. We don't really know um exactly what his strategy is in terms of how aggressive he wants to try and be before a event. But this is obviously going to impact your choice as well as well as concurrently deploying compounds that stimulate ariththropoin which will enhance aerobic performance which is obviously one of the main vectors you would want to try and max out as well. This isn't just an anabolic androgenic process you're trying to drive through muscle growth or the recruitment of motor neurons or anything like that. rather this is something that you can also use to enhance your endurance in the ring through the increase in your hematology profile. So, this is where the choice would be made about compounds that be can be cleared out of your system quick enough to still leverage the performance-enhancing benefit of it during your training and or potentially even before the event depending on how strict the metabolite cut offs are for their gas chromatography, the mass spectrometry metabolite test that they're doing. presumably if they're following USATA guidelines, you're going to have a very minimal window assuming you're getting tested before the event, the day before or whatever it is. Um, but still, it doesn't mean you couldn't leverage these compounds during your training to try and get a a greater amount of overall workload done or poundages moved or whatever metric you are doing to uh evaluate your performance and your progression. It doesn't mean you can't use these during your training to get that aggression, enhance that sympathetic drive, enhance motor neuron recruitment during that training phase before the event and then carry over that uh strength benefit to the actual event itself and as well as you know reap the rewards of having um a ridiculously disproportionate strength relative to your size um because of the way you've chosen your drug protocol as well as that enhanced hemat logy profile to enhance your endurance as well. So, as far as the protocol he would use to achieve these end outcomes, you know, I've kind of speculated a bit. I wouldn't be surprised if it involves some of the agents I mentioned previously, as well as uh depends on exactly what they're testing for, too. I'd have to take a look at their uh testing parameters. If it's actually as strict as water, I would think it would be something similar to um um the Palo Costa stack that I outlined. However, with a you could potentially get away with even greater dosages and you can get away with some of these synthetic anabolic agents that would otherwise you would probably not [\h__\h] with in the offseason because you would not be worried about random drug testing because you would know you'd be able to get away with it right up until the event. So that would open up the floor to things like DHC derivatives and testosterone derivatives that would otherwise have guys hiding under the ring when Watish when USA shows up and whatnot to test you. um or their accredited uh you know third party that they're outsourcing their uh testing to. Um you wouldn't have to kind of like try and skirt around your you know like random tests and worry about metabolites as much because it's not as random after all. So you could get away with a wider array of compounds likely from the DHT derivative column as well as some of the um 19-nor derivatives for you know aggression pre-training or even some testosterone derivatives potentially. It depends on kind of honestly some of these have a lot of overlap in their effects and they can kind of accomplish the same things but it just depends how strict you are and if you have to go with bio identical hormones only if you have to use things that are not on their testing list and shitty you know Frankenstein compounds that achieve the same end outcomes but with a greater incidence of side effects that are otherwise undesired. It kind of depends. But for Sage, do I think he is natural? Personally, I think he would be dumb to be natural considering the league is he is in. So, no, I don't think he's natural right now and I wouldn't be surprised if he is deploying some anabolics to some extent as well as um whatever else he can get away with. You know, as far as how lenient one really is, it seems like it's pretty lax and that you would have an entire catalog available to you as long as you plan the pharmacocinetics well enough that you can clear it out of your system in time. So at that point it would be kind of a you know you have a laundry list of [\h__\h] you can actually go to and it's just goes down to the confidence you have in your chemist or your coach at that point to see if you can get away with it and for how long you can get away with it before the event. So like I said, at least the vectors of performance that he would otherwise favor, I would probably assume to be what I mentioned previously, rather than looking at compounds that um are skewed in the direction of protein expression, you would not look at things that are tissue selective like primoblone. You would not look at things that drive volume like Nandrallone. You would look more at things that drive aggression, um, sympathetic drive in the gym, um, things of that nature that can enhance performance and increase your strength with a relative lack of cranking up your body weight to such an unreasonable amount that you would have a very difficult time doing a 35 plus lb weight cut. So, um, take from that what you will. Let me know what you guys think in the comments down below. Do you think he's natural? What do you think he's doing if he is doing anything? And uh yeah, the comments help the algorithm. So they're much appreciated when you guys do them. And uh liking and subscribing obviously if you want to get notified whenever I post uh deep dives into bodybuilding or performance-enhancing drug pharmarmacology. And I highly recommend you subscribe to the newsletter. It's the first link in the description below if you want to get sent my articles when they go live because whenever they are uploaded, you will not get notified unless you are on that list. And my articles are far more elaborate and um easy to follow to be honest than my videos. more elaborate sounds kind of daunting considering the length of my videos, but frankly, they are more concise and have a table of contents with subsections, so it's more palatable. And they have hyperlinks to all the clinical studies I referenced for you to delve into further your own for your own personal research. If you wish, if you want to support the channel, you can check out anything I'm associated with in the video description below. My TRT clinic, if you are seeking hormone replacement therapy in any context, even hair loss prevention medication, anything of that nature, I recommend you check them out. It's where I get all of my pharma grade medications through now. It's all highquality patient care as well as doctors that have been vetted by myself personally that reflect the same level of information that I put out in my content and I pride myself on. And it's all tele medicine from the comfort of your own home. So you don't have to actually leave the house to do anything. You get your blood work assessed over Skype, FaceTime, Zoom, whatever is convenient for you. And then you get connected with our doctors who will make a personalized protocol for you and ship your meds right to your door if warranted. Obviously, not a not everyone needs medication, but this is a way to get your um health checked to see if anything would warrant intervention or optimization or um just uh replenishment if you're otherwise deficient. So, um check that out if that interests you and if you want to support Gorilla Mind, Gorilla Mode, my turnkey neutropic formulas as well as my pre-workouts. These I designed from scratch myself and I encourage you to pull out your current pre compare the label to Gorilla Mode Classic, the hybrid formula. This is the most comprehensive pre-workout on the market that hits all angles. It has a stacked eno precursor component with nine grams of lcitrilline. We have the agmatine sulfate in there. The elcitrine is not inflated with malic acid. We listed it separately on purpose so you know what you're exactly getting. We have a high dose of the hyperhydrating agents and plasma expanders in there. We have the glycer pump, the betane and hydrris. We have saturation dose of creatine which is obviously a no-brainer. We have a potent neutropic and stimulant blend as well through the high dose of kana, the enfenthyl dimethylamine citrate, the huparazine, the caffeine etc. This is the most stacked turnkey pre-workout on the market for all angles of performance. Not just from pump, not just from hyperhydration, not just from neutropic, not just from stimulant, but from all angles. If you want to check out the stimulant free formula, Gorilla Moitric, this is the most max out pure performance formula. has none of the stimulants or cognitive enhancing elements of the previous formula, but it has an even more maxed out NO precursor component. And it has an even more maxed out hyperhydrating and plasma expanding component. And this is also achieved through several different angles that are typically unadressed by 99% of other companies in the industry. We have an ACE inhibitor in here through vaso drive AP. We have a 10 gram dose of lcitrilline the max efficacious dose found in the clinical literature where no additional elcitrilline would yield any additional benefit whatsoever. There are no companies including these kind of dosages in their products. We have a higher dose of glycer pump, higher dose of betane, high dose of agmatine sulfate. We have a 1500 milligram dose of nitrogen. We even have a high dose of nitrates in there, too, for you to achieve the max possible pump possible, as well as achieve a level of performance that would otherwise be impossible with any other pre-workout on the market. Um, as far as Gorilla Mode Stim, this is the cost effective Stim Junkie pre-workout. It has the cognitive enhancing element of Gorilla Mode, but with none of the pump products, and it is at a much cheaper price point because of that. So, it appeals to those who just want pure mental performance in the gym or in the workplace or whatever it is that you may feel it is applicable for because it is after all an overall energy formula, not just a pre-workout. So, you can use this essentially anywhere you need a you need a major mental boost and it has double the dose of elyroine, double the dose of cona, increased dose of empanthyl dimethamine citrate, increased dose of caffeine. It's basically the stem junkie version of Gorilla Mode, but with none of the pump products and at a much more cost-effective price point for those who want uh just pure stems and neutropics or um for those who just want, you know, to be to get a cheaper pre that is just purely focused on the mental aspect. So, if you want to check those out and also subscribe to the podcast, it is the audio version of this. So, obviously listening on uh video can uh run through your data pretty heavily. So, if you're at the gym, if you're in the car, whatever, having the podcast available is definitely a good way to uh consume the content of more plates, more date. So, check that out. Subscribe to that if you're interested. Drop a fivestar rating. Thank you guys for watching.