I've seen a lot of guys crush estrogen throughout their entire cutting phases or contest preps because they think that is inhibiting their fat loss when in reality it's the opposite. Sup guys, Derek.com. Today we're going to be talking about the importance or lack thereof of estrogen. or a um you know ongoing debate in the bodybuilding hormone replacement optimization like bunch of different subsect of you know demographic that overlap with you know testosterone aromatizing into estrogen the use of TRT aromatase inhibitors gear aromatase inhibitors etc and there's an ongoing debate about if aromatase inhibitors should be used their detriment and or lack thereof and exactly what estrogen even does because you know we've often heard things like, you know, it's the cause of uh, you know, weight gain or it's, you know, the female hormone is just going to give you tits, that sort of thing. But in this article, we actually get into the true elucidation of its effects with other variables managed. And we've talked about estrogen's importance before. I did a video about testosterone is not neuroprotective estrogen is. This is a very, very interesting study that almost no one saw. This is back when I got a lot less views and this video in general is just a very informationheavy video. But they actually assessed the effects of neuroto toxicity as a result of testosterone use in different dosages, nandalone in different dosages, winstrol in different dosages. I forget what other anabolics those might have been the the few, but you could see a essentially dose dependence response in neurotoxicity. But this was regardless of the compound selected it was due to the estrogen at a physiological level there is a layer of neurop protection offered against the neurotoxicity of escalating super physiological doses of androgens and again even at like borderline I don't know therapeutic levels for things that are synthetic it seems like you know there's some potential neurotoxicity outcomes and some of this might be attenuated by the neurop protection that estrogen offers and this is why with tes testosterone when you look at the graphical representation of its neurotoxicity as well as when you administer um a nast also known as arimidex you see a complete attenuation of it essentially so like here when we have this low more so physiologic representation of testosterone plus anaststerol we have NMDA toxicity and this this dose escalation as well again you can't really compare this to human like production necessarily this is a model that is not really based off of like a you know invivo subject that is you know administering a dose dependent dose of testosterone like this study is which we're going to get into shortly but you can see the effects still extrapolated out and represented in a pretty definitive format here um in vitro and then further into the study we looked at the administration of anti-androgens as well to assess if this was actually androgen induced toxicity and flutamide was able to attenuate the neurotoxicity of synthetic anabolics which was otherwise essentially counterbalanced with physiologic estrogen levels. So ultimately there is like evidence to support that estrogen does essentially have like a ying and yang effect a little bit with testosterone and it has a counterbalancing neuroprotective effect on the effect androgens directly have on um neurons and whatnot. So, and in addition from like an actual practical aspect and you know I'm kind of trying to hit all different factors here, muscle building, fat loss, erection quality, sexual function, etc. We're going to get into the human data pretty shortly. This was how I feel personally with low versus high estrogen levels. Um, and this is kind of like just a good way to obviously blood work is key and ideal, but also symptoms, you know, very very prudent to go by symptoms as well. Like if you wake up and your dick is not working, like you don't have morning wood and you have erection erectile dysfunction all the time, like obviously despite the fact that your estrogen level on paper might be like dead in the middle of a reference range, it doesn't mean that you're good to go. Like something could be at play. And this is how I feel with high versus low estrogen. And it's a good kind of breakdown of what to sort of look for as like key, I don't know, takeaway, I don't know, signs essentially. In addition, the true cause of gyno. This is a very informative video about all of the stimulatory inputs that kind of cause proliferative breast tissue development. And it's not just estrogen. There is also um other stimulating hormones in the body as well as what inhibits their transcriptional activity too with the breast tissue. We get into that as well in this video. And there are uh more things to consider. In addition to that, why you need to get a sensitive assay estradi test using liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry rather than a electrochemcence radioassay because that is something that will be inaccurate as [\h__\h] if you don't get um LCMS testing. Very very prudent that you get that done in my opinion if you're a male or a female to be honest. Um so now circling back to the actual study I wanted to go to. The reason why this is such a good study is because it assesses literally castrated men using testosterone gel replacement but also with a aromatase inhibitor and without an aromatase inhibitor. So the elimination of variables is accomplished through this G&R agonist by essentially pseudo castrating these individuals and allowing you to actually assess through exact manual manipulation of hormones in the body what happens when you eliminate estrogen from the equation with your testosterone still there and then when you let your estrogen you know get to where it would otherwise physiologically spit out you know what amount of estradile from aromatization from the testosterone you're administering what exactly happens so in this study the current approaches to diagnosing testosterone deficiency do not consider the physiologic consequences of various testosterone levels or whether deficiencies of testosterone estradile or both account for clinical manifestations. So again, people think too when it's like their erection is poor quality or their sexual I don't know function slash libido is hindered or whatever like it's tied to your testosterone directly and yeah in a way part of it is but also estradile a very very direct determinant of sexual function quality of life like if you have crashed estrog estrogen even if your testosterone is through the [\h__\h] roof you will feel like [\h__\h] everything in life will feel gray you will have ED you will literally cease to care about sexual intercourse. Like, it's that intense. And I've talked about many times the story of uh when I took let try and like dry out to get as lean looking as physically possible at the end of an aggressive cut and how I literally stopped talking to uh the girls I was seeing at the time. And this was, you know, a long time ago, but um it was like I literally just ceased to give a [\h__\h] about females. I was just like, "All right, like no need to continue these relationships cuz I don't care about female interactions anymore. I am just going to cease sexual function entirely and my dick will only function for urination at this point." That was how you I felt at the time. All right. So here methods we provided 198 healthy men 20 to 50 years of age with goerellin acetate to suppress indogenous testosterone estradile. Now as far as what goerellin is, this is a ganadanotropen releasing hormone agonist. So this like G&R you probably are more familiar with the acronym but that is the acronym for um ginadotropen releasing hormone and that goes to your pituitary stimulates the release of luteinizing hormone follical stimulating hormone which goes down to your testes to stimulate intesticular testosterone production as well as spermatogenesis. And basically this gerellin stuff is an analog. It's synthetic. It's almost like an HCG like how that mimics LH to some extent like that's what it does but this is kind of like the G&R equivalent of that. So HCG trying to mimic LH goerellin or things like um you know tryptoellin um these are things that will mimic G&R and stimulate the same receptor. So basically when it actually binds to the G&R receptor cells in the pituitary gland it causes a initial surge in luteinizing hormone but after that initial surge you have a subsequent downregulation effect of it which actually results in castration. Yes, this is why you've you may have heard of tryptoellin how you need to be extremely careful with its use because you may end up castrating yourself. That's the intensity of the these G&RH synthetic analoges. Like that's, you know, when they try to castrate like a sex offender or some [\h__\h] They would traditionally use things like this in order to castrate them. So very, very, you know, sketchy medications to be [\h__\h] around with. Obviously they do what they're intended to do but over you know over stimulation of the um this receptor complex can indeed lead to down regulation which subsequently leads to a crash after that subsequent spike in LH and FSH production. So basically they wanted to rule out any kind of you know in confounding factors essentially. So here they have random assignment to receive placebo gel or 1.25 25 g, 2.5 g, 5 g or 10 grams of testosterone gel daily for 16 weeks. Another 202 healthy men received the G&R agonist placebo gel or testosterone gel and anastraol to suppress the conversion of test to estradile. Changes in percentage of body fat and lean mass were the primary outcomes. Sub subcutaneous and intraabdominal fat areas, thigh muscle area and strength and sexual function were also assessed. So jumping down to cohort one, we have the effects of testosterone without aromatase inhibition. So these are just guys getting test gel in whichever dose they were assigned. Percentage body fat increased significantly in men who received 0 g, 1.25 g or 2.5 grams of testosterone daily as compared with men who received 5 g and it decreased significantly in men who received 10 grams of testosterone daily as compared with each other each of the other groups. So reason for this is if you have less than what you would naturally produce, you are going to experience a regression actually and this is where we see the traditional graded dose response study. Um I'll put up a card to exactly how much muscle does 0 25 millig 50 millig 125 millig 300 millig 600 millig of injected testosterone and anthate how much muscle do you gain? That study is the most like informative of all the studies in terms of body composition outcomes from graded dose response to testosterone exogenously even up to like over like literal cycle territory blast dosages. In that study you basically saw the first few cohorts were losing muscle mass even though they were on like TRT. It's because they were using a dose that was less androgen receptor stimulation um than they were getting from their natural testosterone. So if you administer, you know, 50 milligrams of test per week after cleaving off the estester, the amount of freely circulating hormone in your body still, like you might end up with a total tea of like [\h__\h] you know, a few hundred if you're lucky. Like you you have no idea. You might be an individual who's a poor responder too or has, you know, everyone responds differently in terms of how much testosterone you're going to actually have bioavailable to then use in target tissues and whatnot. And then as expected once you got up to like the I think it was the 125 milligram mark obviously there was some level between 50 and 125 where people were like you know breaking even but at 125 they were gaining muscle and losing fat. 300 they were you know significantly gaining muscle and losing fat and 600 very significantly gaining muscle loss fat. Same thing here. This is just the test gel essentially like comparative version of that kind of a study. So this is graded dose response essentially and you saw the essentially the dosages that were suboptimal compared to natural production caused a loss of um caused fat gain and then the dosages that were actually super physiological caused fat loss. Lean mass um decreased significantly in the you know lower dose groups um as compared with men who received uh 2.5 g 5 g or 10 gly. So yeah, here the percentage fat body fat increased in these guys up to 2.5 grams. Then after that decrease significantly so fat loss occurring once dosages actually equate to above baseline as you would expect. And then lean mass the same representation that you would expect as well decreased in men receiving too little of a dose and guys receiving an adequate enough dose to build muscle. You know gain muscle in a dose dependent manner. Again diminishing returns on the [\h__\h] but dose dependent manner to some extent. subcutaneous fat area increased by a factor of two to three in men receiving a sub-optimal dose as compared with men receiving five to 10 or 10 grams daily. Now again once we actually get into the aromatase inhibition component like that's where [\h__\h] gets really interesting. So um and as expected you had you know leg press strength decreasing in individuals who got placebo but men who received you know an adequate or super physiological dose of test did not have that decrease of course like you would expect. And here you had, you know, thigh muscle area decreasing with the too low of dose increasing significantly with men who received a high enough dose. You know, it's kind of par for the course what you'd expect. But here, effects of testosterone with aromatase inhibition on body composition. So, cohort two, percentage of body fat increase in all groups when the aromatase aromatization of testosterone to estradile was inhibited. You heard me correctly. in all groups, the same [\h__\h] dosages of test, but with estradiol wiped out through aromatase inhibition with an astrol. The magnitudes of these increases were similar with doses of 0 g, 1.25 g, 2.5 g, and 5 g of testosterone daily. A finding that suggest a predominantly estrogenic effect. Total body lean mass decreased significantly in men who received placebo as compared with those who received 1.25, 25, 2.5 or 10 gram of testosterone daily, finding that implies an independent effect of testosterone. Subcutaneous fat area increased in all groups in cohort 2, though only the comparison of changes between the 1.25 and 10 g dose groups was significant. Increases in intraabdominal fat area did not differ significantly among the dose groups. Thigh muscle area decreased significantly in men who received placebas compared with men who received any of the four testosterone doses. As in cohort one, leg press strength declined significantly in men who received placebo as compared with men who received the three highest testosterone doses. So again, you had similar outcomes in some metrics, but again, like some of the fat loss metrics or fat gain metrics, you start to see an interesting contrast with what you have otherwise probably been previously led to believe is like one of the main reasons for, you know, fat not falling off your body. It's like, oh, your estrogen's way too [\h__\h] high, bro. Effects of testosterone with and without aromatase inhibition on sexual function. In cohort one, sexual desire decreased progressively with declining testosterone doses from 10 g to zero grams of testosterone daily. And all dose groups differed significantly from one another except for the 2.5 and 5 g dose groups. Erectile function worsened significantly in men who received placebo as you would expect um as compared with men who received testosterone and declined more and more in uh more in men who received 1.25 grams of testosterone daily than in men in the three highest dose groups. Cohort two, sexual desire declined placebo as compared with men in the three highest dose groups and declined more in men who received 1.25 grams of testosterone daily than in men in the two highest dose groups. erectile function decrease more in men who receive placebo than in many men who receive testosterone. Results for other self-reported measures are available in the supplementary appendix. And finally, comparisons of changes in body composition and sexual function with and without aromatase blockade cohort testosterone dose interaction was significant for the percentage of body fat, intraabdominal fat, uh subcutaneous fat, sexual desire, and erectile function. These findings indicate that estradile exerted an independent effect on these variables in the groups that received testosterone. inhibition of estrogen synthesis as compared with intact estrogen synthesis was associated with significant increases in the percentage of body fat. So again that's quite paradoxical to what most people a lot of people probably think you know these findings indicate estradile exerted independent effects group that received testosterone inhibition of estrogen as compared to leaving it intact increases in body fat. So inhibiting estrogen increases body fat like this is you know plain as day this is a paradoxal paradoxical outcome than what a lot of us have been taught and led to believe when we were you know getting into a lot of this you know pharmarmacology exploration. So anyways increases in body fat uh subcutaneous intraabdominal fat and with significant decreases in sexual desire and erectile function. So across the board no good. These findings provide additional evidence of an independent effect of estradile on these measures. The cohort testosterone dose interaction was not significant for totally total body lean mass, thigh, muscle area or leg press strength among the men who received testosterone. There were no significant differences between cohorts in changes from baseline for total body lean mass, thigh muscle area or leg press strength. So the more elaborate conclusion essentially that our finding that estrogens have a fundamental role in the regulation of body fat and sexual function coupled with evidence from prior studies of the crucial role of estrogen in bone metabolism and again like cardiovascular health, bone health. These are all things that are largely regulated by satisfactory estrogen receptor signaling and is also why menopausal women end up having a drastic spike in neurotoxicity. you know, Alzheimer's progression, cardiovascular disease risk goes through the roof. Bone mineral degradation, like all of these things skyrocket in menopause when estrogen crashes and obviously testosterone crashes, too. But a lot of these things, as we've found by isolating variables are dictated by adequate estrogen receptor activation. So estrogen deficiency is largely responsible for some of the key consequences of male hypogonatadism and suggests that measuring estradile might be helpful in assessing the risk of sexual dysfunction, bone loss or fat accumulation in men with hypogonatism. For example, in men with serum testosterone levels of 200 to 400 NOGS per deciliter, sexual function or sexual desire scores decreased by 13% if estradile levels were 10 pogs per milliliter or more and by 31% of estradile levels were below 10 pigs per milliliter. So this is a pretty like hypoganatal a lot of times is quantified at like 250 or less on paper. 400 you know there are certain individuals that might thrive or do okay at 400. You know it's not necessarily the norm. However, this is like a physiologic like normalish level. But you note that all of a sudden these like factors of quality of life essentially deteriorate when estradiol levels are below a certain threshold that is indicative of either you know aromatase inhibition or you know whatever it is that you're doing at the estrogen level to inhibit this process. Not ideal. Our findings also suggest that treatment with aromatizable androgens would be preferable to treatment with non-aromatizable androgens in most men with hypogonatism. So of note though the study has limitations. First to avoid clinically significant changes in healthy men such as bone loss. The study was limited to 16 weeks because changes in body composition may progress over time. Greater changes might have been seen at higher testosterone estradile levels of gatal steroids had been suppressed for over longer period of time. Second, although most circulating estradile is derived from aromatization of circulating testosterone, small portion is directly secreted by the testes in normal men and may not be restored with exogenous testosterone administration. That's where something like a HCG may be a viable alternative um for men who do not have like actual gonadal failure as a result of lack of response to gonadotropins. So HCG is like there's a reason why certain guys get better libido outcomes and whatnot from HCG or you know re combinant LH with FSH or you know just actual indogenous analoges essentially synthetic analoges of actual ganandotropins relative to using like just straight up testosterone administrations cuz stuff does happen locally in the testes that is important for sexual function and whatnot as well as like neuroststereroid production and stuff. These are things that are going to be not maxed out or optimized properly when you're using just straight up test. And that's not to say that you can't get away with straight up test like tons of men do. You know, that's personally what I'm using right now. But HCG it's like clear or you know HMG recombinant LHFSH these are things that literally can replicate natural function again pending that your test testicles will actually respond accordingly to the adequate gonadotropen analog induced stimulation. So like again if you have like literal testicular failure obviously HCG is not going to do [\h__\h] Third, changes in in uh changes induced by aromatase inhibi inhibition could primarily reflect the effects on local aromatase activity. Therefore, circulating estradile levels may not reflect estrogen effects reliably. So yeah, like obviously this is a tissue specific thing too. So you have like actual local aromatization into the hormone estrogen in your brain, your heart, your like everywhere. So just because you have a certain amount circulating in your blood, it is not necessarily representative of what is going on in every tissue in the body because you can't measure like you know like brain estrogen levels. You're not going to take a [\h__\h] biopsy of your brain of to see what your brain estrogen levels are necessarily. So um you go by blood. You can use it as a proxy though and we see general trends when numbers are at a certain level versus another certain level. and you can at least compare it to your total tea levels as well and get certain metrics that are relevant and worthwhile to evaluate in my opinion. So again, like this is there's covering all their bases to explain why this is not like like ideally you would have like a [\h__\h] biopsy of every tissue in the body and then show what the actual local activity of these hormones is, but obviously that's not a reproducible thing. Changes seen in our model of acute gonatal steroid deprivation may also differ from those seen when gonatal steroids decline gradually over a period of years. Finally, it seems likely that the relationship between declining gonatal steroid levels and the risk of adverse consequences is more accurately represented as a continuum that has a rigid threshold above which clinical measures are normal and below which adverse changes occur. However, clinicians ultimately must decide how to treat each patient on the basis of his individual data of which the testosterone level is generally the principal component. In summary, we conducted a dose ranging study to determine the relative testosterone doses and associated serum levels at which body composition, strength, and sexual function initially declined by examining these relationships with and without suppression of estrogen synthesis. We found that lean mass, muscle size, and strength are regulated by androgens. Fat accumulation is primarily a consequence of estrogen deficiency, and sexual function is regulated by both androgens and estrogens. Delineation of the degrees of hypoganism at which undesirable consequences develop and of the relative roles of androgens and estrogens in each outcome should facilitate the development of more rational approaches to the diagnosis and treatment of hypogonatism in men. And obviously in case you're curious this is worthwhile to touch on too is what these testosterone gel administrations actually yielded in terms of nanogram per deciliter total test levels. out to actually reach what I would consider to be like reasonable physiologic levels. Um, you know, 5 g seems, you know, like the amount that most men, you know, did uh reasonably well with when it comes to total tea yield. Um, with 10 being like, you know, the optimized like borderline super physiological male essentially. But again, this is going to boil down to individual dose response and individual response to how you cleave hormones, how your body responds for fast acting versus long acting, testosterone administrations with esters versus gel, like all this [\h__\h] plays into it. And your total serum level, regardless of it looks good on paper, it looks not perfect and optimized on paper. Like maybe you end up with like a perpetually redline sympathetic nervous system when you are way too close to a thousand and your sleep gets [\h__\h] up and it actually inhibits quality of life and health versus a guy that you would have been maybe you would have been better off at closer to 600 like or this guy maybe he doesn't have adequate androgen receptor activation at this level and he needs you know closer to 1,000 NOGS per deciliter to feel symptom relief. Like everyone differs and this is ultimately like a range at the end of the day. Nothing is definitive, but this is just a metric of assessment and a proxy for kind of like ballparking where [\h__\h] is reasonable. So keep that in mind. But this is a good point to make cuz a lot of these gram, you know, mentions like when we hear milligs of injection, we're kind of more familiar with it without seeing the nanogram per deciliter actual serum equivalent. But here with testosterone gel, like most guys probably aren't familiar with what actually yielded adequate levels. So when you're hearing like muscle loss or like fat gain and stuff with dosages around here, like you can kind of see why now when you see what these are actually yielding, you know, like we had levels, estradi levels that are like barely physiologic until you hit um like 2.5 is like [\h__\h] still like really bottom of the barrel. And five, we're getting close to 20 and then only once you get to 10, you're almost at like, you know, the top of the traditional reference range essentially. And of course with aromatase inhibition you have a complete wiping out nearly of all aromatase activity essentially at least aromatase activity interacting with the testosterone to produce estradile. So anyway serum testosterone levels of nog per deciliter we had 2.5 nearing you know like I don't know 380ish five getting to you know closer to 500 or so and then 10 g achieving like a 800 nanogram per deciliter total essentially. So ultimately the takeaway from this is that estrogen fulfills roles that may have otherwise been overlooked entirely in terms of sexual function, cardiovascular health, brain health, bone health, also fat loss outcomes. Something that goes completely overlooked in my opinion. You often think that the way to go about a fat loss phase. I've seen a lot of guys crush estrogen throughout their entire cutting phases or contest preps because they think that is inhibiting their fat loss when in reality it's the [\h__\h] opposite. this is something that you need to facilitate adequate fat loss as well as you know other downstream cascades like growth factor production with your IGF-1 and whatnot like these things are all intertwined and having a actual estradile level that is representative of the amount of testosterone like actual comparable proportionally would be ideal like if you're using a certain dose of test you know inhibiting your estrogen to like 15 pogs per milliliter because on paper that looks like the sweet spot in the reference range or 20 or 22 or whatever it is but your test is like [\h__\h] 2,500 niggs per deciliter or more. Like, does that make a whole lot of sense? Like, obviously, there are certain scenarios though where individuals get gynecomastia development from a certain dose of testosterone. Even at TRT dosages, like we're not just talking about bodybuilder [\h__\h] Using TRT, they end up with, you know, gynecomastia development. In puberty, they had gyno from literal just [\h__\h] puberty. In which case, there are unique more targeted approaches to things like aromadase inhibition. when you have like a genetically odd outlier like excess of activity or you have way too much fat and you know you are producing more aromatase than the next guy and it causes more estrogen to be produced as a consequence. These are all like outlier scenarios and should be considered like the aromatase inhibition is not something that has no utility. It definitely is very very specific and has targeted applications that definitely make sense for certain individuals in certain scenarios. But in general, when it comes to TRT replacement, most guys would be better off going to like a micro dose daily administration schedule, reducing the burden on their body from their administration to not have a super physiological spike with a concurrent superphysiological amount of aromatization happening concurrently and going to a more endogenous kind of like representation of natural function route with you know daily administrations of micro doses. That would be something that would be way more I don't know responsible in my opinion than jumping immediately to the anastriol route because you see how this affects you. It's not necessarily a positive thing. If you could achieve the same outcome with symptom relief, with lifestyle intervention, sleep hygiene, like again like I think even melatonin might have interactions with [\h__\h] gynot attenuation to some extent. Perhaps I'm forgetting, maybe I'm misremembering on that, but like things like circadian rhythms and like natural endogenous hormone cascades are definitely they need to be there for adequate estrogen receptor signaling where it's not excessive and you're not, you know, having a hard time uh actually metabolizing the estrogens out of your body too. Um some of the exposure to some of the you know synthetic chemicals and [\h__\h] that we unfortunately are disproportionately exposed to nowadays, you know, being mindful of those things. endocrine disruptors, all that kind. There's a lot of stuff to consider at the end of the day, but it is worthwhile, I think, before you haphazardly jump on like a lifelong andastol concurrent treatment with your TRT or with whatever you're doing, you evaluate all of the natural interventions that could be appropriate alternatives before you go that route. Because often times if you are not somebody who actually like literally clinically has no [\h__\h] choice and needs it that badly, you're going to end up with deteriorated outcomes in certain metrics that you might otherwise want to avoid. So thought it was worthwhile to elucidate the importance of estrogen, not just from AI don't know like uh like what aspects do men even understand what estrogen is good for? I guess in general, if you watch my channel, you you're probably aware of most of that, some of these factors. But the average person who is on TRT, they get just like a cookie cutter protocol prescribed to them with HCG, TRT, and asterisol and they get kicked out the door because they're just getting their markup on medications at the clinic and they don't give a [\h__\h] about staying up to date on the literature or anything like that or optimizing the patients quality of life, health, cuz yeah, like if you're low tea and you get on all of that [\h__\h] you're probably going to have a better state of quality of life above baseline even with this suboptimal, you know, aromatase inhibition component added in. Like I've literally seen prescriptions where you have like 1 millig per milliliter of an astrool like compounded into the [\h__\h] test. Like that kind of stuff is absolutely mindboggling to me. So anyways, this is hopefully some elucidation of the importance of not just testosterone but also estrogen and um you know not indiscriminately inhibiting it unless like absolutely warranted and you know going about different ways of attenuating um estrogen issues should they crop up without just half-hazardly jumping on a super high dose of like an aromatase inhibitor. So anyways, hopefully you enjoyed that. Hopefully you learned something. Like, subscribe, check my blog moreplace.com. Follow me on Instagramplay Facebook, Snapchat, Twitter, Tik Tok, a couple podcasts if you want to support the channel. Check out anything I'm associated with in the video description below, including my preventive medicine hormone replacement therapy platform where we connect you with highquality doctors, providers who represent this same quality of information, stay up to date on all of this literature, and understand it inside out. And you can be assured that they won't haphazardly throw you on a laundry list of [\h__\h] that makes no sense. They will evaluate your diagnostics and your individual situation. And instead of cookie cutter prescribing you something that every single other patient got, they will actually make appropriate protocol recommendations even from a natural perspective in order to optimize your quality of life, performance, vitality, etc. This is again like we deal with naturals too. This is not just if you're going to be on TRT like people who just want to look at their blood work, look at their diagnostics, get a high quality doctor in their camp who's looking out for their best interests. You know, we evaluate all options. And this may include circling back to things like diet, lifestyle, sleep hygiene before you jump on TRT. Even if you think you're low tea, maybe you're just like [\h__\h] hyper stressed and your sleep sucks. Like, this is not uncommon and guys end up on a TRT regimen for life because another clinic has a cookie cutter way of diagnosing and prescribing and just wants to get the you on the meds. That's how they do it. You know, it's unfort it's unfortunate, but it's pretty [\h__\h] common. So anyways, you can check that out if you want high quality uh medical oversight or just to uh you know check your own labs too. You can do that. We have a um self-service labs builder where you can you know get pre-esigned panels that have been audited by me and approved or you can you know create your create your own panel individually pick your own biomarkers from scratch and it's pretty cost- effective compared to other labs and we actually offer high sensitivity testing like estradile LCMS that you can add individually. You could literally check out with one biioarker if you want rather than be forced to buy like a $400 panel which you might at another, you know, lab offering company cuz a lot of them to get the actual labs you want. Like if you want one certain metric like a free DHT, you know, or something like that or a free test with equilibrium dialysis, you're forced to get like $700 of other [\h__\h] That is not the case with us. You can individually add whatever biioarker you want you want to your cart. So you can check that out as well as anything else I'm associated with. It's all in the video description below. Thank you guys for watching.