 all right, we're back again for round two with Peter. Welcome to your own home for my podcast. Nice to be here. Thanks for having me. All right, so we're gonna get into, off the bat, something interesting that I kinda wanted to ask last time and it just fell off my radar, but something up and coming you're excited about in like the medicine 3.0 world. Like oftentimes we hear you have to say the same things over again on podcasts and I'm sure it gets very repetitive, but I'm interested, what are some things that we may not know about that isn't necessarily things you'd recommend or things that are implementable in practical application, but stuff that you see as super interesting to you in the near or distant future? I mean, there's something that stands out above all other things that really, really interest me scientifically, but there's no application for it at this time and there may not be in my lifetime, but I consider it one of the most important questions in biology actually and it really comes down to epigenetics. So, it might be worth a minute of background just for the audience to kind of understand the ins and outs of that. So, I think most people understand how the genome works and how DNA works and how DNA is a template that is used vis-a-vis a code to make something called RNA. RNA is then how that code is translated into the production of protein. So, everything about our existence comes from this translation of DNA to RNA to protein. In fact, that's referred to as the central dogma. And to put some numbers to it, if you kind of took all of the base pairs of DNA that we have in our body, it's about three billion base pairs. So, the base pairs are C, G, A, T and obviously no two people unless they're identical have the exact same sequence of those three billion base pairs. So, one of the things that we also now understand is that a very small subset of those base pairs actually do the coding, right? So, you have coding and non-coding sequences of that DNA. Now, something that's really interesting is like, if I took a cheek swab from you, I would be able to extract your entire genetic sequence. But obviously the cells I took it from, which are cheek cells, are only expressing a very narrow subset of that, which become the epithelial cells of your cheek. And similarly, if I took blood from you and looked at your red blood cells or white blood cells, I'd again, I would see the DNA of everything, but why did that one become a macrophage and that one became a red blood cell? And why did this one become a hepatocyte and this one became a beta cell? And you get the point, right? You have thousands of different cell types in your body. Each one contains the same DNA, the same instruction code. Why the selective creation of one cell type and one set of proteins? And that's regulated by this pattern of methylation. So, what is that? So, a methyl group is a carbon bound to three hydrogen. So, it's a very simple, simple unit of hydrocarbon. And these methyl groups are attached to certain positions on the DNA. In fact, they're almost always, if not always, attached to a C, a cytosine that is next to a G. So, you'll hear people refer to a CPG because it's a C and then a phosphate and then a G. So, on select CPGs, you have a methyl group. And to again, put some scale to it, when a person is born, which is generally when they have the most number of those methylation sites, they might have on the order of 28 to 30 million of them. So, you do the math, that's like a little bit less than 1% of their base pairs are methylated. But those methylation points have a huge impact on gene expression. In fact, that's what tells a gene, that's what tells, hey, you're gonna express this gene. You're gonna turn this section of DNA into RNA to make this particular protein. Okay, so that's kind of like epigenetics 101. As we age, that methylation pattern changes. And as we enter states of disease, independent of age, that methylation state alters. As a general rule, as you get older, you lose methylation sites. So, you compare somebody who's newborn to somebody who's 50 like me, there's gonna be, it's not subtle, right? No one would have a hard time if they ran the gene sequence on me versus a child to see which one of us is 50, which one is not. Simply, if for no other reason, not looking at mutational burden or anything else, just looking at the change in methylation pattern. So, an interesting question is the following. We know that one of the hallmarks of aging, and hallmarks of aging are just generally these things that are like cellular changes that are globally associated with aging. We know that one of them is a change in the epigenome, a change in the methylome. And to me, the most interesting question is, is that change causal for all the other changes associated with aging? So, if you think about what some of those other changes are that are associated with aging, things like inflammation, so sterile inflammation, mitochondrial dysfunction, reduced nutrient sensing capacity, increased incinescent cells, all of those things that are hallmarks of aging, all of those things that are moving in the wrong direction as we get older, one of them, by the way, is epigenetic change. The question is, are those all independently occurring, or does one of them sit at the very top? And does the one that sit at the very top this epigenetic change? To me, this is the most interesting question right now. And it's a bold statement, so I'm sure many people would not agree with that. But if that is the master regulator, and the question then becomes, what does it mean to restore the epigenome to that of an earlier time? Does that truly mediate regression of age in cell tissue? So, if you ask like a thought experiment, which is like, let's assume I sampled your epigenome every year of your life, from birth until you were 80 years old, and I could miraculously, using CRISPR technology, take the 80 year old version of you and convert the epigenome exactly back to the way it looked like when you were 20, what would the phenotype be? I mean, that to me is the most interesting thing I wanna understand. I do think that in our lifetime, those questions will get answered in tissue specific ways, whether it will have the technology or the tools to answer that question at the level of the whole organism, I'm not sure yet, but I mean, I think that's just a super fascinating question. Is there any way to measure, like obviously there is evaluations of centenarians and what it is that got them there, is it some special subset of genetics that no one else has, is it the classic protective snips that you hear about? When it comes to some of these hallmarks of aging, is there some absolute way to measure, for example, mitochondrial dysfunction, is it some sort of metric of proportions relative to whole body, mitochondrial capacity at baseline or like how? Yeah, I mean, it's amazing how many of these things don't have standard assays. I mean, mitochondrial function actually is a great clinical test and that's what zone two testing is, right? So people hear me talk about zone two all the time. I mean, what might be lost on folks is that your zone two output, which again, just for folks to understand what we're talking about, zone two is the highest level of work you can do, measured in wattage or whatever suitable metrics, that you can do while keeping lactate below two millimole. So a rising level of steady state work while keeping lactate between below two millimole means you're at your maximum pure aerobic capacity. Once lactate goes above two millimole, you can do even more work, right? You can generate far more output above two millimole, but it won't be indefinitely sustainable. And by definition, you are now exceeding the mitochondrial capacity. So some of that ATP has to be generated outside of the mitochondria. So therefore the highest level of work a person can sustainably hold at a lactate below two millimole is the ultimate representation of mitochondrial function. And undoubtedly that's declining as we age. Now, the centenarian thing is interesting because, and I think I dedicate an entire chapter to them in the book, there is no one gene that is like the longevity gene. And in fact, it's really a lot of little things that seem to have minor, relatively minor effects that are all predicated around delaying these hallmarks of aging. I mean, that is effectively what's happening. So the phenotype of a centenarian is indeed a younger phenotype. From an epigenetic standpoint, by the way, they do have more methylation patterns than you would expect. So for example, you might see the same number of methylation sites on a centenarian that you would see on a 70 year old who doesn't come from centenarian families and who wouldn't be expected to live another 30 years. So that's just kind of another manifestation of these long-lived people. Question on methylation. So that is something that often comes up in, you know, genetic discussion as to this is a big regulator of, you know, if you, even what your current biological age is or what your predicted day of death is, like there are certain things based on this that, you know, the average person doesn't really know like how legitimate it is if this is, you know, rigorously tested. And I think ultimately though, too, a lot of people, even like myself, when you find out you have impairments in methylation through your genetic analysis, some people are getting 23 and me is done, ancestry, et cetera, using their data, plugging in, finding out they have, oh, the worst polymorphism for MTHFR or this other one that impairs in an additional 10% and this and that, you need all these special things in order to try and fix it to that of a normal person. What implication does that have, if any, or unknown on, you know, the methylation component of longevity, like if you have impairment in these genes, is that gonna be, you know, some manifestation of inhibitors? I think these are kind of unrelated phenomenon, you know, the whole MTHFR thing is a little bit of a, I think people make more hay out of it than it's, than needs to be made. As you pointed out, I mean, virtually everybody is heterozygous for some polymorphism there that results in, I mean, if I think of how many patients I've seen, whose data I have seen for that, I don't know, I could count on one hand the number of people who are quote unquote, perfect wild type on both genes, like it's not common. Yeah. In fact, it's so rare that we've stopped checking now because it's so clinically irrelevant. Right. In other words, we'll treat an elevated homocysteine with a methylated B vitamin or a B vitamin, depending on their B vitamins status, but we'll treat the homocysteine. In other words, we'll use the homocysteine as the biomarker independent of the genotype. Yeah. Just like even if you have it, if it doesn't manifest in some degree of impairment that you can visually see in a biomarker assessment, it's kind of like, you just know you have it and it's not that useful, right? Yeah, and our rationale for testing homocysteine is, you know, for managing the homocysteine is kind of loosely based on one study that looked at reducing homocysteine improved people with mild cognitive impairment. Okay. No, good to know. I think that would actually put a lot of people's at ease because a lot of people find out I have this, you know, genetic predisposition and it supposedly inhibits my methylation by X percentage. Yeah, to which I would say you and 95% of everybody else myself included. Why kids? Yeah, it's not a big deal. I don't know, kind of miscellaneous question before we're going to ramp into some of these specific sub topics. Books that have changed your life, is there any that you would recommend like above all else as this was a very big, I don't know, needle mover for my perspective on life, family, success, entrepreneurship, like whatever? Yeah, I think there have been a lot. I mean, it's probably easier for me to just think chronologically going back from where I am now. I mean, I think of, you know, books that I've read in the last few years that, and I've spoken about a lot of them and I think I've probably had the author of every one of these books I'm about to say on the podcast. That's how much, you know, once I like a book, I, you know, I want to get to know the person who wrote it. So, Bill Perkins wrote a book called Die With Zero. That's had an enormous impact on how I think about life. Oliver Berkman's 4000 Weeks. Michael Easter's The Comfort Crisis. Arthur Brooks, From Strength to Strength. Yeah, you just had them on, right? Just had them on. God, I know I'm blanking on a few. Oh, Ryan Holidays Stillness is the key. I thought it was an excellent book. Um, boy, I'd have to, I'd have to just kind of go back through my audible playlist to start rolling out. That's a good list, dude. Yeah, I will, I will go add that to my, I'm already into the Bill Perkins one, but the other ones I will add to my listen to list. Something I'm genuinely interested in and perhaps it's a bit deviating from the traditional questions of, you know, what's the thing that makes you live the longest? How do you perform better, feel better from an entrepreneurship standpoint? What do you kind of optimize for as, I don't know, like business orientation now? Like do you, as you get older, obviously you start to make realizations about financial freedom and also what's actually important to you. And I'm sure a lot of it was inspired by, you know, the Bill Perkins book as well. Absolutely. Right. What are your primary business goals now? And like, what do you kind of like? I don't know. What do you look for as motivators in business or what do you kind of work towards at this point? So I think of it less in that regard, as I think about it, like where, where do, where do I want to make tradeoffs in favor of? Right. So, you know, one thing that I think a lot about is credibility matters to me much more than money or fame or recognition. Right. So I, I, I think that, you know, there are a handful of people who put out content, for example, where the primary goal is to make exceptional content, even if that content is not very sexy, even if that content doesn't lead to lots of viral clips, even if that content isn't easily monetizable, et cetera. Um, so for me, even though if you were just coming at this purely from a business standpoint, you would say, like, Peter, your podcasts are really long and kind of fricking boring and they're so technical and, you know, like they're not really that exciting. Sometimes I would say that's okay, because I'm not optimizing for that. I am optimizing to create the best, most accurate content imaginable. And that's the goal every day. Um, so, so that's a, that's a huge tradeoff, but I understand that tradeoff. Like I know I can recognize when people are optimizing for the other thing. And I don't want to do that. Um, another thing I'm optimizing for is, uh, you know, you know, flexibility in, in, in, in sort of how I spend my time. And I could be doing a much better job of that, but I am doing a better job than I have in the past. And I, I think I'm on a pretty good trajectory to continue to refine that, but that's a, that very much as you said, kind of comes from the sort of the Bill Perkins ethos, right? Which is it's really easy to sort of forget, you know, why you're working so hard if you're too busy to enjoy the experiences with the people that matter to you. And, um, so yeah, I think that, um, you know, I still managed to play every single day. Right. So I long gone are the days where I worked so hard that there was absolutely no joy in life. Like, you know, having kids is an amazing way to sort of play every single day. Um, I still do, you know, hobbies, like I still do my hobbies every single day, not all of them, of course, but like every day I will do something that is just pure recreational bliss. So again, there are business decisions and trade-offs you have to make to permit that. And it often comes at the cost of maybe making more money or having more of an impact, uh, or, you know, having more of a presence. But, you know, I just think, I don't know, it's, it's, it may be as nihilistic, but, but I just, I'm not convinced any of that stuff really matters in the long run. Quick note from today's sponsor, eight sleep. One of the most insane pieces of tech I've ever added to my home. This is not an exaggeration just for the ad. I love this thing. And so as my girlfriend, it literally tells us every morning what it did to improve our sleep and is clinically proven to give you up to an extra hour of sleep per night and it ensures that it's dialing in the quality via temperature modulation, changes in incline to prevent you from snoring as much, literally vibrating you non-sexually awake, waking up as opposed to blaring an alarm that wakes up your partner. So if you wake up at separate times, this thing will actually warm you up gently and slowly vibrate to kind of whisk you out of sleep in a gentle way to make sure you have a very nice, non-startling wake. Whereas your partner remains undisturbed on the other side and they are in their own temperature controlled environment on the other side of the bed. The thing literally splits down the middle to temperature modulate both sides of the bed accordingly based on who is lying there. And it tracks all of your metrics without having to wear anything separately. So you can even compete against your partner to see who gets better sleep. It's pretty unreal, all the stuff it does. I literally don't think I've taken a breath this whole goddamn video because of all the stuff I want to say about it. It's that sick. So I have done the whole, you know, wearing wearables thing, tracking my sleep, but this thing, it takes it to another level. It will literally incline you to prevent you from snoring. The temperature modulation in itself is nuts. And then the accuracy of the tracking is not dissimilar from the wearables that you would otherwise have to make sure you remember to charge. You have to, you know, put on every single time you would both have to buy your own and they do nothing for you to actually improve your sleep quality. This thing will can chill you from such a hot temperature. It can literally make up for having no AC. Like that's how insane it is. So in a typical scenario, either me or my girlfriend, we get decimated with our sleep quality getting destroyed if we had the room, the temperature that was perfect for each of us. So if I had it the way I wanted, she would freeze the death. And if she had it the way she wanted, I would literally light my ass on fire. So that doesn't work for one of us. So this thing is the perfect optimization tool for sleep. And I love it. You know, there are a lot of things that are over the top when it comes to like biohacking that are hyped up. This isn't one of them. This thing actually makes an impactful difference. And I have my entire family using it at this point as well. Unreal. So I would highly recommend trying it out. If you want to give it a shot, it is literally just a cover that wraps around your mattress. You put it on. You can get their full blown mattress too if you want, but you can just opt for the cover and it works just fine. And it works around queen size mattresses, Kings, California Kings. Things are awesome. And it has been a game changer for me. So they also have a Black Friday deal going right now. So if you want to check it out, you can go to eightsleep.com slash more plates more dates, use code NPMD to save up to $600 off of their full blown pod for ultra bundle. This is the most aggressive bundle they have in the most aggressive sale I've ever seen, 600 bucks off. Typically there are discounts for my code or like $200 off the pod four or 350 off the pod for ultra. I think the minimum discount for Black Friday right now is $400 and you can get up to 600 off if you go for the full blown bundle. So check it out. Now would be the time if you're on the fence and I could not recommend it more highly if that was a grammatically correct sentence. I love this thing. So check it out. Eightsleep.com slash more plates more dates link in description below. Make sure to use my code so that let them know that I sent you and back to our regularly scheduled programming. No, yeah, that totally makes sense. Um, question on, I guess it's sort of business related before I get into some of this fertility stuff I have here. Chat GPT, I see you use it all the time. You ask it absurd questions. Oftentimes it gives us absurd answers. What do you think the impact that will have on preventative medicine in the future? You mean chat GPT specifically or just AI general? I was pressure should have been a bit more specific on that. Well, I, I mean, it's a good question. Look, I maybe a broader question is what impact will AI have in medicine? And, um, you know, I'm actually going to be having someone on my podcast who's an expert on this subject matter, because it's something I've really wanted to explore. So I think my answer here will be highly ill informed, uh, because I haven't yet spoken with an expert and done my research that I need to do before I speak with said experts. So what have you seen in like the space so far? So I think there's some areas where it's really clear that AI can immediately have an effect. So radiology would be a great example of that. So, you know, reading radiographs, humans reading radiographs is, uh, is really complicated. And if you think about it at the end of the day, it's a pixel examination exercise. Like whether you're looking at x-ray, CT, MRI, whatever you're looking at, you're looking at millions of pixels. Now it turns out humans are exceptional at this. Like we really are good at that sort of pattern recognition. And even I remember from my days being in a hospital, I don't really look at radiographs that much anymore, but as a surgical resident and even when you were a med student doing radiology rotations, a good radiologist is insanely systematic in how they review CT scans or whatever. Like they have a system, a checklist that go through so that they're always doing the same thing every time. So that even if you're looking for a gallstone, if God forbid, there's a mass in the tail of the pancreas, you'll still see it because you're systematically reviewing everything every time. That said, it's hard to imagine a scenario where a machine can't do that better. Right. And so I think that to me is a really obvious place where it'll go. I think there has to be a scenario whereby the kind of doctor house type, you know, super insanely clever, brilliant, picking up things that nobody ever was able to put together type of diagnostic acumen will have to come about. Now, the challenge, as I understand it, is you would have to have a really good training set. Right. So you would have to have an insanely large training set that would show every possible scenario and all the paths that lead to these scenarios to then be able to demonstrate that. There are other areas where AI has already manifested itself. So liquid biopsies, like we wouldn't be able to use a liquid biopsy like the Grail Gallery test, if it were not for AI, because you need the complexity of measuring the cell free DNA fragments and looking at the strands of or the, you know, like what is the sequence of the cell free DNA and how can we piece together and extrapolate what tissues these are coming from? That's, you know, that's a computationally nightmarish problem. And so it does require machine learning at a minimum. So do you think CT and geography would be subject to the same kind of you know, you would think the same optimization could be done in that space, presumably? Yeah, I mean, it depends, right? Like I think we're pretty darn good at CTA right now in terms of like, I know that there are other, there are, there are bolt on algorithms that are being layered on top of CTA, right? So a very popular one that came out maybe 10 years ago was called Heartflow, which uses a CT algorithm to estimate what's called FFR, Fractional Flow Reserve and FFR is something that was measured in real angios. So when you do a real angiogram in somebody, you know, the, the cardiologist is injecting dye into the coronary arteries and they get a really good picture of the luminal architecture. Well, they can also, if they come across a stenosis and narrowing in the artery, they can put their pressure transducer across the stenosis and they can measure the pressure on the backside and on the front side and they take that ratio. And there were a couple of clinical trials, fame and fame too, that found that if that pressure drop was more than 20%, in other words, if P2, the pressure in front of the wall was over P1 was less than 0.8, there was benefit in putting a stent or revascularizing that patient, even if they were clinically asymptomatic. So that's pretty important finding. And while the 0.8 cutoff may or may not be accurate, the lower that ratio, the more true that is likely to be. So one of the things you can now do with an angiogram reasonably well, pardon me, with a CT angiogram is without invasively measuring those pressures, use the images to estimate the pressure drop. So again, pretty, and I don't know if they're doing that with machine learning truthfully, or if that's just really high computing. But there is an example of something where you're using a CTA to extract far more valuable information than just you have a stenosis. Because frankly, a lot of people have some stenosis. But the real question is, is this hemodynamically significant? Does this warrant an intervention that will make a difference in major adverse cardiac events? There are other companies that are looking at other things. There's a company I think they're called Clearly and they're looking at something called fat attenuation index. And maybe that's not clearly who's doing that in somebody else. I can't keep them all straight. But they're looking at the difference in the intensity of the fat signal in the endothelium. And they're basically saying, look, I mean, this is their claim. I don't know that I buy it truthfully, but their claim is even if you have perfectly patent coronary arteries, you still have early disease based on this fat attenuation. And that may be correct. I just, I don't know that I've seen enough validation data, but I think we'll see more and more of those types of algorithms. That said, like all roads kind of point back to the same thing, right? Which is what are the modifiable, modifiable behaviors that you can do to reduce the risk of ASCVD. And we don't find like fat attenuation index or, you know, tests that look for early ASCVD on imaging very valuable unless we have patients who are reluctant to do therapy. Because otherwise our view is like you treat the causative agent like as soon as possible. You don't, again, like we talked about this before, you don't wait until the smoker has lung cancer to tell them to stop smoking. You stop smoking immediately because it's causally involved in the disease. Is there any data that points to like, we'll talk about later to some extent, like the phenotype of FH and how it's not.  like one specific combination of genes that everyone has. Rather, it's like you have this high of a lipid burden equals like UR, FH, essentially. When it comes to, I don't know, the lowest amount of atherogenic, like a lipoprotein burden you could actually have in a concurrent state of like horrendous metabolic function, is there something we can point to of when your APOB is like this is the threshold it needs to be at the low? How low it needs to be to be protected? Yeah, like even in the worst state kind of thing. I'd have to kind of dig into that a little bit more, but I know where I would look. I know where I would look as like a reasonable number, but like I'm assuming that's like an, kind of like that. Yeah, no, no, I would go further than that. I mean, Peter Libby has argued that once if LDLC is in the 20 to 30 milligram to per deciliter level, which I'm very low, that's the level of like an infant, right, referred to as a physiologic level. That's sort of the, that's the level that still supports all physiologic, like that would still be conducive with all sort of cholesterol transport. But Libby has demonstrated, or I should say has argued, I think demonstrated is probably too strong a word, has argued pretty convincingly that at LDLC levels of 20 to 30 milligrams per deciliter, you wouldn't be able, you don't have enough APOB burden to develop ASCVD. So the question you're really asking is, well, what if I really push on it? What if I make you smoke, give you high blood pressure and type two diabetes? Would you then get ASCVD in the presence of an LDLC at that level? And I think that's an interesting question. I don't know the answer, but my intuition is, you know, hard to find a hard to find a scenario where you where you can do all those things like that. That might be a thought experiment that can't really exist. Like you probably died before you got to the point where it accumulated to any meaningful amount or something. Yeah, yeah, I just I just don't know how to do that. What we do know is if you look at the people who have hypofunctioning PCSK9, so these are people that do walk around with an LDL cholesterol of, you know, 30 milligrams per deciliter, you know, across the board, they have very delayed onset of atherosclerosis, if at all. Yeah, what do they die of? Curiosity. They drive everything else. I mean, they're not they're not really protected against anything else. So it's like the average age of death similar or yeah, it's really interesting. I don't know that I've seen a large enough cohort to answer that question. But the more important point is they don't. They don't appear to be like, you know, uniquely healthy and somehow protected against everything else either. But at the same time, despite the fact that they're on average, no more or less healthy than the average population, they still are protected against heart disease. I think is the point I want to make. So they don't have disproportionate rates of the other stuff to normal gen pop, though. The only thing I've looked at closely, because it's it's an important and interesting question is, do they have a higher rate of dementia? Because obviously you would have some concern. People tend to have a concern that if cholesterol levels are really low, it's bad for the brain. But that hasn't proved to be the case. And in many ways, it shouldn't really be surprising, right? Like children have very, very low levels of cholesterol. And not only do they have normal brains, but they have developing brains. They have very hungry brains, right? So if you think about what a child's CNS is doing from birth to age, you know, adolescence, think of the rapid expansion of the CNS during that period of time. And that's happening in the context of very, very low peripheral cholesterol. How do they like measure maturity slash full development? Like, is there a metric of like brain volume or IQ or like, obviously not IQ, but like something similar that you could point to. It's like you've achieved real, you know, maturation equivalent to that of somebody without the, you know, mutation. Yeah, it's probably done on a volume basis, I would guess. Okay. The other thing they keep in mind is, you know, and people tend to forget this and they get very, if you lower cholesterol, like total cholesterol from 200 milligrams per deciliter, which would be, you know, slightly elevated total cholesterol level. If you, if you took a person whose total cholesterol was 200 and you lowered it to 60, which would be very low, you've only changed the total body pool of cholesterol by, you know, five to 10 percent. Because it's all in tissue. Yeah. It's, it's, it's mostly in tissue. And by the way, you virtually had no impact on central nervous system cholesterol. So CNS cholesterol is kind of a protected pool anyway. Right. So the, in general, the medications you'd be using would be inhibiting or, I know, affecting synthesis at the level of liver mostly or where, where is it? It depends on the med. So, so statins affect synthesis in most tissues. Bempidotic acid because a pro drug only selective for liver, selective for liver. And then is that a my absorption inhibitor? Absorption in the gut. PCS-Q9 inhibitors at the level of the LDLR. All of these drugs do the same thing, by the way, which is these are all drugs that increase LDL receptor expression in the liver. That's really how all these drugs work. They just have different ways of doing it. So statins do that. That's all like the outcome is still the outcome is always the same liver related right. Everyone should think about this way. Any drug you take to lower your lipid is a drug that works by increasing LDLR in the liver. It's just different paths to get there. Right. Sometimes you just inhibit cholesterol synthesis in the liver. Sometimes you just inhibit cholesterol synthesis everywhere. Sometimes you inhibit reabsorption in the gut. Sometimes you break down the protein that breaks down LDL receptors, but it's all basically the same stick at all. All roads point to LDLR must be amplified. Now, perhaps this is a too elaborate question to ask you to consolidate in like a summarized way, but when it comes to evaluating lipid metabolism to actually determine which medication is the viable therapy to consider, obviously not medical advice, how would you like I've seen some of the like you've described before some of the things you look at that are not typical with, you know, elevations and sterols and whatnot. Yeah. Like how would you go about just at a, I don't know, even a recommendation of a certain panel that you like getting or something that evaluates what you consider to be like a good foundation of this is at least the biomarkers in question to evaluate the metabolism of your individual situation. Yeah. If I see somebody's ApoB and they're elevated, right? So they have what's called hyper beta lipoproteinemia. That's the technical word we're using to talk about this elevated ApoB. I'd want to know the following. What are the, how high are their triglycerides? What are their markers of metabolic health? What are their markers of cholesterol synthesis? We typically measure Dismostrol and Lothostrol. What are their markers of cholesterol absorption? We typically look at cytostrol and, uh, Compestrol. If I know those things, then I have, um, like a decent sense of how hard to pull on the diet lever. Um, what are the, oh, one other thing I want to know is what's their saturated fat intake? Uh, yeah. So if, so everything I just said, plus tell me what your saturated fat intake is approximately in grams per day. And then if I know all of those things, then we, we sort of know how much of this is fat reduction, how much of, or SFA reduction specifically, how much of this is cleaning up insulin resistance and how much of this is pharmacology. And then which pharmacodrugs are there? And there's other classes of drugs we haven't even talked about, like vibrates, specifically target elevated triglycerides. The, sorry if I missed it, but the metrics that would be indicative of insulin resistance, for example, and would reflect metabolic dysfunction. Was that the triglycerides? Triglycerides give you a clue, but they're, they're misleading. I don't like to rely on triglycerides alone. There's too many people. In fact, there's an entire race. So African Americans do not elevate triglycerides in the presence of insulin resistance. Okay. So you can see an African American with type two diabetes that'll have normal triglycerides. So it's just too variable. Um, but instead, you know, looking at your standard markers. So even if you weren't willing to do an OGTT and sort of cumbersome tests like that, you know, certainly looking at fasting insulin, fasting glucose, uric acid level, homocysteine level, markers of inflammation, you do get a really good sense of how insulin sensitive a person is. Um, is there like a target for not necessarily all of them, but like, I don't know, a fasty insulin and a fasting glucose that you would deem as like you're pretty fit in general or sure. I mean, we like to see fasting insulin below six, fasting glucose below 90. Um, you know, we're very liberal in the use of CGM as well. So CGM is going to give you a much better look at it because you're going to see post-prandial glucose. You don't see the insulin, but you at least see the glacemic response. Um, so, you know, knowing that picture and then knowing those sterols, you, you really have a sense of, you know, so, so for example, like I don't, uh, if I take, if I see somebody who's on a very, very high saturated fat diets, we have patients that'll come into our practice and they're on, you know, a ketogenic diet and they're, you know, they're eating 75 grams of saturated fat a day. Um, and their right Bobi is through the roof. So, you know, I'm going to cancel that person and say, look, um, I don't think this is a good eight Bobi to have. You've got a couple of choices. If, if a ketogenic diet is working for you, I'd consider moving to a much higher proportion of mono unsaturated fats from saturated fat. So you could make an isochloric substitution of mono unsaturated to saturated fat. Um, what's the typical switch? Like let's just say it's all coming from, I don't know, whatever their sources of saturated, what are your primary? Yeah, that person is really high in dairy and really high in, you know, the fattest kind of meat that they can get their hands on, right? So they're eating rib eyes and butter and, uh, you know, lots of cheeses and stuff like that. And I would say, look, let's move to leaner cuts of meat. Um, could be, you know, wild game where you're much leaner. Um, and you're going to be eating much more olive oil and much more macadamia nuts and avocados and things like that. So you, you know, you can make that isochloric switch with a little bit of finagling. And I've absolutely seen time and time again, that that will correct the ApoB. How, um, accurate is it when people say all of the olive oil and grocery stores is like garbage? Um, I don't know. Sorry, that's the way to general of a, but I absolutely believe that a lot of olive oil in, in grocery stores is crap. And I better question, how do you decide what a good one is? Uh, I mean, there's literally like, I mean, I, there's, there's a brand that I use and I trust and I love it. And disclosure, I'm also now an investor in the company. I've been buying it for so long and it's Brian Johnson's blueprint. Olive oil. It's the company's called Costa Rina. Okay. And I mean, I think you just have to kind of look at their process. Like how are you, where are they, where do these all come from? How are they pressed and is anything else added to this? Uh, okay. But yes, I have been duped. I probably did a post on this once on social, maybe five years ago where I was so annoyed one day when I was like using this olive oil that said extra virgin olive oil. And then I looked at the back and it wasn't even extra virgin olive oil. Like they had literally said extra virgin olive oil and it was like, you know, half of it was like safflower oil or sunflower oil or some garbage in there. And, uh, I mean, it's not a, it's not a perfect rule of thumb, but really good. Olive oil has a peppery taste to it. Now absurd, maybe question, but if I was to, you know, try and not switch the saturated fat to a mono unsaturated olive oil that's high quality, rather I just cut saturated fat, would the caloric reduction outweigh the benefit of using a super healthy olive oil? Yeah, great question. So I just saw a study that was published a couple of weeks ago that looked at this. Unfortunately, the study was so extreme in its caloric reduction that it's hard to apples to apples. I kind of think no, it's just, it's not applicable. Right. So these people were put on a 700 calorie a day diet for eight weeks. That's a, it was a high. It was a ketogenic diet. So high saturated fat, but in absolute amounts, that's not a very high amount of saturated fat. So it was a high percent of total calories, but the total calories were something like 740 calories a day, something ridiculous like that. And it had a very favorable impact on lipids. Now that wasn't even the purpose of the study. This was a study looking at, um, hypocaloric KD plus hypocaloric fat restriction in patients with polycystic ovarian syndrome. So totally separate, but I was immediately drawn to kind of the lipid analysis. But unfortunately, because it was such a calorie deficit, I don't think you can draw a conclusion as to what was the cause there. Um, but I believe it was just the total calorie restriction, total calorie restriction probably played the dominant role there, but I'd love to see that. I mean, what I'd like to see is the isocoloric version of that. All right. And what I say to these patients is look, like, you know, if a ketogenic diet is working really well for you or whatever diet you're on is working really well for you and it's producing a horrible lipid profile. You can stay on the diet and we can fix the lipid profile pharmacologically. Like there aren't many things that pharmacotherapy works really well for. If you really stop to think about it, like drugs work really well for antimicrobial purposes. Like antibiotics are so life saving. Like many of us would be dead. You and I probably wouldn't be here if it were for antibiotics. Let's be realistic. Median life expectancy was 40 up until about 150 years ago. Right. So like amazing classes of drugs there. Are they overused? Absolutely. Are there downsides? Absolutely. But let's call us beta spade. They save lives all day. Antihypertensive therapy and anti lipid therapy fit in the same bucket in my view, which is these are life saving drugs when used early enough and when used correctly. And we should take advantage and celebrate that victory of modern medicine. And we should use diet to correct the things that medicine is really crappy at correcting like metabolic health. So eat the diet that is best for your energy balance, your metabolic health, your muscle mass. And if that happens to be a diet that makes your lipids go hate wire, fix the lipids with the pharmacotherapy. The reverse is much harder. Right. I have patients that take the opposite approach. They're like, oh my God, you know, my APOB is a little high. You know, they're on a standard diet and they say, is there anything I can do dietarily to crush my APOB? And I'm like, absolutely, we could put you on a zero fat diet. Like we could put you on a 12% fat diet and we would take your APOB down to 40. But the problem is what else would we do to you? Like maybe for some people, that's a reasonable diet, but for most people, it's actually not a good diet. So again, I it's a very strong bias, but I really feel we should not be using diet as the tool to fix hyper beta lipoproteinemia. Okay. Understood. Yeah, it's sometimes I wonder because it's there's so many things that you feel like you have to take because you've been told this thing is protective or it's longevity enhancing or whatever. And it's like, sometimes by the end of the day, you're wondering, should I just have not ate the food? You know, would that have been better overall? And it's like, you know, again, it depends. I think I think this is like it's hard. I mean, it's I love having these discussions with patients because I'm having the discussion with an individual and we can see all the data. It's very hard to have these data in this discussion as a general topic. Other than what I can just say, which is I really want patients to use nutrition as the primary tool that addresses energy balance. All right. That's a bold statement. What does it mean? It means you're not going to exercise your way into energy balance exercise matters, but it's not the main lever. The main lever is intake. So what the diet that keeps you in energy balance is the best diet for you. And for many people, that is some form of dietary restriction. It's not hardcore calorie restriction. It's not hard hardcore time restricted feeding. It's some form of dietary restriction. Many people who go down the dietary restriction pathway ultimately find a diet that is incongruent with good lipids. Mm-hmm. And I think to take them off that diet onto a diet that's better for their lipids, but then disrupts energy balance is ridiculous. Like if you told me, would you rather be on lipid lowering therapy for life or on a GLP one agonist for life? Like it's no comparison in my mind, which of those two you'd rather do. No, for sure. Yeah. And that kind of stems into circling back to Stanton's Bempidoc acid is Edomibropathia, kind of like, I guess the primary four, you know, either classes or specific compounds that are looked at for their complementary effects with one another in a synergistic manner or just, you know, monotherapy with one depending on your predispositions and diet, whatnot. So like Stanton's are pretty demonized and you've done really elaborate articles on, you know, the reality of what happens at a cognitive level. Is there neurodegenerate? You know, all that stuff you've covered in detail. So I don't want to, you know, go too deep on that. I would recommend everyone just check out Peter's. Yeah, maybe just link to what we've written because I'm sure wherever this shows up, whether it's on social media or whether it's on YouTube, there's there's always just going to be people who haven't put any time or effort into understanding the science and they're going to want to comment. So maybe just preemptively say, look, go and read these, you know, these, these things we've written that really clearly, articulately explain the pros and cons because there are pros and cons. There's no drug that comes without a side effect. And Stanton's are by far the least benign in that whole category you listed. Right. So, but there are absolutely side effects of Stanton's that are real. And everybody should know what they are. They should know what they're looking for if they take a Stanton. But to throw the baby out with the bathwater and say that Stanton's are evil and nobody should take them is to simply demonstrate complete scientific illiteracy. Yeah. So in the circumstance of contrasting, first of all, the sterile tests, is that a, a readily accessible test that anyone can get? No. I mean, yes, anybody can get it, but sadly it's not readily accessible. And the only place where we've seen you can get a reliable sterile test is through a lab called Boston Heart. Okay. Yeah. Is it just cosper head never you need some like special? It's not. It's just, it's a, you know, it's a relatively lousy lab that sucks quite frankly in many regards, but they happen to be the only ones that do that test. So, like we use LabCorp for all of our testing, but then we got to suck it up and do use this one lab for steriles. Has anyone on your team talked to like LabCorp reps about? Yeah. I believe my team has reached out to both Quest and LabCorp to say, Hey, would we really great if you guys would start doing steriles? Cause you'd make our lives and our flabotomous lives so much easier. Yeah. I don't remember what came of those discussions. Yeah. I'll see what I can drum up to because we have a decently close relationship with LabCorp at least, cause that's something that yeah, like we love LabCorp. But we think LabCorp does an exceptional job on labs. Um, not great customer service, but they at least know how to do. They know how to, they know how to run the asset, which is the most important thing. Yeah. But having that accessible, if it is a big variable in determining, especially how to address the pharmacology side of lipid modulation that seems pretty ideal to happen. I think that that's, you know, I think that's just something that I really enjoy in our practice is how customized we can be in our lipid management because we see these variables, right? Like, you know, we're not throwing statins at everybody. We're not, we're, we're, we're really able to kind of target those things. Um, and again, it's not rocket science, but you do need the assays to be able to measure it. How did you first come across the literature to support like that testing out of curiosity? Um, I mean, I learned so much of this from a guy named Tom Dayspring. So, uh, back in 2010, 2011, when I became super interested in the concept of, of lipids and lipid chemistry, I, I had a real chance meeting with Tom Dayspring, um, and it was like a, just a marriage made in heaven. Like it was kind of a love at first sight where he, you know, immediately took me under his wing and would just, I mean, he just put me on a diet of the drinking through a fire hose of literature. And, um, yeah, I mean, in some ways, it just became, um, a fellowship effectively of, you know, many years of learning, um, I would go out and spend time with Tom in person. Um, so just reviewing clinical cases, you know, spending days with him, kind of doing that. Uh, and of course Tom is now in our practice. So for the past five years, Tom has been, uh, he's retired from his practice, but now he, he, he, he works with us full time. So, um, basically we just have continued exposure and basically, you know, Tom spends maybe 20% of his time seeing our highest risk patients with us and then 80% of his time doing research where he is just, you know, churning out stuff and kicking it over to us and, you know, getting us deeper and deeper and smarter and smarter on the topic of lipids. Sounds pretty ideal. So like when you have this, you know, the, the comprehensive data that you need to make your assessment. Um, I understand that, you know, statins inhibit, um, synthesis as does benpedoic acid, all, but in a more selective manner, specific at the liver, not necessarily indirect and that subsequent at the liver, like a statin might be as you described earlier. When you're looking at the biomarkers though, or even tolerability to drug, like what is a typical, I don't know, use case for one or the other. If you deem that a person has, you know, put it this way, I wouldn't, there's no scenario under which I'm going to use benpedoic acid in a patient who can tolerate a statin, which means, you know, their response to the statin is good. And they're not having any side effects, meaning they're not having any symptoms of muscle aches or anything like that. And they're not having any insulin resistance costs aside and all that stuff. Like when it comes to just efficacy side effect, right? Right. And the other thing is statins are relatively inexpensive. Relatively inexpensive, benpedoic acid is very expensive. Yeah. So, so in other words, like we're never turning to benpedoic acid first line. Never, ever, ever. Because it has nothing in its favor, except the side effect profile. It's less potent than a statin costs 10 times more. What's the like magnitude of, I don't know, effect differential? So like let's say, Resuva statin versus benpedoic acid. So again, benpedoic acid is only dosed at one dose, 180 milligrams. So it's kind of like a Zetemib. It's a one dose only. Zetemib is 10 milligrams and that's it. Resuva statin is dosed at five, 10, 20 and 40. But these things, and this is another thing I think a lot of physicians are not aware of. If you really look at the literature, you can see that no, there's almost no reason for anybody to be on a max dose statin. The response curve is like this. Right. So for people just listening, it's incredibly steep initially and then it plateaus like crazy. So, and we should, I could send you the data if you want to include in your show notes, because I hate the fact that I'm absolutely about to misquote this, but directionally, this is correct. Okay. You will get 65% of the maximum lipid lowering capacity of Resuva statin, which is the most potent statin at five milligrams. Now, when I say most potent, I should be more clear. Most potent at its maximum dose, technically on a dose to dose level, the Tavastatin is the most potent because it's only dosed from one to four milligrams, but. Okay. So from at five milligrams relative to the maximum of 40, you'll get 65% of the benefit ish by 10 milligrams, you're at like, I don't know, 83% of the maximum dose and this is everyday dosing once a day. Yep. By 20 milligrams, half the maximum dose, you're at like 92% or something. Again, kind of making these numbers up, but that's very close to it. So what does that tell you? Well, it tells me that we always start patients, even though the guidelines say in high risk patients, you started a very high dose. So guidelines would say, if you have somebody with a positive calcium score, you know, you're starting them at max dose statin, max dose is that am I? We never do that. Right. So, and again, part of it is we have the luck of we're not treating people who are on the verge of having a heart attack. So we've got time on our side, but like, I want to see what somebody does to five milligrams of is that a, of, of, of Resuva statin before we go higher. Secondly, if they're having side effects there, why would I kill them with side effects, you know, all the way up and then side effects go up with dose. So I would much rather use five of. Resuva, which by the way, what does that do? So when you impair synthesis, the body overcompensates and increases reabsorption. So then it's really nice to hit them with that 10 of is that am I because now you've actually made the is that am I more efficacious through and the same is true in vice versa, right? Right. So there, there are very nice drug to pair with each other. If you're getting, if you're getting the, the side effect profile, we're also very quick to use PCSK nine inhibitors because they, you know, along with, I've never really seen a side effect of Bependoic acid and I've never seen a side effect to a PCSK nine inhibitor, except for a site injection, like an injection site response. Um, and I've only seen that once. So, you know, they're so there's just, there's just aren't side effects to these drugs, even Zedia. I mean, I've seen a couple of people have some GI distress. Um, but with Zedia and statins, the other thing, the drawback of using them in combination is a lot of people will get an elevation in their transaminases. And the data suggests there's no problem with that. So it's a, it's a clinically irrelevant increase in transaminases. We tend to not treat in that situation because we have so many other options. So we do tend to discontinue treatment if transaminases go up. Okay. And that is typically exclusive to which drug again? Sorry. It's the combo of statins with the Zeta mud. Ah, okay. And you would see what's like the worst elevation you've seen out of curiosity. It's like ballpark for five X. Holy shit. So like, let's say you had an AST ALT of 20 goes to 100. That's like, I've probably seen that once. Yeah. And it's got to that. Yeah. Huh. Interesting. Um, but, but a not entirely atypical as a two X. Okay. Yeah. Oh, and that would still be of again, we're hyper conservative on that. And we would, we would discontinue therapy unless we had no other options, but that's almost never the case. So an example of no other options is a person who is missing the binding epitope for rapata and Prowell. I've seen one case of that person doesn't have the binding epitope for the antibody. So the drugs don't work mechanistically. What is raising liver enzymes in response to inhibiting synthesis and then in enhancing the amount of reabsorption, but then inhibiting reabsorption. I don't think it's a response to that. I think the elevation itself is a drug itself that is inherently a metabolism of the drug in some people leads to what I can only imagine is a slight amount of inflammation in the liver that's increasing the transaminases. Yeah, it's funny. You know, we always have to explain this to patients. They're, we call them liver function tests for short because we're lazy. We should really just call them transaminases because they're really not at all proxies of liver function. And it's a very confusing terminology because patients would think, oh my God, like my liver not functioning out in the answers. I mean, it was functioning perfectly, but there might.  it could actually be some inflammation. And why tolerate it if we don't need to? We're gonna eruption to bring you a note from Merikelth, my telehealth platform that was created to actually bring preventative medicine at a high standard to as many people as I could who follow my stuff, ultimately. Like this is something I sought myself and had a very difficult time getting for not just myself but also my family, for a provider to take us seriously, for one to be actually educated about all the cutting edge insights when it comes to lipid metabolism, when it comes to atherosclerosis, risk attenuation, when it comes to hormone optimization, when it comes to cognitive health, like all this stuff is not widely known information and it is constantly evolving. And it's not surprising that a lot of medical providers aren't compensated for their being inert about this stuff and staying up to date on things that do not actually help them in their immediate oversight of their family, practice, patients or what have you. It's pretty difficult to find an expert who is going to actually understand the nuanced in and outs of endocrinology, pharmacology, biology, cognitive enhancement. Even atherosclerosis attenuation is like new age stuff, shockingly, even though it seems like it's relatively straightforward, as you can see, even in this conversation, it's getting hyper nuance of knowing the nuances of when it makes sense to be on medications versus not, which type of medication should you be on versus not? Are you somebody who otherwise needs to inhibit the synthesis of cholesterol? Are you somebody who has liver dysfunction? Are you somebody who has, what is the issue that can be addressed and can it be addressed naturally through lifestyle intervention, diet changes? The last thing you wanna do is get on drugs unnecessarily too. This is why MaricHealth was created, it's to bring a high level of oversight to as many people as I can, and also to further the advancement of education just even on social media, like outside of our actual oversight of clients. We have a wonderful team of professionals who are as nerdy about staying up to date on this stuff as I am and are constantly consuming this information, including Peter's, this is one of the reasons I love meeting with Peter so much is he is constantly having the world's experts on to talk about the most leading advancements in fill in the blank subcategory of preventative medicine or treatment guidelines or what have you. And that's just one example of many of the things we take very seriously in MaricHealth and stay up to date on ourselves to ensure we are providing the highest standard of care that we would actually want to get ourselves as clients and for our families, you know, like, I can't even begin to explain how frustrating it was just trying to get basic blood work for myself and for my family to assess where we stand from a health standpoint, let alone like an optimization standpoint. So no longer will you be shamed for trying to get diagnostics, no longer will you be shamed for your lifestyle choices either. Like we are very, very open-minded, I guess would be the word when it comes to the kind of clientele we have as well, like we have literal professional bodybuilders at the top of their sport who intentionally have to expose themselves to huge amounts of hormones. Like, you know, that requires a pretty open-minded medical professional who understands the stresses too that you expose yourself to for the sport that you love. Like from all extremes, from the successful businessman to hyper successful athletes to the family man who wants to make sure he's there for his kids and will actually not have a jammer at 55 years old. We have it all and it's something I'm very passionate about talking about as you can see through my content and my, yeah, probably over the top plugs. So if you want to get a high depth personalized assessment through Merrick Health and work with one of our medical providers who's made it through our vetting process and reflects the standards that, you know, I'm speaking about here, or even to just get your own diagnostics and then from there, you know, get a very, very rudimentary assessment of where you stand and then decide if you want to go further and actually optimize things or assess if optimization is warranted or if everything you're doing is great as is, check us out, merrickhealth.com, merrickdiagnostics.com if you just want to get self-service labs, the link is in the description below. And if warranted, we will help guide the treatment process as well, whether it's dietary interventions, sleep hygiene changes, dietary changes, nutrition adjustments, supplementation implementations, pharmacology, actually getting medications to your door, whatever it may be, Merrick Health is broad spectrum and on the cutting edge of the things that we are serving from a client perspective. In particular, I would say we specialize mostly in hormone optimization and general assessment of your blood work diagnostic metrics to assess kind of what is your current status of health and where could you dial things in. So you can check us out, link in the description below and back to our regularly scheduled programming. And what biomarkers do you look to for a reflection of like liver stress or response for the transaminases? It's just ALT, AST, ALP. Yeah, yeah, AST, ALT, alfoss. We don't really look at GGT that, I mean, we do look at GGT and people, if we're trying to figure out if somebody has like naffold, and then we're doing far more elaborate testing, like we're using a fiber score blood test where they look at a whole bunch of other things as well. But for most people, we're just looking at alfoss, GGT, AST, ALT. When you say see naffold, how common is it that it's just like a choline deficiency? Or is that something that is often spoken about in the nutrition community, but it's actually a lot more than that? Yeah, I mean, I don't know how many cases of naffold I've seen that can be reversed with more egg yolks. Yeah, I don't think that's nearly as common as you'd be led to believe watching YouTube. Most of naffold is indeed... I just wanna make sure some people don't take alpha GPC and think you like fixed your liver. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean, like 95 cases out of 100 of naffold are energy imbalance. Good though, good to know. Okay, so I guess one question I did have on the statin intolerance is frequency of administration. So similar, well, it's not really similar to hormones, I guess, but there is ways to modulate side effect profile with frequency and like bolus administration versus infrequent smaller. Is it the case with statins where let's just say you can't tolerate five milligrams every day? Is it worse when you do 20 milligram hammer dose once a week or is it better and you still get like a similar inhibition with, these are some sort of consideration there or would you just avoid the drug altogether at that point? Yeah, I would switch to a different drug. So if, and the data here are kind of murky, by the way. Okay. I think the data on different statins having different side effect profiles is not as robust as you would think. It might be a little bit more marketing than science, but historically the marketing would tell you that prevastatin and pitavastatin have the lowest side effect profile. Now I have seen that to be the case, but I also can't tell you it's not the placebo effect. In other words, I've had patients who have been, been on Lipitor and they're like, oh, this kills me. They've been on Crestor, oh, this kills me. You tell them, okay, we're gonna try one more drug. It's called Livolo and it has the lowest side effect profile and you put them on and they're like, oh my God, this doesn't bother me at all. Now, I don't know what that means. Is it, is it possible that pitavastatin, Livolo are the same thing? Is it possible that that drug is, you know, impeding their, you know, we don't even know the mechanism, by the way. So is it, is it all a, you know, ubiquinol phenomenon? Who knows? Or is it just possible that their belief that this thing isn't gonna hurt me is what is leading them to them, leading them to have no symptoms? I don't know. Hmm, yeah, interesting. Yeah, I guess that does, would play with your psychology for sure. If you said this one is the lowest side effect bird. Yeah, and then you would ask the question, well, why don't you always lead with that one? And the truth of it is, you know, it's not as, it doesn't have as strong a lipid lowering effect. And it's also the most expensive statin by far. Huh, interesting. What is, when it comes to RAPATHA, is it only in cases of FH that you can prescribe it in general? Or it's like- When it first came out, it was, I mean, firstly, you can prescribe it to anybody. The real question is, where does insurance pay for it? Right, right. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So when it came out, it was a 15, it was a $16,000 a year drug, damn. It pretty quickly got dropped to $6,000 a year. That was the cash price for it. And that's still the price today. So, you know, about 40% of what you'd pay for a GLP-1 agonist, just for perspective. So I still haven't seen it in person. Is it a auto injector at home? And you do like once a- Once every two weeks. Okay, yeah. So yeah, when it was first, first approved in 2015, it was approved, meaning insurance companies would pay for it. If you had FH, and if you had a significant enough burden of ASCVD, and I believe at the time it came out, you had to have already had a heart attack, and you could not achieve an LDLC of 70 milligrams per deciliter or less on maximum statin dose. So those were the two carve outs. Since that time, it has become easier and easier to get approval or authorization for it. In fact, I believe you can get authorization now if you have a positive finding on a calcium score, and you're statin intolerant, which again, a lot of people are statin intolerant. So I'm pretty sure that, you know, more than 2x the number of people that were originally intended for coverage are now covered. Okay. When it comes to these CTIP inhibitors, like the one that is super promising, that is very difficult to say, obis, obis trippib, however you say it. What is the pipeline on that look like? Is it years out still? Is it? I'm a little rusty on it. I don't remember. I think it is in phase three. Okay. Yeah, so if my memory serves me correctly, it was in phase three or entering phase three about a year ago. So if that is, if I'm correct in that recollection, I have a whole podcast on this that people can go back and listen to with John Casterline, then you would guess you're four or five years out. And is that going to be similar situation to rapathe in prohibitive cost on the initial drop of it? Well, here's what's interesting. It's not an expensive drug to make. Which is unlike, I mean, antibodies are kind of expensive drugs to make. So there's, you know, does it really cost them like $3,000 a year to make it so that they have a, you know, 50% margin on it? I doubt it, but they are, they are expensive to make. I do not believe C-TEP inhibitors are costly drugs at all. And I gotta tell you, like, if I were running things over at the companies that are about to make these drugs, I would price them so low that I would obliterate. I mean, if the drugs turn out to be as good as we think they are, which is to say, they're not just going to eradicate ApoB, they're gonna dramatically reduce your risk of Alzheimer's disease and reduce your risk of diabetes profoundly. Like not subtly, but profoundly. So if you think about that, like that's three of the four horsemen, you just whacked with one drug. And again, no one was more skeptical of this than I was when I started like reading about this stuff. Cause I was, you know, there's like a, there's like a graveyard of failed C-TEP inhibitors. But through the phase two data, it looks so good. And it has a different mechanism by which it inhibits C-TEP that you can understand why it's significantly different from the others. But again, lots of drugs have looked incredibly promising at the end of phase two, and then they die in phase three. So it is, you know, we'll know in five years or whatever what the answer is. But assume that the phase three data mirror the phase two data. I mean, nobody should be on anything else. That's wild. And that's even in the, like it is, the data you've seen that's this impactful is that in individuals who are super genetically predisposed to where their diets are good and they're still where they are, or it could even be in the no peace person with bed. Yeah, I can't remember how much of the data is in FH patients versus, I'm pretty sure there's data also in medicine, like you're more, you know, you're more typical representative patient. Okay. No, yeah, it sounded pretty wild. I would recommend everyone watch that one if they haven't. When it comes to LP, a little a modulating drugs, is there anything that you look to outside of the standard, you know, lipid therapies that we already discussed? Cause like, you know, we talked recently about, obviously you wouldn't be deploying androgens for somebody, but like there are certain things that seem to like, oddly move the needle aspirin, maybe even, I've seen some data on niacin, which, you know, obviously has no impact on mortality with HDL, which people have seen, but apparently also impacts LP little a, is there anything you guys, you would, you know, no, we just, you know, until the antisense oligonucleotides, and there is an ASO in the pipeline in phase three now, if that gets approved, then we'd consider it. Again, I don't know that you would give it to everybody cause the indication is not going to be for people without disease, because that trial is being done in people for secondary prevention. So these are people who have already had a heart attack due to elevated LP little a, and then they're giving those people this ASO to see if it prevents a secondary attack. So presumably in the context of maximal APOB lowering as well. Huh, okay, so this is like in individuals who have already tried statin plus whatever, and still. Yeah, and the reason is you can't do a primary prevention study on LP little a, like it would take forever. So it's understandable why this is the way that the study is being run. The phase two showed that you basically eliminated LP little a, but obviously you would not approve a drug on the basis of that. You really, in cardiovascular medicine today, you have to see a hard outcome. You have to see an improvement in mortality and or a composite metric of mortality plus an adverse cardiac event. Now, maybe a stupid question, but when it comes to LP little a, it seems to track oddly in that if my HDL, for example, I've been looking at castration data somehow is gonna make LP little a go higher and HDL, or sorry, yeah, LP little a would go higher, and then it would look better if I took like super physiological androgens, for example. What is the thing it is typically doing in the body that's protective, and do you have any conception of why it would like track in odd directions with like paradoxically unhelpful things? No, I don't know. You know, it's possible that, I mean, LP little a historically probably played a role in helping us fight infections. So the APO little a, the thing that makes an LDL and LP little a, which is the APO a that gets wrapped around the LDL, it's a free radical scavenger. So there would certainly be some settings where it would be really valuable to have more of that. Of course, from a chronic perspective, it's not because chronically it's just dragging more free radicals into the subendothelial space. That's probably a part of why LP little a is on a molecule per molecule basis, the most athrogenic particle. But I'm not sure what it would be, although it doesn't surprise, I mean, it certainly seems plausible that change, you know, significant changes in androgen levels could impact it. In the presence of somebody with, I don't know if the state exists, but very good metabolic health, and they just have this brutal predisposition to high LP little a, do we see endothelial health get, like? I mean, we see lots of people who have perfectly normal metabolic health who are in excellent health, otherwise that have an elevated LP little a that get very premature heart disease. And even in the presence of APO B suppression, otherwise too. No, it's usually in the presence of not especially, usually these people don't know. So they usually like, you know, I mean, they might have, I wrote about one such person in my book actually, who's a friend of mine, who had normal APO B, right? So it might have been 20th percentile, 80 milligrams per deciliter. Sky high LP little a, because remember, you can LP little a has no bearing on APO B, because the LP little a's are such, even though each LP little a has an APO B on it, they represent such a small fraction of the total LDL pool that it's an almost independent variable. So we're talking like super lean, super healthy, super normal guy in every regard, except we had this guy high LP little a, and in his 30s, he had a calcium score of almost 200 or something like that. Oh my God. It's what the real mystery is why, like, what spurred him to get a CAC score again? Did you just, what's that? What spurred him to get the CAC score? Did you encourage? Yeah, I based on my family history or? No, when I saw his LP little a. Oh geez. Sorry you were saying. Yeah, yeah, so what's really interesting is, the blood tests don't tell us anything about function. Yeah. So we don't know why some people have a high LP little a, and it's not doing much. Like it's not negatively impacting them, right? They go their whole lives with an elevated LP little a, and their risk of ASCVD is tracks with someone who's normal. And then there are other people like my friend who, you know, frankly, absent in intervention would have been dead before 50, despite being incredibly healthy across the board. So I don't understand, like no one has developed a functional assay to explain why his LP little a is bad, and his is not. Right, right. And by the way, we don't have that assay for HDL either, and that would be really beneficial because the, the HDL cholesterol assay is a useless assay that doesn't tell us anything. Yeah, when people wanna use it as a reference for proxying insulin sensitivity, is it basically irrelevant? It's not irrelevant, it's correlated, right? But it's not causal, and that's a really important distinction. People have to understand the difference between things that are causal and things that are correlative. And, you know, low triglycerides and high HDL are very, and so we typically would actually use the ratio of those two as opposed to just one, but whatever. So yeah, if your ratio of triglyceride to HDL cholesterol when they're both in the same units is less than one, I mean, that's a great sign, that suggests insulin sensitivity. But again, it doesn't mean you're protected from cardiovascular disease, right? There are lots of people who have, who are insulin sensitive, who still get cardiovascular disease. And when it comes to risk profile of genetic predispositions, LP-Littletay elevation is even above FH, right? Yep, LP-Littletay is the highest, is the most prevalent genetic condition that drives ASCVD. Yeah, I think obviously you and other people who are even from DaySpring, for example, you guys make contents about it and are bringing awareness to it, but I think a lot of people need to realize that it's so easy to test for too. And it's like, you either have it or you don't seemingly, and once you know, you'll be glad you found out, because I've seen, I've only learned about it relatively recently as a result of being a consumer of your content over however many years now, and it's wild how frequently you'll just see a really good blood panel, and then just an unexplainably sky high LP-Littletay, and you're like, holy shit, if you didn't check for this, like, who knows? You would have not even known, and just would have got smashed one day in like 10 years or something maybe. Yeah, or not, I mean, that's what's really interesting is, and I've seen people, by the way, whose LP-Littletay is elevated, but not sky high. Like, so it depends on what ASCVD, I like to use LP-Littletay mass, so that's measured in milligrams per deciliter. So on that assay, normal would be anything up to 30. So I've seen people who are, I don't know, 60. Like, okay, that's a little elevated, but it's not through the roof, right? I've seen people that are in the 40s, 50s, and they have brutal disease. And I've seen people who walk around at, you know, 150, they look normal. I don't, you know, again, I really believe that there's so much going on with how the APOA, like, how it wraps, and how, you know, what the Kringle repeats look like, and just how athrogenic it is, and how much junk it's dragging into the artery wall, that, you know, unfortunately, we just can't measure that stuff yet. So an interesting thing that maybe it's useful, maybe it's not, but you mentioned a few times now that, like, total body cholesterol, you only have a small fraction represented in serum. You're not gonna see what's going on in all tissues. So if you're somebody who's genetically predisposed to sky-high serum LP-little-A, is it reasonable to extrapolate from that that you probably have very high LP-little-A in tissue as well, whereby even if you're suppressing it through androgens, for example, as a bodybuilder, you might have, like, a masking of your issue, potentially, because in serum you see a suppression of it, but in tissues it's still very high and problematic. I mean, the only tissue that would matter would be the artery wall, right? Like, these are mostly things that exist in circulation. Sure. The cholesterol in tissue is mostly inside the cell itself, but not in a lipoprotein. Okay, so it can't be damaging as it goes elsewhere or traverses life. Well, I mean, there are other, you know, there are artery walls outside of the heart where it's gonna be damaging as well, so certainly it would be damaging to carotid arteries, to, you know, cerebral arteries, probably anywhere you can develop peripheral vascular disease. So basically any artery is susceptible. Huh, okay. Scary. So when it comes to veins versus arteries, is it like a structure thing? Cause it's like, I think I've seen data where we develop atherosclerosis, man. Yeah, I think I've seen stuff where it's like you, if you take a vein and you put it where an artery would be, it ends up behaving like an artery, even though it's a vein. So it's almost like the, you could speak to it better than me, I feel like you know what I'm trying to ask. Yeah, it probably has most to do with the pressures that are there, so the, obviously, arteries are exposed to much, much higher pressures. It's not even close. So just to give people a sense of what an arterial pressure is, right? So when you have a blood pressure cuff wrapped around your arm, even if you have normal blood pressure, you get a reading that reading says 120 over 80, that would be normal. What does that mean? That means that when the heart pumps during systole, the pressure in the artery is 120 millimeters per mercury. When the heart relaxes and fills, which is called diastole, that pressure falls to 80 millimeters of mercury. Now, what if we check the pressure in the veins? Well, that's done using what's called a central line. So you put a catheter into the vein, we do this in the hospital all day long. You measure central venous pressure, it might be 10 to 20 millimeters per mercury. So you get a sense of the difference. Why? Because the blood leaving the arteries doesn't just go straight to the veins, it goes through an infinitely large maze of capillaries that completely drop the pressure down. So there's an enormous pressure drop as you go from artery to arterial to capillary to venial to vein. So when high blood pressure is a huge determining factor on endothelial damage is that, see artery. Yeah, so that's presumably a bigger reason why you would see these outcomes different. I mean, we've done several podcasts on it, but I can't say enough about, I mean, you wanna talk about low hanging fruit to manage your lifespan, holy Christ. Just make sure you have normal blood pressure. I mean, it is such an epidemic out there of hypertension and most people, they're not measuring it. If they're measuring it, they're measuring it incorrectly. If you can maintain a blood pressure of better than 120 over 80 for your entire life, you are going to absolutely smash your risk of heart disease and dementia. When you, so I remember last time, you specifically said better than 120 over 80. Yeah, meaning that or better, right? Okay. Yeah, yeah. 120 over 80 is excellent. And is there like still a all but diminishing return? Not really, no, because the sprint trial, which is the best trial that's ever looked at this, treated to 120 over 80. Okay. So the question that I thought you were gonna ask, which maybe you're asking or someone's watching us, thinking about is, is lower better? And the short answer is it all depends on symptoms, right? So, you can't have too low a blood pressure provided you have no symptoms, but from a practical perspective, most people would start to have symptoms once they're below like 100 over 60. They would become orthostatic when they stand up, for example, and that, so there's lots of problems associated with that, right? Which means like your blood pressure drops to a point that you're basically almost fainting when you stand up, right? That's right, okay. Question on that. So for blood pressure modulation and just getting it in check, we spoke about the losing weight, the basics are pretty damn impactful. It's not as much leaning on pharmaceutical intervention. It's more manageable through natural means. Blood pressure is far more amenable to quote unquote lifestyle intervention than lipids are. So one thing that our man Gary Brackett said on Joe Rogan's podcast recently, and many others is that blood pressure is often idiopathic and there's an unexplained doctors will say there's no reason why you have it, you just have it and it's inherited. How common is that actually? Or is that very uncommon relative to the- Yeah, so it's important to understand what's meant by that. So the term that's used is called essential hypertension. Essential hypertension means you have high blood pressure, hypertension and there's no otherwise clear reason for it. And by that metric, so what would be the otherwise potential reasons for it? Well, I mean, you go down the classic pathway of do you have renal artery stenosis, right? If your renal arteries are narrowing, that absolutely leads to high blood pressure, right? Because the kidney is seeing less blood flow, what is its response? The renin angiotensin system ratchets up hormones that-  titan, your blood pressure. Okay. If you have a pituitary tumor that is secreting more ACTH, driving more cortisol, that would raise your blood pressure. If you have an adrenal tumor that is secreting more epinephrine nor epinephrine, that would raise it. So there's a really clear workup for hypertension. It is rarely done truthfully unless it's so sudden and so unexplained in a person that completely doesn't fit the bill for having high blood pressure. But once you can't get through that, you would basically say, this person has essential hypertension. Now, what's really interesting is, how often are we saying to a person, let's assume we do the workup, we do the million-dollar workup, which is not a million bucks, right? It's a relatively inexpensive workup. If you do the workup... It's getting you clarified. I just think this... No, no, no. I don't want people thinking like, you can't do this. You do the workup and you've established that there are no correctable causes of the hypertension through these other pathways. And you tell them, okay, you have essential hypertension, but what if they're like insulin resistant and 30 pounds overweight? Is it really essential hypertension? Or would we argue that, no, the most likely cause of your hypertension is that you're 30 pounds overweight and you don't exercise. So it's a bit of a semantic issue. In med school, we were taught that that is essential hypertension. I kind of think that's a cop-out. I would say until proven otherwise, your hypertension is because you're overweight and you're not exercising. So let's get you exercising 45 minutes every single day and let's take 30 pounds off you. And I'm going to bet 90% chance your blood pressure gets better. If it doesn't, maybe then you have essential hypertension. So potentially basic or absurd question, I don't know, but when it comes to body composition, oftentimes, especially in the fitness industry, we have this warp perception of what is actually fat or what is like target good body composition. When you say something like 30 pounds overweight, obviously, where am I going? Yeah, no, that's a great question. Clearly not from the standpoint of a bodybuilder, just to be clear. But I also imagine not from the standpoint of the same people who make food pyramids and shit like that. No, we rely really heavily on dexa scans. So every one of our patients is going to get a dexa scan within weeks of joining our practice. And we're really quickly going to be looking at body fat, visceral fat, and muscle mass along with bone density and other things like that. So yeah, I mean, our diagnosis of excess weight is going to be based on those things. So what's the ALMI? What's the FFMI? What's the body fat percent and total fat mass? And what's the visceral fat mass? And that gives us a sense of where they are in relation to what we think an ideal weight target might be. What's a good FFMI in your perspective? For a male, you know, a great, I mean, again, I, what's that mean 20? I mean, put it this way, like, I'm a relatively normal sized guy, I think my FFMI is about 24, 23 kilograms per meter squared, you're probably what 25, 26, do you know what you are? I don't know. I haven't checked metrics in a while, but I weigh like 215. Yeah. I don't know, I would like to see, I don't think of so much of the numbers percentile because as you age, it would change. But yeah, in an ideal world, I really want to see people strive towards being above the 75th percentile for ALMI more than FFMI truthfully, because I think the ALMI is a more true measure because there's no organs in the way. Yeah, but you know, we, so I'm trying to think for someone my age, the 75th percentile for ALMI is probably about eight and a half or nine kilograms per meter squared would be my guess. Okay. We do everything off of a nomogram, so I don't memorize the actual number. Sure. Okay, awesome. I do want to talk about this inflammation heart disease connection that you've posted about relatively recently, because it turns out there's some new target, essentially, or at least the first pharmaceutical that actually specifically addresses this. Yeah. So I'm wondering of the three things, and correct me if I'm wrong, but the three things that are kind of needed or at least cumulatively equate to atherosclerosis, you have lipoprotein burden, and then you have some sort of endothelial disruption. Yeah, and then you also have inflammation. Yep. Okay. Those are the three. Okay. You have to have those three things to develop atherosclerosis. Okay. So inflammation is connected to all sorts of stuff that's bad in the body and are also, you know, part of the three things you mentioned for atherosclerosis. So when it comes to assessing chronic inflammation or targets for it, like at least with ApoB, I have a good idea to buy a marker. Yeah. And it's like, I kind of know at this level, it's essentially impossible to have plaque buildup, but then these other markers are a little bit more, at least, I guess, endothelial damage you could also see. Yeah. The problem with the others is one, we don't have any way to measure endothelial injury. I mean, we really don't. You know, there's no assay for it. Now, you could argue maybe some of these new tests. I think that's what the clearly guys think they're doing. Maybe they are remains to be seen, but what they're basically saying is, you know, we are looking at really, really, really special cuts of your CT angiogram. And we're even if you have, excuse me, even if you have no plaque accumulation or anything accumulating any burden of plaque, we can still see microscopic evidence of endothelial damage through fat attenuation. By the way, you mentioned them twice not to derail. Should people not be getting clearly stuff? I mean, I don't I have no strong point of view on it. I think I don't know that it's necessary, right? So my view is if you get a CTA and the CTA is normal. Then you're just getting too granular for no reason sort of thing. Well, no, the question is like, what's what's the intervention? Like, I don't find a normal CTA to be a very helpful test. Right? Like, we're so interested in early prevention that the like, I'm not going to do a CTA on a 35 year old. Right? Unless he's got a horrible family history. And he's like, I never want to take any drugs. Then I'd say, well, let's get a CTA to make sure at least at the moment you're fine. And if you're fine, we can engage in this discussion a little bit longer. If you're not fine, I really hope that I'm going to be able to change your mind. And you're not going to end up like your dad dead at 55. So there might be a scenario in there where a clearly is picking up something that's not being picked up on a perfectly normal CTA. But if the CTA has anything wrong with it, which means there's even a speck of calcium in it and or there's even a shred of soft plaque, the clearly is not adding any resolution to that. You already know you have advanced disease. For the time disease is visible on a CTA, it's been percolating for a decade. Is that how long it takes for even the manifestation of plaque to appear? Like not just takes longer. Yeah, not calcified, like just like initial stages. Well, I mean, if to put it this way, when you look at autopsy studies, you can see ASCVD in people in their early 20s. So I mean, it probably starts at birth. Like the moment you're born, you're moving towards this condition. So is it absurd to think that you could... It's probably an inevitable condition of our species, truthfully. So is it, and I don't know if there's a way to say factually, but of your opinion, do you think it would be kind of impossible to track within yearly intervals, changes in plaque accumulation? Does it need to be like a far longer time horizon? Well, again, the question would be what tool, right? So CT angiogram. Yeah, CT angiogram is so crude. It's just not. There's no difference you're seeing in CTA until... Like put it this way, if you think about what is the initiating step of atherosclerosis, the initiating step, what's the first thing that has to happen? An ApoB bearing particle, almost inevitably an LDL particle, has to get through the tight junction of an endothelial cell and get into a potential space that is now going to be called the subendothelial space, a space that doesn't exist until the LDL particle gets there. Okay, that's the initiating event. That occurs all the time, but most of the time, those LDLs come back out. So it has to be retained in place. Okay, so now we've got LDL gets across the subendothelial space, gets retained, problem one. Now the cholesterol content within the LDL gets oxidized. The oxidation of the cholesterol is what sends the inflammatory signal to the body that says send reinforcements. So monocytes going through the circulation see the signal for that. They extravasate into the subendothelial space, differentiate into macrophages and phagocytose, the LDL and oxidized cholesterol. Not to start to interrupt on the actual step by step, but at this inflammatory point, you're not picking any of that up systemically if that's what you're asking. Okay, so it's not like your goal would be to inhibit inflammation to a degree where this step after deposition happens because that's going to happen regardless. Well, this is where it gets really complicated, right? It's like this is a very local inflammation and the real problem. And I'm glad you brought this back because this is, I think, where you were going before I kind of derailed at talking about the endothelium. But the problem with our biomarkers for inflammation is that they're all systemic. Yeah, like CRP systemic. It's like by the time the CRP is elevated, like there's real inflammation. They're also completely nonspecific. Like they have specificities of approaching zero. So if I see a high ferritin, if I see a high CRP, if I see a high IL-6, okay, great, there's inflammation somewhere, but I don't know where it is. So that's really been the challenge of using inflammation as a great biomarker to predict risk. The second challenge of it is, I've seen a ton of patients with totally normal CRPs that have raging atherosclerosis. I mean, raging atherosclerosis. So you don't need enough inflammation that it registers all the way at the blood test for it to still be locally sufficient to cause the negative effect. Yeah, that's like one thing I've learned through a lot of this like autocrine, paracrine signaling pathways and hormones. It often doesn't matter even what the serum might reflect because you're just looking at local activity. Like are you going to have a local IGF-1 and MGF response to training and how substantial you could have maybe like a low normal serum and it's not reflective of what's happening at the muscle. Right, but in the paracrine spot where it's just secreting one tissue to the next, it could be sufficient. And by the way, this is why I think ApoB and blood pressure management are essential. Because you can measure ApoB and what you measure systemically is predictive of what happens in the artery. You can measure blood pressure systemically and you know exactly what's translating at the artery. Endothelial function is vital. Inflammation is vital. You can't measure them locally. You can't even measure endothelial function, period. And so there are too many people out there who I worry think, well, it's okay that my ApoB is through the roof because I don't have any inflammation. And I'm assuming my endothelial function is great. And it's like, okay, it might be. But you're gambling. That's a really big gamble. Why would you take a gamble with something you'll never be able to verify? Totally agree. That's been my rationale from the beginning too. Because it's like there's these things that maybe, maybe in a constellation of perfect factors, I have some low probability of it actually working out where I have no risk. But I can't verify that ever. I'm just hinging on it and maybe getting radiated every however long to double check that it's not accumulating in plaque versus the alternative, which is like a far more predictable outcome with the proportional side effect burn that could be relatively benign depending on what therapy you could get, tolerate all these. To me, it's kind of a no brainer what you should be taking seriously and not just disregarding blindly. So anyway, I think that pretty sufficiently covers the inflammation and heart disease section. Moving into metabolic health, which is I guess a little bit overlapping. But actually, let's see, I guess TRT, we covered a lot of this stuff in your podcast, which I would recommend everyone go to the Peters channel if you haven't seen the video or podcast we just did a round two as well. But I guess when it comes to if you were to get on TRT hypothetically, I know it's something you've evaluated, considered. There is a range of what's considered physiologic and that range is pretty damn wide. Like you could be considered normal to one doctor interpreting it if you're at 300, which is pretty likely to not feel the same as 1100. When it comes to yourself and you were to evaluate subjectively, presumably you feel like pretty decent right now, even though you have a 389 total T. But there is something about intervention that seems attractive enough for you to flesh it out. Maybe what are those factors that you think are worthwhile to maybe do yourself and also like what are you thinking about when it comes to targets? Yeah, so I mean, I would treat it the way I would approach it the way I would approach it with a patient, right? So even though I'll be the patient in this scenario. And by the way, I would absolutely do HCG as my first shot across the bow. So that's what I will do, actually. So I'm going to do a few months of HCG and reevaluate. And I'll dose it probably at 1000 units twice a week. So a vial is 10,000 units. That'll be, I'll maybe do 15 weeks, three vials, and then reevaluate. So yeah, I'm starting out at 381. So that places me at about the 10th percentile. And the first thing I would want to know is like, what's the response? So I, it's possible I will have a lousy response. Because one, we don't know how much of my low T is gonadal, peripheral or central. So option one is I don't, you know, my T goes from 381 to 450, which in my view is a non-response. Like people tend to fixate on like these numbers and like, you know, 380 to 450 or even to 500 is a non-response. And to be on drugs for that, it's like not even worth it. Right. So if it doesn't get to 900 plus, then either the dose is insufficient or we have peripheral limitations. You know, there's probably a gray zone where it goes to 650. And then I say, well, should we try 1500 twice a week? We can hum and ha on that axis. But let's assume it's one or the other. If, if, if, if it, if I end up going 381 to 457, then I think the only logical thing to do is to do testosterone and just say, well, we've accepted the fact that you, you know, your gonads have served you well for, you know, 32 of the last 50 years or whatever, 40 of the last 50 years, but it's time to put them out to pasture and we're just going to have to rely on an exogenous hormone. And if it works, let's say my T is up to, you know, 978, then I'm evaluating, okay, what are the measurable things that like have changed? So have I noticed a difference in mood, sleep, libido, recovery from workout, performance in workout, right? Am I, do I feel stronger? Again, my, I'm pretty insulin sensitive. So I don't know that I'm going to see improvements there, but absolutely in some patients, we do look at markers of metabolic health. So the more metabolically dysregulated you are, the more likely you are to see improvements in glycemic markers on physiologic doses of testosterone replacement. And then, you know, I'd want to make sure like things aren't going terribly wrong. Like, am I, you know, developing horrible acne or some other side effect? Or is it impairing my sleep or leading to hypertension or something like that? So basically, like, my approach in me would be the same as it is in every patient that we go through this process with. What is interesting that I just thought of is, sorry, one other thing, Derek, I am also, I'm equally interested in what my estradiol response is, because my estradiol, as you saw from that last test, was so low, it was 18.1 or something. So one thing that is a pro for the HCG only, I don't know if I said this last time I was here, but the proportional aromatization, intratesticular that you would get should be higher from the same HCG equated totality. So I don't know if I said that before. I know what you mean. And yeah, so I'm very interested, you know, I believe a little bit higher is a little bit better. And, you know, so in an ideal world, like, I'd like to know, okay, what's it like when my T is at the 80th to 90th percentile, and my estradiol is north of 40 south of 60, probably, I think is about the sweet spot. When you're looking at cardiac, obviously measured by LCMS, everybody, yeah, when you're important, when you're looking at cardiac markers, reflecting estradiol's impact on what it may do from a protective standpoint, would you see reflections of, I forget if it's a ADMA, that's the nitric oxide proxy, would you see improvements in that, do you suspect, with a higher estradiol, or have you seen anything to? We don't measure ADMA and SDMA anymore. We found that they were so tightly correlated with homocysteine that it almost didn't matter. Because homocysteine is the most, seems to be the most important determinant of their clearance, that we just basically managed the homocysteine and we're getting the same benefit. But that said, I don't recall if we ever paid attention to the correlation between ADMA, SDMA, and E2. Because I know why I want high E2, for example, but it's like actually assessing the vasodilation or neuroprotective properties of it, other than subjective feelings of well-being, or am I forgetting stuff? It's kind of hard for me to know. I would love to have a biomarker proxy, I could say. Here's why you wanted it. We had hoped eight years ago when lab companies started pumping out ADMA, SDMA assays that this was the sign of, this was going to be our biomarker for endothelial health, but at least in our hands, it just turned out to be a proxy for homocysteine, which does impact endothelial health, but so do a lot of things. And we didn't think it was adding any value. And for the kidneys, you just did the systatin C calculated. Yeah, we don't even look at creatin anymore. It's all systatin C. It's almost annoying when the creatin comes with a complementary estimate. eGFR, I know, and it's so low. Yeah. Yeah. Especially for people like you, right? So, oh yeah, it's something that looks right. Yeah, you look like you're in renal failure. The amount of times I've had to explain to some guy that he's not going to die. It's crazy because it happens actually quite often. And then you get their systatin C and it's like, oh, wow, I'm, you know, 100 plus, I'm fine. Let's see. As far as HRT in women, okay. So this is something that I dug into your post recently that was pretty comprehensive covering this. And I had some questions regarding the progesterone administration in particular, the Marana IUD. Apologies if I ask this literally three hours ago. But the progestin in the Marana, if I recall correctly, is Levonoregestrel, which is a 19-nortistostone derived progestin that is very, very impactful on, you know, achieving contraception in women. It's also the plan B pill at a higher dose. It's used quite commonly. It's one of the most popular ones. It does what you need it to do from a local aspect. Do we have any literature to point to as to its effects on hormone levels endogenously and how impactful it is in a suppressive capacity? The short answer is no. So I can just talk to you anecdotally about what we see because many of our women have marinas. It does not replicate the effect of an OC on SHBG, which would be the most obvious place you would see it. But that would be from the ethanol estradiol typically, right? Oh, you don't think the progesterone wouldn't have any? Oh, it does. Okay. Because it's Levonoregestrel is actually not, it's not androgenic, but proportionally to other ones far more so. So it's like, you're almost relying on it to oppose the ethanol estradiol in the COC. I see. Okay. So then I don't know, I don't have a metric to assess it then. But you're not seeing decreases in total testosterone. I wouldn't blame you if you didn't check it though, either. I would want to go and look at that before I'd comment. Okay. Yeah. I was shocked, man. The problem is I would, I don't know that I could extract that information on the relatively small size of our patient panel. I have nothing though to reference. So I would love to see anything. Well, but here's the point is I feel like it would only work if I could see a pre and post in a given woman so that she could act as her own control. You know what I mean? Like that would be on a relatively small sample size. You would need to almost see each woman as her own control and see here. This is what she looked like without a morana. This is what she looked like with and this is what she looked like without. You wouldn't have that though already before I'm sure we do, but it's not going to be a huge sample size. But I mean, that would be the question. If you find anything. But that's that. I've never even looked at this. So have you, have you looked in the literature to suit what it says? Because really, the question is how much of that synthetic progestin is becoming systemic? Yeah. That should, that to me is an easier question to answer pharmacokinetically, right? Yeah. The amount that you are getting on a daily bleed out of the morana IUD, if I recall correctly, was, I don't know if the circle back, but it was, it's not very high and it was definitely proportionally lower. Like I would assume the impact is much less and you don't have the ethanol estradiol compounding. Making the problem worse with the high SVG2. Yeah. Because that's like the worst thing for suppression, having that super potent synthetic estrogen that's cranking the SHBG2. So it's just helpful to know though, because it's like some girls, for example, they're told, you need to be on a copper IUD because it's the only non hormonal birth control option and hormones are terrible. So don't go on a morana. Don't go on a combineral contraceptive. Don't go on anything either, you know, do follow the calendar of your cycle or like use the copper thing or a condom. Those are kind of like your options and perhaps I'm, you know, one of this flying over my head. That's obvious. I'm not thinking of, but some people can't tolerate the copper IUD. Some, you still are going to have, if I recall correctly, bleeding if you're on copper IUD because there's no hormonal shutdown of your actual period. And many women with a morana still have a period, by the way. Yeah. I mean, I would say more women still have a period with a morana than don't. Huh. Yeah. Interesting. Now, our patient population a little bit skewed because we have a lot of women who are in menopause using a morana. So obviously they're not cycling. They do have breakthrough bleeding occasionally, but that depends on a few other things. But we do have some premenopausal women that are using moranas and they still, they still have breakthrough bleeding. What is the upside to using it then if it's not permanent halting of your period? Like, like certainly it's not proposing better hormonal profile. What is the, what is the advantage for a premenopausal woman? Yeah. For a post menopausal woman, it's clear like if they don't want to section in a young woman, I assume. I mean, one of the examples is what you just alluded to. I've heard we've had women, again, we don't manage this, right? They're GYNs are the ones that are putting the IUDs in. But I mean, I've seen, or I've heard women say like the copper IUD is uncomfortable. Right. And the moraine is not. So I'm not sure what the difference is and why that's the case. But huh. Yeah, it's like my understanding would be like it's not like the moraine is ever pulsatile secreting the progestin. So like, I'm not really sure why it would ever result in bleeding unless it was like some breakthrough scenario, unless I'm just like totally oblivious to thinking about something when it comes to cycles. Because like the thing that would dictate if you are shedding or not would be the fluctuation in that bio identical hormone, not the progestin, but the bio identical, right? Right. Unless I'm totally blanking on how a female cycle works right now. Yeah, I'd have to think about it a little bit more, actually. It's like that's why my girlfriend is on it, for example, because she never will bleed. Versus if she's on an oral contraceptive for the days she would take the pill, she would not. But then once she goes to sugar, all of a sudden, you've triggered it. Yeah, just breakthrough. So and technically you could just stay on the actual drug throughout and not take sugar pills. But then you're really suppressing yourself and it's pretty impactful. So but this, I would have thought there'd be some data like, you know what, this is better than oral because it's only this much hormone suppression. But like I've looked at the drug insert. I've looked at I did a decent amount of digging, maybe not enough, but enough that I thought I would have found the answer by now. And I have not found one study showing endogenous, even total test, nothing. I'm not looking for free test even yet, which is what I really care about too. Nothing. So yeah, kind of. But are there not, is there nothing in the, in the insert that looks at systemic levels? No, shockingly, unless I am oblivious. But because there is newer formats too of the IUD, IUD using the same drug at lower dosages. And knowing how impactful the old outdated morana is compared to like, I think it's called Skylight or something, which is like half the dose and achieves the same contraception level, which is your, you know, your good. It would have been nice to know like an alternative existed that my girlfriend could be on instead. She's still covered, but she's on half the drug. But it's like they treated as one in the same, because there's no like hormonal data to even assess that one might be worse than the other. It's just you've achieved contraception. Congratulations. Here's your, here's your thing. So kind of frustrating because it's like a lot of this stuff you don't learn about until after the fact. And it's not like I can retroactively be like, or even now say, yeah, this thing that lasts for eight years, go uninstall it and put in this better one that releases half the drug. Like she's not going to do that. So yeah, anyway, I was, I was hoping there would be something, but I guess maybe I'm not shocked that there wouldn't be either, given how like absurd the contraceptive market is, if that makes sense. But I guess in your mind, if you had a young girl who is coming to you and saying, hey, I want to achieve contraception, but I don't want to mess up my hormones, what kind of like preliminary advice would you give, not even necessarily like, here's the exact thing you want to do medical advice, just here are the considerations I'd have and probably the most viable options that I think are desirable.  emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions appreciated. Just the quick question on like, is there data on IUD hormone suppression? That would be much appreciated. I know that is a general rule they tend to for birth control favor the estrogen ring. Okay, good to know. As far as, I can pretty much wipe out this contraceptive part. The women's HRT debacle. So you've spoken about this at length. And when you are, like, when do you think women should start evaluating HRT, pre-peri or post-menopause? Because I know there is this rule that if you have hit menopause after a certain amount of time, it's no longer worth the risk. Is that something that let's just say you've been in menopause for, I forgot what the cutoff is, it's either five or 10 years? Yeah, it's sort of seven is what they're kind of saying now. Once you're seven years out, it's too late to do anything about it. What is there actually? There's actually no data that tells you that. There's no study that says, if you, you know, I mean, indirectly, you could argue there might be some data, but it's not relevant to today because it's, we're not using the same formulations. So if you think about what people use today for HRT and women, we have no reason to believe that you can't start it at any time. That said, a more, I mean, a lot of women are not, are going to be very reluctant to start it if they're 60 years old right now. Sure. Also, good example though, if I interrupt, my grandma in her 90s only knows about HRT because I've recently learned about its viability. So even my mom is on it. Grandma has clear, it is horrible osteoporosis. Yeah, like arthritis is a dancer, can't go to her dance classes because of pain, has, you know, hormone non-existence. Like it would seem like even for the remaining years, if you could get the highest quality out of them, at some minor elevated risk even, I'm like, I'm not going to be the one to give it to you necessarily, but like, yeah, I mean, unfortunately, we don't know. And that's, you know, again, another kind of tragedy of how this whole situation went down. But I think the data are pretty clear today that you, you actually want to initiate hormones gradually while women are in perimenopause. You don't even really want to wait till they're in menopause. And in fact, you can have an even greater impact on bone health if you never let them experience estrogen withdrawal. So, you know, classic thinking might be that the moment you, you know, start to experience vasomotor symptoms, okay, that's when you should start. So the moment that a woman's experiencing hot flashes and night sweats, you know, then you could, you know, wait or you wait till she's completely amenorrheic before you start. But, you know, I think that you'll start to notice irregularities in her period, you'll start to notice FSH elevation, estradiol drop. And I think it's very logical to start treating women with a low dose of estradiol plus or minus progesterone at that period of time. And, you know, basically as their natural hormones are going down, you're adding hormones on so that you're kind of keeping them at a constant level. And again, I think the most important indication here is bone health. I don't know why this doesn't get more attention. It really drives me, you know, kind of certifiably insane that people aren't more phosphorylated over the the absolute epidemic of osteoporosis in women. And women are disproportionately affected by this because estrogen is the most important hormone in the regulation of bone health. And therefore, when women experience this catastrophic drop in estrogen, even though men experience a decline in estrogen as well, it's not as catastrophic and not as sudden. Just the area under the curve is much more against women. So, you know, I've argued this till I'm blue in the face with people who believe that, you know, HRT shouldn't be used more than seven or 10 years out of menopause because there's no data to support its use. And I would argue, even if that's true, just look at the clear objective obvious data in terms of bone health. And again, they're, you know, I've talked about this so many times, it's not worth getting back into. But, you know, the risk of breast cancer with HRT is so low. And it's not even clear that estrogen has anything to do with it. It could entirely be based on the synthetic progestin from that was used in the HRT that, again, is almost never used today. That was actually a question I had about the IUD too. So when you guys are using a morana to achieve that outcome, is there no such thing as a bio-identical? Yeah, I'm not sure. Because that way you would think that would make sense, right? Yeah. Presumably, it, again, the morana's use in postmenopausal women is off-label, obviously, right? So the intention of the morana was to inhibit fertilization. So presumably, the progestin selected was the maximum inhibitory to fertilization, as opposed to the most selected to prevent endothelial hyperplasia. Right. So when you are, like, I think I recall you saying FSH of 20 is kind of like a target of... Yeah, 25-ish. Yeah. Okay. And then, at least for men, we have these sort of numbers that we can point to of a high normal testosterone that would typically result in symptom relief and be optimized is like 700, do 1,000 or whatever. And then a proportional E2 and you would have a free test that is 2-3% of your total. For women, when you're looking at HRT, is there some sort of targets you could point to when it's based on... Because you kind of have to pick a number, right? Yeah. So we usually, I like to start the estradiol first, because you're also trying to figure out which symptom you're treating. It also depends on where you are. But so maybe rather than get into that algorithm, which is a bit cumbersome and very personalized, I think in an ideal situation, the estradiol is accomplishing the following, right? The FSH is sufficiently suppressed and kind of 20 to 30 is the sweet spot. And the symptoms are completely gone. So there are no vasomotor symptoms. There are no vaginal symptoms. And by the way, if you're starting this early enough, women, you never let them get to the point where they're having vaginal symptoms. So if you introduce HRT at the right point in time, women should not experience any vaginal atrophy or anything like that. So you really should just be getting involved right when they're getting their first vasomotor symptoms. And then... So once you've got kind of estradiol dialed in, then the question becomes the progesterone question. And again, in an ideal world, you would get your progesterone systemically. And what we're really trying to figure out is can you get them to at least 100 milligrams orally? So between one and 200 probably gives you sufficient coverage to oppose estrogen. If you can't get them there, then you need the local use of progesterone. We virtually never use progesterone suppositories. So we're kind of trying to get you there with micronized oral progesterone, so bioidentical micronized oral progesterone or a progesterone-coded IUD. And again, the hope is that you're giving them symptomatic benefit with the progesterone and not... We don't sort of do it if it's making them any worse. So if their mood is... If they're becoming more emotionally labile, which can happen, then we would wind it down or off. But we definitely want to see an improvement in mood and improvement in sleep, and many women experience an improvement in hair. And the side effects that you note from a mood standpoint, is it... I mean, this is a direct quote from every woman I've ever spoken to who has not done well with progesterone. It's, I want to kill my husband. Right, so it's just a profound... Or like, I am so emotional. I am... This feels like the worst PMS I've ever had kind of thing. So it's not really subtle, truthfully. It's pretty clear if a woman is not going to do well on progesterone. And then the testosterone is the last piece. And we don't really consider that a universal piece at the moment. Unfortunately, we don't have really good long-term data here. And we, you know, obviously talk about that in great detail with women, which is, you know, I can't point to the same volume of data with estrogen and progesterone on the testosterone front. I can make a really good case for it. And I think we also can do this responsibly and physiologically. So, you know, we talked earlier about, you know, people that are out there replacing testosterone to a level of 300 nanograms per deciliter in women. I don't see a use case for that, truthfully. I think that's a risk that doesn't make any sense. Maybe it's totally fine. But again, I don't see the upside in it. I don't think you need to go nearly that high to get what really matters as far as benefits. And I'd much rather be interested in being able to give somebody a physiologic dose that they could stay on for a very long period of time. I.e. indefinitely. Yeah, one thing I would love to see is, I guess it would be more applicable in women on HRT who have bottomed out or low normal DHEAS, but like doing the 50 meg, you know, DHEA to try and backfill tests without having to take a men's or like get a compounded special test cream or whatever. I feel like that could be something, maybe. Yeah, actually, I think, I think I'd probably be more willing to give that a try based on kind of the, you know, if you really think you could eke another 40 milligrams per deciliter out of the adrenals and she's at 40 and that takes you to 80, that could be really worthwhile. Yeah, I'll send you the papers I have later and I'll check what the max amount they could get out of it was, because I don't know if it went all the way to 80, but it was definitely restoration to whatever baseline was, but I'll check that later. As far as Alzheimer's progression and bioidentical HRT in women, you know, I feel like it's oftentimes, even I will do this, I'll say, you know, women's hormone to plummet after menopause, at least their estrogen progesterone will and testosterone, depending on, you know, adrenal hormone output proportionally and whatnot. And I don't think it's a coincidence that Alzheimer's goes, you know, skyrocket to postmenopause. Is there some literature that shows like a, I don't know, some sort of clear trend of risk goes through the roof right as hormones are kind of crashing or is that more of a correlation that I'm maybe too loosely yeah, I mean, so what you're pointing to is the fact that women have two x the lifetime risk of Alzheimer's disease that men do. So that's an undeniable epidemiologic truth. So, and that's pretty stark. I'm trying like we don't see that in cardiovascular disease, we don't see that in cancer. So, you know, two x the risk of Alzheimer's disease is a big deal. By the way, men are about two x the risk of Parkinson's disease. So, and you have these two neurodegenerative diseases that come out in the wash. Now, I think there are probably several reasons for it. Age is one, women are going to live, you know, three or four years longer than men on average. So that probably accounts for some of the difference. But I also think that the HRT piece, pardon me, not the HRT, but just the loss of hormones in midlife also plays a role in it. I think there is some evidence to, I don't think there's been a really good study to test that, right? So the the WHOI tried to answer that question in a lousy way and came up with a null answer. But you could poke so many holes in their attempt to do that that I think it's irrelevant. There are small pilot studies I've seen that have been in high risk women. So women that carry at least one copy of the ApoE4 gene that have suggested that HRT improves outcomes in women with MCI. But, you know, I doubt it will ever be done because it would take so long. But I would absolutely love to see a dementia prevention study in women where, you know, I mean, in fact, I know the study will never be done. It would take too long and cost too much money. But the question should be, you know, if you took a group of women that were completely homogeneous once after randomization, you know, a heterogeneous population that statistically were homogeneous and randomized them to HRT and no HRT with no other difference, what are the impacts on dementia risk? And I would bet that there would be a difference based on these other indirect pieces of evidence. We'll never see that, right? So again, this this is where we go from evidence based medicine to evidence informed medicine. You know, if you want to live in a world where you only practice evidence based medicine, that's fine. But you just have to understand there's a lot of problems you will never get to address. And this is one of them. All right. Sorry if I missed it when it comes to E2 targets, like it is symptomarily first and foremost. Yes, we don't actually have a number target. So in order to achieve that symptomarily, though, do you find massive iterability? Yes, totally. And that's why the FSH is the far better target. Honestly, it's a lot like TSH. When you're treating hypothyroidism, you're really treating the TSH, not the free T3 and the free T4. The TSH is what's giving you a better and the symptoms. In other words, when we have hypothyroid patients, we manage symptoms and TSH. And yeah, we do pay attention to what their free T3 to reverse T3 ratio is and all those other things. But like, you know, symptoms matter first, TSH matters second, everything else matters third. So similarly, symptoms matter first, FSH next, estradiol levels third. When it comes to, just curious when it comes to, because you mentioned thyroid, is it essentially impossible to maintain adequate thyroid hormone, I don't know, balance when you are on a long-term keto diet? I feel like I might have asked this question. But no, I think it kind of depends on weight loss. I mean, you know, I think any diet that promotes weight loss is going to put a little bit of pressure on your thyroid. So like the binding protein elevation doesn't get so significant. I mean, I was on a keto diet for three years, absent one day, which is a pretty long time for a person to be uninterrupted on a ketogenic diet, you know, circa 2011 to 2014. I had perfectly normal thyroid function that entire time free T3 was everything was just stone cold normal. I mean, zero interruptions. And yet, you know, if I go on a fast, if I would do a seven day fast, I would render myself profoundly hypothyroid. So, you know, I think, I think when I suspect that the keto induced hypothyroidism might be more a response to energy, energy balance or energy imbalance. Why do you think it is that so many people are hypothyroid now? I noticed it more. I think it's a little bit of a hammer looking for a nail problem. Honestly, I think it's a lot of functional medicine doctors who think hypothyroidism is the, you know, the root cause of everything from fibromyalgia to impotence to headaches to depression. And they're basically just diagnosing everybody with hypothyroidism. So you think you're seeing, for example, Guy comes in, thinks he might have a problem. He shows a TSH of like 2.7 or something. The doc's like, you should have it under one. What are you doing? And then all of a sudden he's on lifelong therapy. Yes, I think there's a ton of that. And we do have some patients that come into our practice like that. And yeah, I think it's, I don't know. And to be clear, like I used to be far more aggressive in managing that as well. You know, I was having people measure their body temperature every morning. I mean, I was looking at a whole bunch of other variables, but I just don't think we're seeing, you know, any clinical utility to that. You know, obviously, if I see somebody who has a TSH of four and they're symptomatic and or they have antibodies, like we're going to treat them, and the treatment can be complicated, right? I mean, we don't just rely on levothyroxine, right? We're not just relying on T4. So, you know, you, I think you do have to have a little bit of sophistication around when you use T4, when you use immediate release T3. And for us, the answer was pretty much never when you use control release T3 and when you use desiccated thyroid. And I think each of these has their use case. And I mean, we manage really complicated cases of this in patients, but I, you know, I'd prefer to only manage it in people where I think there's an actual issue as opposed to just a manufactured one. Right. Right. So, going back to the inflammation really quick. So, that drug that came out, or just in general managing inflammation manually through supplements, curcumin, things of this nature. How do you think you should address, you know, understanding when it needs to be managed? Like, are you looking to subjective feelings of like? I don't think subjective feelings are at all a good barometer of inflammation. I mean, the study you're referring to, I assume you're referring to the colchicine study. You know, that was a study that looked at using colchicine, which is a really potent anti-inflammatory drug used for a treatment of acute gout. And it's kind of funny, it's actually kind of a bit of a boondoggle, right? Because clearly the company that did it was doing it to protect their patent, because the dose used in the study is slightly different than the dose that's used for gout treatment. So, they could manufacture a new pill and a new name for the drug. So, it's a whole patent life extension play. But nevertheless, it did show a clinical benefit in terms of reducing major adverse cardiac events. So, in apples to apples comparison across other metrics, just taking colchicine was reducing outcomes. Admittedly, these were very high risk patients. So, the question posed to us in our practice is, okay, which patients in our practice meet the criteria of being high risk enough to warrant going on colchicine for not for gout, but for the specific purpose of inflammation reduction. And I'll tell you that, it was fewer than 5% of our patients met that criteria where we decided, based on both the inclusion criteria of the study and even a slightly larger or expanded set of inclusion, who did we think was high risk enough? So, it's still relatively low. When you're doing something that's a bit more benign, like a curcumin, how are you, like I know you have a pretty elaborate process by which you make people qualify the supplements they take. How would you go about that for anti-inflammatory, exogenous supplements? Yeah, I mean, look, I take theracumen. And I think the data are reasonable on it. It's a pretty expensive supplement. It's probably one of my more expensive supplements, right? Because I use that pure encapsulations brand and it's pretty pricey. But unfortunately, there's a bit of a leap of faith there. So, when I go through the list of questions, like one of the most important questions that I can't answer, which is, is there a biomarker? And for someone like me who has very low markers of all of those inflammatory things we talked about, very low levels, right? Like, I miss CRPs, unless I'm sick or something like my CRP is almost unmeasurable, ferritin is low, like all of these things are low. So, it's not like on versus off theracumen. I'm seeing a difference. I'm not. So, is it doing anything? I don't know, right? But on some of these metrics, I'm taking a bit of a leap of faith that, well, hey, there were some potential benefits in terms of dementia risk reduction. And maybe that's helping. When it comes to like my thought, for example, I take curcumin on my non-training days, just in case. One thing that did stand out to me when I was at Joe's the other day is he mentions how he does cold plunging before working out now. And I'm like, I couldn't think of why. But he's always done that, hasn't he? I think he always called plunges first thing in the morning. I think he's done it for maybe a year or two. Yeah. But I guess this time it stood out to me because I've seen, for example, your data or summary of the data on cold exposure and the attenuation of inflammation and how it's, you know, you kind of need it to actually respond to your training stimulus. So, I understand the avoidance of it in a post-workout context. Yep. But when I hear it in a pre-workout context, I couldn't really say with any certainty that you shouldn't do that. My guess is it's probably not having the same effect, right? Because you're going to warm up pretty quickly as soon as you get in the gym and you're going to have that post-workout inflammatory response and adaptation. You know, that said, like, I don't do it as much in the winter, but in the summer, the days are longer and I just have a little bit more time. Like, I'm pretty much cold plunging every single day in the afternoon. And initially, I used to not do it on days that I lifted. But then I was like, you know, actually, I feel better when I cold plunge every single day. And if that means I'm going to be, you know, experience 10% less hypertrophy, who cares? Yeah. Like, I don't care if I'm 10% less strong and have 10% less hypertrophy. But if my body feels, you know, demonstrably better, that's a more important metric to me. No, yeah, that's what I was thinking. Like, worst case, it's got to be some fractional, I don't know, something that you're getting out of as you get deeper into the workout. But like, I couldn't say was certainly, obviously, some people really get the boost out of it, that it's worthwhile. So, yeah, it sounds like it's not a bad idea, necessarily. And there's no data to suggest that it would attenuate the response in like a way to the like, I've talked about cold and hot a lot. And I don't really think there's a disease risk component to cold, the way I do think there is for hot. Like, I do think the data are reasonable to suggest that you are reducing your risk of chronic disease with heat exposure. I don't, I don't see those data on cold exposure. Right. So it's, you know, I think these are very different interventions, both of which I absolutely love and do very frequently, but for different reasons. Do it as wild as when I see people saying that it's as potent as cocaine and dopamine release. What is cold plunge? Really? Yeah, I don't know if it came from, there's a neuroscientist that he Brumman knows that I think has quoted it. Maybe it's a rodent study, but like you were the one who showed that there's a serum spike that is not reflective of brain concentrations. And you're comparing rodents to humans, right? Like, yeah, I think that's just a standard. You can't compare those metrics then, presumably. Because I hear it quoted quite often. I think I have a very hard time believing that. In fact, I would find that impossible to believe. Yeah. Like, I haven't done coke, but I imagine it feels nor have I, but I certainly know enough people who have. And you see enough of the destruction of what happens to people who were doing it. So yeah, certainly not that. So question on drugs, though, for cognitive enhancement, is there anything you do regularly or even irregularly that is neutropic, cognitive enhancing, anything of that nature? Probably the closest thing I use. So I don't travel that much anymore. So I don't, I almost never use this. I don't know the last time I took it. But if my sleep is going to be disrupted, I will use Modafinil. But as I said, I'm such a sleep weenie that it never happened. And it was my whole life, my travel, everything revolves around making sure I'm sleeping well. I think I spent so many years. I did my entire residency on Modafinil. For five years, I was sleep deprived, slinging Provigil. I mean, we used to write prescriptions for each other all day. We would just like, if you needed a, if you need a prescription, you would just, this is back when we had like those alphanumeric pagers, and you would just like, page your buddy, I need candy. And like, he'd be like, Candyman is here, and he'd call in a prescription. You know, this is a wild west back then. You could phone in controlled substances. Nobody cared, right? But given that I've already probably lost way too many neurons to sleeplessness, you know, now that I sleep really well, the data are quite clear, at least the last time I looked, that Modafinil offered no cognitive benefits in a well rested state. Now, they did, it does offer a significant benefit in a sleep deprived state. So again, given that even if I'm traveling eight hour time zone difference, I'm still always structuring it in a way that I'm going to sleep on the plane and get the right amount of sleep, it's become kind of a moot point. I don't know if it technically qualifies as a no tropic, but I do like to use nicotine from time to time. So I do use little nicotine pouches. I would say yeah. Yeah, I don't use them that often. And I feel pretty lucky, like I'm not someone who ever seems to develop dependencies around anything, chemical at least. So I could use a nicotine pouch twice a day every day for a month, and then forget about it for two months, and I wouldn't experience any withdrawal or craving. So like I literally have a nicotine thing sitting on my desk there. I don't think I've done it in about a month. But now that I'm talked about it, I'm probably going to do it tomorrow. How many milligrams is it per hour? Unfortunately, those ones are chubby. That's a seven milligram. Oh, damn. So it's a bit, I would much prefer it if it was a three. And I could do more of them. And do you find a difference from like bucle absorption versus chewing a gum or something? I do. I find this is much quicker. So it's like a reflective of IV almost. Yeah. Yeah. It's interesting when you look at some of the pharmacokinetic data even on like how they used to administer steroids to get around doping tests, they like swish this stuff around their mouth and get it to absorb bucaly to get it to skip first pass. And it almost like changes how the drug works too, not just how it gets in the past. And the problem by the way with seven, the reason I don't love that, but I'm too lazy to like actually care and go and look for different formulations. I'm sure there's smarter ways to do it. But the problem is it's a one hit wonder, right? Like it's a high enough dose. As you know, nicotine is initially activating and then it's quite sedating. It's quite calming, which is nice by the way too. But like if you think about it, that's seven cigarettes worth of nicotine. So like in the process of smoking seven cigarettes, you're going to go from a very big high into also a very significant calm. So I actually think I would like it more. And I know you can do this if you're chewing the gum, I just again, I'm too lazy to go out and get it. But you know, if you were just doing like one milligram hits in the gum, you might get more of the attention and focus component of it. Yeah, yeah. But truthfully, like I really do not believe there is a better no tropic out there than exercise and sleep. Like I think a rested brain and an exercised brain is an infinitely better brain than someone who's doing every silly jerk off no tropic protocol that every bio hacker and their brother out there is telling.  emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions How many milligrams do you go through in a day? I'm curious. Um, I probably, so if I'm drinking like a, just a drip coffee, I would probably drink, I don't know, minimum, no less than three or 400 milliliters of that a day and sometimes easily 800 milliliters. Oh, damn. Other brain support supplements for omegas, is there anything you do to fact check quality? Like, I know you have a go-to brand that you've mentioned before. Is there something that is, you hear all the time, all fish oil is ranted in the grocery store, don't get it, it's going to be more harmful than helpful. No one really seems to know how to vet this stuff though. So people will literally say break it open and smell it. And if it smells like fish, it's bad. Like that's the kind of advice that is out there. And I couldn't even speak to if that's necessarily ludicrous or not. Do you have any insight on how to evaluate fish oil, quality other than, I don't know, sending it to Labdoor and getting it rancidity tested and potency assessed? No, I think you just have to probably rely on a reliable third-party tester. I mean, there are two FDA approved pharma variants of it. So, but again, they're in very high doses. So it's like, Vasipa is probably four milligrams of EPA. And that's probably overkill. I mean, most people don't need that much EPA. And there's an equivalent DHA product as well. I'm blanking on the name of it at the moment. In general, would you, when you're trying to figure out dosing, do you dose accordingly based on that omega status test that you mentioned? We look at the, we look at RBC levels. Okay. And so in other words, you're looking at the assimilation of the fatty acid into the RBC membrane. And is that assessed? And that takes a while. That's it. So in other words, you can't really assess the index until a person's been on it for three months. So this is the Cleveland Heart Lab. No, we use the Labcore test. And the reason we use that now is that that's the one that, I forget, I'm blanking on the name of the clinical trial. There was a clinical trial that looked at outcomes based on omega three levels in RBC, and they use that assay. So we just, we used to use a different assay, we switched to that assay now. So at least we're doing an apples to apples comparison. But it's important to understand, like, you, you know, you have to be on the omega three for three months, because that's, it takes about 90 days to turn over all of your red blood cells. So you have to go through a full cycle of red blood cell production to see the integration and assimilation of the fatty acids into the membrane. What's the dose that you're on of EPA and DHA of curiosity? Yeah, I think I take a dose that results in about two and a half grams of EPA and about two grams of DHA. Quick note from another sponsor, this is a gorilla mind, sports nutrition, cognitive enhancing supplement, pre-workout, but also mainstream health supplement company. These are my personal formulations that over the years I've refined and developed, and it kind of stemmed from at this point, probably six plus years ago, just being one of the first companies to actually put human literature backed, maximally efficacious dosages in a pre-workout for the first time, and saying, why are we scraping the barrel with minimum efficacious dose products, especially for, you know, fitness enthusiasts who often way more, often way more than the small body weights that are used to actually dose out these ingredients in the studies. We have individuals who are 200 pounds plus lean who are using, you know, the bare minimum, like three grams of citrulline in their product, or like a girl dose of creatine, or, you know, an array, or even a girl dose of caffeine. Like some of the most basic stuff has been overlooked for years. And I feel like we are one of the first companies to actually showcase no proprietary blend straight up. These are the maximum efficacious dosages. Here are the studies to reference yourself. We have a four hour video, for example, to showcase all the literature behind this formula. And off the success of that stemmed an array of different products. And I think probably of note that's most relevant to this podcast is the most recent innovation, Omega three elixir. And I wouldn't even necessarily say it's, you know, innovative, it's more so just putting in what would have made me comfortable to buy official oil product to begin with years ago, when I first started to notice that it was actually pretty cloudy of a sub industry, you know, some of the top products supposedly in the industry don't even have their third party test results on their product page. Like how am I supposed to know what your oxidation and rancidity scores are if I don't have the test results to actually reference. So you can tell me it's a good quality fish oil, but I don't actually know. And once I can inspect, you know, how much heavy metals is in it is how rancid is it, if any, is this stuff high quality to begin with? Is it ethyl ester format, reester fried triglyceride, you know, proprietary blends to for the Omega's like this is fully broken out on the supplement factory to look at. In addition, we have a infusion of astaxanthin, which is unique and complimentary. Typically, you would only find that a negligible or proportionally not advantageous dose in a krill oil product that has basically a useless amount of EPA and DHA in it. This is one of the first products that I'm aware of, if not the first to feature a efficacious dose of astaxanthin, which helps attenuate the oxidation of the actual Omega's in the product. But then in addition to that, it is just like actually dosed well to be competitive with the top dogs. And we have the third party test results right on the product page. For you to reference ourselves, if you want to look at the peroxide values, the totox values, the heavy metals, the toxins, the actual meeting the label claims of the EPA, the DHA, the other Omega threes in the product, including the astaxanthin, like this thing is stacked and is what I would say one of the best fish oil products on the market, sustainably harvested, sourced from 100% wild caught anchovies, sardines, and mackerel. Third party tested meets label claims, totox scores beating some of the top dog dogs in the industry that have been at this for decades at this point. No fishy burps, the stuff is awesome, and I'm thrilled to bring it to market as one of the only health supplements that I say almost without question you probably should be taking. Now you can assess that and actually verify with an Omega three index that you can get via blood work that we talked about in this episode as well. I would highly recommend you get that you can go to Merrick diagnostics.com if you want to check that out and see where you stand. And that's how you would know how to actually optimally dose this stuff. So no longer are the days where you just have to go take a random fish oil product, smell it, hope it doesn't smell too fishy, and then wonder if it's rancid or not, and then hope that you got the right dose based on the suggested use on the back. Now you actually know what you probably need based on actual biomarkers that you can then take contextually back to figure out what your optimal dose is of a high quality product like this or another product from a different company. There are other reputable ones out there. I just think this one is unique in that it has the astaxanthin inclusion and also we have the third party test results literally on the product page which is shockingly rare. So anyways if you want to check it out, Gorillamind.com. We also have other products that I think are pretty awesome like our comprehensive multivitamin which helps kind of like check the boxes and backfill any potential micronutrient deficiencies. Our dream supplement which is excellent for sleep if you need it of course not mandatory. Our pre-workouts are excellent even some of the basics like micronized creatine monohydrate. We have it all on the site and I think you guys will like some of the stuff so check it out. Gorillamind.com link in description below. Use code MPMD to save 10% and back to our regularly scheduled programming. Okay brain fog from eating. This might be a CGM related question. This might be a insulin sensitivity question. I'm not really sure. What do you think is the main cause of these dips and like you wake up you feel super mentally sharp. You work a few hours you have a big meal all of a sudden you're in this state of haze and then you kind of get a bit of an uptick back up to normal-ish maybe like 70% and then you kind of you go through the same thing through this like incremental deterioration of performance throughout the day until you're just decimated in its time for bed whereas some people seemingly have stable levels all day and I hear about you know that's one of the appeals of the you know keto or carnivore diet is this stability which presumably is nothing special but the carnivore diet's more like blood sugar related I would assume. What do you think is the main I don't know root of mental clarity slash stability or like the most conducive diet to it? Yeah it's a good question. I don't know that I know that and my guess is as you said it varies by individual right like I eat a relatively unrestricted diet from macronutrients and you notice no changes in variability of mental clarity throughout the day proportional to when you were keto and I don't know if you were sleeping well enough back then to really gauge in proportion. I will say this I don't really experience bouts of brain fog or anything like that and I don't experience anything with relation to meal timing at least not that I'm aware of. Now that said I also have pretty good blood sugar regulation so maybe the question is less about what you eat and more how does what you eat impact your glycemic load and how much of that brain fog is associated with either the derivative the rate change of glucose or a given absolute level either too low or too high. I don't think I know the answer is the short answer. If you were to monitor that post-prandial spike and then bring it back down to like what would you use as a gauge for what is considered good blood glucose control in response to I don't know your dinner for example. Well I mean you know we know that the lower and fewer the spikes of glucose the better right. I mean I think the ITP data with both canagaflowsen and acarbose make that really clear right that those you know independent of body weight this is a very important distinction right independent of body weight canagaflowsen and acarbose extended life significantly like to the tune of you know 15 to 20 percent. You use the first class but not the second right correct okay yeah and why not the second. I just that hassle factor acarbose is one of those drugs you have to take it right before you eat and honestly if I could remember to do it I probably would but it's like I just can't I just can't bother. Whereas I think in the ITP study it was just constantly in the chow of the mice so it's like a much easier drug delivery system so they were always getting acarbose with their meals but you know I've never heard a compelling explanation for how those drugs have exerted such a positive impact on lifespan and by extension health span without pointing to their glycemic effect. All right all right now that I assumed it to be how well you can control and like partition what you are eating essentially agreed and what you do to kind of like make use of it. One thing you did mention about in your book specifically and you guys should check out the book if you haven't by the way people with obesity or other metabolic problems tend to have much higher resting lactate levels. A sign that their mitochondria aren't functioning optimally they are working too hard just to maintain baseline energy levels this means they are relying almost totally on glucose levels stored glycogen for energy and they are unable to access their fat stores. The people with the most fat are nearly incapable of accessing their stored fat for energy whereas professional athletes are able to do so easily because they have more metabolic flexibility and healthier mitochondria. So from that would somebody discern that obese people and in deficits need to like totally deplete their glycogen before they can actually start burning the same rate of fat as an athlete or how would that play out. I do think there is a huge I think there really is something to glycogen depletion and that's why I think if you look at some of the literature on people who have gone into hospitals for surgery and they have to fast for like a couple of days you know they fast pre-operatively obviously and then they're post-operatively fasting you know usually receiving some intravenous fluid but not much meaning not much calorie like a little bit of dextrose. You'll often see absent the obvious you know inflammatory signs of surgery like an improvement in glycemic numbers. Obviously the most profound example of this in the or in the diabetic patients who undergo gastric bypass who eat long before they lose a pound of weight will experience a significant improvement in glycemic markers and you know historically I think people have assumed that that has to do with the the Rue and why procedure and that you're rerouting kind of gastrointestinal hormones I think that has probably a lot to do with it. I also think a lot has to do with the fact that they just fasted right like they just basically didn't they couldn't eat a thing for 48 hours. So you know you definitely have to get people to oxidize fat and that's what gets back to that mitochondrial function assay of zone 2 testing right which is if you can't oxidize fat you're you know nobody is like just throwing glucose into their mitochondria right if you can't oxidize fat well by definition you're not putting glucose through that pathway either you're running all your energy as glycolysis and you know again that's so that's why you're going to see these people with resting lactate levels of 2. So when we do zone 2 training in people that are that metabolically unhealthy or that decondition we definitely do not use lactate as a parameter because it's it's it's so misleading instead we use RPE in fact we use RPE in everybody but you can't rely on lactate in in that setting you have to just rely on RPE and get their conditioning up and do these individuals that are obese and have this like lack of flexibility do they feel the effects of caloric restriction on you know general lack of energy way easier or than somebody who is really metabolically flexible and can access their fat super easily or is it like the outcome is yeah I mean I think you know this gets back to your question earlier like I think that people who are really metabolically flexible can tolerate periods of you know not eating with with with greater ease because they have access to stored fat in a way that someone who's purely glycogen dependent is you know reliant on one relatively short fused fuel source I guess the proof is in the pudding too based on their body comp and how they ended up there probably makes sense um um targets for magnesium last time we talked about the RDA and how you thought it was really low and how it's one of the few things I think pretty much everyone I know who takes their health seriously and optimization is on magnesium and what do you think is a by the way I misspoke last time I said that I believed I was getting one gram absorbed of elemental mag I went back and did the math because I was just sort of going off the cuff I'm not getting quite that much okay um so if you go through all of my sources of magnesium like two to three slow mags four to five hundred of mag oxide and then you know probably 165 of magnesium in the in the l3 and 8 if you then calculate the actual absorption of each of those I'm probably closer to six or seven maybe 800 milligrams of uh of mag a day so I'm getting more than a gram because I'm also getting it in food but I I'm not getting a gram of supplemental mag and is there any well for magnesium is there an RDA that you think just ballpark would make more sense for people to like roughly adhere to I mean I think I think you know 2x the RDA is probably the right amount 800 yeah although again it's um you have to go through and do the conversions on this stuff so we did an AMA on this where people can go and kind of figure out how to figure it out but you know each each formulation of magnesium has a pretty significant bioavailability so you have to know am I getting mag chloride you know mag sulfate mag oxide mag glycinate and you know then apply the oh I'm only getting 20 percent of this I'm getting 80 percent of this etc so you know I would say at a minimum 500 milligrams okay and when you're looking at like obviously one of the things magnesium is great for is helping sleep and speaking of sleep when you're looking at your eight sleep data for example I know that there's a lot of stuff that people you know will take very seriously but oftentimes some of it could be wildly different than another tracker and that one wildly different than another tracker is there certain metrics that are kind of like the hallmarks of what you'd consider reliable metrics to lean on for a high quality sleep and like a patient for example like when you're trying to figure out did this person have a yeah yeah I mean the first thing you want to know and this is where I mean most trackers can do this pretty well if a tracker can't do this you gotta you gotta punt it but it's like are you getting the right amount of time in bed all right um what's your time in bed and how consistent is it from night to night so that's just a very simple and important metric so I want to make sure I'm in bed eight hours a night can I do it every night no but that's the aspiration and I can probably hit that at least five if not six nights a week and then you know we're lucky because we have young kids that get up at the same time every day so we don't suffer from social jet lag meaning Saturday and Sunday are no different than Monday to Friday so we're we're in of my wife and I are in a very clear routine of when we go to bed and when we get up and we're you know pretty early early to bed early to rise um but if you don't have kids it's really easy to use the weekends to alter your sleep cycle by three or four hours you could easily do that um so we just you know you just want to be mindful of the fact that you're it's a little hard you know it's hard on your body to do that it's hard on your circadian rhythm to have undergo that social jet lag where you go you do a three hour time zone difference on weekends so once you kind of establish that a person's in bed routine is reasonable then you can start to look at other metrics so sleep efficiency is also something that's relatively easy for tracking devices to measure which is just measuring sleep time divided by total time in bed so we do want to see a high sleep efficiency certainly north of 85 percent but ideally above 90 percent then we look at staging you know what and again i think the eight sleep is very accurate and so you know you know are you getting sufficient enough deep sleep and REM sleep um and again i don't really get bent out of shape over any one night data but but you always you kind of want to look at trends um i i don't pay as much attention to any of the recovery data in in sleep trackers i use a different app for sleep tracking i think we might have even talked about it last time no so you know i check my hrv every single morning when i wake up i do like a three minute hrv test so it's measuring morning hrv and morning heart rate and then coupled with sleep duration and two subjective questions about well-being and soreness it then predicts what my zone two heart rate is going to be and and zone five for that matter but i don't need the zone five number but i need the zone i like using the zone two number as another way to kind of gauge where my effort should be that day okay so we got to talk about f1 before i go so 2023 season recap what like obviously it was pretty dominant red bull what was your overall thoughts like did you enjoy it was it just too much of a blowout for you to really like i don't know enjoy what was happening like how did you view it no i mean i i enjoyed it a lot and um but i can understand why a person who doesn't really understand the sport would have been you know not as excited by it because um and not to be like an f1 snob but i guess i'm going to be an f1 snob right like if you if you if you have a real appreciation for greatness you have to appreciate the fact that we're in the midst of you know watching what what will go down as one of the greatest drivers of all time right so max is already in my book among the top five greatest drivers in the history of the sport and that's saying something given that he's only 26 years old who's top five um senna schumacher i would put max in that list now uh alonso who's also still driving and found you i would say those are probably the top five and that's tough because like god there's some amazing drivers i haven't mentioned who we could argue all day long and some a purist would say you know you can't have found you on the list because that was a totally different era and maybe that's right like maybe you maybe you have to say look let's only talk about it through the lens of drivers since the 1980s um and and then if you did that then you know who gets that spot you know is it lewis is it vettel is it um god who else who else would you throw on that list alan prost maybe like it gets really complicated but the the point is not whether he's in the top five or the top six the point is you're looking at one of the all-time greats and by the way um if max's interest continues in the sport and he wants to stay in f1 for another 10 years um but you know it's it's possible he's going to obliterate the record books now the record books are also a little bit meaningless here and i think that's an important distinction why because you can't even come close to comparing the numbers that you know that lewis and max are going to rack up or you know lewis has racked up and max is going to rack up because you know it used to be a 16 you know race season it's now going to be a 24 race season next year so you know when you have 50 more races in a year of course you're going to track up you know get more wins and stuff like that um but you have to be able to look past the statistics and look at the quality of the driver and you know the absolute lack of mistakes that are made the absolute consistency the absolute domination under every circumstance street track wet dry hot cold um good setup bad setup i mean it just it just doesn't matter and by the way is the car amazing yeah it is the best car out there but remember he got twice the number of points of his teammate two x the difference and i think that's a very important point right i think that's the reason that people found this season unenjoyable if you won't blame somebody for this season don't blame max blame Sergio and i'll tell you why go back to 1988 1988 you have senna and prost racing for mclaren in what is the only season in which you had a more dominant car than this year so this year's red bull the rb 19 is the second most dominant car in the history of f1 now statistically it's the most dominant because it won 22 out of 23 races whereas the mp4 4 won 15 out of 16 races so on a percentage basis little less dominant but the difference is the mp4 4 was the most dominant car in every race and the one race that it did not win in 88 which was manza was because senna well in the lead got crashed out by somebody who locked up so senna would have won manza and it would have won 16 out of 16 races whereas red bull the one race they didn't win this year they legitimately did not have a good car that weekend which was in singapore their car could not drive that circuit so point is you don't hear anybody complaining about the 88 season because one driver was too dominant or because the car was too dominant and the reason is you had the two best drivers in the world on the same team competing against each other mono a mono coming down to the second last race of the season the championship was decided and so it would be a totally different situation if alonso and max were on red bull this year what would you say if everyone had like i know the car is built around max to some extent but let's just say everyone had an equally as dominant car in whatever setup is individually you know max is max is still going to win he's going to be but the margin of the margin of victory is going to be much smaller what would the top five look like in that circumstance where everyone has everyone's driving the rb 19 now everyone's driving what is of equal performance but tailored for them well then it's not the same car i mean this is let's just say like well so the question is what made the red bull so dominant yeah right so so is they're all using the same tires so remember there's four variables outside of strategy that determine the performance okay so let's just say if you have everyone driving max's exact car you have the rb 19 everyone has the exact same most dominant car you've already said he would come first and i think obviously he's going to come first again if everyone has this car though what is the top five shake out like i'd have to really think about this and i can't imagine how i'm going to anger i think hell out of people out of watching this okay i would say Fernando is second okay um and i would say Charles could be third but maybe Lando yeah i know would you have said at the start of the season no i would not have which is a great example of like when the car is so underperforming it's really in the modern era of f1 it's very difficult to see that and again members we were talking about the other day like you contrast that with Senna's rookie year so Senna's rookie year he's driving a tow truck the the tolman like a total piece of garbage and we show up to monaco show up to monaco in 1984 and it is you know he's starting at the back of the grid because his car sucks and you know quali was the day before in the dry and it's raining like cats and dogs and senna is the greatest wet weather driver the sport has ever seen and he weaves his way up through the field passing world champion after world champion until he is neck and neck with alan prost and passes him just as they decide to stop the race because the rain is too bad so by a matter of inches he ends up finishing second in what undoubtedly would have been he wins monaco in a tow truck and that's like the hardest track that's the most technical track there is um so that was an era of f1 when the driver mattered more than the driver does today which isn't that say to say drivers don't matter today of course they do it means that the cars the technology the cars has expanded so much so anyway with all of that said that's an example of how like you couldn't see i don't think you could appreciate how good landau and oscar piastri were at the beginning of the season because the mclaire was so underperforming um  which is so unfortunate for, you know, you just want to be able to, when you see, I don't read the comments or I try not to, but sometimes when you see the general opinions of who's most outspoken and perhaps it's an outspoken minority and there's a bunch of fans who know what's going on, but it's, it feels, you can't help but feel so bad for guys when their equipment just fucks up and it's like, you know that their season was not their fault and they could have done so much better. I mean, I, you'd have to put Lewis, I think, in the top five, probably put him in the, somewhere between the third to fifth position. You know, obviously he's, you know, he's, he's still, he's still a good driver. Is he ever going to win again? I don't believe so. Oh, when a race or when a championship? I don't believe so, no. But, you know, it's possible, depends how long he's willing to stick around and how long it takes for, I mean, this is kind of a, if you're a Red Bull fan, this is a bit of a ripoff, right? Why? Because the last reg change went from 2014 to 2021. That was eight years. So eight years under one regulation in which Mercedes was the most dominant car. They won eight out of eight years. Now, the last year they didn't win the driver's championship, but they won the Constructors' Championship in eight out of eight years. They had the best car for eight out of eight years. Max beat Lewis in the last of those years. The next reg change is only a four-year change. So Red Bull is super dominant now, right? So we had a regulation change that completely changed the sport in favor of a whole bunch of big changes, but primarily far greater benefit of ground effects and far less intrinsic aerodynamics of the car. And that's why Red Bull is crushing everybody, right? It's their aerodynamics. But they're only going to have that for four years. So it's 21, sorry, 22, 23, which we just finished, 24, 25, 26, there's a new reg change. So Red Bull's kind of getting ripped off. They're only, you know, they're potentially going to be dominant for the next two seasons, and there's going to be a total reg change and a reshuffling of the order. So certainly possible Mercedes bounces back in 2026 as the hands down most dominant car. And then, you know, they get the design right, and we don't know what exactly is going to be the full reg change. It's going to be mostly on the engine side. Like, what does that look like? The sit down process to be like, how do we make it less, I don't know, overly dominant of a season? Is that, and what do we do that could screw Red Bull essentially? No, no, no. So what's going to happen is a new regulation will come out for the rules and the specifications of the cars in 2026. And presumably that change, though, is going to be designed in such a way to try and narrow the gap between the teams to make it a more exciting race. I mean, not necessarily. It's, I don't think the, I don't think the reg changes for 2022 were designed to target Mercedes as much as it was to change the sport. So one of the challenges of that era was that the cars had so much intrinsic aerodynamics that basically it passing was very difficult because once you got within passing distance of a car, you had such a disruption of the airflow of your car that you lost so much downforce, you lost downforce. Now all of a sudden you couldn't make the pass. So the cars have changed to make passing more available when it is. Clearly there's a lot more passing this year in the last two years than there was previously. So again, the 2026 reg change is going to be more about engines, which I think is a total mistake. And I could rant and rail on this topic indefinitely. It is I am livid about what F1 is doing. And it's a, it's a huge blunder that is all about posturing and nonsense. And it's not real. And it's an embarrassment to the sport. In, in what way specifically? Well, they're, they're basically saying, look, we're going to be net carbon zero in the cars by 2030. And they're basically driving towards zero emission cars, which if you actually look at how much of the co2 footprint of F1 comes from the cars driving around the track, it's less than one tenth of one percent. Yeah, the carbon footprint of that sport has to do with the fact that transport planes bigger than my house have to fly across the world 50 times, 10 times over with equipment. So if you actually care about changing the carbon footprint of F1, change the calendar. Yeah. Like, have you ever looked at the calendar of what they do? Yeah, all over the place. Yeah. So they're adding more races. Well, that's not lowering the footprint. And they have no regard for where they, where and when they do races. Like if you actually care, you do a European season, Middle East, North and South America, Asia, or whatever, like you could adjust it seasonally. You know, you literally prevent one trip across the world with those vehicles is more than all the fuel, all those cars will burn in an entire season. So I find it pathetic that the FIA and F1 are, you know, trying to show how carbon friendly they are by dam, you know, by ultimately sacrificing the sport. And when in reality, they just want to have more races and have their cake in you too, which just I think is inferior. And there's no, like, appeal process that teams can make towards it or anything. Like they just are a monopoly, essentially, that runs with whatever they want. I mean, the FIA is the regulating body of all motorsport. It's not just F1. Huh. Damn, dude. It does not sound good. Which races did you see this year in person? Like, you're just Brazil and Austin. Okay. Yeah. Huh. Is that typical that you see just a few or do you try to make it up more sometimes? Or always see those two. I think next year, I'm undecided about whether I'll go to Imola or not. It's the 30th anniversary of Senna's death. He died at Imola. So I might go to that. I want to go to Suzuka, but I don't think I can go next year. I will definitely go in 2025 to Suzuka. That's definitely a race. That's my favorite race, I think. What do you think of Montreal? Is it worth going to? I think it is. Yeah. Because I've never been and I live in Canada. Yeah, yeah. I think it is for sure. Yeah. I think if people are trying to decide if they want to go to an F1 race or not, I think you have to decide, are you optimizing for the race? For the actual experience of watching the race? Or are you optimizing for the scene and the spectacle? And so, Monaco is a great example of where it's an amazing scene and spectacle. They feel like there's no race. It's not a great race. If it rains, it's a good race. But in the dry, it's a pretty dull race. Street circuits in general don't make for great races to watch there. I don't try to think if there's a street race where you can really get a good view of what's going on the way you can at certain tracks. And I don't think that's... I mean, there are certain street races on TV that I love. Like Azerbaijan is amazing. Vegas this year totally exceeded expectations. That was awesome. I did not expect that. I would hate to be there, but it was awesome on TV. Exactly. Not a race I would ever go to, but fantastic to watch. What is a day in the Ateah household look like on its race weekend? Is it like no one fucking come in the room? Or is it like everyone joins you? Or what does it look like? Yeah, first of all, I mean, I'm embarrassed to say this, but since we moved to Texas, I almost never watched things live anymore because the races are happening too late in the morning. See if they wake up and avoid all social media. That's not good. No, no, no. So my point is like in California, races almost always started at five or six in the morning. So I was happy to wake up and watch a race immediately. But here, a race doesn't start till eight or nine in the morning, typically. So by that point, I'm too into my day. So a lot of the times I'm in the middle of a workout or doing something and I'm going to watch it a little bit after the fact. So I'm going to watch it an hour or two delayed typically. So I'm almost always watching things like an hour or two delayed. You're good enough about staying off social media. I barely look at social media to begin with. So I never, I don't run the risk of like accidentally how frequently is it you that post to Instagram versus somebody else? It's pretty obvious which ones I post. That's what I thought. But I mean, like the ones that are like me just in a video doing something impromptu, I'm posting anything that's not that frequent though. Yeah, it's probably like two or three times a week. I will post something on Instagram. I have it's so hard for me to do anything when F1 has happened because it's the algorithms. I'll know what it wants to show me. Yeah. So I wouldn't even open it up. And I have a WhatsApp group of guys actually all over the world. There's like about half a dozen, maybe seven or eight of us. And we're pretty good about while the race is live, not lighting that up. But if I see that, if I see the, if I see anybody pop up on that, I just won't open it. And then one of my buddies, like or a group of my friends who are not on that group will, we would, we would only say, hey, have you watched the race yet before we would comment. What are your predictions for next year? Again, you never know, but I, you have to assume that Red Bull is still going to be dominant, because they were able to begin their 2024 car prep before anybody else. So basically, by August, Red Bull was no longer making any advance on their current car, the RB 19, and they turned all attention over to the RB 20. Whereas all the other teams still have to keep working on this year because they're fighting for a spot. Remember, every place you finish is about a $10 million difference at the end of the year. So there's a big difference between finishing second, finishing third, finishing fourth. So all other teams are still working really hard. So there, so I think it'll be a lot closer next year. I think based on what we saw this year, I mean, I think it has to be between Mercedes and McLaren and Ferrari's probably in the mix. I'd love to see Aston in the mix as well. So I mean, I have to think those are kind of still the top five. Is Lance Stroll a good driver? Yeah, Lance is a good driver. I don't think the car entirely suits his driving style. He gets a lot of shit. He does. I mean, look, I think, I don't, I just think people don't understand like what it takes to be at that level, right? And say everyone who's there is sort of in their way, maybe not as gifted into it as him, but like there's history within essentially every driver, right? With like parents in the sport, obviously good financial backing to be like carting when you're like whatever. Yeah. I mean, Lance won the F3 championship, right? So look, I don't think there's anybody who's driving an F1 who's a horrible driver. Like it's just, and there are guys that, you know, got flushed out really quickly. Like, you know, DeVries this year got flushed out pretty quickly. I think, you know, I think the Red Bull team, because remember, he was on the junior Red Bull team, the Alpha Tower region, I think, you know, they felt that they made a mistake, but you sometimes just can't tell. You know, it is a big jump to go from F2 to F1. It's a huge jump. And it's not just in the technical nature of the car. I mean, the cars are a lot faster, a lot more downforce. But honestly, I think the biggest difference, and I say this having spoken to at least a half a dozen drivers who have done that shift who have gone from F2 to F1. And the amount of data, like the difference in data is enormous, the complexity of what's happening on the steering wheel. Yeah. Like in F2, you're adjusting a little bit of brake bias and DRS. That's about it. Maybe you're slipping the differential. In F1, I mean, I don't think people, myself included, can fully comprehend the complexity of all the engine modes that they have and how much like they have a computer in front of them that they have to be able to work while driving. You can't really predict from F2 who's going to be able to do that. All right. And who's going to be able to learn really, really quickly in the span of literally, they get virtually no time in those cars. That's kind of another thing that makes F1 pretty hard today relative to the old days. And the old days, drivers got to drive a lot more. Do you follow F2 at all? I don't anymore. No. I mean, a little bit. I pay attention to a few things, but for the most part, I don't. I don't follow any other series, actually. If you could snap your fingers and be an F1 driver, but not be a doctor, would you do that? I don't. Yeah. Like, are you kidding me? Maybe why am I even asking what a stupid question. Yeah, it's a... I would give up every accomplishment of my life to be an F1 driver. Yeah. Even if no guarantee, you're going to be like, maybe get kicked out after one season, you would still take the risk. I would. Absolutely. That's crazy. What is the process of becoming? Like, obviously, I know there's like F3, F2, F1, but prior to that, are you literally like a nine-year-old in a go kart and then you have to win whatever's the best? These days, yeah. These days, the all routes begin with karting. I can't imagine you're going to get anywhere into that sport without karting. Obviously, you're very early on going to be differentiated into open wheel. You're going to come up through one of the junior F3 series, like European F3. If you live in the States, you'd have to like... You still have to go to Europe. Yeah, you're not going to get there over here. Lance, North American drivers, Checo, I mean, you all have to basically wind your way up to Europe pretty quickly. Obviously, you have to get into F2. And that involves... I mean, not very few drivers get there without... Max is an exception, right? Max skipped F2 altogether. Oh, he did. Yeah. But most drivers have to go through F2. F2 is kind of unique in that once you win the championship, you're out of the series. So, Ostriker Piestri won the series. Ostriker is amazing. Ostriker is... I mean, I really do think that... To me, here's a more interesting question. It's like, how many guys on the grid today, if you exclude the guys who are already world champions? So, take Lewis, Alonso, and Max out. Of the remaining 17, how many of those guys will win a world title? That's an interesting question. But anyway, so Piestri had to sit a year out as a reserve driver in F1 before he could get into F1 because there wasn't a seat, but he couldn't ride F2 again. So, basically, your success in F2, accumulating the right number of points on your super license, and then basically getting a test drive. So, what happens is a lot of the F2 guys who are driving F2 are doing test drives in F1 cars at certain races. And they're doing testing. So, you can do unlimited testing in an F1 car that's more than two years old. So, that's basically how the teams are sort of trying to risk adjust, like who's going to be successful enough to make this enormous leap from F2 to F1. So, if you don't do well and you lose your spot, do you have to go in F1? Yeah. Yeah, you don't get to go to F2. It's not like you're going down to the farm league to get your confidence back. So, if you get the boot out of F1, you're typically looking for another F1. So, first of all, if there's no teams for you, then you're looking for a testing role, typically in F1. Or, sometimes guys go off and do something totally unrelated, like they'll go and drive GT, they'll go and drive Le Mans, and then maybe they get another spot back in testing and then they get back in the game. So, there's just like this reserve pool essentially of dudes just hoping to get back in. Yeah. Hoping somebody shits the bed one day and they can get back. Yep. How many people are in that? Just like, is there a active pool that's like ready? Yeah, there's probably like, if you think there's 20 drivers in F1 today, there's probably another 20 drivers, if not more, like who at a moment's notice could get the call. Damn. But again, think about how small a pool that is, right? For the largest, you know, so F1 is the largest league in the world. If you consider it a league, right? It's a larger league than the Premier League, right? It's like this is, you know, one in approximately one in eight people in the world are F1 fans. Think about how big a sport that is. Huh. It's really, yeah, we, it's very easy to miss that fact in North America. How would you quantify that though? People who spend a dollar or watch a race or, you know, something like that. Huh. Isn't that like sort of skewed by the fact that there's so few races compared to like football games though? Is there though? I mean, there's 16 football games in a season or seven. No, there's more, there's more races than, but it's comparable, right? There's about as many races, you know, a little more races than you'd have in a football season. Yeah, I haven't even watched football so I don't know much about it. I believe the NFL is the most profitable league on a dollars per fan generated though. Oh, really? Yeah. I mean, I, um, God, it's been years since I look at this. The economics is so... I think the NFL generates over $30 per fan per year. Huh. I wonder how much of it is like cost of goods where it's like their players are so cheap compared to another sport where it's like the top guy costs, you know, a hundred million dollars or something. So what's the top NFL player make? I don't know. I don't know probably about what 50 a year at this point. Yeah, maybe, but I mean like for whatever reason, even if it's profitable, they do not have the seemingly the same burden of having to pay these guys as much as like football. Yeah, I mean, I think the economics of owning professional football teams is they're not cash flow businesses, right? So I think basically like if you own... Even though they're like the most profitable, like you just said. Yeah, but I think it's on an equity value. In other words, I think when you're buying a professional sports team, you're basically breaking even on... Oh yeah, I'm sure you're not getting like the best... Yeah, like it's not like an insurance company that just spits out cash. The game is you buy something for a billion dollars and 10 years later, you're selling it for $4 billion and all along the way, you haven't lost money and you haven't made money from a cash perspective. That's directionally, I think, how those things work. How much does it cost to run an F1 team each year? Do you know? Yeah. Well, again, there's a cost cap now, right? So it's... We're talking about directionally, 150 million-ish. So when you say how much does it cost, are you asking like if you're Mercedes, how much does it cost Mercedes to run that team? Well, they bring in... So Ineos pays probably a third of that and then they have a whole bunch of other sponsors that are paying a bunch and then plus they're getting a kickback from how well they did in the year before. So Mercedes out of pocket might be, I don't know, 40 million, 50 million euros or something like that. And they use some indirect metric of quantifiable exposure and sales of vehicles to justify the cost. And the technology development, I mean, I think the most interesting of all of them by far is Red Bull. Red Bull is the one that doesn't have a car. So at least if you're Mercedes, Ferrari, McLaren, you've got some rationale behind it, right? But if you're Red Bull, it's like... Do you think it'd be insane for them to start making cars? Yeah, if you're talking about... I mean, I could totally see them making a supercar, but the real question is, would they make a regular car? I remember talking to somebody about this and they said that Red Bull has quantified that the benefit, like what they get out to what they put in is about four to one. Meaning for every dollar that they spend on Red Bull racing, they're getting like four dollars back. Wow. Again, I don't know exactly how one would quantify that, but... That is so weird because it's a pretty interesting ROI. I'm currently scaling an energy drink company. So like, I know the economics and the margins are tight. And obviously at that scale, though, you have the best of the best of supply chain, but it's like, it's such an odd business model where it's just like indirect exposure of extreme sports equals energy drink sales of a drink that is objectively, I would say, not that great tasting. I can tell you, I have never once drank a Red Bull because the few times I've tried to take a sip, it is so freaking disgusting. It tastes like battery acid. I can't believe that that drink exists. Yeah. I can't believe it. At the time, when it was the only one, it was like, okay, this is, you know, gives me energy. It comes with my vodka and the bar or whatever. So yeah. But now it's like, the other options are just so superior. I think they're all disgusting. I can't stand these drinks. One thing I did want to bring up, which is I came across by accident was apparently you have some obsession with tearing phone books. Is this something that still persists if you see a phone book here? I mean, I would love to keep doing it. The problem is like, they're hard to get. They're very hard to get. So I haven't done one. I haven't torn a phone book in years. So I'd have to like start practicing again. But if I could like, if I could wave a magic wand and find like the right size phone books, because I'd have to probably start with tiny phone books and work my way back up to the technique, the high level, if you don't want to get into the full story, that's fine. But just like, this is probably the hardest I've ever laughed at a piece of your content. If you want to just tell people the backstory of what I'm even talking about. Yeah. So it was, let me think, I was in my final year of college and I was at my then girlfriend's best friend's house and her husband came home. And his name is Todd, awesome guy. We were friends for a long time. And he was like, he walked in the door with a phone book. And it was like, we the town I went to the phone book was that thick. So not a huge phone book, but a pretty thick phone book, right? So what is that? Like an inch and a half, maybe two inches. And he goes, Hey, do you think you could tear this? And I'm like, I doubt it. He goes, just try. So he throws it to me and I can't do it. And then he takes it and he tears it. And I'm like, dude, how did you do that? He goes, Oh, it's this technique. And I'm like, no way. Do you have any more phone books? He's like, Yeah, I got one more. So he gives it to me and he walks me through it and I managed to do it, but it's not that elegant. Like he just went, he just ripped it. And I was like, and I kind of muscled through it. And I was like, dude, we got to go get more of these. So we, you know, this is like back in the mid to early nineties or whatever, maybe midnight. So we go, we drive to like the bell Canada phone center in the mall, where they have like a wall of phone books. And we're like, Hey, we're here to get some phone books. And they're like, what are you talking about? And then I came up with this elaborate stupid story about how I worked at a kids camp. And we needed to do a lot of paper mache and we just needed tons of phone books and the woman's like, whatever. So I take out like 50, I mean, we carried as many phone books out as we could, took them back to his place, and then all night just worked on it, worked on it, worked on it until I nailed it. And then I became completely and pathologically obsessed. And this was this other guy also obsessed or you just, he liked it, but I took it to a whole other level. Now I couldn't stop tearing phone books. So I would ride my bike. This is back when you had phone booths, phone booths had phone books. Every time I was riding my bike and I saw a phone booth, I'd get out, tear the phone book, keep riding. I was like a menace to society. And this carried on for many, many years. So then I go off to med school. I'm like the phone book tearing guy. By the way, when I was applying to medical school, I had a spreadsheet of all the factors that like went into where I would go. One column was size of phone book in the town appropriate. So Stanford placed really high because San Francisco had a really good size phone book. And how would you vet that beforehand? I didn't. When you interview, you know, like once you go there, you check the phone. So first thing I looked at when I landed at SFO is how big is the phone book? Oh, perfect. That's a good tearing size. Because Toronto sucked. Toronto's is too big. Like I could never tear Toronto's phone book, right? It's like four inches thick. Okay. So yeah, this just kept going on and on and on. And then my wife tells the story, which I do remember, but I didn't think it was that big a deal. I didn't think it was that odd. But on our second date, happened to be like a night when that day phone books were delivered. So we're like walking around kind of like an area of Baltimore that's not that sketchy. And there are phone books on every stoop. And I was like, Hey, do you want to see me tear a phone book? And she's like, What? And I grab a phone book and I tear it and she's like, Oh, why did you do that? And I was like, Isn't it cool? She's like, Uh, no, not really. And then we walked and there was another one. I said, Do you want to see me do it again? She's like, not really. And I was like, watch. And then I just kept tearing phone. And it didn't occur to you at all that she might think this is a weird deal breaker. Didn't care. I just didn't like, I wasn't doing it for anybody. But me, it's like when I saw a phone book, I had to tear it. Okay. And since then, though, how many do you think you've gone through in total? I don't think I've torn a phone book in 10 years. I don't know. Do they still exist? Yeah. And I brought you some. Come on. Yeah. It's my gift to you this time for hosting. I went far and wide to find the bank. You know, it's funny. I asked you when you came over, you go into the airport and you were like, No, I was like, Why did you bring your suitcase? All right. So this is a Vancouver phone book. All right. What do we got? Okay. That's a good, this'll be a good starter book. This is like a about one inch, three quarters of an inch. Vancouver one. It's just the it's not that bad. Yeah, it's about the same size. All right. We've got this, uh, this talus one, which I guess is also Vancouver. Yeah, I wouldn't, I wouldn't start with this, but I should be able to do this back once I get back in the swing of things. And I've got another Vancouver one, which is good. And I would have thought Vancouver was bigger. All right. And then this talus one might be the biggest. Oh yeah. This is awesome. All right. So do you want to, you want me to tear one? Okay. All right. So I've never done it sitting down, but if I stand up, you'll, I'll fall out of frame. So I'm going to have to do this sitting down. That wasn't sure if you'd still be into it. So I'm quite happy they hear that. I mean, I would love to do it. I just, I hope I still can. All right. So I'm going to explain the technique. I don't have a hard time like sharing the secret. So most people, if I said, hey, tear something like tear a piece of paper, what would you do? So mimic with your hands what you would do with a piece of paper. Yes. You would share it, right? Okay. So you can't share a phone book or maybe somebody can, but most people could never share it. So instead, what you want to do is split it. Okay. So to split it, and lengthwise specifically. No, it's actually easier this way because you have more to grab. I typically do it this way. So to do it, you have to have a gradient in the paper, a gradient of tension, if that makes sense. In other words, I need to split it from the back where the paper is the tightest up to where the paper is the loosest. And how contingency is this on grip strength? Oh, very much so. So this is like a longevity metric. Sure. And also hand size, I truly think even when I was at my peak, which is like I was in beast mode, I could never tear like the Toronto phone book because I could never get enough. Yeah, I heard you say the Toronto one was so significant. And so I was like, what's going on with the Vancouver one? So anyway, so I put it into this position here. And then I'm going to split it by moving my hands this way. Okay, all right. Oh, nice. There we go. All right. So that's how you tear a phone book. That's awesome. And if you can get me more of these, because obviously this is pretty easy. So  emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions