 N-so how has your, your own priorities, how have your own priorities changed when it comes to health, you know, 10 years ago versus today? Were you, what you were taking a whole bunch of anabolics and stuff? Now, what does that look like compared to where you were at 10 years ago? The 10 years ago, I would have been trying to get as jacked as humanly possible and very little regard for, or at least at the time, an increasing awareness around the potential risks, but essentially, disregarding them because of, I suppose, at a young age, you're pretty resilient and you're not being aware of the, you know, risk, the gravity of the risks, because at the time, social media, because it wasn't as big as it is now, there was not as much reporting of people dying at a young age, too, from using this stuff. So, literally 10 years ago, you would hear, this was a common phrase, where are the bodies? And people would talk about how there's no evidence that steroids are killing people. When the reality is, it's insidiously, like, shortening your life dramatically. And when you die, you could argue that you had, you know, a heart condition, you know, genetically predisposed or whatever, or it was this or it was that. But ultimately, like, it's not normal, even if you're genetically predisposed to be dying, typically at like 27 years old, you know, because you had unregulated high, high blood pressure for, you know, six plus years, or, you know, your heart's twice the size it should be or something. So, at the time, though, there was very little info on that. So, I was just kind of like pushing stuff as hard as I wanted, and within reason, because I also was starting to lose my hair, too, which I didn't like at the time. And I think that kind of started my foray into pulling back on things a little bit, which fortunately was also kind of like, I suppose, got me quicker to the point of being aware of the health implications, because I would have otherwise probably continued to push it had I not had any side effects at all. Do you believe that there's an anabolic stack that you can take in your 30s, 40s consistently, where you're not burning the candle out? Like you mentioned, in other podcasts, I've heard you talk about how you still do TRT, some of that stuff. Do you think that is that that now today? Is that just pushing yourself to a kind of a baseline? Or are you still trying to enhance your body? Or do anything? Like, are you basically off everything now? No, so I'm on a physiologic replacement amount, which can be a bit of a cop out for optimization for some people, because it's like almost TRT is the new, like, fake natty for some people, essentially, because it's like, oh, you know, I'm not actually doing anything. But in reality, the baseline state you've imposed is exogenous, as in externally administered, and not representative of what you could sustain with natural function, because it's not going to perpetually stay at that level. Because you have a natural diarmal rhythm, when you pulse out testosterone, it's not like it just stays at the exact level that you've administered, you know, pushes out and pulses, and it will dip as well. If you have bad sleep, if you drink, if you have poor diet or whatever, like you will see the reflection of that in the testosterone levels going up and down. And even if you were perfect on everything, they don't just stay at the same level. Whereas somebody is injecting, it will just stay at that level. On paper, on paper, the same testosterone, they will have more muscle and performance than the same alternative scenario with their natural testosterone level at that level. So you'd say that really, though, if you're just doing TRT, when you're maintaining a baseline, you're not burning the candle. But as soon as you start adding anabolics to that, you know, ranging from anivar to the, you know, the much more intense stuff, you are, there's a cost to everything. Is that correct? Yeah, but there is definitely, like people are still going to die at some age, regardless if they're natural or enhanced. And to say that you could take TRT generally with no consequence would be very misleading in my opinion, because there's a spectrum of what TRT is. Again, like I had mentioned with your testosterone range naturally on paper, this, a guy who has 1100 total testosterone with synthetic administration. They could argue I'm just on TRT because it's physiologic versus if they were at 600 or something. It's also TRT because it's physiologic. If I'm at 400, it's also like, it's all TRT within that range, essentially by traditional standards. But it doesn't mean that you can sustain that high normal level and not have any consequence guaranteed just because it's normal on paper. Because again, it's a sustained level perpetually. It doesn't dip. You know, there's some risk that I wouldn't say are guaranteed to make it dangerous. But there's certainly a case to be made where it's not just TRT equals safe. And all the literature we have is using like Androgel and pushing your test up like 300 from 200 to like 500 or something. It's not using injectable testosterone to maintain 1000 nanograms for your entire life. Like there's no literature on that.via.