You hear him like gasping for air. Like it sounds like disturbing almost to see this. What's up guys? Derek moreplace.com. Today we're going to be reacting to some more tom foolery in the uh pre-workout space. So, interestingly enough, there was actually a Vice article put out about dry scooping pre-workout and how it's a bad idea. Well, actually a terrible idea. Sorry. So, this was put out a couple weeks ago. The viral trend of shoveling powdered stimulants directly into your mouth is dangerous and can be fatal. So, this article says, "Preworkout powders have long been known to produce a number of side effects, including tingly skin, beta-alanine, increased heart rate, and visibly pronounced veins. In the weightlifting community, many lifters expect these effects when they purchase these supplements, which often contain caffeine, beta-alanine, and creatine among dozens of other ingredients. Lately, some Tik Tok users have encouraged dry scooping or throwing back the powder without liquid. It is usually mixed in water ostensibly to speed up absorption or more likely because they've seen someone else do it on TikTok. Not unlike the cinnamon challenge where people try to swallow a dry tablespoon of cinnamon. This typically involves consuming a heap of substances not regulated by the FDA. It's a trendy method of consumption for sure, but like so many viral trends, dry scooping could have dangerous results. And then here they link to 20-year-old women ending up in the hospital with a heart attack after consuming preworkout. That's not the first time dry scooping has caused someone harm either. Last April, 25-year-old Tik Tocker required emergency surgeries to relieve the pressure in his brain after downing eight scoops of pre-workout. So, this is like, you know, how this is like the exact stories we've been covering. Like, if you go to uh if you go to this one, um it is where is the story exactly? It's this one. So, the video that stopped me in my tracks was by a 20-year-old named Brightney Portillo who said she had a heart attack after dry scooping. Dry scooping is not a new concept. For years, the phenomenon was relegated to niche corners of the internet like bodybuilding.com forums where people discuss delayed onset muscle soreness, calibrate meal macros, and debate the merits of supplementing one's diet with BCAAscapsules. Here, the tangle of beta-alanine is seen as a benefit. The increased heart rate a sign of the caffeine boost and the visible veins an indicator of the sought after pump. But now without much thought, Tik Tockers are consuming these substances for apparent chance at going viral without much thought to benefits or side effects. So the thing I thought was interesting about this, not only is that, you know, it's sort of going mainstream, this uh, you know, ridiculousness, but down at the bottom of the Vice article, it literally they talk about DMAA pre, you know, stuff that happened with that and whatnot. The risks, you know, side effects, you know, Tik Tok and Jen's ears being stupid. Basically at the bottom of the article, fitness influencers have al also started speaking out against the practice of dry scooping for reasons other than safety. By omitting water, you might leave progress on the table. As Derek from the uber popular fitness YouTube account, more plates, more dates in his stop dry scooping preworkout video. I don't quoting me. I don't really know if people realize that water is literally what facilitates the effects, the mechanism of action of many of the pump ingredients in these products. Even if you're an adult considering dry scooping, Dr. Neata advises against it. Dry scooping pre-workout supplement is dangerous and can lead to serious health risk. He said, "I would discourage people from dry scooping pre-workout supplements." So, even Vice is picking up the uh the story on this, which is crazy to me. And what's even crazier is this is not getting any better. You would think that I don't know the Tik Tockers would understand that this kind of attention does not really build them a platform that is something that people look up to. If you're in the fitness industry, like ideally people are either trying to learn from you, aspire to emulate what you're doing in some aspect or, you know, look up to you in some capacity or inspired by what you're doing, whatever it is. But it's certainly not just, you know, racking up views for doing dumb Like, that is not going to garner you an audience that is going to be, you like, profitable if you think it's going to be a business endeavor worth pursuing. Like, you're literally dedicating time to editing videos about you doing dumb Like, this is not a good application of your free time. And even if you build a following, it's not going to be like for the right reasons. It's going to be like dumb that is not even going to be monetizable in my opinion. So, I don't know why people are still doing this stuff. Like, not all attention is good attention. And this shit's getting so out of hand that not only are people dry scooping, they're literally snorting preworkout. Now, this is a video of an individual who is I what I can presume to be a teenager who is um literally taking a like pretty potent pre-workout from what I understand. And um he's in the bathroom putting it on his hand to then snort it prior to working out. You hear him like gasping for air. Like it sounds like disturbing almost to see this Interestingly enough, this was actually reported in uh Rich Piana's um what is this? Death inquiry. This is an old article on TMZ. Quite a lot of other big uh news outlets picked it up, too. Um basically, investigators found white powder at the apartment where Piana suffered a medical emergency back in August. He died 18 days later. Law enforcement spoke with Piana's girlfriend to find out what the powder was, and she told investigators it was concrete pre-workout powder, which is adi advertised as a high caffeine booster. Piana's GF told cops he would snort this powder, and she does not believe it was anything illicit. So, like, I've never seen him do that on YouTube videos or anything like that. So, I don't know if he actually did that, but it's baffling that this is getting to the the extent like maybe I don't know if he again I don't know if he did that if he did that for as like a publicity stunt for a video or some but the fact that people on TikTok and stuff are taking this to such a level to such a degree where they think that this is an appropriate thing to even, you know, film and upload for views, dude. Like, baffling Like it's not any This is, by the way, this is the exact same guy. And u like you can just see the enthusiasm on his friend's faces as they record him doing this He's like like look at his friend's face. He's like, "Holy dude. This is sick. Now, this is on a separate occasion and apparently this is 13 DMAA containing pre-workout. And this is like not even in the comfort of his own home. Like he's at the gym. I can see a guy walking behind him as he's doing this. The guy's just snorting a pre-workout right as another coughing, hacking up a lung right as another guy comes in, you know, fresh out of his lift and he sees a 18-year-old in the sink snorting DMAA like and filming it. It's like, bro, I just don't understand the logic of these kids nowadays. It's like not all attention is good attention. And as far as like altering the pharmacocinetic profile of these compounds in preworkout, like you are actually potentially making it far more dangerous by doing some of this Now, obviously with dry scooping, it's a choking hazard. But when it comes to snorting, not only are you, you know, administering it not in the ideal way that it was designed to be used with a lot of these ingredients are designed to be mixed in water like I mentioned how the Vice article quoted me. But some of these stimulants, they have a certain pharmacocinetic profile when administered orally. And they're they're broken down by the gut um and metabolism process in a certain way and they yield a certain bioavailability as well as certain metabolites that are going to have their own inherent pharmacologic effects and their own half- livives and their own, you know, potency based on how much your body can degrade it and whatnot. But when you administer something nasally, you're essentially skipping this system. Like think about sublingual administration, rectal, IV, intramuscular injection, transermal insufflation. You're essentially introducing it straight into your bloodstream. Now, of course, how much of this is going to absorb versus if you had a full scoop versus snorting a line versus whatever. The fact is is you don't know. You don't know how much you're actually getting in there. You don't know the oral bioavailability of the numerous myriads of compounds in your essentially illegal preworkout with not just DMAA but other stimulants too. Not just caffeine. A lot of these pres have a random smorgesborg of They have isopropyl norinephrine. They have DMAA. They have Raul sign. They have this. They have that. When you're introducing all of these into your nasal cavity to be absorbed right into the bloodstream, skipping first pass, skipping the gut entirely, you don't really know what the is going to happen. You don't know what the pharmacocinetic profile is of these compounds and you could end up having such a drastic onset as well as a significantly higher bioavail bioavailability in some cases where you might end up having a heart attack. You may end up overstimulating yourself to a degree that you have a medical disaster. Is this something you want to do to yourself in order to chase a viral video? No. This is like, you know, even worse potentially than the Well, to be honest, the dry skipping thing is stupid, too. They're both dumb. Like, don't do any of this It is not going to help build you a platform that is monetizable in my opinion. If anything, it just builds you a reputation as the guy who did that dumb thing, you know? Like it's not like the people who did the Tide Pod challenges are seen as like intelligent individuals, as people to aspire to emulate, people who are icons in the fitness industry or something. Not that it's relevant, but I'm just, you know, relating it to this industry in particular. Like why, dude? You know, like if you're filming it, presumably you are trying to show off in some capacity what you are, you know, doing in your spare time. Like it's not just for chasing effects. It's also to show, you know, how hardcore you are. How how many views can you rack up for doing something ridiculous. This is the kind of thing that is um, you know, the problem on TikTok to be honest. Like it's uh unfortunate that the platform will reward such up behavior to be honest. Like you can see somebody do something dumb and then boom, hits like a million views. Now, I guess they do a reasonable job at enforcing community guidelines cuz it seems like a lot of does get stried down even if it doesn't it doesn't even make any justifiable sense. But there is a lot of stuff that slipped through the cracks and a lot of the dry scooping stuff like this is just absolute nonsense and it is not how it's supposed to be taken. Like it says on the suggested use what you're supposed to do. It's not like I'm pretty sure most of these people, some of the people do think dry scooping is like a legitimate administration method. They don't give a that it says, you know, you mix with 12 to 16 ounces of water. They actually think that it might work better when they use it without water because of dumb bro science. Like this is the kind of that pervades through the industry because of the Tik Tok challenges that people are doing. And hopefully good information prevails and people do not harm themselves doing dumb But this is like this one takes the cake in my opinion for silliness. Well, actually to be honest, like I guess hypothetically the guys who do like what the 4,000 mgram caffeine guy, that was pretty hectic. The guys who are, you know, putting pre-workout into multiple energy drinks and slamming those concurrently, obviously pretty intense and pretty dumb, too. But when you have no control over the pharmacocinetics either because you're literally mainlining it into your system almost essentially, you know, also very risky and also not worth the attempt to rack up views. So just uh interesting to see this storyline is starting to go a bit mainstream with the Vice article and uh refer referencing me as as the uber popular fitness YouTube account. I thought that was kind of cool and kind of funny how like I didn't know I had achieved uber popular status like I thought that would be reserved for like you like big YouTubers and but like you know pretty cool to see myself linked an advice article about that and um you know hopefully people learn better and hopefully the youth do not continue this nonsense on uh Tik Tok. Thank you guys for watching. Like subscribe, check out my blog moreplayates.com. Follow me on Instagram at moreplacemartates. Facebook, Snapchat, Bitshoot, Twitter, Tik Tok, Apple Podcast, not actually Bitshoot. I just can't help but say it now. Um, if you want to support the channel, you check out anything I'm associated with in the video description below. My TRT clinic, all tele medicine from the comfort your own home, Gorilla M, neutropic formulas, Gorilla Mode pre-workout formulas I designed myself from scratch that are designed to be mixed in water, and everything else I'm associated with. It's all in the video description below. Thank you guys for watching.