viaviaviavia.viavia.viavia.viavia.viavia.viavia.viavia.viavia.viaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviavia of these athletes want to weigh more. And so I said, well, what are you eating? What's Gordon Ryan want to weigh out of curiosity? Well, he wants to be heavier. At the time he was low 220s. I think he wanted to be, he said he wanted to be 235. You might've noticed a recent picture of Gordon. He was looking really jacked. When he and his wife stayed with me in Albuquerque when I was training John, that's one of the things we did. We worked on finding meals that he enjoyed, that he could eat a lot of that were easy to cook fast and frequently. And what were some of those? Cause he is one of the most sensitive. Yeah. He's come a long way since, but of course it's, it's more low FODMAP foods. Of course it's sourdough toast. And if we're doing bread and then white rice, you know, for carbs and lean meats and salmon and eggs and stuff that's pretty easy to digest. Yeah. Quick meals, you know, just ways for him to get calories in the yogurt OJ shake is the one that they all love. And just, uh, you know, six, eight ounces of, of OJ with a cup of yogurt or two thirds, a cup of yogurt. And they'll slam one of those with every single meal. And that immediately puts, you know, a decent number of calories on top of their daily load just from drinking one. And it's easy to do. It tastes great. A little bit of ice, ice cubes or ice water in there for your preferred consistency. Uh, and, uh, same with Phil nurse, he wanted to put on weight too. And, and, um, um, and so, you know, I designed and cooked, I was actually cooking their meals most of the week, um, and kind of showed them how to do it. And then there were a couple of times which, uh, you know, we had a very short time window and we would, uh, I posted a picture on my Instagram of a 900 calorie meal. It was just a, that I could prepare in less than three minutes, you know, and it's, it's a sourdough toast with a little bit of strawberry jam on it. It's a, a Bibigo rice bowl. It's, um, uh, a couple of hard boiled eggs as we, you know, keep them in the fridge already hard boiled. You know, Costco's has those hard boiled eggs. Um, and, uh, um, a yogurt OJ shake and a glass of milk. And we were damn near 900 calories. So I think it was 50 years, five grams of protein, uh, made it in three minutes and jammed it down and we had to take off to practice. So it's just that kind of thing. Compliance is the science.