If somebody has no desire to compete in actual tournaments, but they're actually looking to find a discipline or a fighting style that they just want to be able to feel like they can protect themselves when they go out in public kind of thing. What do you think are the top three skills to learn in descending order of importance? >> Someone that's trying to learn to defend themselves in the streets. I guess avoiding dangerous situations and stuff like the bad the most obvious stuff I guess >> to plan properly. >> Yeah. planning your seeing how drunk you get and stuff like that. But if it's unavoidable, I mean, it's really jiu-jitsu is going to save you, but it depends >> how many guys, how many people you're battling against you, do they have weapons and stuff like that. In terms of a street fight, oh man, it's tough. Like, obviously, if you train in a sports jiu-jitsu environment, you're still going to develop that physical wrestling strength. It's different. guys that lift a ton of weights still come into the gym and although they feel strong in certain areas, >> they're not wrestling strong. So, no matter how you train jiu-jitsu, whether it's sports focused or not, as long as you're wrestling hard every day, it gives you a certain type of strength that I think would transition very well to any sort of physical altercation cuz it's like obviously you look at jiu-jitsu, oh, these bunch of gay guys pulling guard, but they're not going to do that in a street fight environment, you know? >> Yeah. So, okay. So, if we were going to say the most important, if we're going to talk about boxing, wrestling, like all the different disciplines you could be focusing on, you would start with >> I mean, honestly, I would probably start with wrestling because those guys generally have the most athletic gifts in terms of being difficult to control. >> You know what I mean? So, if someone grabbed them, if someone started to throw a punch, they could take him down quite easily, control that. And if someone were to get them down, they're quite good at getting back to the feet, scrambling, and standing back up. So, I think that would be number one. Honestly, they're all pretty valuable depending upon the situation you got involved in. If you were to just have boxing skills and you happened to fight a guy with any form of grappling skills and he gets a hold of you, you're in trouble.