 shane gillisartin,ardeşin,ardeşin,ardeşin,ardeşin,ardeşin,ardeşin,ardeşin, shane gillis,ardeşin, That's so accurate. And shane does like a Conor impression. So it's f***ing hilarious. He's like, argh. I mean, he's- he likes coke. But I think there's another issue to talk about. A lot of fighters, when they've sustained a significant amount of damage over the course of their career, and there's no way to not get that, right? I mean, we saw- we've all seen Conor get beat up and knocked out. We've seen Connors sparring footage he spars pro boxers he's sparring elite fighters you're getting hit in the head a Lot and a lot of fighters especially towards the end of their career turn to drugs And I think there's probably like a constant state of discomfort that they live in Where their dopamine levels are all fucked up their their cortisol levels are all fucked up their bodies Just you're not supposed to get punched in the head a thousand times a year It's just not supposed to happen and that's the reality of consistent training So if you think about consistent training like say if you and me are sparring and we meet at the gym Three times a week and we spar three times a week and it's was let's say we spar five rounds three times a week five rounds of five minutes each the we might you might hit me 15 20 times around and then we're doing that three times a week and we're doing that over and over and over again And it's not even this is the thing people say oh you spar light sure sure sparring light is important but Sub concussive trauma to the head is what causes soccer players to get CTE now soccer players are getting CTE from a soccer ball I've bounced a soccer ball. I played soccer when I was a kid that doesn't hurt But that that thump that's giving you CTE people who ride jet skis Get CTE Wow, you know that my friend Mark Gordon who is an expert in traumatic brain injury any Works at the wounded warrior foundation about I think he works with them. But he were oh angel warrior foundation He works with a lot of veterans that suffer from CTE and uses a lot of hormone replacement to help them because a lot of it is Damage to the pituitary gland your endocrine system gets fucked up from you know breaches, you know Explosions blown up and IEDs all those kind of things like those guys are fucked like the inside of their brain is fucked And there's a bunch of different therapies they apply to that But the bottom line is that it's not just getting knocked out. It's just getting thumped a lot Just thumped in train. So if we're sparring, you know, we're friends if we're sparring. I wouldn't hit you hard I hit you like that. I wouldn't I wouldn't try to kill you. I hit you like that But that over and over again, you're gonna get brain damage fact No if ands or buts about it you're gonna get brain damage And if you're doing that over the course of a 10 15 year career think about all those camps All those rounds all those times you sparred and not just sparred that way how many collisions I've been many times I've been Collided with doing jujitsu you accidentally butt heads you accidentally take a knee to the head You accidentally take an elbow to the head. It's constant. So you've got Consistent trauma to your fucking dome over and over and over again And then you get a little bit of coke little bit of coke And you're feeling good again I bet he I bet you know you get addicted to it and the guy obviously likes extreme things right? Which is why such a great fighter they're wild people. It's why John Jones like cocaine, too. They're fucking wild people They want to fight, you know, they want to fight in a cage for a living. That's how they literally feed themselves by Being the fuck out of skilled people Yeah, I can imagine something like the brain cell death that literally occurs could work almost result in a perpetual state of you now need drugs to achieve like baseline even yeah to feel normal Yeah, there's a drug I didn't mention earlier But it's worth mentioning you said what's not being tested for that's useful in fighters Something called cerebrolysin is used to offset brain damage after fights and not being tested for by water yet How does it work? It's like one of the only sources of active ngf and bdnf that you can actually Grow new brain cells essentially whoa Yeah, or offset deterioration as well during after fighting Why would you not let people take that that seems like that should be standard that should be given to everybody like vitamins? Yeah, yeah, it's uh the pipeline of a getting through a clinical like getting a clinical application It's still in experimental phases, so I could see why it hasn't been getting widespread recognition And for all we know, it's not going to prove to be super effective But at least anecdotally from people I know who've used it highly effective for neurogenesis Yeah, what about somebody who doesn't have brain damage just wants to get really smart? Yeah, yeah tough call I think that might work right yeah a lot of people even nowadays are exposing themselves to things that make them stupider, too So it might even become you know an adjunct kind of like preventative therapy