viaviaviavia. They look pregnant. And again, the thinking was, well, is this just organomegaly, right? Are their organs just getting bigger? Now, you've talked a little bit about an alternative hypothesis, right? Yeah, I think it is multifactorial, but there is seemingly, I think the largest cause of it now is significant distention caused by the excessive food intake and the result of significant gastrointestinal issues that result from the absurd diet models because to get that many calories and get that much protein, carbs often, and especially peri-workout when you're using insulin and you need to make sure you don't go hypoglycemic in your workout, they'll be slamming like, you know, 100 to 200 gram shakes that have hydrolyzed whey in them, branch cyclic dextrin plus aminos plus creatine plus glutamine plus this. And oftentimes, they're essentially in a state of, like, I'm sure you've had a cheat day where your stomach was, like, incomparable to, you know, days when you're fasting, for example. It's a massive difference. You can't, you could, fasting, you could do a vacuum and see, you know, completely invert your stomach almost versus when you have a giant cheat day and just go off the rails. You couldn't keep your stomach in for the life of you. You have to be flexing just to keep it not looking like you have a gut when you're sitting down. Like, that is a perpetual state of reality for bodybuilders who weigh that much to sustain that food intake and the physiques that they have because it's not a normal amount of muscle to hold. So, it requires a not normal amount of food to accommodate the nutrients required to grow further or even, like, sustain it. Like, there's a good example of that is Ben Pakulski. He makes, you know, like, I think more health-focused content now, but he's a former high-level IFBB pro. I think he won the Arnold Classic even at one point, and one of his biggest criticisms was his distended gut. And, you know, for certain, the guy was using all the same drugs everyone was using at the high level. But he was able to reverse it seemingly in a relatively short period of time in his, like, the latter part of his career by reducing his food intake significantly seemingly. And he actually showed up one year later with a vacuum on stage, which is a vacuum for people who don't know. I don't even know if I could explain it, but it's like you suck your stomach in, and it creates, like, an almost, like, an inverted... Yeah. It kind of goes in. You can see your ribcage and, like, your serratus lines and stuff. And most bodybuilders wouldn't be able to do that nowadays? You'd be hard-pressed to find somebody who has, like, an aesthetic vacuum. Except for, presumably, natural bodybuilders are more likely to, or...? Yeah, yeah. Because they don't have to... They don't have the food demand. Yeah. It also depends on, like, what they're eating, because people's gut issues could have issues, too. But it's more common in people who are pushing food extremely hard. And then the drugs on top of that, like, when you have hyperglycemia chronically, you might have impaired intestinal motility and, like, all these things that could compound the issue significantly. So, then you have people with SIBO and, you know, bacterial overgrowth and all this stuff that can influence the distension that is kind of like a congregation of bad digestion, insane amounts of food, poor choices of food that don't agree with your body because it's simply the only way you can get the calories in to meet the demand of the muscle, etc. But anyway, Ben Pakulski, he showed up with less muscle, but he had completely reversed his gut distension. So, it seemed as if the food was a large dictator of, okay, to get the biggest physique you ever got, you had to eat some diet that was not conducive to the most aesthetic, non-distended appearance. And if he had organ growth, is it reasonable to assume that it's... It could have reversed that. Yeah, like, I don't think his intent... Again, it's really... It's another example of something that's very frustrating to me. This is knowable. Like, literally, take the bodybuilders, throw them into an MRI scanner. You can get organ volumes on everybody. Like, we can... And we can compare that to, you know, controls and also look at them off drugs, on drugs, all that stuff. So, again, it's just an example of... There's so much... So many of the questions that we have here that we're not getting resolution to are knowable. It's not like we're asking, is there life outside of the solar system? Yeah. We're never going to know the answer to that. One thing I can say is on autopsy bodybuilders that did die young or what have you, oftentimes now with social media, those results are released publicly and people will dissect them and whatnot and kind of, you know, make... I don't know, interpret what... You learn things from bodybuilders that have died that you might have not even known because back, you know, not that long ago, 10 plus years ago, people were saying, where are the bodies? No one dying from steroid use, et cetera. But there are guys dying with hearts three times the size of what they should be. So, there's certainly, you know, organ enlargement systemically for sure. So, we could say that. I don't know if it's necessarily, you know, pushing on the stomach wall to actually cause... I see what you're saying. Got it. But I can say with near certainty there is organ growth for sure. I just... Again, multifactorial.