 cschltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltltlt You're gonna want to keep going. You don't get tired or anything like that. Very good product. I recommend it. Derek actually made this for something legal. It's like it's incredible. You take this today You're like, whoa, this is like a throwback to yeah Yeah, like back in the day pre-workout. You gotta be Really focused when you're playing the real mind rush really does help me with that in terms of my mechanics reaction time and Just better overall thinking after initially taking it once the kind of like initial stimulation portion Went away. I noticed this sense of calmness confidence and well-being that I hadn't noticed with any other sort of like Stimulant focus formula taken before I'm definitely happy with my purchase the shame it's discontinued you probably don't have this Unfortunately, it's never gonna come out again, but if you do This is for real mind rush. It is awesome. It is just awesome. You're gonna have that laser folk It's gonna be like gorilla mode energy on crack if you could ever get a product again This would be your product That you never thought you'd see this bad boy again Gorilla mind rush back in stock What a weird thing to say that is uh Kind of surreal to even see in real life to be honest. It's uh Been I don't know like half a decade at this point maybe Creeping up Um On multiple years For sure at minimum, uh, maybe even coming up on half a decade. It's been a minute and uh It's been missed dearly. This was a formula that here's the original bottle By the way Here's the difference which we'll get into shortly Um, if you want to just fast forward to that, you know I might talk for a couple minutes here, but just to introduce people to what this is who don't know So if you want to go to the formula changes What's different why what you can expect fast forward and uh You know, we're gonna bang that out, but What is this thing so gorilla mind rush was one of the two formulas? We actually started the company with um And the company gorilla mind Was based around nootropics when it started was gorilla mind rush, which is the Stim bomb nootropic formula meant for you know banging out 12 plus hour work days hitting prrs final exam studies Whatever, you know, like we many feats of uh Highly demanding cognitive work or physical, you know feats were achieved with this uh with this formula a lot of the ogs can actually can definitely attest to how Awesome this thing was and So can I you know, this thing is uh, highly missed and for good reason. I've been uh, you know hoarding it ever since And incrementally picking away at it But uh, we also launched you know gorilla mind smooth is the smooth iteration Of our formula which had no stimulants it was meant to be a more true to form nootropic formula that Supported you know actual cognitive health through you know memory formation information retention Uh, you know Cholinergics to actually ensure you are not you know deficient in basics When it comes to You know You know basic necessities for neurotransmission potential and uh Being mentally sharp and cognitively dialed in but this was nothing from a there was no stimulants It was not meant to like redline your sympathetic nervous system It wasn't meant to Crank your uh, you know Dopamine release through the roof or inhibit the reuptake of you know Uh Catecholamines It was meant to just be like a clean comprehensive efficacious nootropic formula and that's what it was And it has been since and it's been you know refined and Tweaked and modified over the years Um, because it's been here since day one To be what I deemed to be the most well-rounded formula that I can fit into what is now a 10 capsule formula when it started I think it was like six caps, I think Uh, and it's been you know an evolution of Literature emerging my interpretation of the literature that existed Anecdotes of you know However many Thousands we've had We're in the millions for orders at this point, you know Cumulatively across the company as you can imagine since 2017 like I've learned a lot when it comes to what Makes the best Like most well-rounded version of these formulas through all the reviews all the anecdotes And you know years of digging into this stuff, you know when you first start A company or have these formulas come out You are you have very little to go off of because you are You are dissecting literature And using your you know existing experience not The You know base of you know tens of thousands hundreds of thousands millions of people who've then tried this stuff and could you know Speak to you what worked what didn't what they felt from it what You know they thought was the good parts the bad parts the pros cons etc and It's uh, you know the most refined version yet And uh Works amazingly for what it is but rush Has been non-existent since Um, I don't know It's many years at this point because it is Something that we didn't want to sell unless it could live Up to its name which you know guerrilla mind rush It was Like the rush Driven productivity monster formula that Needed to be uh insane like it needed to work extremely well And when New uh Evolutions and like regulatory Uh Compliance started to evolve over the years You know things change when it comes to What you can what is considered like gray area in a formula So At the time years ago, you know There were some things that the formula was built around that That were pretty critical in my opinion at the time to work as well The formula as well as it does It was kind of hinged on these ingredients And without them it was kind of not worth selling is what I thought and for years I maintained that it wasn't worth selling so we wouldn't sell it I'm sure you can attest to many formulas that have been reformulated over the years that either are a You know Don't feel anything like they used to or You know just don't live true to form And probably should have just been like I don't know Released as a different formula name entirely or I don't know we're just like disappointing because you Were expecting it to be like it was before and it just wasn't so anyways, we didn't want to put it out And restock something that was not representative of the formula whatsoever and for years it stayed that way Over years over the years we've developed multiple products, you know We started with nootropics and then we branched out into sleep formulas So we had gorilla dream come out in 2018 And then we launched our first pre-workout gorilla mode and then nitric and then an array of other products that are after and the sports nutrition space And You know, we started to Take some stabs at some interesting new Product verticals one in particular being The gaming space through gorilla mind respawn so if you guys haven't seen this This is probably on paper the most stacked Nootropic formula that we have in the company It's a powder so you can fit a lot more per dose And it has an array of different Ingredients for Angles to cognitive enhancement and focus That I had not yet explored personally from a formulation standpoint And it was kind of an interesting Experiment of sorts to see kind of how people would respond to it how much they like it And it was great, you know, some of these ingredient Combinations and synergies worked extremely well We were able to find different ways to use like Really compliant ingredients to achieve Effects that were at least like somewhat reminiscent of! Hit that you got from you know rush of old And I would kind of like clock that you know at the time when we came out with this this was years ago You know, what was working from this and why And you know different ways we could go about even enhancing the Dopaminergic neurotransmission potential of somebody's brain to actually respond better to stimulants that are less like not exotic To kind of like get that effect indirectly as well Because there are different ways to skin a cat when it comes to achieving this kind of like, you know Exotic stim effect that many of us You know recall from you know back in the day pre-workouts or Gorilla Mine Rush, you know 2017 2018 It can be achieved through Stacking mechanisms Not necessarily just having a heavy hitting, you know like Uh dopamine and norepinephrine releasing ingredient that just hits hard and that's it Like there are different ways to kind of like stack the effect And you have a you know reuptake that you can actually inhibit as well you have Actually backfilling the substrate to actually produce these neurotransmitters to begin with That can be depleted very quickly and could otherwise be backfilled to achieve AI don't know similar potential for release Yeah, you know You know some of these stacking mechanisms that At the time, you know Was like just not part of my wheelhouse when it came to a formulation standpoint, so you know 2018 2019, you know, we still just kept rush was uh Whenever it was discontinued just stayed discontinued and you know respawn was a good foray into kind of uh Trying our hand at a more stacked nootropic formula that worked quite well and it was On a scale if I had like a spectrum of like stimulant to like true nootropic not that it's In a powder you have to like pick one or the other like you do in capsules where you're limited in space more but it was kind of like lower on the stim side very high on the uh Uh true nootropic but also like dopaminergic Potential side of things to kind of see what we can get out of a low stimulant formula But still trying to like achieve similar um activity So to speak and i'll elaborate on what I mean By that more later or soon here as we get into lightning Which was our highest stim formula yet so Grilla mode lightning came out last year this was like I don't know like our most like Intense exotic kind of approach to a product since you know rush essentially that I can think of at least And it was kind of going in a different Direction so with respawn We are tailoring it to people who are sitting at a desk sitting at a you know a table sitting at a You know in front of their tv gaming In front of a laptop working at school You know studying in a classroom like whatever it may be in a workplace and you can't be You know stimmed out of your tree It's something you need to be dialed But like Calmly dialed And you have like a heightened Energy level but not over the top And you still have some of those you know cognitive processes um augmented And some of that dopamine enhancement and some of that you know uh Adrenergic activity, but like subtly And you know it did what it was supposed to do and kind of like clocked those effects and understood a little bit More how you know all these complementary mechanisms could work together in synergy and then with lightning It was like okay. Well, let's take The most aggressive stance we can towards a stimulant based formula How do we get You know people redlined from like an Adrenaline standpoint from a hitting pr standpoint from uh You know energy standpoint essentially not as much like euphoria and like you know productivity and drive but Largely on what's going to move the needle Assuredly on a force production side of things as well as Ensuring you were offsetting the vasoconstriction component of you know What would come from exotic stimulants in order to still get a good pump in the gym Not inhibit you know circulation not uh inhibit your actual quality of workout And I think we did that quite well and we had the first I think ever formula that had like the true max efficacious dose clocked in the literature in humans of l-tyrosine which if you look in any of the studies Assessing l-tyrosine pitting it against literally like dextroamphetamine and modafinil um Like these studies where tyrosine is actually having the most impact it's You know being dosed at like Upwards of like 100 milligrams a kilogram I think the actual dose that was the max out in the literature that I was looking at was 150 Which would be the equivalent of like 13.5 grams? For many men who are you know in the weight range that are uh, you know, like uh Jim bros essentially, you know guys like me and You know obviously you could like half dose it and you or like scale it up accordingly based on your body weight But it was essentially like the first formula scaled for actual efficacious l-tyrosine deployment for making sure Dopamine is backfilled to whatever capacity it can be that substrate is there and ready to be utilized should you be able to actually Convert it as much as possible and also release it and then you know theoretically inhibit its reuptake whatever Now that formula I think worked well for what it was designed to do and like What it could do you know within reason of not being like so cost prohibitive that we wouldn't even being able to make a profit on it It is stacked it was insanely expensive to make as well And I learned a lot from that too, you know in terms of what stimulants can actually do and then also proper backfilling of uh Like fuel essentially for uh uh Catecholamines so Through that we then you know came back to the drawing board over the past year And we're like huh like is gorilla mind rush something we could take what we've learned Over the years from you know the cognitive enhancing nootropics that are true to form you know the developments and refinements through smooth Kind of the angles we've taken with uh respawn And the like high stim angles we've taken with lightning and kind of take the best of all worlds in our education to Put into this, you know into a formula we would actually be willing to put our faces behind the call rush Let's try it. So, you know, we tried some things and Kind of surprisingly to be honest, I thought you know best case scenario we get something that was like, okay, this is like Original og rush is like feels like a nine out of ten if you were to gonna let's just say like literal Pharma stuff is like your 10 out of 10 theoretically in terms of perception of like subjective like euphoric high drive stimulation If that was even you know a benchmark not that it is but just like, you know You know theorize with me for a sec here trying to conceptualize what i'm going and scaling this Let's just say a nine out of ten was rush at the time, you know Uh, which i'm sure many of you would attest to the fact that yeah like that felt like some Like I I think at the time I was like not even using I had a modafinil prescription I've had a modafinil prescription my whole life, but it was like I would have highly preferred you know using this over that because of how much better it was for not just wakefulness, but just like Giving me actual Utility out of it too like a one-two punch with not only am I awake, but i'm also like getting more shit done At a high quality of output as well And you know, I thought best case scenario. We're gonna get like I don't know six out of 10 Something like that Um At least from what we've found in house testing The new rush formula is probably something like a eight out of 10 Seven and a half eight out of 10 depends on the person Um, but it is it's up there. It's comparable it's within striking distance of original rush And I think some people will actually find it's better some people will find this is like a nine out of 10 The og was like a six or seven kind of depends how you respond to stimulants and the types of Mechanisms that they kind of are tailored towards hitting because Ultimately, this is kind of a crude Like not that great formula when you look at it objectively with what we know now Like a lot of you guys have been educated over the years as I have you know You've learned if you're I don't know if you're part of I forget I'm on the gorilla mind page right now But those of you have been like part of like my channel I've probably learned a lot of the same stuff I have over the years and like you would look at something like the gorilla mind rush O.G formula and be like, huh, like that's a pretty low dose of you know fill in the blank That was probably not the best use of fill in the blank So like for example, let's go through the formula line by line here. So originally we had uh per max dose so this was like a six cap dose if you're if you're going to use it we had a dmae so Don't be confused with 1-3 DMAA. This is not what dmae is. That's a common miss uh Misinterpretation of what that ingredient is Uh, I believe it's a dimethyl amino ethanol it stands for I might be I think that's what it is. But anyway dmae It's a cholinergic and it is something that Works However, it is from what I found over the years to be essentially a poor man's uh alternative to what is a more tried and true approach to cholinergic uh backfilling to try and you know maximize acetylcholine output um Which is a stack of I find to be the the best is alpha gpc Uh, and if you need that acetylcholine esterase inhibition to attenuate the degradation, you know, you would have the uh uh, Who perazine a which is highly efficacious and literature backed as well And then on top of that, you know, we have this uh, uridine monophosphate Which is a new introduction that was uh Conceptualized and introduced in respawn to actually enhance kind of the ceiling of theoretically Dopaminergic neurotransmission potential which it seems to do at least anecdotally Those who take a solid dose of uridine find that stimulants actually work better At the same dose when they complement it with uridine concurrently and then obviously if you have the acetylcholine being maxed out And a lot of people are highly are very deficient in choline Just their diet If you have all those backfill and you're not overdoing it from a cholinergic standpoint, you will typically Find that you are more uh mentally sharp Focused um information retention is heightened Uh, even motor unit recruitment is enhanced in the gym to some extent It's just a better cognitive state of performance And it is a complementary environment for stimulants to work better Seemingly is what we found so You know dmae was that something that we found to be critical or you know like a non-negotiable needed to be in the Formula to be worth being rushed still No, in fact, I found it redundant and replaceable Like preferably replaceable because it wasn't something I wanted to keep in like we could have kept in if we wanted to It's not like it's not a compliant ingredient. So dmae Not to be confused with one three Dma which is like the heaviest hitting stimulants that you know from like, you know One mr days, you know, you have uh, what what were the most popular ones one mr uh, mesomorph, you know, some of those like sick, you know, og pre-workouts that were And comically if you go look at those formulas knowing what you know now You'd probably like laugh at what you thought was a good pre-workout back in the day because it was literally just like a prop blend with no uh Like reasonable dosages of anything related to actual performance for uh, you know, like Vasodilation or muscular endurance Nothing outside of the cognitive realm. It was essentially just a prop blend of a shit ton of caffeine and you know You know 50 to 75 milligrams of DMAA and then like a sprinkling pixie dusting of you know citrulline and some other stuff And you know that just speaks to how effective stimulants are that they could literally like pull the weight of an entire workout um Not you know getting any of the other stuff that we find to be helpful now too like, you know betaine anhydrous and efficacious dose of citrulline etc so you know Even like inclusions of creatine that we include in our pre-workouts at least mode nitric like Back then a lot of us probably weren't even getting enough creatine in because we were Skipping days or missing days or we thought it would make us lose our hair or whatever Like there was a lot of shit that like was being missed back in the day when we were taking like the amazing, you know legendary pre-workouts It was literally just like we were all cranked on like literal amphetamines essentially um It just shows how effective like exotic stimulants really are um Or our perception of them because you know, it felt pretty good obviously So anyway dmae not necessary not helpful. In fact, I would probably say I would be concerned to include it in the formula given that we have a high dose of alpha gpc huperazine and the uridine in here now like it would probably put you into a! overshot of colon colonergics realistically so that was removed justifiably so especially considering the fact that we took the alpha gpc dose From 600 to 1200 so the old formula you would get 600 milligrams of alpha gpc 50 new formula By the way 10 capsules now for a max dose instead of six um And the the tailored like approach to it as far as like nootropics relative to stimulants You are still going to get the most true to form comprehensive and in-depth like nootropic formula out of gorilla mind smooth or respawn because these are tailored for actual cognitive support primarily Whereas rush, you know 10 capsules in rush versus 10 capsules smooth it's going to be leaned more towards the stimulatory dopaminergic productivity drive energy mental sharpness laser focus side of things as opposed to smooth you can actually expect you know no stimulants pure cognitive support more of like a true to form nootropic formula this is like a stimulant nootropic cocktail essentially so just putting out there the preface of what like rush you should expect from it it's not going to be the best from a nootropics standpoint for like the cumulative spectrum of what could be supported via the capsule space that we have to work with but for those who want the rush formula and like what you would use rush for this is like the best we can get out of it so I'll continue now so alpha gpc same doses and smooth by the way 1200 milligrams so doubled it from the old rush formula no brainer you know highly effective cholinergic and works really well probably the most uh i don't know literature-backed one and if it's not you know like any comparable ones i think put a tit for tat against it have either performed more poorly or don't cross the blood-brain barrier or an array of other deficiencies that you know alpha gpc has stood the test of time as of now as like the primary choline source that is bioavailable and is has utility for the purposes we'd be using it for at least from what i've seen obviously cdp choline is a close second but still alpha gpc edges it out as of now especially when you have uridine separately so moving on to tyrosine we had 500 milligrams in the original formula so basically nothing at the time i was under the impression you know tyrosine efficacious dose was like 500 milligrams to a thousand you know that's what we were told back in like 2016 2017 that was a high dose back then it's like if you had 12 like a thousand to 1500 milligrams of tyrosine it was like oh like you're you're pushing it buddy um now i'm like you know 10 grams plus is like the dose that is in the studies like why are we using such little pittance doses that do you know i don't know like some people feel low doses for sure however you know for those who were in like a highly stressed environment and are subjecting themselves to uh you know the conditions that would deplete the reservoir of uh dopamine and actually need that backfilling of catecholamines of dopamine norepinephrine etc like and for somebody who is weighs a lot as well like i don't the guys who are using formulas like this that are that stacked to begin with like in general are going to be individuals who weigh more than the average person and you know you're probably going to need more than you know what was uh anecdotal good dose in some like i don't know nootropic blog from 2011 you know so anyways that's not to say that you know at the time we knew what we knew and now i know that more can actually be better so it's 2500 milligrams now now is that anywhere near you know the 150 milligram per kilogram dose that you find in like the most heavy hitting of literature no but you can if it was then we would have like a what like a fucking 20 capsule product or something which is just not going to happen so that's where if you if you wanted like the true 13.5 gram dose you know look to this kind of a thing lightning but for what we can work within a capsule like this is uh a good uh support for or ensuring you have some backfilling of substrate to actually be the fuel that can then be you know released and uh utilized effectively via some of these um exotic stimulants that we'll get into momentarily so next up we have uh bacopa montieri and l-theanine so these are two uh nootropics that are research-backed efficacious work well they are more true to form nootropics though and are not going to enhance you know dopaminergic neurotransmission they're not going to make you feel you know the adrenaline is not going to get pumping from these you're not going to get any energy from them they're not really going to do a whole lot other than support cognition and l-theanine would actually like smooth out um and actually attenuate the impact so to speak of these stims which is fine in some contexts but at least for rush and for the space that we're working with in capsules it was not really that useful so we removed them entirely in rush 2.0 um and i think justifiably so because i don't think they really added anything for what we would use rush for so if you want you know an efficacious dose of bacopa um we still have in gorilla mind smooth we also have l-theanine and a gorilla mind smooth as well and we use l-theanine in a lot of uh our products as well it's not like we don't believe in the ingredient it's great you know i just don't think it had the justifiable place to be put into gorilla mind rush 2.0 um next up we get into the stim territory so now we look oh actually let's wrap up uh huperazine so that was at uh um i believe 400 micrograms in the original formula we actually lowered it to 200 because of the bump in alpha gpc and the uridine it felt like it was a bit of uh overshot to have that much huperazine huperazine in there and probably worthwhile to tone it back a bit like we don't need that much acetylcholinesterase inhibition probably um when you have that much of uh substrate so it's kind of a different angle to taking for acetylcholine um and i think a little bit of a uh a superior approach personally because it's a little bit more uh predictable and it's what's going to happen so anyways we have a you know double the dose of alpha gpc have the huperazine added in the uridine i think that kind of rounds up the uh cholinergics and it seems to work better at least from what we've seen or at least you know i'm less concerned about going into you know cholinergic crisis or something um through something that might be used frequently because just keep in mind too like with these formulas you also have to keep in mind when you're using them like how often are you going to be using them so like you know uh a pre-workout that you might only use you know once a week that's a high stim you know exotic stim bomb that you might be able to get away with more cholinergics than something that is more of a daily driver type product not that i would suggest using rush daily at all but it's something that would in general i think people using it are going to be using it more frequently than people who are going to be using like the highest stim pre-workout that is literally like reserved for workouts that just just  aut autoppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppoop in my opinion. Like, this is one of those things where back in the day we were told, oh, just chuck biopairin into, like, anything, and it becomes more bioavailable and better. Like, it doesn't make sense to just indiscriminately throw a gut irritant into every formula because it somehow makes everything better. No, like, there has to be, like, an actual, like, real logical reason for, like, what you are trying to get enhanced and, like, augmented in bioavailability. Like, if you have a curcumin formula, I understand exactly why it would make sense. If you're trying to, like, enhance your caffeine and nootropics that are fine to begin with, like, what are you doing, you know? Like, there is some logic, maybe, like, indirectly that I could piece together as to where it could potentially be useful, but it's more of, like, a speculative than anything, and I don't think it was adding anything to the formula notable enough to keep in what is ultimately, you know, a little bit of a gut-irritating ingredient that was not, like, inherently driving any benefits outside of potentially enhancing bioavailability, but likely not, and maybe just hindering your gut health. And it has utility. Like, biopairin is useful, just, like, context-specific, and it has to, like, have some reason and logic behind it. All right, getting into the other stuff, let's see, caffeine. What happened to the caffeine? So, the total caffeine yield was about just shy of 300 milligrams in the max dose of the old formula. Now, it is 400. So, I guess, technically, it was 294 milligrams in the old one, and now it's 400 in the new one. Now, keep in mind, this is a 10-capsule max dose. So, if any of the, like, the dosages seem too high, it's not like you're stuck at, like, the 5-capsule 1 serving or the 10-capsule 2 serve. Like, you could absolutely, and what I would absolutely recommend is titrating up accordingly based on tolerance. So, like, you know, with OG Rush, you were forced to do increments of, like, one-sixth, which was still pretty good for incrementally tapering. But with this, it's, like, even more split up. So, I guess, by nature of the formula being more stacked from an ingredient standpoint, you also get the, a bit more versatility in your dosing parameters, because you can start low and taper up, like, much more incrementally than you could otherwise. So, you know, if you wanted a significant dose of the nootropics and kind of the stimulatory action, but you didn't want to push the caffeine up to, like, 400, which is obviously a stimulant, too, but, you know, for all, you know what I'm trying to say here, you can absolutely taper up, like, extremely, like, with extreme levels of, you know, manipulation, you know, potential. You can do a lot of creative stuff with it. All right, moving on to the removals of exotic stims. So, exactly what was removed? Like, these are, you know, the stuff that would be considered why we stopped selling it, essentially. One, Hygenamine Nolumbo Nuciferase. So, this is a beta-2 receptor agonist that, actually, in hindsight, and don't worry, I'm not about to say that the ingredient after this is, you know, oh, it's just a totally, you know, replaceable one, too, and didn't do anything. But with Hygenamine, like, this is an ingredient that, at the time, I saw in a lot of exotic stim formulas, pre-workouts especially, and it was mostly, like, anecdotally, when we used formulas that had this in it, you felt good, but it wasn't really singled out and tried in isolation. And when it was, and we actually tested it out, you know, years later, it was actually not that, like, additive from, like, a euphoria, you know, drive, productivity standpoint. It is more of a, like, fat loss driving stimulant, something that could be utilized, like, I don't know, kind of like a, think of like a, you know, like a synephrine or, like, maybe like a, like a shitty ephedrine, maybe even. It was not that great for actual, the cognitive lift you would be looking for out of these stimulants. It would be something that would push your stimulant load higher, but without the benefit that you would actually get of enhanced focus, enhanced productivity, enhanced drive, motivation. Like, it was not that dopaminergic. It was something that was just, like, stimulating, which can be useful, but for different purposes than what Rush was designed for. So, I didn't find it a net negative at all to take out. In fact, I think it opened up the bandwidth to put in other stuff that was driving more towards the dopamine side of things than the just, like, pure stimulation standpoint. Like, you kind of have to balance very carefully between adrenaline and dopamine and serotonin, all these different, like, this kind of, like, neurotransmitter cascade is a very fine balancing act where you go one, you know, you go too far in any direction, you can, you know, totally wreck how you feel, ultimately. Like, even when we first, I remember when we first started making Girl of Mine Rush, we were looking at straight L-Dopa via Velvet Bean and, you know, some, a prototype formula that we developed before we ever started the company. I remember actually, like, literally making myself, like, bedridden from how much dopamine conversion I had from the Velvet Bean inclusion. It was just, like, overkill. If you overdo it in any of these kind of angles, like, it can be a net negative dramatically. Like, it could ruin your day. So, like, you got to be careful when you're doing this stuff, and that's why you should ultimately talk to a doctor before you take anything, and make sure it is something that is congruent with your diet, your personal supplementation regimen, medications you're on. Like, be very careful with this stuff, and don't just assume it's fine because something is a supplement. Like, you should absolutely vet it still. So, just my precautionary thing, like, actually read warning labels when you buy stuff. So, anyway, you know, Nalumbo, you know, Nusifera, Hygienamine. Took it out, didn't find it was a net negative. In fact, I think the bandwidth that opened up for more stimulation from a productive side of things was net positive because we now had room to do more stuff that was going towards what we were trying to get. Next up, DMHA, 2-amino-isoheptane. So, this is, you know, the thing that went into the gray area, essentially. At the time, 1-3-DMAA, back in the 1MR days, was crazy. You know, this was the ingredient that we all looked to as, you know, the exotic stim that would, you know, basically make an entire pre-workout. And that's what it was. Like, you would just, like, literally buy pre-workout to get powdered that. 1-3-DMAA. Now, 2-amino-isoheptane was kind of like a new, compound that was still similar structurally, but, like, felt a lot cleaner, more euphoric, more kind of like, if 1-3-DMAA was like, you felt like running through a wall, 2-amino was like, I don't know, you had the energy to run through the wall, but you were, like, smarter to not do it. And you would, like, I don't know, like, do something intelligent with your time. I don't even know how to make the comparison, but it was, like, cleaner, more euphoric, more, felt less racy, less, you know, you would get way less of a crash as well. It was something that was actually kind of like the perfect stimulant for, like, getting work done and feeling great while doing it, but without, like, overshooting like you would on something like DMAA, which was kind of like a, you know, literal, like, self-destruction level stimulant where you would take it, you know, go hit a PR and then, like, fucking crash on the couch after and feel like you hate yourself. You know, 1-3-DMAA was a heavy hitter and you would acclimate to it incredibly quickly, too. Like, after a while, the 1-3-DMAA pre's, the first time you took it, it felt like literally being on the most insane drug of all time. And then every time you take it thereafter, it would, like, get incrementally less impactful. After, like, you know, a full tub of, you know, pre of 1-3, you would end up not feeling it nearly as much, whereas 2-Amino, it had a bit of a more sustainable use and it was also just, like, a cleaner feeling and it could also still be used pre-workout. Like, I remember using a lot of pre-workouts with 2-Amino and they were great. I remember there was, you know, Spartan Nutrition, Kraken, I think it was. Like, they had a sick, you know, I say sick pre-workout, but it was really just, like, 2-Amino and it was good. You know, I really liked it. So, anyway, 2-Amino was, like, the main heavy hitting stim that was providing the exotic input, essentially. And it was something that was interacting similar to, like, you know, an amphetamine mite from a dopamine nor epinephrine release standpoint, a reuptake inhibition standpoint, and hitting a fine, like, a great balance of that activity. And then, what else? Was anything else removed? No. So, that's basically the only thing that is, like, a net negative being taken out of the formula, essentially. Arguably. You know, some of the other stuff, it depends on the person. Like, allothenine, you know, maybe it smooths it out for some people. I don't know. Like, for me, ultimately, like, the hygienamine and the 2-Amino were, like, the two things you could point to as, like, the biggest difference makers from what could be changing the formula. So, hygienamine, I don't think it was a net negative. 2-Amino, it's a big loss. It was enough so that we didn't even put out the formula for years because of it being such a big mover in the, what it does. Now, and by the way, like, I don't know if there's still two amino isoheptan products out there, but if there is, you know, like, I would, if they're even legal, I don't think they are, but I mean, who knows? But, you know, it'd be super interesting to just, like, even compare one of those to, you know, New Rush. Um, obviously, in-house, we still have, you know, the stockpile of, you know, our residuals from years ago. So, we've actually been trying, you know, 2-Amino Rush from back in the day against the new formula. So, we've actually had the anecdotes ourselves to compare. Um, but I would compel you to, you know, compare if you had a, you know, 2-Amino, uh, product, you know, still, or I don't know, whatever. Uh, you had access to finding a company that had one just to see what you think, but, uh, Rush 2.0. So, how did we replace it? What else did we do? So, I talked about the, uh, cholinergics that I think are superior from an efficacy standpoint and, like, a broad-spectrum approach to balance and also supporting other adjunct, uh, mechanisms as well, like the, um, dopamine neurotransmission potential via the uridine. I have a really elaborate breakdown on uridine in my energy drink breakdown video. If you don't know, uridine is in our energy drink as well, and for good reason. Um, it looks highly promising. Uh, and a lot of people can speak to how they feel on stims on versus off of it. Um, so, the cholinergics, you know, I think are, you know, a step up objectively. And then, the other stuff that we've done. So, we've added in, you know, basic activated B vitamins to kind of support some of the neurotransmitter, um, cascades, but ultimately, the heavy-hitting stuff that you want to know about is, you know, the caffeine has been elevated to the 400 I mentioned. Um, but also, oh, and also, di-caffeine malate. We only have caffeine anhydrous in this formula because di-caffeine malate is ultimately, uh, something that is more for, like, a visual thing on a label. You know, malate, you know, is going to be something that is not actually, like, chemically bonded, from my understanding, when it comes to these ingredients. Like, you're going to ultimately just have, uh, malic acid, which would typically be broken out as a separate ingredient to not inflate a perceived input, like, citrulline. Like, citrulline malate is, you know, uh, notorious for being, like, perceived as efficaciously dosed when, in reality, the actual citrulline yield is pitiful, um, because it's, like, you know, citrulline malate when it's not actually chemically bonded. You know, di-caffeine malate, all but it's at a low enough dose that it's not going to be used as, like, an inflationary tactic. It's ultimately something that looks, it's usually, like, a visual utility more than something that actually, like, drags out the caffeine half-life. It was always thought that it would make, like, a longer, bleeding half-life caffeine, which is not the case, in my experience and from my understanding of the pharmacology. And I could be wrong on that, but to us, you know, di-caffeine malate was not worth putting into this formula and taking up space when we could just have straight up good anhydrous at the max, you know, like, the 400 clean number. Um, so anyway, you know, we have higher caffeine yield regardless anyways. So, the ingredients that move the needle and actually get us where we need to go. So, catawaba extract, uh, n-phenethyl dimethylamine citrate, uridine monophosphate, and alpha, Raul's sign, alpha-yohambine. So, I could speak for another hour on these ingredients. And I realize I'm probably about, that's highly likely to happen if I don't shut up. So, these ingredients, and by the way, I am going to have a two-hour video on lightning soon. It's already edited. I just need to put it up. Um, that digs into each of these in that elaborate detail that if you want to nerd out on it, I will break down all of these. Um, with exception of uridine, that one, because uridine is, a lot of people are like, well, why would I, you know, get Rosh instead of just like this or whatever? Uridine is not in this. Uridine is in this. But this does not have n-phenethyl, does not have Raul's sign, doesn't have, uh, catawaba. Whereas, this has our trademark synaptrix catawaba bark extract. Trachylia catigua is the actual name. Um, and this is something that factors in all of those components. And, but the breakdown of uridine to its full depth can be seen in either my Respawn article on moreplatesmordates.com. You can read up all of it with all of the, uh, literature that I've cited for you with all the graphs as well. And the video, uh, the energy drink breakdown video that elaborates why we included it in the Gorilla Mine energy drink. So that exists. If you want to go watch the uridine breakdown, I would compel you to go check that out. And then if you, you know, uh, want to wait to see the, uh, full breakdown of n-phenethyl as well as the, uh, Raul's sign and catawaba, that will be coming in this video. And it's covers the full spectrum of depth that you'd want to see out of it. Um, all the literature, all the mechanisms, all of why, uh, they're synergistic with each other or when it would be and when it wouldn't be. And ultimately the high level on it mechanistically of what is happening, uh, uh, the synaptrics or trademarking, uh, extract of catawaba extract is ultimately from what the literature suggests to be a, um, impactful and efficacious dopamine reuptake inhibitor, meaning it is going to inhibit, literally keep more dopamine around to do what it does longer. So instead of like, you have different angles you can take when it comes to actually, uh, getting stimulatory activity or getting, you know, dopamine enhancement like effects. One of those is actually making sure there's enough dopamine reservoir to be released, which is like making enough dopamine. And that is sort of the backfilling of the substrate, like the L-tyrcine efficacious dose, having a good diet, you know, all that kind of stuff. And also not depleting your neurotransmitter, like reservoirs of via, you know, stressful activities, you know, whatever different things will deplete and pull from resources when you are subject to high levels of stress, um, lack of sleep, et cetera. And this is one of the reasons why people think creatine may be so effective at, you know, cognitive offsetting the effects of, you know, sleep deprivation, similar reasons, you know, like actually pulling, you know, things that are getting depleted elsewhere in order to serve the endogenous creatine synthesis demand that is otherwise being like overly depleted. Like there are other areas of your brain that are getting sucked at essentially, um, in order to like meet the demands when you are inadequately, uh, when you are not rejuvenating and restoring yourself, uh, adequately through adequate sleep, when you're not fueling yourself correctly through diet. And when you're just like an unhealthy person, you know, that there are, uh, there's ultimately a potential that you have for actual neurotransmission in any one of these, uh, areas when it comes to, you know, adrenergic activity or dopaminergic activity or serotonergic activity. And it's gonna be contingent on like the reservoir and fuel that you have to actually like release. And then also the activity of it, like how long does it stay around? Like how fast you metabolize, like how fast you clear this stuff? There's a difference in how fast people even, you know, clear caffeine from their system. I'm sure you're aware the same would apply for like anything in the body essentially. So when it comes to dopamine and, uh, you know, uh, norepinephrine and adrenaline, uh, this is stuff that you can serve to maximize via, you know, substrate release potential, um, like through manual release via some of these like, uh, um, specific compounds like, uh, n-phenethyldimethylamine citrate or other, um, substituted phenethylamines that act similarly in mechanistically to things like amphetamines. And then, you know, the adrenaline side of things as well, but ultimately it's how much do you have in reservoir to actually serve as fuel? How much capacity do you have to actually like manually push it into utility? And then how long is it going to like residually provide activity and potentially even stacking over time via the inhibition of reuptake? Like these are all different angles that can be taken to try and achieve like a one plus one plus one equals, you know, you know, depends on the compounds effect that is like cumulatively quite impactful and met the demand we had for what would be deemed good enough to be called rush. So ultimately the kind of like exotic components of this is, uh, fulfilled through a lot of the nootropics that I mentioned at the beginning that sounded, you know, less exotic and whatnot, but also there is a very, very significant. And I would say like pretty unrivaled adrenergic potential fulfilled through Raul sign. A lot of people don't realize like a low dose of it can be really, really useful for driving a sense of urgency and, um, like drive and just like, uh, uh, a sense of urgency to get things done. If it's not overshot, you're not going to be sweating your ass off and only, you know, feeling hypoglycemic, it depends like when you use it, the context you use it and also the dose you're using it. And it's a very, very sensitive compound, like hence the microgram dosages. But if you're starting at like one cap or two cap or three cap, and you can incrementally titrate up, but you have a lot of versatility for achieving a adrenaline output level that is complimentary to your, you know, like productivity related tasks or potentially in the gym, if this is something you want to double as a pre-workout, um, by all means, like this could be a reasonable thing to use with nitric, for example, or stim-free pre-workout. But basically at a high level, you are getting the, uh, dopamine reuptake inhibition via the, uh, synaptrics, catawaba, trachyla, catigua to a reasonable extent, at least highly suggested via the literature that is quite convincing. Um, it also has some release potential seemingly as well. And then the N-phenethyldimethylamine citrate we have at 500 milligrams. So that is a very high dose and seems to move the needle as well. And the catawaba, I should have mentioned, is a thousand milligrams. Uridine, monophosphate at 400 milligrams. And the Raul sign at 1.5, 1500 micrograms, 1.5 milligrams. So these are all comparable dosages to different areas we've taken from different formulas. Like we have in here, we have the uridine at that dose. In Lightning, we have the Raul sign, the N-phenethyl, and the, uh, synaptrics, catawaba, trachyla at that dose. And in here, it's all at that dose with a more, uh, reasonable caffeine input. Caffeine input, because the caffeine in this is much higher than it is in this. And the caffeine input in this is much lower than it is in this. And the nootropic blend that's complementary and synergistic is, uh, designed around those to be, get you in a, like, mindset that is what I say, what I would say is, like, pretty comparable to what we want out of Rush. Um, without overshooting you and without undershooting you, depending on the person. Everyone's going to respond differently. And ultimately, this is what, uh, we found the most well-rounded approach to take to get that kind of exotic stimulation that we're seeking out of a thing we even deemed to sell called Rush. Rush, I really hope you like it. Um, you know, I have high hopes for it. And, you know, if we can even get, like, 80 to 90% of the way there, which it seems that we have, at least anecdotally, based on our findings, uh, and also, like, anecdotally through some of the, like, mass experiments, essentially, through some of these other formulas that we've released over the years. Um, I think we've come out with something that is, like, you know, good enough to be a replacement for, I don't know, a lot of people might prefer it. A lot of people might remember, you know, effects. And keep in mind, like, recollection of what you felt when you first took a pre-workout that had stimulants in it that were exotic years ago, when your tolerance might have been zero, is not going to be the same perception of, like, how it hits now. So just keep in mind, like, you taking OG Rush in 2017, 2018, when you're, like, you know, fresh to the scene of nootropics and, you know, exotic pre-workouts or whatnot. Um, it can't necessarily be apples to apples compared to how your brain responds, even just via aging, but also, like, via what you've exposed yourself to from a nootropic stimulants, etc. standpoint, and how cognitively adapted you become to that, like, level of exposure via whatever you use. It's not going to be an apples to apples comparison, so keep in mind, it's very, very difficult to, like, recall exactly how something felt and then have, like, the exact comparison as if you just used it today in your current cognitive state. Um, but ultimately, you know, based on what we've seen using both, because keep in mind, like, we have both with us, um, it's close, and some people actually prefer it. Um, some people prefer the other one, some people prefer this one, but it's comparable enough that I feel good about it to actually put it out. It's been years. And I refuse to put it out, you know, it would have been so easy to cash in on the name of Rush, because, you know, how many companies would, you know? A ton of companies probably would, you know? Like, it's, it was, like, the flagship formula of the company. Like, it was, like, the heavy-hitting productivity monster, and, you know, it sucked the pull, you know? I would have loved to have something in its place, but it wasn't worth it. And, uh, I hope this is, because, uh, a lot of work and years of, you know, education have gone into this, and, uh, it's promising. I'll put it at that. So, uh, I hope you guys really like it, especially some of you OGs who, you know, remember the original, or even might, I don't know, have residuals, you know, stocked up that you can compare to it or whatnot. Or, you know, have just been, you know, dreaming of a day, you'd finally have a replacement for it, and I hope this to be it. So, anyways, it's live now, guerillamind.com. I hope you guys like it. And, um, yeah, stay tuned for the breakdown video on lightning to get the deep dive on, um, the, uh, exotics that are in Guerrilla Mind Rush. And I would also recommend you check out my article on moreplatesmoredays.com to get the deep dive on Respawn, because you'll learn a lot as far as some of the stuff I've kind of, like, surface level touched on when it comes to dopamine, serotonin, um, and how you kind of, like, could achieve a level of cognitive, uh, performance out of things that are not just, you know, like, the, I don't know, borderline amphetamines of old, you know, pre-workouts. Check that out. And, um, yeah, um, I hope you guys like it. The lightning video will be, like, insanely comprehensive, too, and answer probably any outstanding questions you have. And, in the meantime, this was meant to be a high level on this, and it absolutely was not high level. I apologize. But, anyway, hope you guys like it. GuerrillaMind.com. Talk to you guys soon. Thank you.