There really is no happy ending stories for trend users. Like the best it gets is I got huge but was able to come out of it with my brain, body, and freedom somewhat intact. Convincing zoomer bodybuilders to genuinely believe that trend is a normal go-to steroid is one of the wildest scops. I swear to God, dit are running this by their third cycle and completely unaware of how that destroys your brain and potentially your life. People are dealing with side effects years after stopping and people can develop neurological side effects down the road long after their cycle. Yeah. And the tough thing about it is it's not like there's like an AB split test where you can see like how up would you have been off it versus on it. you're kind of just like, well, did this weird thing in my life that happened while I was on it or after I came off of it have anything to do with it? Am I dumber now because of it? Is this happening in my life, this health issue because of that, you know, that I did? It's hard to know and it's not like you're ever going to have a clinical study that like AB split test neuronal cell death or something from trend versus offtrend or whatever. You got to go off anecdotes and like what you know this stuff to do based on the available literature and kind of like the patterns. And at this point, I feel like it's pretty well documented what you should kind of expect could happen. You can literally get like 80% of the results on trend just by running tests and dialing in your diet routine. Maybe through and primo if you're that throw in I say through if you're that desperate. If you're that desperate that extra 20% is not going to seal the deal with any woman and it comes at the cost of your long-term health. How do you kids come up with this Lol. Reading other people's stories and being kind of shitty dudes in the first place. Typical youth trend experience. I mean, yeah. And this guy's got a tag of tren at 14, so not unexpected. Hope your balls grow back. Lol. Thanks. Went back to normal size after PZD.