This is the exact thing that I use which a lot of people uh they always ask me for the exact specs. So for this we have Sup guys, Derek moreplace.com. Today we're going to be talking about what I use exactly to inject my testosterone. So this is uh should be YouTube friendly because it is a doctor prescribed medication after all and it is not advising on how to pin uh illicit substances. So I already have a pretty elaborate medical discla medical disclaimer but you know another one just in case. So anyways, a lot of people they ask me in my older videos I talk about how I pin subq which is a bit misleading when in reality it's like shallow intramuscular and I realize it's even more misleading the way I used to elaborate on it because when people think subq they think into their belly fat which is never what I meant. You should never inject oil into your stomach fat ever in my opinion. So, anything oilbased um like you can pin things oil based into fat. It's just it's going to get absorbed very poorly and you're going to have uh especially if you're micro doing on a daily basis, you're probably going to end up with uh little deposits in your stomach fat that uh take a long time to go away and they're really annoying. So, what I do for uh administering my TRT is shallow intramuscular. So, it's like right on the cusp of being subq. And frankly, for some guys, depending on your body fat, it may be subq as well. But the fact is is it's not that important. It's more so that the injection site is somewhere that's not going to be problematic. Like, we're not injecting into stomach fat. We're literally I am literally using the same injection site that I would otherwise be using if I was using a 1 to 1 and 1/2 in harpoon. So for me, I'm lean enough that a 1/2 in insulin syringe and needle can uh get shallow intramuscular. So that's what I use personally. This is the exact thing that I use, which a lot of people uh they always ask me for the exact specs. So for this we have I don't know if this is going to focus. So this is 1 cc 1 milll. We have 29 gauge and we have/ inch. So some insulin syringes, insulin pins, the needle on the syringe are a lot shorter than that and some are different gauge than that. The gauge is just the thickness of the needle itself. So obviously, you know, traditionally you would see the harpoons are like 22 23 gauge is a pretty typical uh gauge used for intramuscular injections. Um and once you get to like 25, you start to get into the territory of this is really hard to push the oil through. And when you get to 29s, it's very difficult to push the oil through. But because I'm using such a low volume, I don't really mind to be honest. Like it takes an extra maybe 20 seconds to push it through the thing. But I use such a low volume of oil, like I just do not care. And to be honest, the 29 gauge, the amount of scar tissue buildup I'm going to get from a 29 versus a 23, it's like night and day. And on top of that, I don't have to deal with any uh calculating any kind of like backflow stuff stuck in the needle. In these, you don't have to deal with that 0.1 that gets stuck that you're otherwise going to lose when you're using a harpoon. You're going to lose like a whole milliliter out of your vial. Like if you're doing even if you're doing 10 shots, like by the time you get to the end of a 10ml multi-dills vial, you're going to be losing a decent amount of oil out of um if you're using a harpoon every time. That's just the way that those uh needles are designed. They have a certain amount that gets stuck in them, unfortunately. And with these though, that isn't a problem. So, not only do I not lose any oil, but I have uh something that causes very minimal scar tissue and is not uh a huge uh hindrance to my everyday life to administer on a daily basis. If I had to administer a 23 gauge 1 in like every single day, I would never be doing daily dosing. With these though, frankly, doing daily dosing with these is actually more tolerable in my opinion than doing the 23 gauge 1 in um deep intramuscular twice a week. And it's a lot easier to manipulate your aromatization as well as your SHBG when you have the ability to go from either daily dosing, every other day dosing, every 3-day dosing, however you need to do it to uh split up your u administration frequency. you can use that in your favor to manipulate your uh enzyatic activity in the body as well as a lot of people think that once you have a certain you know estrogen level or you have a certain amount of uh X happening that the only choice you have at that point is to use an aromatase inhibitor and that's not the case. you can actually manually manipulate your estrogen values uh pretty significantly just by leveraging administration frequency as well as even your SHBG which is something I went into elaborate detail on in a recent video about administration frequency which I will put up a card in the corner to about administration frequency so uh I'm saying it really obviously so my editors know which one to put up here but uh the administration frequency video is pretty pretty recent so yeah that is what I use the 29 gauge half in doesn't mean you couldn't use another insulin syringe. There are, you know, different variations that are just as good. The only thing that is noteworthy is when pushing it out of the syringe, you know, it's pretty slow. Let's just say you were doing an actual blast phase and you were using upwards of half a milliliter on a daily basis, you're going to be sitting there for a bit. You know, it's not like it's not the end of the world. It doesn't take forever, but it's, you know, it takes a bit of time. And um the main thing that takes longer though than pushing it out is drawing it in. So personally, if I was doing more volume than I was, what I would be doing is pulling out with and this kind of contradictory because you end up losing oil at the end of the day when you do it like this. But if I had, you know, if I was doing an actual blast phase, this is what I would do. And I would just, you know, chalk up the lost oil as a loss. But anyway, I would be pulling out with a 23 gauge to pull out whatever I need and then I'd be back loing it into these if I wanted to increase my administration frequency. And you would just have to deal with the oil you lose when you do that. But that's the only way you're going to quickly draw oil out and get it into this thing quickly without having to sit there for literally like 3 to 4 minutes plus waiting for the thing to dribble into here to fill it up. And you know, once you start to get above half a milliliter per day, that's kind of the point where I would start to write off using these entirely as a um means of frequent administration because once you get to over half a milliliter shallow IM, you start to get into like danger zone for lumping. So, at that point, if you're doing a blast that consists of more than a half milliliter a day or on a weekly basis, I guess that would be um three and a half milliliters divided by seven, which would equate to the half a milliliter a day. Um once you get above and beyond that volume-wise, that's when you are probably going to have to uh step up unfortunately to the uh bigger harpoons cuz you know, I just wouldn't advise going over half a milliliter shallow intramuscular or subq of anything to be honest. it gets a bit cumbersome for such a shallow injection. So, that is sort of um just a brief overview of um kind of the pins I use and why. And um if you want to go get these ones specifically, they're only uh I don't know, your local pharmacy probably has them. Our HRT clinic has insulin pins, too. Some of them are shorter than the ones I just elaborated on. um you kind of have to be specific about what you want, but um yeah, the 1/2 in ones I feel like are uh it's not like it's too deep, but it's not so shallow either that you have to worry about any kind of lumping issues if you're getting up to that.5 ml mark. If you're using less than.5 milliliters and you're using like, you know, 0.12, you can probably get away with the really short insulin syringes, but when you get to, you know, closer to like I could I can get away with the smaller insulin syringes, too. I just want to make sure I don't have to uh deal with lumping with carnitine which is something I use on a regular basis intramuscular. So that's where you know these come into play for me too. So um yeah that is what I'm using the 1ml 29 gauge 1/2 in insulin pins on a everyday basis if I am doing it properly and if I get lazy I will typically go to every other day and kind of just double up. But that is uh more or less what my TRT protocol uh administration um protocol I guess uh boils down to in the type of insulin syringes I use. So thank you guys for watching. Please like, subscribe, check out my blog moreplays.com if you want to subscribe to the newsletter where you will get uh emailed anytime I publish an article which are far more elaborate deep dives into bodybuilding pharmarmacology, health, hormone optimization, etc. I recommend you subscribe to the newsletter. You're not going to get sent those. Otherwise, I don't publish them very often, but when they when I do, they're gold in my opinion. Like, they're far more elaborate than my own videos, and they are broken down in concise subsections with table of contents. Um, they have all the hyperlinks to all the clinical studies that I reference in the video, in the article itself. It's all organized and uh easy to follow and probably a bit more palatable because it's just like, you know, broken down so uh concisely with the table of contents and you can just go back and forth and kind of like uh cross reference what I'm talking about as I'm talking about it rather than during the video. I'm kind of just like throwing information at you and hoping most of it sticks. Sometimes I uh you know I ramble and go on uh start throwing out vocabulary that perhaps I should uh be elaborating more on rather than just assuming everyone knows what the I'm talking about. Yeah. So there's that and then anything else that I am associated with. If you want to support the channel, you can check out my TRT clinic in the video description below as well as a coupon code to save $50 off your first order of medications. If you are interested in hormone optimization, testosterone replacement therapy, um literally anything involved with uh hormone optimization and health, um I recommend you reach out to them. It's all tele medicine from the comfort of your own home. FaceTime, Zoom, Skype, whatever's convenient for you. and our doctors take care of you as well as the patient care coordinators will oversee your treatments and ensure you are uh everything is up to snuff and your blood work's looking uh spoton and you aren't just you know getting halfhazardly thrown on some cookie cutter TRT protocol like you would with another clinic. So you can check that out if you're interested and if you want to support Gorilla Mind my turnkey neutropic formulas for productivity, focus, creativity, you can check those out. I designed these um kind of off of the back of my uh experimental phases in university where I tried to figure out anything that could help me cognitively to give me that edge in my studies and you know now into my working years. I kind of have some turnkey formulas that I uh brought to market that I used in uh you know my university years for studying and now in the working years to stay locked in. Um, as well as the pre-workout formulas, Gorilla Mode. This is the hybrid formula with all the cognitive enhancing components, the NO precursors, the hyperhydrating agents, the plasma expanders. This is the most maxed out hybrid formula on the market. Then we have the uh stimulant free formula, Gorilla Mode nitric. has just the pump products essentially, but even more maxed out. We have literally the topped out dose of elcitrine that you would get no additional benefit from using more than 10 g, we have 4 glycer pump, we have the agmatine, we have the nitrogen, we have this product is just maxed out for performance. There's no stems though, so you can use it at night time or you can combine it with uh regular mode if you want or with any of our other products, frankly. And this is realistically the best product on the market for overall performance that has nothing to do with cognitive elements. And then Gorilla Mode stem is the coste effective uh mental component maxed out to an even greater degree. So this is basically the Gorilla Mode stimulant in neutropic complex kind of extracted and kind of enhanced to a greater degree for the stim junkies and just for those who want a costeffective pre-workout that doesn't have any of the uh you know extra pump ingredients. the NO precursors, the hyperhydrating agents, etc. This is just the mental component of mode on steroids essentially. So, you can check those out in the video description below if you're interested. Thank you guys for watching. Talk to you soon.