 And Denzel is also known as Mr. Brokenbones, right? And Denzel is also known as Mr. Brokenbones, right? He was, he changed his Instagram handle too. There's a pattern to us wanting to like not be known only for having done this. Fair enough. Yeah, well, for him it's probably harder to get away from it because he's been like on mainstream news platforms and stuff and like, I don't know. He went on a tirade for a while. We even got, we even did a... They even went on a first date with him, that was crazy. Have you seen that one? I was in it. Yeah, you were at the end of the video, but I didn't know if you knew that he like filmed his date. Yeah, yeah, yeah. The date was after. They're like, so what do you think about him being taller now or whatever to the chick? That's cool. Yeah. I love that guy. He's, he's awesome. But yeah, he, he went on a tirade for a while of like, and then after a while, it's like, you do kind of like, I sympathize like is like, yeah, maybe I don't want to be known for this because there's a lot more to me than just this. But now this is what everyone's going to see when they Google my name, you know? Mm-hmm. So Denzel lives pretty damn close to here. Yeah, he does. Which is a weird coincidence. Like where you, you saw each other, met each other in person for the first time at this clinic and just kind of like got to talking about your background and you just happened to be within spitting distance of each other. Pretty much. Yeah. That's pretty much exactly what happened. And, uh, more coincidence to that is we ended up being roommates. So by random assignment. No, not by random assignment. Cause what happened was you don't have roommates there. Okay. Uh, cause of infection risk. Right. Okay. So ideally everyone's separate in their own environment. But, uh, cause yeah, you don't want to spread stuff like that. But the way that we met was we had this karaoke night, right? They used to have events there. Um, like every once in a while. Then we had a karaoke night and I like the fast rap, right? It's fun. And it's like this like party trick that I, I like to do. And so I, I did that there and he's an actual rapper. He actually, uh, made a song for me and my wife that I, I gave to her kind of like a song finch, but more personalized. Cause I had my friend make it for me and, uh, he's really good. And he did one of his songs on the karaoke night. And I was like, I like you. He was like, I like you. We're friends now. That's essentially what happened. And then, uh, when, one of the really cool rooms opened up where it's like a cohabitating room or, you know, they have a really nice living room. Uh, I wanted it. And so they gave it to me and, but I had to find somebody to partner up with to, to, to have the other one. And so I chose him. And so that's kind of how we became roommates. And then we became really close, you know, cause we'd be talking all the time. And we'd tell each other like our insecurities, what, what led us to do this. It's very painful. So like, you know, we, you know, console each other and stuff. And, uh, yeah, we, we'd watch scary movies like almost every night. And so, cause I, I don't get to watch scary movies at home cause my wife's against it. So like I, I took that opportunity to just binge all of the scary movies that I could. So we just got, became really close friends that way. Cool. Cool. He, what, what was his before and after stats? Started at five, five, five. Forget it. I think he was. I feel like he said publicly he's gained more height than you even. I think so. Yeah. He went from five, five, if I recall correctly to six feet supposedly. I think so. I think he did because I think it was seven inches what he gained. Um, now is that like the most extreme of people at the clinic? Or up there with the top or? It's up there because, uh, if you're not including the actual owner of the clinic, I think the most, I think that's around the most. People don't really get over 15 or 16. I don't even know anyone who has actually done 16 centimeters. I don't, maybe I'll fact check him on. I don't, I don't know if he's got. Like, do you think he just wants to say six feet because it's cleaner? Or was it maybe like a misprint by article? Or. I know there's a lot of misprints by articles. Yeah. So I think one said you gained like nine and a half inches or something crazy. Yeah. And. But you were saying you were nine inches taller now than your wife. And then they took that and made it like a headline that was incorrectly misinterpreting it. Yeah. They also, if you look how much I paid for the surgery, it's all over the place too. Yeah. And some articles say I'm six, seven. And I, when I clearly had said no, that's the most I think that I would potentially go to. Right. So, so I don't really know. I, I think he went from five, six to six foot. Okay. I think. But I mean, now I'm going to ask him after this. And he is happy with the decision. Like he seemed to be at least on the interviews from a year ago. And they're like, how's it been for him since? So he's doing really well. I don't know how his bone consolidation is and neither does he because he hasn't gotten a single x-ray since he left the clinic. Oh, damn. Are you supposed to like get them locally or do you fly back there and have them. Get them locally. Yeah. Okay. And then they, what, you, you send them to them or you just get it assessed by somebody here? Usually send it to them. Okay. I don't because I've kind of just. Done with them. Done. Yeah. Yeah. But, but yeah, you, you get it assessed. But having done this for so long, we kind of get to, like, I know how the x-rays are supposed to look. Right. So I kind of just look at them myself. I don't even send them to a doctor. It's like there's bone there or it's not and it's either aligned or it's not. Yeah. Well, actually, I do send it to a doctor in Baltimore, Dr. Asayug. He, he and I kind of became Instagram friends. Okay. And I show, like, every time that I'm worried about something, I'll be like, am I okay? Am I dying? Like, is my bone ever going to heal? Like, any insecurity that I have, is my infection coming back? Like, it's so many freaking scary things. I just send it to him and he'll, he'll help me figure out what to do. Like, what? Thank you.