I want your urine. I want your pee. I'm going to take it to the lab. I'm going to test it and I'm going to find out for myself whether you're natty or not. And that's going to prove a lot to this world on whether the genetics and hard work can be as powerful as actually being on the gear. What's up guys? Derek moreplace.com. Today we're going to be doing a reaction to a old video. This is almost 2 years old at this point, but I actually just watched the full thing for the first time over again recently. It popped up on my uh suggested videos and this video's blown up. It's at 1 almost 1.75 million views. And this isn't even the original enhanced athlete channel. This is like a reincarnation that's like reposting old content. So, um, that's pretty impressive that this picked up that much steam. And it's interesting cuz basically they have this guywami Dua who has an absolutely absurd physique. This is what he looks like. This is his Instagram. You know, a lot of people would have a hard time believing this guy is natural, you know, as justifiably so. And this is what he looks like on stage. Um, this is what he looks like just uh chilling with his BSN shaker. This is what he looks like uh at the gym holding these little 4 kg dumbbells. Um and this guy is [\h__\h] massive. This guy has in crazy insertions, crazy genetics. Um crazy jacked. Um everything about this guy's physique is just absurd. Um especially the insertions. Um and the amount of muscle he has. So, you know, a lot of people would think this guy is a fake natural. He claims natural his whole life. um natural bodybuilder. He's been claiming natural forever. And in this video, Tony Huge actually randomly takes his urine to get it tested and get a drug test done to prove if he's actually a fake natty or not. So, the thing is is he passes the drug test, but there's something very specific that I noticed about the drug test that might imply otherwise. So, I'm going to start do the start of the video to the end and we can sort of uh I'll interject in between, but I'll just just to give you the framework. You should watch the full video, too. This is a pretty old one, so I'll just uh split screen it and then you can watch with me as I go through it and I'll make my commentary as I go through it. This is Quamadua, and he claims that he's natty, that he's not on gear. I'm looking at this physique. This is like a proclass physique style physique. Look at the legs. All right. So, anybody would look at this guy and say, "There's no freaking way. He's natty." I just put him to the test. I said, "I want your urine. I want your pee. I'm going to take it to the lab. I'm going to test it and I'm going to find out for myself." Okay. So, I highly doubt Tony, you know, coordinated this with the guy. Obviously, that's entirely possible. I don't think he did, though. But it's kind of irrelevant, and I'll explain why, and we're going to get into this uh later in the video, whether you're natty or not. And that's going to prove a lot to this world on whether the genetics and hard work can be as powerful as actually being on the gear. So, let's get you hydrated real quick. There's no way to defeat this test, too. I am the one who's going to administer this test. So, there's no possible way that the results of this could be faked. All right, he's going to drink a bunch of water and then we're going to need a container. Well, he's definitely on steroids. I mean, he is hanging out with Dr. Tony Huge. I mean, guilt by association, don't you know? I think this is probably going to be the most epic steroid testing natty proof uh video ever done. I've never seen anybody do one just like this. Have you been accused of being not natty before? Literally like a lot of times. So, and how how does it make you feel? In all honesty, it sucks because, you know, I do work hard, I train hard, you know, I eat well. So, but you know, and you know what, like it is you think you would take it as a huge compliment. You know what I mean? Like people think you're on gear and if you're not, you train hard and you eat good and somehow it's like guys who train hard and eat good on gear, 99% of them don't look like this. So, being from a young age, I've always like been lucky to be blessed with good genetics as well. But, you know, it sucks. You know, like it's a compliment in a way, but also kind of like tarnishes my heart. feel like it takes away from the hard work, you know? Like they're like they're taking credit away like, "Oh, it wasn't hard work." I'm not judgmental. I don't really care if someone is naughty or not, but it just sucks like to be accused when you're not. I don't know, bro. He looks really good, but I say he's a fake naughty. That's just my opinion. Ah, but have you considered the possibility that he has found the hidden steroids of Machu Picchu? I don't remember all this stuff in the video for which no laboratory test yet exists. How old are you? I'm 25. How long you been training? So almost 8 years now. Let me show you his pockets. So see his pockets and everything. There's no I actually have no lick it possible way to hold. I can screw down to my joints. All right. So So you Tonyy's just like [\h__\h] filming this guy in the bathroom. So funny. go ahead and go in because there's no possible way if you look inside the stall there's no possible way there could be anything that has pe color to it. So okay he's going to in the pee into the bottle and I am going to be the custodian. Sounds like normal pea flow. Sounds like your prostate is in good shape. Imagine the people walking by [laughter] beside this. Tonyy's just guarding this [\h__\h] guy with the door open, watching him piss while he's videotaping [laughter] him, which is a sign of not taking steroids. All right, done. Yep, that'll do it. All right, I am I am the chaperon, but this is very This is odd. I'm making like this is normal. [laughter] This is definitely an odd situation. This is probably the most awkward interview. Did Steven prepare you for that when when he introduced us? This is the first time I've actually met this guy as well. Come random test me anytime. He's like, "Yeah, that's what he said. He said, "Random test me anytime. I'm I'm willing to prove it, whatever." And I said, "How about right now? Pee in a bottle and I'm going to go get it tested. It's going to be a day or two till I get it to the lab, but I'm going to, you know, look at the color so you see the color when it goes into the sealed vial and container to the laboratory. I'm going to keep it 100% legit. All right. Here we have the urine for the natty or not test. I'm going to pour it into the thing without gagging. Oh, I don't think we need all of it. I think that's more than enough. Okay, that is urine. And we're gonna seal it. And then we're going to peel off the sticker and seal it so that nobody can replace the urine in transit. Not that that's going to happen, but this is like the the safety the security seal uh actually. So So this one goes here. And then this one goes on top. Actually, perfect. Like this. That's the seal. Okay. And then we stick it in the mail and we get the results. These arewamadua's lab results to see if he actually is or is not on steroids or any other anabolic substances banned by the World Anti-Doping Association. So, here are the results. I'm going through them one by one. Does he look like he takes steroids? Yes. To make the muscle big. Okay. So, you think he's on steroids? Yes, he does steroids. [laughter] And the results say he is not on testosterone. He is not on clenbuterol. He is not on deanal. Nor is he on any other banned substances according to the lab report. Now I'm going to get into why this lab report is complete horseshit, but I'll keep letting I'll let him talk. Look, none detected. And a lot of these are tests for long eststered steroids. They could test uh if someone had been on a certain steroid months ago. I mean, some of these the metabolites last like 8 months in the bloodstream. So, the fact that I saw none, it doesn't mean he wasn't on steroids at one point in his life. It's possible, but he certainly hasn't been on steroids, at least any of the main steroids or anything that was tested for within uh the last recent amount of time. He's clean and he had no idea that he was going to be drug tested. No idea. This was like totally random. He said he's natty. I called him out. I said, "Let's go to the bathroom and get your urine right now." And this is at the Olympia Expo. If someone was on steroids or was using steroids, if there was any a time that they would want to be on steroids, it would be at an Olympia expo, right? So, if he's not on steroids Olympia Expo and hasn't been on steroids for the previous 6 to 10 months, depending on what Esther steroid was using, he may not have ever been on steroids before. a true natty, a true genetic freak, someone who when you look at his physique and you know what's really behind bodybuilding, you would assume he was on steroids. And according to the lab tests, he is not. Now, this is where we dissect the [\h__\h] out of this. So when you go back and you look at the test results, you can see from the beginning we have and dial and dione one testosterone metabolites not detected. We have you know formin um six alphylrostin dione androin dione metabolite androin dial androin dione or testosterone blaster boldone clenbuterol danazole dstanolone epitosterone which is typically a potential masking agent which we're going to get into soon. Methandroenolone, um, methastasterone, methanolone, um, nandrallone, oxabolone, like even obscure steroids you would never even use like is even on this test. Then we have, uh, Winstrol, Testoactone, Trenbalone. Now, first of all, there's no SARMs on here, but I'm going to even, giving the benefit of the doubt, let's assume he's not using SARMMS at all. You go back to the first page and we see here this is the exact same thing that I brought up with the Brian uh what's that guy's name? The Brian Dosta drug test results that he used to kind of you know exemplify that he's a clean natural. So if you remember in that video I owned in on this exact same cutoff the andraine dial and dione or testosterone to epitosterone ratio. So as you see here this cutoff for and dial and dione or testosterone epi testosterone ratio first of all when you look at the assay used we see that they're using gas chromatography with mass spectrometry. Now we know that that's the method they're using to screen all of these hormones and metabolites. So this is basically just a detection of is this present or not. So Anderson dial Anderson Dion or testosterone the testosterone to epi testosterone ratio. So you see the metric by which they determine if this is present. Notice here how there's no nanog permill cutff rather there's a six and it says 6T ratio. That's for stands for testosterone to epi testosterone ratio. Now six basically indicates that you could have basically how they detect for testosterone is the problem is gas chromatography with mass spectrometry cannot detect the difference between exogenous bioididentical hormones and endogenous bioididentical hormones. It can simply detect the presence of it and what serum concentration is there. So the reason there's not a cut off for this value is because you naturally produce testosterone. So if you administered testosterone exogenously, as long as you remained within a certain ratio of testosterone to epitosterone, you would theoretically be able to get around the test because there is normally an endogenous balance between testosterone and epi testosterone. And instead of having a cut off where you just determine somebody isn't natural because you produce a certain amount of testosterone naturally and it's not like a synthetic hormone like trenbalone where it's like oh you have any trendone in your system like obviously you're not natural because why the [\h__\h] would you have trend in your system so that's why these cut offs are so low for all the other hormones 2 nanogs per milliliter but when it comes to testosterone you naturally produce it you're supposed to have a decent amount of it so that's why they don't have a normal cut off for testosterone and what they do is they deploy this testosterone to epiestosterone ratio. The problem with this is first off there's no cut off. You only have a ratio to work with and there are a lot of gene variants that can actually have a strong strong um influence on what your ratio is and some will have a much lower ratio than others just naturally. In addition to that, the 6:1 testosterone to epi testosterone ratio is a 1983 ratio that the IOC adopted to screen Olympic athletes. This is a ratio that was deployed decades ago and it was since done away with over 15 years ago in fact and it was lowered down to four in any respectable organization lowered their testosterone epi testosterone ratio cut off to 4:1 not 6:1. So, this first of all, this test already has a ratio used by the IOC like [\h__\h] 30 years ago, more than that, almost 40 years ago at this point. It's since been lowered a significant amount. Like, if you look in the UFC, their testosterone epi testosterone ratio is lower. It's four as the last I checked. and most other you know competitive organizations that are using at least reasonable testing not that they're significantly better but reasonable testing are using 4:1. So above and beyond that only once you trip this 4:1 cutoff would you be subsequently tested using a more high sensitivity method of testing to differentiate between cholesterol derived indogenously produced testosterone and exogenously produced testosterone that is derived from a plant source because they actually get testosterone is derived from plant sources. It's not like they take a [\h__\h] human and extract testosterone out of it. They use a plant source to extract the testosterone. And the only way you can tell the difference between um if you had indogenous testosterone that was naturally produced versus testosterone in somebody's body that was exogenously given via some [\h__\h] plant source. The only way you're going to do that is the deployment of isotopic ratio mass spectrometry. And the reason you would do that is to differentiate between cholesterol derived androgen versus plant derived androgen because at least when you when you deploy that you can't actually tell if you just use gas chromatography the mass spectrometry you can't tell if it's coming from plant tissue or not. You can just tell it's either the testosterone is there or it's not there. And the test is not testing if it's there to begin with cuz you're expecting it to be there. Rather, it's a ratio of what they theorize like a genetic outlier at the very very max would produce as their indogenous testosterone epi testosterone ratio. So, as long as you fall within that cutoff, you're going to pass the test even if you're using testosterone because they're not actually testing for exogenous testosterone from a plant tissue. So, with that in mind, you have this leeway of 6 to one. Now, how much leeway is that? First off, I'm going to get into how significant of leeway that really is, and you're going to be shocked if you haven't seen my other video with the Brian Dosta guy, but in more, you know, like I said, in recent proceedings, they've lowered the cuto off to 4:1 in like the UFC and some other places, but Tony is using a test that is very, very old and primitive. There's no carbon isotope ratio testing. All there is is gas chromatography with mass spectrometry. So, yes, you can detect all the synthetic anabolics, but when it comes to testosterone, what can you really detect? How much leeway do you actually have? You have a [\h__\h] ton of leeway to get away with cheating, dude. So, I'm going to bring up this test or this study that I commonly refer to. It's from 2007, and it's still just as applicable. The effect of short-term use of testosterone and anth muscular strength and power in healthy young men. This test study, sorry. Basically what they did was they administered men um testosterone and anth would you be able to pass um a standard urinary testosterone epi testosterone ratio um cutoff using exogenous testosterone and we're talking about not a short esther like any smart athlete would be using a short esther at least if they were trying to get around a test. Now obviously this guy wasn't planning on getting tested so you know theoretically he would not be doing this but in the context of like a you know a competitive athlete they would be deploying a short esther. So long this is using a long esester keep in mind. So this is like the most even the most idiotic of person that was trying to circumvent testing or just like throwing caution in the wind and just using test not caring about how long it stay in their system from the esester attached to it. Um this is like a long esester using a super physiological dose. And what they did was basically the objectives of the study were to establish if a if injection of 3.5 milligs per kilogram that's a lot of testosterone once per week could increase muscular strength and cycle sprint performance in 3 to 6 weeks. So keep in mind if you're like 200 lb for example you're looking at like 300 to 325 milligrams of test per week which is a [\h__\h] lot dude. like to get around a test using a long estster. So what they wanted to see was um if using that once per week could increase muscular strength and cycle sprint performance in 3 to 6 weeks and B the thing that we care about if the water imposed urinary testosterone epi testosterone ratio of 4:1 could identify all subjects being administered 3.5 milligs per kilogram of testosterone and anth one not 6:1 like the test that Tony did onqame dua. So 16 healthy young men were match paired in this study and were randomly assigned in a double blind manner to either testosterone and anth or a placebo. All subjects performed structured heavy resistance training program while receiving either testosterone and anthig per kilogram or saline injections once weekly for 6 weeks. Now the amount that these guys actually got equated to roughly 300 milligs per week based on their body weight. So roughly they were all the guys who were taking tests were using about 300 milligs per week of enanthate which is a long esester. So they're like intentionally trying to figure out if these guys are going to trip the newly updated IOC cutoff not the old one from 19 fucking8s but the new one. Um using a substantial as [\h__\h] dose of testosterone. And what they found at the end of it was not only that obviously they built uh muscle and strength, but despite the clear erogenic effects of testosterone and anth as 3 weeks, four of the nine subjects in the testosterone nanate group did not test positive to testosterone under the current urinary water testosterone to epi testosterone ratio criteria. So that means these guys that were using test once per week with a long esther a long estster guys like any smart athlete would at least be using propionate at the longest and then a lot of them are going to be deploying things like suspension. We're using enanthate which is like 5 to 7 day halflife at minimum. And these guys are using that and then getting tested subsequently thereafter after having a cumulative buildup of 300 milligs per week. And still half of them are [\h__\h] passing the 4:1 cut off of testosterone epi testosterone. So Tony Huge administers this test using a 6:1 cutoff, the old 1980s IOC cutoff that has since been done away with in more strict leagues. So how much test could you get away with with a 6:1 testosterone to epi testosterone ratio? [\h__\h] 400 milligrams plus maybe. like this is doesn't prove anything. So, thisqaame dua guy, is he natural or not? I don't know. I'd have to go look at his old uh history and go like dig into his his old pictures and see what his progression has been like and whatnot. Do you know natty or not? But this in itself is, you know, the video is going to be like a [\h__\h] hour if I end up doing that. But I wanted to get into this just to show that just because a guy passes a drug test, it doesn't mean he [\h__\h] passed the drug test. He This guy could have easily been using TRT and still [\h__\h] cleared the test with ease. This guy could have been using [\h__\h] 300 milligrams and passed the test with ease. This test proves that he's not on Tren, Master, Winnie, [\h__\h] Proviron, Anavar, all that [\h__\h] But does it prove he's not on testosterone, which is like the main thing guys would be leveraging in a performance-enhancing context? No, it doesn't prove anything. This guy had significant leeway with a 6:1 cutoff. And even if he used a 4:1 cut off like the UFC, you have upwards of [\h__\h] 300 milligs and you have A-50/50 shot of beating it. So, no, this doesn't prove that he's natural. In fact, it uh doesn't do [\h__\h] So, you know, is this to say he isn't or he is? No, it's not. I'm not actually make I'm going I would not make a definitive um conclusion based on not looking at this guy historically or digging into any of his old posts or anything, but just based on the lab test. This is just what I want to exemplify here because some people will see this on the surface and would think, you know, this post has [\h__\h] almost 2 million hits and it's like me, you know, most people will see this and they just think, oh [\h__\h] he tests natural. And it's like, dude, this is the same [\h__\h] that they want you to think that they're doing to catch people that's intentionally deployed to make it seem like they're doing strict testing when in fact it's very [\h__\h] easy to get around it. It's like when you look at Olympic sprinters, you know, oftent times when you when they get popped, what are they getting popped for? Breaking this testosterone to epi testosterone ratio. Why? Because they didn't [\h__\h] plan the pharmaccoinetics of their protocol properly and or weren't using a short enough esester and or didn't have good enough connections or whatever the [\h__\h] At the end of the day though, the whole point of what they were using to enhance their performance and the reason they chose the compounds chosen is not just because testosterone is, you know, the best [\h__\h] steroid and it's bio identical and blah blah blah and well tolerated and all this stuff. Rather, it's that you have a significant amount of leeway with the current parameters in Olympic testing and in, you know, many other sports. Um, so a lot of the leagues in the uh professional sports world are far [\h__\h] less strict. And uh it's like pretty much giving you on a silver platter the [\h__\h] thing you need to do to clear the test. And it's just a matter if you're smart enough to design a protocol that is suitable to circumvent what you should be able to clearly see if you had somebody working for you who was doing their job as a, you know, professional athlete to get around the [\h__\h] because this is literally um there's so much [\h__\h] leeway in this ratio. And the fact that it's even used as a, you know, form of [\h__\h] testing is just like laughable in my opinion. So take from that what you will. Let me know what you guys think in the comments down below. Do you think this guy is natural? Do you think he is not natural? Why are we why not? Um maybe I'll do a natty or not on this guy in the future. But as far as the test results go, unfortunately, these are not conclusive whatsoever and don't really prove anything cuz it's missing the most key element of it, which is like the main bioididentical androgen that would dictate um most people are [\h__\h] using to be honest. Like every cycle has this as a base, even for just like performance enhancement for bodybuilders and [\h__\h] Like most guys are using like a basic testosterone potentially nothing else. And for guys circumventing testing at the highest level of sport, this [\h__\h] this way to circumvent the testing is still deployed too. So, you know, obviously this guy didn't see the test coming, but I mean like I could have been walking around the [\h__\h] expo on TRT and got the same [\h__\h] test and cleared it. So, it's uh you know, I I just the whole test is a write-off in my opinion. So, take from that what you will. Thank you guys for watching. Please like, subscribe, check out my blog moreplays.com if you want to get um deep dives into bodybuilding pharmarmacology, then um I recommend you subscribe to the newsletter. It's the first link in the description below and you won't get sent the articles that I publish if you don't sign up for that. And they're far more elaborate and in-depth than my videos and have all the hyperlinks to all the clinical studies I reference in the articles for you to delve into further yourself. The content is all broken up um in concise subsections with a table of contents. It's proof read multiple times, so it's actually a lot easier to follow than my videos in my opinion. And frankly, they put my videos to shame. Like if you thought my videos were informative, my articles are [\h__\h] much better. So I recommend you subscribe to that. A lot of incentive to do so cuz you won't go you won't get sent those otherwise. If you want to support the channel, you can check out anything I'm associated with in the video description below. my TRT clinic as well as Gorilla Mind, Gorilla Mode, my turnkey neutropic formulas, and my turnkey pre-workout formulas. I encourage you to go get your current pre, pull it out of the [\h__\h] cupboard, pull it out of the, you know, the cabinet, wherever the [\h__\h] it is. Look at the label, compare it to Gorilla Mode, the hybrid pre-workout formula. This is our classic flagship. It has the topped out dose of the NO precursors, the hyperhydrating agents, the plasma expanders, as well as the cognitive enhancing component with the maxed out neutropic and stimulant dosages. This is all around the most potent pre-workout hybrid on the market. Gorilla mode nitric. This is the most potent stimulant free pre-workout formula on the market. It has none of the cognitive enhancing or stimulant components. However, it has an even more maxed out NO precursor component. There's also an ACE inhibitor in there. And the highest dose of Lcitrilline you're going to get in any product on the market at 10,000 milligs. There is no product that is actually topping out at the maxed out efficacious dose found in the clinical literature. All they're doing is putting in oh, you know, the minimum 4 to 6 g to reach a clinical end point blah blah blah. You know, 10 g is the max efficacious dose and that's why it's in there. not inflated with malic acid and the rest of the formula is ridiculously potent as well with nitrogen, agmatine sulfate, vaso drive, AP, glycer, the works. This product is bar none the best performance-enhancing preworkout that is available on the market right now. And then Gorilla Mode Stem is the costeffective stem only product for all the stim junkies out there or for those who just want a pre-workout without any of the pump products at a better price. This has the cognitive enhancing component of Gorilla Mode classic but enhanced to an even more significant extent. We doubled the elyrocene, doubled the kana, increased the empanthyl dimethylamine citrate, increased the caffeine. It's basically a stim junkiey's dream or somebody who just wants preworkout at a better price point rather than spending more for all the NO precursors and hyperhydrating agents and whatnot that come in the other formulas. So, if that interests you, check it out. Anything else I am associated with video description below. Thank you guys for watching.