 depending on the ester chosen, typically testosterone sipionate will be prescribed, at least in the US, that's the most prescribed one, which is a half-life of 10 days, if I recall, off the top of my head. Depends on the person, of course, where it's injected, blah, blah, blah. But that half-life, you could extrapolate out from that, okay, it's going to take 50 days to achieve steady-state serum concentrations in the blood, and that's going to look on a steroid plotter. You could check online and see this kind of like, you know, spiking until all of a sudden there is the same amount of dropping of the drug clearing out of your system. You're getting an equal amount of spike backup, like there is no accumulation of drug burden after you've achieved steady-state serum concentrations. So the advantage to injecting more frequently, and this is going to be determined largely by patient adherence more than anything, because some people simply refuse to inject even more than I've seen some insane stuff where people will let themselves drop to literally hypogonadal territory, and then remember, based on their dick not working, I'm going to, okay, now I take my test. But in general, once a week is like bare minimum, I would say, but that's certainly not optimal. And I would say that two times a week, at least for somebody seeking good quality oversight, you know, preventative medicine, whatever, if they're coming to you or to somebody who believes in the same things you do, twice a week, I think is kind of minimum for decent, steady hormone concentrations. Yeah, we've sort of arrived at the same conclusion that that's the sweet spot. Yeah. We do have a couple patients who do daily injections. And interestingly, in these patients, we see much less for the same dose of testosterone. So you take, oh, like 15 milligrams injected a day, which is actually very difficult to do. You have to be very thoughtful about what kind of needles you're using to actually get such a small volume in. But they will have much less FSH-LH suppression, which suggests to me that the bigger, the higher the peak, the more the FSH-LH suppression. I don't know that there's anything physiologically relevant to that other than I think it's the studies when you look at trough level, T levels, and when I say trough, I mean like the lowest point of hormone concentrations after an injection. Oftentimes, these studies assessing dose response will look a week after your injection. So what you see in the literature isn't necessarily reflective of what's going to be in patients trying to optimize anyways. But what I see personally and in Merrick Health and through all my blood work that I've seen over the years, et cetera, the more frequent you get, there's a diminishing returns for sure, but you can lower the aromatization spike and 5-alpha reduction by going more frequent. So if you have a bolus administration of, I don't know, 150 milligrams once a week, you are literally spiking your T into super physiological territory acutely. And concurrently, you are getting super physiologic conversion to estradiol, DHT. You also have a very, very aggressive spike in free androgenic signaling, which can crank your sympathetic nervous system up, impair your sleep quality. Like there's so many consequences people don't. And you'll see more hematopoiesis. Yeah. So when I had Mo Cara on here, he was talking about Natesto, which is the nasal formulation, which has such a short half-life that it's actually a TID dosing schedule. Wild. So it's seven milligrams of testosterone injected intranasally. I want to see somebody take that for more than a year and still tell me it's cool and fun to take. So if you end up doing that for TRT, you got to- I probably will not. But what his point was, two interesting points with Natesto. The first is they don't have the hematopoiesis. So these are not people who were making too many red blood cells that you have to actually be careful of and have to go and get them therapeutically phlebotomized to take blood off them as their hematocrit gets over 50. Secondly, it's a FDA formulation that women can use. Because if a guy is taking seven milligrams in each nostril three times a day, clearly a woman could take one of those every other day. And by the way, it's sort of an on-demand libido tool for women in particular. So there are lots of interesting things around that. Also, they're doing a clinical study and we're sort of observing what they're doing where women are using intravaginal use. One application of that intravaginally before sex to enhance orgasmic function. Nice. So again, it's always desirable to have an FDA formulated product when you can kind of avoid the dark side of compounding is my view. I think the best way to conceptualize for the listener to why this frequent protocol or getting a more stable level is even, why does it result in a lower side effect burden too? It's the most, the closest you can replicate natural function, the more you will replicate natural side effect profiles, which, you know, should be nothing if you are physiologic. So with, you know, Natesta, which is like in and out acutely, like so fast, you are not getting this huge spike to like, you know, 1500, 2000 nanogram per deciliter total T. There is no situation ever in which your testes would just blast you once a week with a hammer of test and all of the associated metabolites and backhanded consequences of that. You would have little pulsations over, you know, a diurnal rhythm. And this is why you, you know, you would test your blood as a natural in the morning when your testosterone is spiking and it's going to ebb and flow over the day. Your test level in the morning will not, could be 300 nanograms per deciliter higher than later in the day. Like it fluctuates. So to expect that it's reasonable to jam yourself with an absurd amount of tests in one go, and then hang on that as it declines at your body and then crank it to the stratosphere again once a week, it's just not representative of a physiologic state whatsoever. So the more you can replicate that diurnal rhythm through the synthetic administration route, the closer you're going to get to a lower side effect burden. Like I've seen some guys that get gynecomastia from TRT dosages, go to ED everyday dosing and get off their AI. Like that's how significant. Yeah. So just to translate that into English, you've seen guys who can take a weekly dose of testosterone and in doing so they make so much estrogen that they have to take an androgen inhibitor, pardon me, an aromatase inhibitor to prevent them from getting breast tissue, gynecomastia. And if they take that same dose and divide it daily, they can come off their aromatase inhibitor altogether. Yeah. And some people it's, it's problematic because they will give feedback to their doctor or just give a state, uh, give a judgment to what hormone therapy was like for them based on what is maybe, uh, not the right dose, but also just not even close to an ideal dosing regimen and injection frequency. When we, you know, when I got back into the practice of medicine and was learning about HRT, I couldn't find doctors who weren't prescribing anything different than twice every two weeks. That was the standard. Have you seen the European sustenance? I mean, it's just, no, I have not, but, but the standard was 200 milligrams every two weeks. Yeah. And, um, which immediately I was actually, I remember going through Llewellyn's pharmacology and looking at the pharmacokinetics and being like, this is an awful idea. Um, so yeah, uh, any difference clinically between cipionate and enanthate? Um, obviously one of the advantages of enanthate is there's a commercial product called Zyested for people who are squeamish about injecting that comes in a preloaded pen. So we have some patients who just don't like the idea of having to draw up a syringe and they just kind of want something that's a little more turnkey. So Zyested, which is a slightly different, uh, form of testosterone, but, but clinically I sort of remember at one point, there was some difference that might be age specific, but I don't recall now. Yeah. The half-life enanthate is often thought to be a long ester, which it is relative to like propionate or phenopropionate, but it's kind of like an in-between of cipionate and propionate. It's like a half-life of, it could be as short as like four and a half to five days, I believe, off the top of my head, whereas cipionate could be twice as long in some people. So it depends on your individual metabolism of the drug, um, often. So, and also if you're pinning sub-Q or IM, like you could kind of like bleed out the effect more. So with, I would say if you're injecting frequently enough, it's essentially irrelevant, but with these auto-injector pens, which is typically the auto injected, the, the, the Zyested protocol from the FDA is once weekly, which is actually, I mean, we still recommend people do it twice a week and just use a lower dose. The difference of not using your, what you're supposed to take versus using it. Like obviously frequency is of a lesser concern than you walking around with no test. So if they, if it's the difference between a guy taking it versus not, you know, okay, take your, you know, once a week, if that's what it's going to take. I don't know if it's, is it the preloaded dose? You can't, can you modulate? You can't meter it. That's what's so annoying about it. It's such a, it's such a, yeah, it's such a racket because, and I always tell patients, I'm like, look, if, if you're completely cost insensitive, I guess fine, but otherwise like getting, you know, Sipionate in a jar is a fraction of the cost. If you're just willing to be the guy that meters it out. Um, but the Enanthate, I think only comes in three loaded doses of Zyested. So you've also, you also have less wiggle room. If you're not happy with the output, I would assert with near certainty that you are not optimizing your hormone status. If you are, I'm going to say optimize, I mean, just like dialing in the stability of it and the side effect profile and potentially quality of life as much as you could, if you did a more frequent schedule, especially with Enanthate. So once a week is a little bit. Meaning you, you, you, you, the more frequent you're giving it, the better. Yeah. Like I think the diminished returns are, there's a significant drop off when you go from every other day to every day, but like one week to twice a week, like I'd say there's a pretty dramatic difference that's worthwhile to. Yeah. Um, let's talk about the difference between subq and I am, um, again, I, I, I have always advised patients to do subq, um, for the belief that it has, as you point out, kind of, you bleed out the effect a little bit longer. Uh, but I have to be honest, I don't think I've seen data to support that. I have seen, and I think this is an extrapolation, but I believe it to be true is when you look at subq dosing, you'll notice the total T levels are higher and then people take away from that. Oh, subq is like you get more out of your test. But the reality is, is when they measure total test levels, it's often a week after your shot, which just lasts longer. So I think you are almost giving yourself a sustained release kind of through administering into the fat tissue rather than intramuscular, which is more readily absorbed, quicker blood flow, et cetera. Just like if you did like an IV administration, it would be like in your blood immediately. Not that you would ever do that, of course, but yeah, the difference in pharmacokinetic profile of like IV to I am to subq, like you can change the same drug dramatically in onset of action through that. So you think that subq is probably a better administration. And so if you were, I think once you get to every other day dosing, it's almost, it doesn't almost matter. Yeah. But I think especially for people who are doing, and again, it depends on the amount. Cause if you're doing once a week, is that going to be too much of a, a bolus like to sit in stomach fat depends on the person. Yeah. But you know, I would say, especially for infrequent, you'd be better, you know, subq ideally if the volume of oil isn't significant enough that it's like creating lumps and stuff.