 If you can also reнеingsr buziers buziers buziers buziers buziers buziers buziers buziers buziers buziers buziers buziers buziers buziers buziers buziers buziers buziers buziers buziers buziers buziers buziers buziers buziers buziers buziers buziers buziers buziers buziers buziers buziers buziers buziers buzi buziers buziers buziers buziers buziers buzi buziers buzi buziers buzi buzi buzi buzi buzi buzi buzi buzi buzi buzi buzi buzi buzi buzi buzi buzi buzi buzi buzi buzi buzi buzi buzi buzi buzi buzi buzi buzi buzi buzi buzi buzi buzi buzi buzi buzi buzi buzi buzi buzi bu as like maybe interesting or entertaining. And this is just one of the first ones and it's from the subreddit. So this will be a nice little dip our toes back in. Use Tren at 19 and became an angry cheating psycho. It actually has a story time, what are the things called, tags? I don't remember exactly what these were, but like some sort of sub categorization. I didn't know there was a way to actually like playlist out the fucking trend stories. But apparently there is. What's up everyone? I discovered Derek's channel. Dude, what a misspelling. Holy shit, this is not even close. Derek. Chronicles of fucking Derek, bro. Channel a year or so ago, and I've recently binged the trend stories that he'd post. So I figured I'd post mine since it kind of fits. Kind of, okay. I know a lot of these are fake, but this really happened to me. All the names are fake though. Anyways, freshman year of college, and I had really gotten into working out. I had been active in sports in high school, but college is where I really focused on the gym and my physique. I got bigger and stronger, but not at the rate I wanted. A friend I made, one of my classes was absolutely massive. And I asked him for the secrets. Didn't we all bro? And then we were told some fucking nonsense often. He told me to just work hard, eat enough and stay consistent. And it'd come, you know, what I have. I had in grade 11 or 12, this one guy in my, I don't even know what it was, like an IT, like tech computer class. Accounting, I think he might've been into. Weirdly, the accounting was like in the exact same room as like keyboarding class, as well as like five other classes. But anyways, in one of these fucking classes with me, and this dude went from like a two plate max bench to doing 265 for like, I don't know, 10, like within months and gained insane amounts of lean mass quickly. And I was like, fuck, like obviously he knows what he's doing. So I asked the secret and he said, uh, instead of just taking a one scoop of Saison, which is like the flavored creatine from the Gaspari nutrition that, you know, a lot of us liked because we thought it was special, but in reality it was just flavored creatine. Really good tasting creatine though, mind you. Instead of taking one scoop, he'd take two scoops of that. And then he did pushups like every day, certain amount. Forgot what the exact magic number was. And like some other shit. It was like bench like every fucking day essentially or something. I don't know. But it was pretty, you know, dumb advice. And like obviously left out the fact that like almost with that, with certainty, the D-ball was missed out on the part of the advice. So I was like, you know, some of us were like, okay, well, I guess we're doing two scoop Saison, bro. And, uh, doing pushups every fucking day, which is not a bad idea. I think it was like the amount though, that was like, just like arbitrary, some sort of magical threshold where like all of a sudden your chest gains like escalate to the next level. And, uh, this was on top of like your current, you know, whatever it is you're doing for chest. And just like, you know, the switch is supposed to flip, bro. But, uh, you know, soon found out, at least highly suspect that, uh, it might've been a little bit assisted. So anyways, this guy, you know, similar, uh, situation. I believed him, but still frustrated by my lack of competitive progress. One day I was voicing my frustrations to him and made, he made me, by the way, there's no reason that a guy who is absolutely massive, like could not be just natural, of course. But, you know, oftentimes like these guys are trying to gatekeep the fact that they're just on the sazool, which is annoying, especially when you're supposed to be fucking friends. But anyways, one day I was voicing my frustrations to him and he made me swear I wouldn't tell anyone and told me he was using gear. Oh, there you go. You know, it came clean. He warned me against it, but told me he'd get me some if I really wanted. And I immediately said yes, it ignored all the side effects. It's like, yeah, it sounds familiar, bro. And it's shocking because like a lot of the people that you might look to for education are like the best information on the internet. They were like this guy, essentially, just like asking their gym bro or their friend in fucking class. And how'd you get so jacked so quick? And then he says he took like M1T or something disgusting. And then you're like, oh, I'm going to take it blindly as well. But he warned me against it, but told me he'd get me some if I really wanted. I immediately said yes and ignored all the side effects. I wanted to get big and get girls fast. So I figured whatever side effects came up, I'd power through because it'd be worth it. Immediately hopped on 500 tests, 19 at the time. I mean, you know, that's kind of like a typical newbie cycle. So it's a little bit high in hindsight. But like this is what a lot of us, you know, back then I would say, well, depending on how old this guy is now. But like it's not like a totally unreasonable cycle. It's just a little bit higher than you would probably need to start at now knowing what we know now. But it could have been much worse, I guess. He could have been on like, you know, blasting his face off with M1Ts behind the counter of the GNC or something. Frying his liver simultaneously. Anyway, I blew up my physique and lifts like crazy. I was 5'11", 190, benching 225 for 10 and squatting 315 for 10 after a few months on cycle. Started partying with my buddies like crazy. I dumped the girl I've been seeing because she didn't have a high enough libido for me. I was insatiably horny while on cycle. Haha. So for you guys who have never been on or even the guys who have been on can attest to, when you first get on, it's like you hit puberty a second time, essentially. And it's interesting because it does not sustain. It's like you have this big burst of horniness. And that is like you literally had your balls drop, but it does not sustain. In fact, you get quite used to it after a while. And then it kind of like levels out to something that's more manageable and reasonable, depending on if you're just on test and at a normal dose, I guess, after. But, you know, the first, even if you're just on test only as a first cycle, like you will get, your brain has been, you know, pushed to another incremental level of androgenic exposure that it's not used to. And it's like hitting puberty a second time. And, you know, man, like what a fucking relatable tale. I started partying with my buddies like crazy after getting fucking cranked on my first cycle. Like, come on. I was a jerk, but felt like a god partying with my friends and hooking up with this new girl I met as much as we could until she cheated on me right before I cycled off. Ooh, bad timing, bro. Right before you cycled off. That's a mental fuck. Mind fucking half. And my lifts and physique deflated and I became depressed. I reached out to my ex and she told me to fuck myself and eat a dick. And rightfully so. I was angry and depressed and started researching more compounds. Read about Tren and found a guy at my gym who sold some. This would prove to be a huge fucking mistake. I hopped on 600 tests and 150 Tren A. Tren acetate if you guys don't know. I turned into a fucking psycho, but in my mind, I was fine. And everyone else was fucking weird. Dude, like, more relatable of a statement could not have been made here. Like, when you're on Tren, you are... Well, again, you know, everyone's different. There's always... There's going to be many people in the comments who are like, you guys are overplaying it. The Tren side effects are not bad. Like, I had no problems. I didn't even get night sweats. I've never had tren cough. You guys are crazy. You guys just can't handle your fucking drugs. And in reality, it's like, everyone's different to try and tell somebody like, a progestogenic, you know, synthetic steroid made for cattle beefing up is somehow like, you should respond fine to it as a human. Kind of an absurd statement. And, you know, it's not uncommon for Tren. Especially layered on top of this can result in paranoia, anxiety, mood, dysregulation, whilst simultaneously, paradoxically, swinging to the other side of extreme confidence. Like, when you see yourself in the mirror and you're just gaining lean and looking dicey at the same time. And, you know, like, it's a weird compound for sure. And at the time, it's like, you couldn't convince yourself that anything you're doing is weird because you're just doing it. It's like, when you're drunk, you know, do you think what you're doing is sloppy? No, you think you're an actual wizard at speaking. When, in fact, you are just a sloppy disaster oftentimes. I got this weird recurring nightmare that I'd walk out my apartment and my ex would drive a car into me. That's going to impair sleep quality for sure. I was petrified every time I walked outside and my neighbors thought I was a lunatic. I'd scream at them and leave. I also couldn't sleep at all and would wake up drenched in sweat routinely. Under relatable as well. One thing that Tren did help with, though, was girls. I swear they are magnetized to that shit. I got laid way more even though I was nuts. Started dating this girl named Allie and cheated on her constantly. And I was paranoid she'd find out. But my cock was constantly hard. And I started hooking up with this girl from my class named Kayla. This one time we were smashing. I find it funny how he, like, has to come up with fake names. It's like as if it was some sort of, like, differentiating factor of the story that these girls actually have names. Like, not just I hooked up with another girl from my class. Like, it's a name. And it's the wrong name. It's a fake one. Because I don't want to reveal the real one. It's like, I don't know. It's like, was this not sufficient? This one time we were smashing in her car in an empty parking lot. And she asked me why my balls were fucking tiny now. And I got super fucking angry. I mean, that's a red flag for sure for a chick to say that. Have you guys ever had a chick ask why your balls are small when you're on cycle? Interesting question. I don't think I ever have in my life. Although I'm sure they thought it. It was never verbalized, though. Because what the fuck kind of thing is that to say? It's like, imagine you just have, like, ED. It's like, what the fuck's wrong with your dick? You know? Like, why would a chick say that? I looked up and saw her dash cam. And I thought she was recording me to show Allie. I lost my mind. Ripped it off the windshield. And smashed it on the concrete. Telling her if she ever told anyone I'd fucking kill her. And to shut the fuck up. She started crying and begging me to calm down. And I started to realize what I had just said. And told her I was kidding. And drove us back to campus. Seems like it, bro. Next period, the guy sitting next to me was looking at me. And I thought he somehow knew what happened. I mean, like, I'm going to give this guy the benefit of the doubt. In terms of the realism of the story. And if it's real. But, like, this is definitely relatable. You know? Just staring at guys. And it's different, too. Like, when your brain is fully developed. And you're, you know, past 25. I feel like you're a little bit more capable of handling emotional stress. Being mature about how you, like, react to situations in general. Even not, you know, enhanced. So, like, it's not uncommon for, like, a guy who's just in his early 20s. You know, late teens. Who's, like, high T. Naturally, even. To just be, like, a little bit of a volatile character to begin with. And then, you know, you layer 600 tests. That's 150 Tren A on top of that. And it's, like, you know. What they say. It's, like, Tren or steroid. What is it even called? Roid rage? It's been so while since I made a video. Roid rage. It's not necessarily real. But, like, if you are a dick. It'll probably just make you, like, more of a dick. But Tren in particular. It could kind of, like, bring you from, like, neutral. To, like, slightly dick-ish. In general, it's just going to exacerbate, like, what you kind of already were. Um, but it's not uncommon for, you know, guys who are on their, not able to handle their shit. And just mentally probably shouldn't have been on these compounds to begin with. To, like, just see a guy looking at them. What they perceive to be wrong. And then making a big deal out of it. And a lot of these, like, you know, confrontations in the gym. Just from, like, a guy, you know, accidentally bumping into another guy. Or a guy even intentionally bumping into another guy. To, like, cause a problem. Because he's, like, looking for issues. Or just looking at a guy wrong for too long. You know, wrong. Uh, from across the gym. You know, like, beefs will get started out of, like, fucking thin air on this stuff. So, let's see. Next period. Sitting next to the guy. I thought he knew something. Knew what. Somehow knew what happened. I kept making mean faces at him. And after class, I told him, if you want to be a tough guy, let's take it outside and I'll fuck you up. He was shocked. And said he didn't want any trouble. I stormed off. And called Kayla to apologize. But she wouldn't answer. I was furious. I got home and thought about what happened. And realized I need to get off this stuff soon. But I wanted to finish my cycle. Yeah. I mean, like, how many of us had, like, you know, your 12-week course is mapped out. You have the exact, you know, vials ready to go. You don't want to have some residual, like, you know, half a vial left over at the end of it. Everything's mapped out perfectly. You absolutely want to finish that shit off, right? You know? That would be a disaster if you were to actually get off when you had side effects. Over the weekend, my nipples started hurting a ton and got scared of getting gyno. So I hopped off. That's the sign. You know, once you actually start seeing the cosmetic issues, that's when we get off. The crash was terrible. The next we get class. Kayla came over to me and I told her to fuck off. And we haven't spoke since. I found Derek's... Bro. D-E-R-E-K. What happened here? Like, I was just literally Derek a fucking second ago. And now I'm... My actual name? Weird. I found Derek's channel around this time and learned how stupid I was. And six months later, I started doing cycles of just tests with precautions, like keeping AI on hand and never had any major sides. Yeah. And by the way, that's a good approach. It's like, you know, you see a lot of content nowadays about like, you know, AIs are the devil. Storms are terrible. They shouldn't be on this stuff. Inhibiting estrogen is bad. Blah, blah, blah. It's good to have precautionary ancillaries on hand just in case. And if you're going to be doing stuff like this or like supra test or whatever, like there's a case to be made circumstantially when, you know, AIs are not, you know, totally useless or could be net positive. And, you know, same with serums and same with whatever. Not even including, you know, PCT practices and whatnot, which obviously, you know, is a whole nother animal and it's a whole separate discussion. But just even for the purposes of like an adjunct ancillary on cycle for management of sides, you know, similar to having even like a go-to, a tried and true antibiotic on hand or like, I don't know, fill in the blank, like break glass in case of emergency type compounds. It's worth having some of this stuff just in case. Let's see. So like keeping AI on hand, never had any major sides, never told Ali any of this. And I somehow never got gyna besides sensitive nips. Here we are a year later. My life is pretty normal. And looking back, I think about how stupid I was. I'm just glad I never seriously got hurt. Never seriously hurt any somebody in my rage fits. I have a few less interesting anecdotes from this time. I can share if anyone's interested. I mean, you guys telling me, do you want to hear more from account deleted? Do you want to hear more from that guy? I don't know if he's going to see this video, but if he does, it's a pretty good story, bro. My alarm just went off, but it's cool. We're going to keep going. I'm going to keep pushing. I'll fucking kill you, bitch. Oh, shit. Haha. Psyche. Just playing, baby. I'll take us back to class. Is this edited? I guess I don't know. Did I read that in the thing? If you want to be a tough guy, I'll take it. Where was that part? What? I looked up at her dash cam, lost my mind, ripped it off. Oh, told her I'd fucking kill her and just shut the fuck up. Oh, fucking. Okay. He did say that. My bad. Oh, shit. Haha. Just playing, baby. I'll take us back to class. Yep. Sounds like trend to me. The paranoia and roid rage combo trend gives you was a hell of a combo. I feel terrible about it, but I haven't spoke to her since. He really just glossed right over that. Told her I was kidding and drove us back. You threatened to kill her and she was something. LOL. The fact that fear of gyno was what made you hop off and not threatening some random guy or being a serial cheater is insane. You think that's insane. I mean, what did you expect? He thought more plates, more dates. Trenny thing is possible, I guess. You obviously don't know the psyche of a 19-year-old on trend, bro. For the first time, who shouldn't have been on it to begin with. When you're on trend, you don't think clearly enough, even though you think you are. To be honest, I thought my actions were rational in the moment, but looking back, I was a fucking psychopath. Yeah, like even when you, like I said, when you look back, even in like your early, your late teens, early 20s, how much stuff did you do that in hindsight, you're like, wow, I was an idiot. I can't believe I did that. I would never do that now. And that's just, you know, even naturally, let alone on gear. But I can imagine you guys who've been on gear are probably like, huh, like even worse, depending on the person, of course. I didn't mean to insult you. I've heard from a lot of guys that trend can make you crazy, even if you're fairly even-tempered. From the outside looking in, it sounds so crazy, though. Now you're completely right. I was fucking nuts. Yeah, and it's like, even if you're not like going off the handle, it definitely like can, for some people, whirl up a little bit of a storm in your mind, where you're kind of like, even if you're outwardly able to control what is happening, and you're still like reasonably in control, perceivably, in your head, you know, things are a little bit less. Rational, for sure. She asked me why my balls were fucking tiny now. Crying laughing face times five, bro. Do you know what's super whack? This, uh, the gifs on here. There used to be some sick gifs of, you know, me doing like classic facial expressions, and it would be like pretty easy to kind of indicate kind of like reactions to, you know, comments and stuff. I don't know what happened with Reddit, but apparently you're not allowed to do gifs anymore, or like whatever they're called. Screenshots of like a facial expression that are not just a typical emoji. I don't know why. Somebody must have done something really bad. If anyone knows what caused that, let me know, because I'm curious. Like it's not just my subreddit where it got canceled. It's like Reddit wide. Um, but yeah, laugh my fucking ass off. Thick. This guy's got a tag of thick. That's awesome. There really is no happy ending stories for trend users. Like the best it gets is I got huge, but was able to come out of it with my brain, body, and freedom somewhat intact. Convincing zoomer bodybuilders to genuinely believe that trend is a normal go-to steroid is one of the wildest psyops. I swear to God dipshits are running this by their third cycle and completely unaware of how that shit destroys your brain and potentially your life. People are dealing with side effects years after stopping and people can develop neurological side effects down the road long after their cycle. Yeah. And the tough thing about it is it's not like there's like an AB split test where you can see like how fucked up would you have been off it versus on it. You're kind of just like, well, did this weird thing in my life that happened while I was on it or after I came off of it, have anything to do with it or like, am I dumber now because of it? Is this happening in my life? This health issue because of that, you know, that I did. It's hard to know. And it's not like you're ever going to have a clinical study that like AB split tests, like, you know, neuronal cell death or something from trend versus off trend or whatever. So you're kind of just like, you got to go off anecdotes and like what, you know, this stuff to do based on the available literature and kind of like the patterns. And at this point, it's like, I feel like it's pretty well documented what you should kind of expect could happen. You can literally get like 80% of the results on trend just by running tests and dialing in your diet slash routine, maybe through and primo. If you're that throw in, I don't want to say through, if you're that desperate, if you're that desperate, that extra 20% is not going to seal the deal with any woman. And it comes at the cost of your long-term health. How do you kids come up with this shit? LOL. Reading other people's stories and being kind of shitty dudes in the first place. Typical, typical youth trend experience. I mean, yeah. And this guy's got a tag of trend at 14. So not unexpected. Hope your balls grow back. LOL. Thanks. Went back to normal size after PCT. Nice. Um, it's posts like this that convinced me to stay natty. I read the title. Seems legit. Craziest part of the story. When you chopped your nips off. Damn. I don't know if you guys saw the, uh, so this guy hopped off before getting gyna. There was actually a story though, where a guy, I think cut his nipple off. Correct me if I'm wrong. I actually don't even remember my own posts well enough to remember if that was a thing. I remember some guy tried to cut his nips for something. Did he literally cut his nipple off? I don't remember. I'd have to check. But anyway, that was a pretty good one. If this guy is willing to come back to the stage here and, uh, let us know of your other interesting anecdotes from this time. Um, I am sure people, I don't know. You guys tell me, are you interested? Drop it in the comments and, uh, hope you guys enjoyed it. We'll foray back into things on the, uh, the trend tales and, um, hopefully some, I don't know, mildly educational insight as to like why you may want to avoid it or what you should expect if you get on it. There's a lot more where that came from. I've got like a fucking thousand tabs open, bro. So hopefully you guys enjoyed it. Like, subscribe, check out my blog. I don't even post there. I don't know why I was about to say that. MorePlatesMoreDates.com, which I posted an article like three years ago. Um, social media platforms, Instagram. Snapchat, Twitter slash X, TikTok, Facebook. I don't know. Threads. What else am I on now? I'm on podcast platforms. If you want to do audio only Spotify, I think has a video though too now, which is sick. And that's it. If you want to support me, anything in the video description below, if you want to make sure you don't screw yourself up while you're on gear, check out America health.com. Make sure you get blood work before you ever get on gear. If that's something you were looking at doing, I would absolutely recommend a baseline panel and something that I wish I had. I'm sure many of you guys wish you had is seeing where things were at baseline. So then if you get on and then something goes awry, you can actually look back and see what went wrong and why. And also just see if you're somebody who can even tolerate this stuff to begin with. And, um, yeah, I mean, it's probably it. Talk to you guys soon. Bye.