 This is the epitome of sodium-bomb, D-baldex, f***ing out the wazoo, water retention city. Like this guy is absolutely a walking, hypertensive crisis. So guys, Derek, moreplacewardace.com. Today we are looking at a pretty dramatic, if not the most dramatic of the year, body, like muscle loss transformation. I've been sent this out the wazoo, so much so that it was, I felt worth making a video on. Dave Bautista has completely transformed. Most notably, I think, is coming from this shot the other day at some promo event for, what is this, TIFF, promoting one of his movies, presumably. And oh my God, does this guy look like he's downsized quite a bit. But also this outfit's not doing him any favors, let's be honest. Like this Gucci suit, you know, it looks a bit, uh, unbecoming, I guess, for a men's physique. He's got like this black Gucci blazer thing with a beater underneath and then like 17 puka shells underneath. Like it's just an odd choice. And it's certainly not very flattering for a guy who, you know, used to be 300 plus pounds and jacked out of his tree. It's just kind of an odd look. So he's looking a lot more slender, obviously. And then he has this like, uh, I don't know what you'd even call it. This, uh, much different look than is typical for him. So this is a before that people are showing. This is a 2017 and this is now. So pretty dramatic difference. And even more dramatic when you look at what he looked like, uh, back in his heyday. So this was, uh, peak Batista back in the, uh, wrestling days in his mid thirties. And now around 20 years later, he is, uh, he's here. So in the span of, you know, 20 years approximately, he's gone from this to around 10 years later ish, you know, give or take in his mid forties, he looks like this, which is still pretty yoked says, uh, trying to catch up to my man, the rock who's single-handedly bringing the jacked up action hero back to Hollywood back in 2013. Dwayne Johnson, attaboy, bad-ass training, diet, conditioning is all coming together. You're going to kill it. And then moving forward to 2017, you got this shot that we just saw. And then now looking like this. So this is actually, I guess a couple of years ago, or I don't know what year this was, but the same film festival, Toronto international film festival, exploding emoji head because he's so shocked. And he looks like this now in case anyone is worried. He said he was losing muscle mass on purpose so that he could go after different roles. I assume he's getting tired of only playing big brutes all the time. Should we be concerned about this became a lesbian as long as he is healthy and happy than shrug emoji. So he has said before, why he's downsizing. Um, this is not new. This is just like a new, like low, I would say for him. But anyways, this was his, uh, you know, years ago, he said this. Hey, I wanted to, you know, get smaller, blend in a little bit more, get away from that muscle bound. Look, it was hard for me to pick up roles, you know, and I didn't want to get type casted and muscle bound henchman, you know, bodyguard type, you know, I didn't want that. So that's the motivation supposedly for, uh, losing a bunch of size and ending up where he's at. But was it this, was it necessary to get this small and to dress like this? Like certainly not. Right. So, you know, a lot of people are commenting on it and expectedly. So it's, uh, you know, mostly the stark difference that is bringing all the attention. Like if this guy always looked like this, you know, not many people will be saying much, but the fact that he has fluctuated plus minus a hundred pounds, essentially over his career going from what was back in the day, you know, 1987 stepping on a physique stage seemingly. And then, uh, you know, bodybuilding 96, 2007 peaking in his wrestling heyday. And then 2011 starts to shrink down. We still jacked it up his tree. 2017 still shredded, but significantly smaller than he was in his peak, you know, 10 years prior. And then most recently, 2020, even a lot smaller. And then even moving forward to now, you know, some people don't even recognize the guy. So even as soon as last, as recent as last year, apparently he actually had to bulk up for another role and he got to over 300 pounds. But as you can see, the look is pretty rough. Like this is, if I've ever seen, you know, Michelin man, dbol moon face before, like this is it, bro. So, uh, he clearly, in my opinion, only likes to get this big transiently to play roles when he's forced to, but he is seemingly more mindful of health and longevity nowadays than perhaps others that are tangentially also trying to, I don't know, break into Hollywood and get these kind of, uh, I don't know, transition away from being the pro wrestler and being a Hollywood star, you know, following in the footsteps of the rock. Batista is one of those guys, but he has also been seemingly more responsible about the way he handles downsizing, getting into his older age. Cause at the end of the day, you can only hold this size for so long before it's, you know, you're going to get fucked over. It's, uh, not necessarily a sustainable look to be walking around like this the rest of your whole life. The problem is, is people hold you to this standard. Once you look like this. And then anytime you show up looking like a lesser version of this, you know, you will get compared to that benchmark, which is kind of absurd given how biology works and you know, the sustainment of supra amounts of tissue is simply impossible. Not just via the aging process itself. Even if you're on the same drugs, it would be quite difficult to maintain this in perpetuity, actually impossible. But then in addition, like you will almost certainly die trying to do it. Like you can only sustain this for so long before things go south. And I think he's fully aware of that and less willing to take risks than, like I said, some of his, uh, you know, colleagues, uh, most notably, probably the rock who is like not afraid of pushing the envelope even into his fifties. The guy has not attempted to downsize whatsoever. In fact, he has probably pushed it harder, which is kind of crazy. But anyways, uh, more recently, Dave did a interview with Chris Van Villay on his recent weight loss and kind of touched on, you know, this dramatic before and after. Getting super trim. This is probably the lightest I've been since I was 19 years old. What was the biggest you were at at like Deacon, Batista, Leviathan? What was the absolute biggest? The heaviest I've ever been was 370 pounds. When I started Deacon, I was about 325 pounds. And throughout most of my wrestling career, I was about 290 pounds. What do you know? No, I'm about 240 pounds. Wow. It's funny. Some of those stats, it's like, uh, the WWE inflates stats from what I've seen. And I remember I did a video on Batista years ago and I think the WWE had a build at like six, six or six, eight. And he weighed like fucking 380 pounds or something insane. Uh, meanwhile, the guy's walking around in the high 200s, which is probably what we all suspected. And he's closer to six foot two, but it's, uh, this, these are still big body weights, obviously to be, uh, sustaining in perpetuity, being a lean high 200s, not really conducive to living a long life ultimately. And I think he's fully aware of that. Well done. Is this Gucci again, bro? This guy can't get away from it. Just a year and a half ago for a knock at the cabin, I went up to 315 pounds. What do you want to get? And that's when the nightmare started. So he's mentioning here when he, he had to get up to over 300 pounds for a roll recently, which in your fifties, not the smartest move. All but if you are offered a roll and you got to make it work, I guess you do. And he clearly pushed it. Like we, I showed this earlier, but like, holy shit, dude, like this is the epitome of sodium bombed dbol deck of test, fucking out the wazoo water retention city. Like this guy is absolutely a walking hypertensive crisis. Like this is wild that he had to bulk up this much for that role. Um, and I'm sure he was just, uh, itching to strip the weight back off because there's no way he felt healthy walking around like this, especially getting up to there. If you've been walking around like this for years, having to then jump up to three 15 in your fifties, Oh my God would suck a caption. So I was trying to take a solid pick of myself to document my transition to fatty status, which will soon come to an end. Thank God upon inspection of this pick, I noticed a few issues. Let's start with the obvious. You can see my balls. Why did you post it? Apparently I brush my teeth in a way that toothpaste flies all over the bathroom. I'll have to work on that. And three, I have officially turned into the grouchy emoji. Anyway, I hope everyone out there isn't taking themselves too seriously. Life's too short. Happy Sunday. All right. So that's the pick you want to post is acknowledging balls fucking showing and a dirty mirror. Interesting. Anyways. So back to the interview, he mentions how he bulked up for that role. He got up to three 15 and then, uh, had to strip it off after, but this is seemingly something that, uh, deeper into older age actors are trying to maintain roles that essentially require them to be saucing it up at ages that would, that are much higher risk than, I don't know, decades prior. Like the envelope is being pushed in the ages where actors are like playing the action star role still. And it's not uncommon to see guys, you know, in the pinnacle of their careers in their mid forties and even into their fifties. Now clearly getting on the Sazul and pushing things just to be like, you know, the villain or, you know, the main hero or the, you know, the whatever. And it's kind of wild because if you're offered that role and it's such a, you know, monumental pivotal moment into in your career, you've been waiting for this, you know, for your whole life and working towards something amazing, you can understand why he might make the call to do it, you know, with guys like the rock though. And it just makes you wonder like at what age is going to be the age at which these guys just have to call it quits. Cause I feel like somebody is going to be like the shining example here of, okay, you know, this is the age at which shit starts to go South, even for the most carefully monitored, healthy, rigorously evaluated, uh, Hollywood stars that are still trying to push the envelope here. Cause you know, we guys like the rock, even Alan Richson now in his forties, you know, all of a sudden saucing it up for a roles like a Reacher and, you know, fast and furious roles and stuff. You've got a Dave Bautista still pushing the envelope in his fifties, all but seemingly more responsibly cause he doesn't hold it between roles, I guess. Uh, or at least for years in a row, he is typically much smaller, even Mike O'Hearn. Like he's not, you know, an A-list actor or something, but I mean, the guy is another shining example of mid fifties, I think, and not showing any signs of trying to slow down. So I don't know. I'm, uh, I'm interested to see how far human performance can be stretched because these guys are, uh, really trying to push it and their luck is, uh, you know, how far will it go? Getting that off was, has been a challenge. Yeah. Yeah. I think I teach a lot of fun food, I'm sure. Yeah. Yeah. But now I'm pretty, um, really particular about my diet. So it looks like Dave has, uh, you know, officially re-downsized from his, uh, you know, peak for the movie that he was prepping for last year. And I don't know, I'm wondering if he gets a call again, you know, play a Drax or, uh, hopefully that's the name of the role in guardians of the galaxy or play some other big behemoth character. Like, is he going to just crank it up again? Is he going to do that into his sixties? Like where are we going to see the line drawn? I feel like worth touching on. This was actually a really relevant conversation I had recently with Dorian Yates, who is, I think one of the best examples of an individual who did not let his identity get defined by his math monster status. So despite his entire life being bodybuilding centric, he was the pinnacle of the sport, literally the best bodybuilder on the planet. He knew that it was not sustainable in perpetuity. And he saw the writing on the wall and not only sacrifice more years of his career in order to, you know, preserve lifespan. But in addition, in addition to that was, uh, able to emotionally deal with the fact that despite people seeing him as this larger than life, you know, mass monster bodybuilder, who's, you know, the pinnacle of the sport, he was willing to lose literally like a hundred pounds and be content with it. Despite looking like a much smaller human compared to what everyone, you know, aspired to be like, and, you know, cheered for from the stands and whatnot. Like for bodybuilders, especially, I think it's the absolute pinnacle example of, are you going to be able to mentally deal with the pivot in your identity? And I do wonder if guys like The Rock will follow suit. Cause at some points, like how much money is enough for you? Like, what are you trying to do here? They haven't already accomplished that you need to keep pushing into your fifties. Are you not, is the risk to reward, not leaning in the other direction at this point to where maybe you should, you know, chill out and, or just, you know, downsize completely in order to avoid what may be otherwise an early demise. So this is what Dorian had to say on the topic. And I thought it was pretty relevant and insightful. Cause if there's anyone to give insight into this specific, uh, issue, you know, how far can you really push things? I think this is, uh, enlightening. Yeah. And losing the amount of the amount of tissue required metabolically demanding tissue to support like that's stressful on the body. That's what I felt that. And I felt this is excess to my needs. If I'm keeping it, it's only for my ego. So I'm just, and I, it seemed like everyone else was more like upset about it than I was. I can't believe it. Like it's getting skinny. And this is Mr. Olympian, you know, the mass monster. And I'm like, I'm doing what I feel I need to do right now. And that's what I need to do. Yeah. I think if you tried to keep it all, you almost, there's a high likelihood you might not be here today. So here's the thing. I started to say this thing now, cause it came out once at a seminar and I'm like, you know, all your young guys asking me about, you know, Hey, you're not as big as before. No, you miss it. And all that stuff. I got a question for you. How many 300 pound guys do you know at 70 years old? Anyone know a 300 pounds, seven year old guy, put your hand up, no hands, right? That's why. So I thought that was pretty interesting. And I do often refer to Dorian as the example of somebody who had the mental fortitude to actually, you know, make it through that transition period from being the mass monster to being, you know, regular athletic, healthy guy and not letting it, you know, the size and the muscle and the steroids and all that dictate how you live your life and how much you're willing to sacrifice it in order to appease the, you know, look that people expect you to have. Fortunately for the majority of people, it's not really a, as much of a decision-making process when it comes to that. Cause most of us do not weigh, you know, 300 plus pounds, but you know, there is some in between, even where a lot of people in the fitness industry are pushing the envelope in terms of size that they've gained and it is only sustainable through super amounts of hormones that they're using. And often the personas and, uh, social media brands they built online are heavily dependent on it. I, uh, watch with great interest as the rock and, you know, guys like Dave continue to get older and seemingly continue to pump out these, uh, superstar action hero roles where they do not look smaller really at all. You know, with Dave, a bit of a different story, but you know, Dwayne other guys in their forties and pushing into their fifties and, you know, maybe we'll see the human performance get stretched to a limit. We never thought possible with modern technology. And you see guys in their seventies still pushing the mass. I'm just doubtful of it, but we'll see. So anyways, let me know what you guys think. Comments. I'll help the algorithm much appreciated. Like subscribe, check out my blog, replace more dates.com. Follow me, Instagram, I have our plates, more dates, Facebook, Snapchat, Twitter, TikTok, Apple podcasts, Spotify. If you want to support the channel, you can check out anything I'm associated with in the video description below. I think that's it. Still a little rusty on my outro here. Um, I'll get a clean up on the next one, uh, getting back into the grind of regular videos here. So anyways, uh, thank you guys for watching. Talk to you soon.