 d converter肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al肥al a day or something like that. It's not much, but your muscle's consuming that all. Your muscle's greedy because creatine is, as you know very well, it's stored as creatine phosphate, and that is essentially a precursor needed to make energy, right? So it's important for energy production. And now we know there's other roles as well that are indirect and separate from energy production. It seems to have an anti-inflammatory effect as well. Not quite sure how that works. It's interesting stuff. But what we do know is that if you are taking creatine exogenously, if you're supplementing with it, essentially it does matter by weight. You're talking about the weight, you know, gram per weight. But let's just say five grams a day seems to be the sweet spot for muscle, mostly speaking, I would say. Generally speaking, your muscles are saturated after about a month or so of consuming five grams a day. And once your muscles are saturated and happy, any spillover, anything that's left can spill over to the brain. Your brain also makes a small amount of creatine itself, but muscles are greedy and consume anything that you're orally consuming. And so after the five grams, if you go up to 10 grams a day, then we're talking about maybe getting some brain benefits. And that's what studies have shown in terms of improving cognitive function. You start to get that more at 10 grams. 10 grams a day, you can see increases in creatine levels in certain brain regions in human studies. And then going even beyond that, it seems as though creatine supplementation seems to work well in situations when there's a stress component in the brain. And that stress can be a variety of different factors. It can be sleep deprivation. It can be psychological stress. It can be my everyday life, which is cognitively demanding, reading studies, analyzing them, writing about them, right? Like that is a stress. How much creatine did you take today? Today I took 15 grams. Okay. Light day. Huh? Light day. Yeah, because... For traveling. Traveling. Yeah, it is. I usually like, so typically I do 10 grams a day. That's my baseline. I used to do five grams a day. And then as this literature started to progress, I had Darren Kando on my podcast. He was talking about some of his research. I became convinced that 10 grams is what's needed for brain benefits. And so I got myself and my family, including my mom, on 10 grams a day. So she's tossing the powder? She is. Wow. Yeah. She's putting it in her coffee. Okay. And so 10 grams a day is usually what I do. Now, sleep deprivation, you know, there are some, there's some evidence out there. Again, creatine works well under a stressful situation for the brain. And sleep deprivation is like probably the prime example of that, right? Giving people 20 to 25 grams, depending on their body weight, seemed to attenuate 21 hours, was it? Yeah, a full night of sleep deprivation, essentially. So not only did it attenuate the cognitive deficits of sleep deprivation, it also seemed to bring their baseline up higher, like they were functioning better than normal if they weren't sleep deprived. Yeah. And there's other studies out there showing, again, that it's in the background of some kind of stress, like an all nighter or an exam or something. Creatine supplementation seems to improve cognition in that respect. I have personally been doing it. Today I did 15 grams only because I had all my travel packets and then I had to give one to my mom and then I had to give one to my husband. And anyways, I was like, you know, aliquoting them out. I typically do like 20 grams when I travel. I wasn't really sleep deprived last night. So, but this podcast, doing podcasts is kind of a, you know, a stressful thing on the brain. It's long duration, right? So I like to dose up in those instances. And the other thing I've noticed, just going up from five to 10, so I was doing five grams a day when I started lifting. I noticed that the 10 grams a day really took away the afternoon sleepiness. Oh yeah. I mean, it was like, it's pretty night and day because when I forget my creatine and I don't have it or I go down just to five grams, I get sleepier again during the afternoon. So, um, kind of, not super sleepy, but I just feel a little bit like, you know, a little more fatigued. Whereas like, if I have that creatine, I'm like, it's like some sort of mental endurance. So it'd be like a local energy, either sustainment or enhancement segregated from anything to do with glucose management. It's like literally you're, if it's doing what you're perceiving it to be doing, presumably it's like its own fuel source. It's not just like handling glucose better or something. I don't really know. It could be that. It could be anti-inflammatory stuff. I don't really know. Now I do, I do think that, you know, it has to be like, there have been studies where like, if you're, there's no stressful situation, it doesn't seem to, it's not like a nootropic, right? It's not working like a normal, like caffeine. I know some people who can't get to sleep if they take it too late in the day. I've heard about that. I, I typically take all my creatine before noon. Yeah. I think maybe that's kind of like you're getting the perfect sweet spot if you're getting that afternoon slump without it bleeding into your, at least that's what I'd speculate. Yeah. Same, same, same. I mean, I've, I've had a lot of people comment on like, oh, it's, it makes, I'm like, I can't sleep as well. Or I've also had friends tell me that they don't seem to require as much sleep. And they're like, I have like this energy that I haven't had and I don't need as much sleep. Like, and that's another big thing that I hear as well, which is kind of interesting. I don't, you know, again, creatine is important for energy production. The biggest, I have a couple of like vegan, almost vegan friends and it's like changed their lives. I mean, like, they're just like, I can't even tell you how much has changed my life, but you imagine, you know, creatine is found in muscle meat. Right. And so if you are a vegetarian or vegan, there's very little creatine in plants. I mean, just very little. And so you're really relying on just a tiny amount of it. And if you add exercise on top of that, like I've got vegan athlete friends and they're now taking 10 grams a day and it's life changing for them. Like it's really just their energy, their mental performance, you know, much better. I can't even imagine the incremental jump in just everything. If you were a vegan who had an MTHFR polymorphism and then you went from literally never having creatine in your body essentially, because you're just burning through it nonstop to like being fully like topped out. Yeah. For people listening who are like, what is Derek talking about? So creatine, and I haven't heard many people talk, I haven't heard anyone talk about this actually, except for me, but creatine is big. It's like a sink for methylation because our body, you need methylation to make creatine. And so about 40% of methylation groups that are formed go to make creatine because energy is very important, right? So our body's like, this is important. Methylation is going to this. And so all the other things that need methylation kind of don't, you know, 40% is going to creatine. There's only so much left, right? 60% left. And so when your body, when you give yourself exogenous creatine, supplemental creatine, you are alleviating some of that burden and your body now can shift the methylation to other processes as well. And that also becomes very important. Like some people have been able to lower their homocysteine by supplementing with creatine, right? It's not, there's not a huge amount of literature on that, but that is, that is something that at least is, has been shown in some studies as well. Yeah. I think there was one where somebody who is homozygous C677T supplemented with creatine and normalized their homocysteine from what was otherwise clinically high just by that. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. It's interesting because most people don't talk about that. And even like creatine researchers are like, really? Like no one's looking at it, you know? And so it's, it's like a whole open field. And I think the creatine field is exploding now. And so there, we're going to start to see a lot more interesting evidence come out with respect to creatine. But I do think it's one of those, it's not just a Jim Bro supplement. And there's been a lot of, I know women at least concerned about water weight gain. And it's like, look, like maybe two pounds if you're like doing the dose that I'm doing. Like it's not even. And it's intramuscular. It's like, it looks good and voluminous. It's not like it's like subcutaneous or makes you look like fat. Right. At least it shouldn't. Yeah. You know, some people might perceive any weight gain as bad, but like in general, if you're, you know, reasonably lean and like, you know, or training and everything, like you're good, it's, it's going to the right spot regardless. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.