Here are a few examples. Aziz Shaverian, he died at the age of 22 in 2011 to a heart attack. Rich Piana died at age 46 in 2017 after collapsing at his home and falling into a coma. Dallas Macccarver died at age 26 in 2017 from sudden cardiac arrest. Marola Sabanovich Suarez died at age 43 in 2019 to heart attack. Daniel Alexander died at age 30 in 2019 to unknown causes. So what are the main reasons why these people die so young? What's up guys? Derek moreates.com. Today we're going to be reacting to a video by Sim Land. Why do bodybuilders die young? Does bodybuilding speed up aging? So obviously there is no other sport really that it comes to mind anyways where the athletes in question are dying in their 40s let alone you know 30s and 20s. It's just baffling [\h__\h] Now obviously these two individuals who are on in the thumbnail aren't you know like professional like you know bodybuilders necessarily. Rispiana was a you know I don't know national level competitor. Uh Z's never competed as far as I know. Um but they both um experience very very um short lifespans unfortunately as potentially a result of their genetic predisposition coupled with their choice of u performance-enhancing drugs and or recreational drugs. So, that's kind of what we're going to be getting into here. And I'm sure whatever Seam has to say will likely have some practical takeaways from it and something I can comment on further to kind of, I don't know, further the harm reduction conversation around peed use. You know, every once in a while you hear from the news that like this bodybuilder, they died suddenly to like this cardiovascular disease or a heart attack. And it happens quite often like you can you know get these cases at least a few times a year. It's almost like clockwork and it's almost always heart disease or kidney failure is becoming more and more common or at least more prevalently wellnown but it's in general heart related from what I've seen. Going to talk about why do bodybuilders die young. If you're new here then make sure you click like and subscribe as well. I make videos about just the biohacking health and the performance. Do it. Like I said, there's been quite a lot of these bodybuilders or fitness people, physique athletes who just suddenly died to various conditions. Here are a few examples. Aziz Shaverian, he died at the age of 22 in 2011 to a heart attack. Rich Piana died at age 46 in 2017 after collapsing at his home and falling into a coma. Okay. So, both of these individuals, as far as I know, there was an underlying genetic, you know, predisposition plus recreational drug use on top of their anabolic exposure. So, you know, is it correct to blame the gear? Is it correct to blame, you know, the excessive amounts of muscle? Like, obviously with Z's, it's not like he was [\h__\h] massive to be honest. Rich Piana, you would expect to be honest that that individual would not make it past 60 probably, even if he had, you know, wasn't too haphazard with his use of stimulants and [\h__\h] like that. I wouldn't expect a guy who walked around holding that much tissue to last that long. Like, it simply is not uh conducive to longevity to have your heart needing to support that much tissue, obviously. So anyways, as far as what happened to these guys specifically, you know, I think everyone can kind of get on board with the fact that there was likely something related to cardiac remodeling in there, something to do with actual heart function. Um, and like obviously there's an actual autopsy report for Rich Piana, which you can actually go look at yourself. As far as I know, if I recall correctly, maybe that might be Macarver, but I'm pretty sure Piana had one as well. And both of them, it was heart related. Dallas Macccarver died at age 26 in 2017 from sudden cardiac arrest. Marola Sabanovich Suarez died at age 43 in 2019 to heart attack. Daniel Alexander died at age 30 in 2019 to unknown causes. So what are the main reasons why these people die so young? Number one, steroid use. Almost all of the bodybuilders you hear about dying were using steroids. It's known that long-term use of anabolic steroids, impairs cardiac function, promotes poor lipid profile, raises blood pressure, and makes the heart grow in size. Yeah. So, left ventricular hypertrophy, one of the main issues, as well as just overall cardiac remodeling. So, this is where intervening with something like angotensin receptor blockade is such a critical thing to look at as a um aspiring bodybuilder. If that you're somebody who's going to be experimenting with anabolics, even not necessarily even stepping on stage, it would be prudent to look at any kind of way you can pre prevent the damage to your heart, your kidneys when you are exposing yourself to these kind of drugs. And obviously the main frontline thing to be doing is making sure your blood pressure is in check, you're properly hydrated, blah blah blah. But in addition to that, there is going to be direct stimulation of heart growth, you know, cardiac remodeling and organ stress in general when you're exposing yourself to super physiological doses of anabolics, especially these synthetic ones, like not bio identical tea or anything like that. And um finding ways to kind of manage that as best as you can would be a probably a smart approach and something to talk about your doctor with. if this is a lifestyle pattern that you wish to be following long term. And I'll let him finish what he's saying here before I get kind of into the specific modalities that I feel are most warranted for bodybuilders to be looking into. Using steroids also enlarges the organs like the heart because it's a muscle. This puts additional stress on the cardiovascular system because the heart has to keep working harder. Having more muscle tissue itself requires more cardiac output. Now there's probably some difference between medical testosterone replacement therapy or actually using these high amounts of anaboo steroids in large quantities which then just leads to this uh you know cardiac dysfunction. Good spot to pause it on. Um yeah definitely big difference between super physiological hormone use and actual therapeutic replacement. um like you would think the amount of anogenic signaling coming from hormone replacement would be identical to that of indogenous production if you're doing everything right. Now obviously there is the circumstance in which you have chronically elevated androgens even if it's on paper equivalent to natural endogenous production. You have a chronic bleed 24/7 of a esesterbound compound essentially. Um whereas normally your indogenous production is very pulsatile in nature. So even just by exposing yourself to exogenous TRT, you are actually getting more perpetual end androgenic signaling than you would otherwise get via indogenous pulsations. However, that doesn't necessarily mean it's, you know, going to [\h__\h] up your heart and it's unhealthy. But, you know, I think it's pretty safe to assume that using more than your body can naturally produce is going to lead to, you know, negative ramifications and or at least put you in the direction of them. So at super physiological doses like yeah you can expect cardiac remodeling left ventricular hypertrophy um potential for increased blood pressure all the stuff that comes along with this decreased kidney function at an accelerated rate um liver stress depending on what you're using and exposing yourself to etc. There are also other compounds bodybuilders use besides steroids like insulin, growth hormone, diuretics, etc. that can all be equally dangerous if you abuse them. For example, injecting too much insulin can cause severe hypoglycemia and death. It's also quite common for some people to attempt suicide or succeed in using insulin and other diabetic medications. Diuretics that make your body excrete water and appear to look leaner can also lead to severe dehydration and organ failure. Number two, hey, it's definitely right on uh like as far as something that's going to instantly kill you. I would say the most dangerous of all those things is the diuretics and guys trying to really become like bone dry peeled before a show and overdoing it with [\h__\h] that puts their kidneys in harm's way and whatnot. Pre-existing conditions. Some people have either bad genetics for heart disease or they have some other pre-existing condition. For example, Aziz Shaverian had an undiagnosed congenital heart defect since his birth. He also had high blood pressure and he died to a heart attack while taking a sauna. Dallas Mccor had aoscerosis and cardium when he died from his previous history of disabia. Yeah, for Aziz you know there's the congenital heart defect um with Dallas though it was kind of interesting because he had such severe plaque buildup you know presumably from his I guess an inflammatory diet model with all of the uh especially the copious amounts of food in general. But that is again a lot of it is genetically determined. So for example, if you have apol lipoprotein e polymorphisms, there could be well depending on which one you have, there could be a much higher likelihood for developing heart disease or Alzheimer's or a bunch of different things that will interplay with your genetics will be determined ultimately by if you have, you know, properly functioning genes that encode for certain enzymes and functional things that are potentially not nonfunctional other in other individuals. You know, in rare cases, certain individuals are more predisposed to certain kind of diseases and suboptimal, you know, quality of life states simply due to the fact that they have certain polymorphisms that the I don't know general healthy population does not have to deal with. And it can put you in a very compromised position where you will not respond well in a health context to anabolics. say for Dallas, you know, it seems like I would speculate that he probably had certain genetic polymorphisms that then dictated that he developed such severe atherosclerosis so quickly because it's not very often you see such problematic dysipidemia in young individuals, even guys who were using [\h__\h] tons of steroids at like 26, would you expect to see them have like severe plaque buildup? Like not really. Like you would expect that the individual would eventually get there. You know, even the genetically superior individuals, you can only get away with blasting [\h__\h] for so long. And you will have probably low HDL. You're probably going to have um suboptimal lipid panel. You're probably going to have a bunch of [\h__\h] that's [\h__\h] up when you're blasting. That's very, very, you know, difficult to avoid. But in general, most individuals are going to be able to intervene and, you know, minimize that and or not be so susceptible that you end up having a clogged artery, you know, in your late 20s. So for Dallas, it definitely played into it. There was genetics involved 100%. Even though you can pretty much speculate like what, you know, pushed everything to where it's at, but you have to consider too it is also genetic predisposition. and you know the copious amounts of food he needed to eat to maintain his weight, his choices in food and his genetic response to that food in general cuz some individuals would have no problem with it. But for him, you know, he's causing severe inflammation apparently, you know, causing plaque buildup, etc. And um it becomes problematic in that certain individuals probably should never be bodybuilding to begin with based on what their body can withstand. So it would almost be prudent to be getting genetic analysis before you pursue, you know, a career as a aspiring pro bodybuilder because you may be somebody who has, you know, genetic predispositions that make it impossible for you to stay healthy while you use this [\h__\h] So your genetics and the past medical history is going to greatly determine how your body reacts to steroids. And if you have, you know, bad biomarkers or you have bad genetics for heart heart disease or heart failure, then you're increasing your risk of getting those diseases or sudden heart attack just because of you're at a higher risk already. This is a good thing to remember when you're not taking steroids or doing bodybuilding because otherwise you're just shooting blanks into the dark. Your genetics will greatly determine whether a highsaturated fat diet is going to increase your risk of Alzheimer's or heart disease regardless of you're taking steroids or not. Yeah. even the choices in, you know, what kind of foods you allocate your macros to on a daily basis, that kind of thing should be at least partially determined through genetic analysis. In my opinion, if you really wanted to be ideal um in terms of, you know, longevity-minded bodybuilding outcomes, I would definitely be choosing things based around your uh individual needs. And it's not like you know what those are necessarily. You might have to dig a bit. And for example, by analyzing your genome, you can find certain trends that are consistent with what kind of foods your ancestors would thrive on versus, you know, you you can kind of extrapolate that back and design a diet model that is most conducive to you performing and at your best and being the most healthy you can possibly be. So, you know, again though, if somebody like Dallas who's predisposised to, you know, what he was, is, you know, tweaking his diet a little bit going to allow him to get away with grams of [\h__\h] and not have this inflammatory cascade? Like, no. Obviously, the guy like certain individuals are kind of just [\h__\h] And again, this goes back to genetics again because genetics and bodybuilding is not just about your genetic response to drugs and how well you build muscle. It's also your genetic tolerance to drug exposure and staying healthy because ultimately you're not going to be able to compete at a high level at all if you're constantly getting sidelined by health issues and or you know obviously if you are uh have your life prematurely taken from you because you've accelerated it you know x amount of years um certain individuals just probably should not be bodybuilding to be honest. So everyone shouldn't have the same diet protocol and everyone should know their genetics. So I think that genetics and uh the steroids are probably the biggest reasons why these bodybuilders die prematurely. Wait a minute. But this doesn't apply to only bodybuilders. Other athletes like professional wrestlers and football players also have a significantly higher rate of mortality and cardiovascular disease. Probably because of the same reasons, drugs, genetics, and maybe the chronic overtraining at high intensities. Yeah. So, like for example, wrestling, you know, we have uh I forget when the Ultimate Warrior passed, but certain individuals who were like obviously cranking pretty hard ended up passing um earlier than they would have probably otherwise. And it's quite unfortunate that these compounds that everyone, you know, is basically forced to use, they're so not favorable in terms of a longevity aspect. Now again, obviously you can intelligently deploy them in a way that will allow you to get away with it for much longer and or potentially be unscathed entirely. But for a lot of individuals, you know, they don't have perfect interpretation of cycle design. They don't have perfect interpretation of how to eat properly, how to exercise, etc. And they end up in this position, you know, decades later after abusing the [\h__\h] of compounds. I think that the average person when they hear about another bodybuilder dying then they immediately of course they associate it with steroid use but they also tend to think that the resistance training and muscle building itself is dangerous to your health and that if you build muscle then you're increasing your risk of getting heart attacks. [\h__\h] Now the problem is that you know the bodybuilders professional bodybuilders and fitness competitors they tend to take things to the extreme and of course you know most people are never going to reach that you like the average person is never going to build that much muscle uh to reach this dangerous threshold. It's only the steroid use and the drugs and of course the genetics that going to allow these people to build that much mass in the first place. Yeah. Well in addition to that not necessarily. It's also the copious amounts of food. So even if you're eating high volume of nutritious food by sheer volume exceeding what a normal person should probably be eating um to support that kind of ridiculous amounts of tissue that is even allowed to be realized via the use of anabolics. The diet model is what is going to allow you to pack on the size and become this uncomfortably unhealthy body weight that you're not going to get to 300 with as however many steroids you want. you're not gonna get to 300 if you're not cranking the [\h__\h] food. So, you know, it's definitely a lot of it is the gear, but a lot of it is the sheer body weight and the sheer amount of um nutrition these guys are, you know, taking in on a daily basis. Having more muscle and strength is actually a very beneficial thing for healthy aging and longevity. It's going to make it easier to lose weight, prevent metabolic syndrome, protect against new degeneration, and so much more. This becomes increasingly more important the older you get. After the age of 30, aging is characterized by a progressive decrease in skeletal muscle. This process is called sarcopenia and it can happen at a rate of 3 to 8% per decade. From the age of 40, lean tissue and strength get reduced by about 1% per year. There's a lot of research suggesting that muscular strength is inversely and independently associated with all cause mortality. A 2016 paper found that amongst a large cohort of 65 and older, mortality rates were significantly lower in individuals who did regular strength training. Basically, more muscle and strength reduces your chances of dying and can increase your lifespan, especially in older people. Having an excess amount of muscle like professional bodybuilders can be unhealthy because of heart enlargement. The additional burden on the cardiovascular system and having to eat such a large amount of food to first build and maintain that mass. At that point, you will probably need to take anabolic steroids or some drugs to get there in the first place. So, that's why regular people who aren't on drugs shouldn't be afraid of recreational natural bodybuilding and doing some strength training. Another thing that could shorten the lifespans of bodybuilders is excess protein and calorie consumption. It's quite known in at least animal studies and cell studies that eating less protein and specifically less of methionine, the amino acid, can increase lifespan and slow down aging. The increased lifespan seen in methanine restriction is considered to be caused by the down reggulation of anabolic pathways like IGF-1, mTor and insulin. Overexpression of mTor and IGF-1 is often related to various cancers. Most of the animal protein like eggs, meat, and chicken are high in methionine, which is what bodybuilders eat the majority of time. It might be that the super high protein diet can improve your body composition by promoting muscle growth and helping with weight loss. But at some point it's also going to overburden the kidneys and over stimulate mTor which may accelerate aging or promote the development of malignancies. You can't really avoid methane fully because it's found in basically almost all foods. And if you do kind of restrict it all the time then you may just you start to lose muscle mass. You may develop sarcopenia and your body's antioxidant defense systems are also weaker because methane is needed for producing things like glutathione. Awesome. I love protein. It's been found that low protein intake reduces IGF-1 levels and incidence of cancer in 65 and younger, but not older people. However, both high as well as low levels of IGF-1 are associated with cancer mortality in older men. In fact, a meta analysis of 12 studies with over 14,000 participants found that people with low IGF-1 were at a 1.27 risk of dying than those with higher levels were at a 1.18 risk. Lower levels of IGF-1 may be actually more detrimental as you age, as you'll be more predisposed to muscle loss and bone fractures. Yeah. So, this is one of the biggest misconceptions I see about GH is it's often touted to be the anti-aging, you know, youth serum. This is the fountain of youth in a bottle, blah blah blah. What a lot of people don't realize that this is literally the mechanism of action by which your body starts to fall apart quicker is exposing yourself to high amounts of systemic IGF-1. So, if you're using a decent amount of GH, you end up spiking your IGF-1 into, I don't know, 500sish. and your cells can only split so many times before you're essentially at the end of the line. Do you want to expedite that process? Do you want to accelerate things? Do you want to be chronically stimulating mTor? Like, obviously, if you're trying to grow, this [\h__\h] is important. However, in a longevity-minded individual, you know, having chronically elevated IGF-1 is going to lead to years off your life, you know, so maybe you have some youthful features from the GH and but at the same time, you could, you know, cut a few years off at the same time. Now, again though, at reasonable dosages, is this going to be that problematic? No, it's not going to be that problematic. But in general, I think it's very misunderstood how potent of an impact GH IGF-1 axis has on um cardiovascular health, too. Like, if you're abusing GH at the wazoo, but you're not using that much gear, do you think your heart's going to get away unscathed? Like, no. It's still going to be potentially [\h__\h] up if you're using HGH on a regular basis. And downstream to that, you know, converting that IGF-1 in the liver and causing, you know, cell, you know, cell splitting essentially. So going on a low protein diet, it may reduce your IGF-1 levels, but it can also increase your risk of osteoporosis, muscle loss, and just frailty. On the other hand, if your IGF-1 levels are too high because of, you know, taking anabolic steroids, injecting IGF-1, or just, you know, eating too much protein, that can also promote the development of some malignancies or some aging. Disappointed. So, here are some of the main takeaways of doing some bodybuilding without dying. Keep doing resistance training. Staying physically active and functionally fit is probably one of the best things you can do for anti-aging longevity. You shouldn't be afraid of building muscle either because unless you're taking anabolic steroids, you're never going to build that much mass that it gets dangerous. Get a DNA test. It's highly recommended to take some sort of a genetic test to see what genetic risk factors you have for not only heart disease, but any other co-orbidity like cancer or diabetes. Eat sufficient amounts of protein. A higher protein diet is still safe and not unhealthy if you stay metabolically healthy and you're not eating a crazy amount. Research finds there is no additional muscle building benefits to eating above 0.8 g per pound of body weight. the most you make it is like 1.2 or 1.5 grams per pound. Okay, so obviously this is in the context of natural individuals. Are we talking about enhanced guys? Because presumably this video is about enhanced bodybuilders or enhanced, you know, recreational bodybuilders and whatnot. So like does this rule from the research factor in super physiological hormone use? Not necessarily. So sometimes these stats of oh you only need 1 point you know 0.8 8 g per pound. Like, is that directly relevant to a guy blasting grams of [\h__\h] Like, I don't know. But no need for more. And lastly, do time rest or eating. Intermittent fasting and eating less often is the most effective way to lower IGF-1 and mTor. It's probably more effective than methane restriction because instead of stimulating mtor five to six times a day, you do it only two to three times. In conclusion, building muscle and strength training is one of the best things for your health, especially healthy aging. But of course, if you take it to the extreme, then it can certainly be unhealthy and dangerous to you. Unless you're taking steroids, then you probably don't have anything to worry about and you should still keep keep yourself physically active and lift weights. Okay. So, anyways, as far as why bodybuilders are dying, yeah, I think we can attribute it a lot to the in my opinion, the sheer body weights of the individuals in question are going to be the, you know, one of the number one risk factors, if not the number one. Things like unadressed sleep apnea, a very common thing among bodybuilders. And you know, even recreational gym rats that are just kind of big. Anybody with a reasonably high body weight is likely, you know, obviously you should check this. You know, you can get a sleep study done and find out, but anyone h with a big neck, you know, the likelihood is high that you're going to encounter some sort of inhibition of your airway airway while sleeping and you may end up with uh some sleep apnea. And I know individuals who have literally foregone, is that the word? Forgoed the uh I don't know opportunity to use the CPAT machine. Instead, they you know thought it was uncomfortable, thought it was a hassle, thought whatever, just don't use it. And as a result, their heart is going to war every single night. They're killing brain cells. And in addition to that, they are never recovering fully themselves and will be at a 10 times higher likelihood for cancer development. you know, maybe not exactly 10 times, but you know what I mean. So, anyways, what can you do as a bodybuilder if you're, you know, dead set on pursuing this [\h__\h] anyways and you don't want to get [\h__\h] up? You know, obviously the first thing would be to get a basic uh blood pressure cuff. You know, stay on top of that because that is going to be the number one um killer of most people is chronically high blood pressure left unressed. So, I would definitely check that on a regular basis, you know, until you've established some sort of baseline that you can kind of, you know, know to ballpark. that's where you're around regardless of, you know, the time of day. But as far as the uh kind of ancillaries that bodybuilders could use to avoid dying young in my opinion, well, if you're genetically predisposed, um obviously you'd be best off just not bodybuilding at all, at least, you know, synthetically enhanced bodybuilding is what I mean. Um but for other individuals, you know, who are blasting [\h__\h] you know, taking [\h__\h] for summer, whatever it is, how would you attenuate that kind of uh issue? Obviously the first primary concern of course is blood pressure management and if that's in check as well as your hematology you know looking at your red blood cell count your hematocrit um hemoglobin etc. You want to make sure that you are not walking around with sludge blood on a regular basis and you know things to um combat that in general are you know wise compound selection exercise routines um dietary practices as well. So aside from the obvious you know managing sleep apnea, blood pressure modulation etc. you know firstline treatment in my opinion or the first thing I would be looking at as far as a potent ancillary would be an angotensin receptor blocker. This is the kind of thing that literally signals to your heart to grow when you are on cycle. Now of course you know you can mitigate this to some extent but the main thing is it's going to help keep blood pressure in check. It's going to inhibit the development of LVH. It's going to inhibit cardiac remodeling. It's going to keep your hematology um more in line with where it should be um to avoid as many therapeutic phabbotoies which would in turn lead to less you know dumping of certain things that your body may otherwise need in certain physiological ratios that is going to be thrown off if you're donating it on a regular basis in order to get your biomarkers into a you know sweet spot as per the uh you know advice of many many doctors. But yeah, like personally me, I don't even blast and I still use 40 milligrams of telmrarten per day just as a proactive measure. Um, and I imagine certain individuals with very high, you know, blood pressures would probably benefit from something like potentially a higher dose of talisartan or graduating up to something like a sartan, which is more potent at higher milligram dosages. Um, but that would be the main thing. The first time I think I talked about it on video was a video I did uh a while back called Nandrone's effects on the heart totally eliminated or something like that. Nandrel's negative effects on the heart completely eliminated by using this medication. So here you can actually go look at the mechanism of action of angotensin receptor blockers how they work at the heart um itself to prevent that kind of stimulation. Um but what they found you know via the deployment of highdose nandolone you know exactly what it was doing to the heart and how to kind of get in the middle of that and kind of you know prevent the damage. Now again though is this going to translate directly to humans? We don't have actual data to support something like this. But in practical application, anecdotally, it seems like some of these medications are quite promising in not only preventing the onset of cardiovascular disease, but in addition potentially reversing it, reversing it in some cases. But again, this would be a discussion to have with your doctor. This is just discussion about educational material for your own personal reference. though. Um this study looked at um blockade of angotensin 2 receptor um with low sartan aldoststerone receptor mineral corticoid receptor MR with blah blah. So basically this is not even like the number one choice of an ARB whatsoever. And they measured out you know the response to deca um as well as uh anti-androgen interestingly enough um to see what would happen and um you know the outcomes were kind of uh what you'd expect for androgenic signaling for high levels of uh sympathetic drive as well. um depending on you know the compound of course some are going to be more problematic in that regard like trenolone also touched on another study looking at beta blockers which is another area of uh pharmarmacology that I think is not respected enough in the bodybuilding community and not looked at very seriously because they think it's going to make them fat and or inhibit exercise performance to some crazy detrimental degree that's going to make it impossible to make any further progress which simply is not the case like there are beta blockers which are far more selective for beta 1 than the other beta receptors in the body and can actually do their job with the least impact to your, you know, fat loss phase and/or bulking lean phase. Um, and are relatively benign in terms of even noticing they're in the picture. But what they do do pretty well is lower your heart rate and if they cross a bloodb brain barrier can actually relax you too. Which, you know, depending on your context, depending on what compounds you expose yourself to, this may be, you know, an advantageous thing to be deploying something that actually is less um targeted, more broadsp spectrum, like a um a good example of this is nivol versus propranol. We did a video um not that long ago called um let's see beta blockers in bodybuilding February 5th 2021. In this video we talk about the different choices why you might use one or the other and some of the rodent data they do see beta blockers used in very promising outcomes in terms of um the actual structure of the heart and whatnot and in individuals in real life. I've seen things like nivol play a very dramatic role in actually reversing some of the damage of anabolic eneroggenic steroids. So for me those are the two classes of medications that are most promising as potential ancillaries to be looking at as a bodybuilder. But of course obviously the frontline approach should be blood pressure. Um my computer just [\h__\h] froze but I'm just going to keep I'm just going to keep going. Blood pressure you know management is obviously the main thing. Um, in addition to that, you know, making sure you don't have sleep apnnea and if you do, treating it accordingly, you know, that could be as simple as positioning yourself differently in bed or getting a mouthpiece or getting something that is going to help you avoid apnea at all costs and worst case scenario, you get a CPAT machine and it breathes for you and you eliminate your um incidences of apnea to near zero in a instant fashion. So, that is something that you definitely just need to bite the bullet on and get used to. If you have severe um sleep apnea, you're going to need a CPA app. And I would recommend getting on that as soon as possible cuz it is like everyone says the silent killer is blood pressure, high blood pressure, which it is, but among bodybuilders, I would really classify sleep apnea as a silent killer as well. Obviously, the blood pressure is a major problem and sleep apnea can literally cause high blood pressure, by the way. So, some individuals who can't even figure out how to lower their blood pressure don't realize how hard their heart is working while they're trying to sleep. And it's literally going to [\h__\h] war because they're walking around at 240 lbs lean and have a neck the size of a [\h__\h] I don't know another guy's goddamn thigh or some [\h__\h] [\h__\h] like the gut. Not actually, but you know what I mean. So for bodybuilders like that, those are the main things. obviously and not choosing dumb compounds. You know, obvious it's a pretty no-brainer thing that if you're running a gram of trend for, you know, a year straight, you might encounter some sort of, you know, permanent liver damage or something where you may encounter some sort of uh morphological changes to the heart that are [\h__\h] really problematic, you know, or, you know, perpetually being in AI don't know hypervigilant state, you know, [\h__\h] up your brain chemistry. That's the kind of stuff that is obvious though in my opinion to not, you know, choose dumb compounds and for dumb dosages and dumb durations of time. But the frontline ancillar is to avoid having, you know, major cardiac issues mainly as well as kidney failure in my opinion is deploying a good blood pressure medication that also has a dual action as preventing um cardiac remodeling. that would be accomplished via an angotensin receptor blocker and I think they are superior to superior to ACE inhibitors and there's even very promising data on ACE inhibition um in the clinical data too that I went over and um ARBs are just more superior overall in terms of a side effect context efficacy context um and in the studies it's very very promising in terms of what they're doing like these rats always seem so prone to getting [\h__\h] up by everything and the fact that these ARBs were able to totally attenuate the damage caused by super physiological amounts of androgens was very very promising and in practical application I think it's going to make a big difference on extending the lifespan of many bodybuilders who would otherwise have potentially dropped earlier than they you know otherwise should have. So ARBs are extremely promising as well as beta blockers in my opinion. Not only are you uh living in a society now with you know stimulant addicted individuals combining that with super physiological doses of androgens that are driving up adronergic signaling all day you know you're perpetually redlined in a sympathetic state and not able to kind of rest and digest and get you know calmed down. Um having a beta blocker on hand um may be useful as well, you know, in terms of inhibiting the negative effects to the heart and um as well as your brain potentially depending on how selective or you know broadspectctrum you want your beta blocker to be. But those are the two frontline strategies I see as ways for individuals to avoid becoming you know passing in a premature age. But ideally those individuals should not be bodybuilding to begin with. I'm just saying these suggestions as things to run by your doctor if you are a bodybuilder who is otherwise healthy but is you know longevity minded and doesn't want to [\h__\h] themselves up which is obviously a lot of people on this channel they're trying to be safer about how they're approaching their cycle designs and whatnot and how they are uh um hitting their body. So those are the two main things and um obviously the other things are kind of no-brainer. you know, eating a high quality diet model that's not full of processed [\h__\h] isn't full of uh garbage, isn't full of uh micronutrient deficient stuff. Rather, it is high-quality food that you can uh thrive on and is going to support physiologic functions and is not simply there for sat for satiety. Rather, it's something that is going to fuel you and, you know, enhance, you know, hormone signaling and whatnot. But, um, yeah, those are no-brainers, of course. And I think the ARB and beta blocker um part of the conversation is the main important thing to be uh looking at because at the end of the day, you can do so much with your diet, you can do so much with your sleep hygiene, you can do so much with, you know, and that's the majority of the stuff. But above and beyond that, if you're planning on still crushing the [\h__\h] and, you know, hit smashing high amounts of drugs, trying to grow as much as possible and it's like a big part of your life, then at that point, I would definitely uh well, not even just at that point, I would already be looking at ARBs for anybody who's involved using anabolics whatsoever. And beta blockers, I think, have a lot of therapeutic potential as well. So, anyways, let me know what you guys think in the comments down below. good video by Seam Land bringing attention to an otherwise touchy subject that um you know it's kind of [\h__\h] up how this is the industry that you know is literally the visual representation of health essentially but in actual reality the majority of the best you know healthiest looking individuals are actually unhealthy as [\h__\h] So you know you want to be a hybrid of the two you want to be healthy as well as look good and you know perform well. So, you know, make sure you go about doing your research. You make sure you are dialed in before you start exposing yourself to ridiculous dosages of drugs. And this ties back into are you educated enough to even use these things yet? And why I often say that individuals probably shouldn't start taking gear at 19, 20 years old, cuz the likelihood that you actually understand this stuff at that age is so minimal. you know, to actually understand how to stay healthy while you're on and, you know, prevent yourself from getting uh further damage in the future and things of this nature are uh frankly just hard to come by. So hopefully you guys enjoyed it and if you want to check out more videos on the subject, you can check out some of the uh podcast clips that we have on the channel here. Thank you guys for watching. Like, subscribe, check out my blog moreplaynates.com. Follow me on Instagram or place more dates. Facebook, Snapchat, [\h__\h] Twitter, Tik Tok, a couple podcasts. If you want to support the channel, you can check out anything I'm associated with in the video description below. My TRT clinic, it's all tele medicine from the comfort of your own home. Gorilla mind. Neutropic formulas. Gorilla Mode pre-workout formulas. I designed myself from scratch. My recommended lab test and diagnostics to stay on top of your health. This is something everyone should be doing, at least on an annual basis, and especially more frequently than that if you are an anabolics user. And anything else I'm associated with, it's all in the video description below. Thank you guys for watching.