haunting if I say so myself. Now, one thing that's notable is this guy's hairline. It's been exactly the same since What's up guys? Derek moreates.com. Today we are going to be talking about the castradi. So this is a topic I've mentioned handful of times at this point um in passing in some of my old videos. Um and basically how these uh children were essentially castrated um prior to hitting puberty to preserve their angelic singing voices. you know, historically, and this isn't really something that goes on now, but back in the day, um, to support families, you know, if they had a child that was, you know, a valuable asset to the family in terms of their ability to sing, having them have a flood of DHT into the system and testosterone would consequently ruin their voice, thus limiting their money-making potential. at least uh that was my understanding and I wanted to circle back and do a dedicated video to it cuz it has a lot of interesting overlap with some of the concepts I've talked about previously about uh like nuclear protocols for hair loss prevention um as well as even growing as a teenager. Um something very interesting is not only that the castradi did not experience male pattern baldness but they also grew to disproportionate height relative to their you know counterparts who went through puberty normally. So, um, basically I want to go through a couple articles I found that are, uh, basically elaborate in better words than I can, like because it knows it far more elaborately than I do about their history, kind of why it happened, you know, what the deal is, and some images of uh, depictions of them. And even when you see the anatomy like the skeleton of these guys like you see the strange kind of like morphological changes that occurred with the result of testosterone, DHT and estrogen deprivation. So um essentially the castradi would operate simply via adrenal hormones for their entire lives and like from before puberty too. So their development through puberty was kind of uh um interesting to say the least. So this is the first article I want to go into. It's uh what was a castrad and what did they sound like? So for a solid portion of musical history, castrados had a prominent role in operas, churches, and courts across Europe. But why were young boys forced to undergo the gruesome operation? How did it affect their voices? A castrado is a male singer who was castrated before puberty. The immediate effect on their voice was that they retained the high notes and range of their immature voice, but the operation also had a variety of other effects. The lack of testosterone meant that the singer's bones didn't harden. So, their bones usually grew unusually long. So, you'll know about uh growth plate fusion. You'll know at least in uh in general like the mechanism behind the blunting or the stunting. It's not stunting of your growth, but just how your body like physiologically shuts off and tells you to stop growing in height and you know your bone uh um development in terms of length etc. during your upbringing as you're flooded with hormones, it's the result of um testosterone aromatizing into estrogen in uh boys. So, the lack of testosterone and when they're saying the lack of testosterone, they more so mean lack of estrogen like in terms of actually stopping the physiologic process where it should have been. It's an estrogen mediated cascade. So, the testosterone is the precursor to the estrogen that ultimately is the kind of like off switch in this equation. So their bones usually grew unusually long. So castrados were either were a very tall and b had very large rib cages giving them a vast amount of brea breath capacity. Castrados or castradi um or castradi as it should technically be could wow audiences by holding notes for a superhuman amount of time as well as singing higher than a naturally mature male voice could. So this is a portrait of Italian castrado singer Finelli by anyway. So what is the history of the castradi? In 400 AD in Constantinople the empress alia I'm like feel like a movie narrator right now. In Constanople the empress Alia Udokia had a unic choir master Bryson. That's a [\h__\h] sick hos name for a unic choirmaster. They have no balls. My name My name's [\h__\h] Bryson. Side note, Unix were castrated after puberty, so the operation didn't necessarily have an impact on their voice. Okay, so we're talking about Unix right now, not castradi. Uh, but castrad singers first appeared in Europe in the mid6th century in n in 1589. A papal bull was even passed ordering that the young boys and falsetto singers of the choir of St. Peters in Rome be replaced by castrados. Castrado singers appeared in Paris, Munich as they also made up the high voice parts of the cistine chapel choir. The operation was never legal, however, so it would have to be done by decidedly dodgy surgeons and families come up with complex and families came up with complex backstories to the accidents that had befallen the boys falling off a horse to being attacked by a wild boar. So this is a pair of crust toi held in front of a painting of Italian castradi singer something that I can't pronounce. So this is uh I don't know the tool they used to castrate them. The golden age of the castradi but the golden age of the castradi came in the 17th and 18th centuries when they became the stars of the opera stage. Francesco Bernardi or Si Sessino as he became known was born in 1686. I'm like laughing at my own inability to say these [\h__\h] names and went on to appear in many of Handel's works including the opera's Guio Cesar and Rodinda. One contemporary account says he had a powerful clear equal and sweet contralto voice with a perfect intonation um and an excellent shake. His manner of singing was masterly and his el eleution unrivaled. He sang allegros with great fire and marked rapid divisions from the chest in an articular and pleasing manner. Wow, what a [\h__\h] description. Imagine saying that sentence. Um like in real life like actually saying well I guess I say some ridiculous [\h__\h] so never mind. Um, Finelli came a little bit later, came a little later, but quickly rose to become one of the most famous musicians of his age. Born Carlo Maria Michelangelo, Nicola Brashi in 1705, his parents probably decided to find someone to operate on him as a result of his father's death. Having a cast in the family could bring in a lot of money. So, let's see. Okay, so this is the image that kind of like I was like, "Oh [\h__\h] this is kind of weird and interesting." And this is like a depiction of the tall lankiness of this castradi by the lack of testosterone and estrogen. One musicians who heard him sing in Milan in 1726 said Finelli had a penetrating full rich bright and well modulated soprano voice with a range at that time from the A below middle C to the D2 octaves above middle C. His intonation was pure, his trill beautiful, his breath control extraordinary and his throat very agile. So that he performed. Imagine saying your throat's agile. Sounds like something I'd tell some chick. You got an agile throat. So anyway, so so that he performed the widest intervals quickly and the greatest ease and certainty. Finelli also performed music by handle and went on to become a favorite of European royalty. He was hired by Queen Elizabetha Farn Fese I don't [\h__\h] know of Spain to cure the depression of her husband Philip V. So a satirical oh a satirical drawing of Senino Baron stats in soprano Francesca Kuzone on the in the center. Okay. So, anyway, this is one of the pictures I thought was interesting. Anyways, at the time when I first saw it, I didn't read the full thing, but anyways, it's sort of like depicting how uh disproportionately like tall and weird the bone structure is of the castradi. So, the last cast, the last role to be written for a castrado was that of Armando in May's il crochetto crochhatto in Egito. And castration was made illegal after the unification of Italy in 1861. But it wasn't until 1878 that Pope Leo the something which I should know this but I don't banned the church from hiring Castradi and the official and came in 1903 when Pew um the something that I should also know but I don't declared whenever it is desirable to to employ the high voices of sopranos and contraltos these parts must be taken by boys according to the most ancient usage of the church. Aleandro Moreshi was the last castrado to sing in the cysteine chapel choir and an astonishing recording survives him of singing made in 1902. He would retire just a few years later in 1913 and died in 1922. So this recording isn't Moretchi in his prime, but it's the closest we'll get to hearing a voice that has disappeared forever from the classical world. So this is the last castradi and I think the only one ever actually recorded. haunting if I say so myself. Now, one thing that's notable is this guy's hairline. It's been exactly the same since uh he was a uh boy, which is interesting. So, he had this like uh this section up here that kind of like went up even though it wasn't like traditional recession. It was just this uh thing. Anyways, so no hair loss for these guys. Um which is interesting. Um, and it sort of is like harks back to essentially what finasteride is doing is like making like a lower a more toned down version of a castradi essentially like you're literally like wiping out a significant chunk of the DHT which if you had finasteride in somebody prepubescent they would otherwise they wouldn't develop like this but it would be like sort of halfway between getting to where you need to be and the castrad like that's you'd end up with like immature penis you of not fully developed masculine features blah blah blah would be just a bad outcome if you're using this in a preubescent state. So you can just imagine you know wiping out all androgens entirely like there's like no sexual differentiate well there is sexual differentiation but it's like it's based on just like what you've been genetically given not the androgens actually like pushing you to where you should be. So, it's kind of like these uh I don't know. It's kind of like a halfway developed like men that weren't actually men yet cuz they were sort of in a hormonal state of a boy and looked like a boy at the time based on you know androgen levels and uh you know the sexual differentiation that happens from age zero to whatever. But once they get castrated, they never get that big surge of androgens that then you know causes all the massive changes and you know facilitates the uh process by which would eventually result in growth plate fusion where you stop you know growing in height and whatnot. So these guys would have a interesting uh anatomy from a uh skeleton context I guess and uh their voices notably you know no ver viralization of the voice. So normally if you take uh you know even women who compete at uh you know top uh you know physique shows and whatnot they take like even a little [\h__\h] dose of anavar for too long at too high of a dose and all of a sudden voice is changing. They take too much nanderone for too long. voice is changing like minuscule things that a guy could otherwise get away with, you know, 10 times more of. Like the amount of androgens it takes to actually take you from sounding like a castradi to like pushing you into puberty state is not that much. So these guys are like full-blown wiped out androgen- wise um with just trace amounts from their adrenals. So, it's almost like a it's not like a menopausal woman almost, but before pubert, but before puberty for a male, but it's sort of like that's like the closest natural hormonal state you could really like I don't know. Well, I guess prepubescent is they basically just stay like prepubescent like forever. Even though they continue to grow in like AI don't know an adult chronological timeline, the androgens never actually facilitate the getting to where they need to go sexual differentiation like finalization wise. So anyway, the second article I wanted to look at was this Daily Mail article. And the reason I had it uh separately I didn't even have it loaded up is because I got [\h__\h] nuked with advertisements last time I opened it and it like broke my computer. So, I'm trying to uh avoid this sit like, "Oh, man. This [\h__\h] website's a nightmare, dude. No, I don't want notifications. Breaking news from every angle. [\h__\h] pop up about Extinction Rebellion activist." No, I don't care, dude. [\h__\h] off. We see you're using Ad Blogger. Holy [\h__\h] It's just like [\h__\h] ad here, [\h__\h] ad here, [\h__\h] hook over here, slap you in the [\h__\h] dick over here. Just like non-stop with this [\h__\h] So, I'm going to take my ad blocker off just for you guys. So, here we go. We're going to Daily Mail with no ad blocker, guys. This is some risky [\h__\h] Uh, okay. Here we go. Load today's top videos. Get the [\h__\h] out of here. If I like news and show vbiz, you'll love this. [\h__\h] off. Uh, like you literally close an ad, then it's like, why are you closing the ad? Like, open it back up, [\h__\h] Another one pops up. [\h__\h] you. I'm trying to read your article. Do you want me to stay on your site? Do you want me to stay on your site? Please tell me. So anyways, the gruesome price of being a 19th century castradi researchers exume opera singer skeleton and find castration and constant practice caused massive changes to his body. Researchers examined body of 19th century singer Gaspar Pacarati Pacarati. Castration before puberty along with singing practices affected the body. The singer had erosion in cerv cervical vertebrae and decreased bone density. Had changes to respiratory muscles that elevate ribs and aid breathing. Up until the end of the 1800s, a gruesome practice was performed on male opera singers to preserve their messoprano voices. Um, so anyways, you already know what happened. I already described it. And this is this guy's skeleton. So researchers from the University of Padua in Italy exume the body of this guy to understand more about the singers known as the castradi. The singer remains are pictured on the left and the portrait shown on the right. So this is uh the skeleton as well as what the guy supposedly looked like. There's the skull. There is the spine. Hang on. CT scan of the spine. Analysis has showed the presence of epithesial lines on Pacareti's iliac crest which are typically fused at 23 years old and disappear by the time a man is older than 35. Persistence of epithesial line in the iliac crest is shown above. So that was what I was noting earlier about the uh lack of that happening from the lack of sufficient testosterone aromatizing into estradiol which is notable because in puberty something that is actually being evaluated in a clinical setting now for people who are like height deficient you know like clinically not just like proactively cuz you want to be taller but it's being looked at in a clinical setting is the concurrent use of aromatase inhibitors with growth hormone. So, this is something that apparently is actually uh being used like recreationally too, which is uh interesting to say the least. Um, and is uh could be a whole video in itself. But anyways, and it's not something I would recommend by the way. I'm just saying that physiologically the mechanism by which this growth is then like signaled to stop is via sufficient aromatization. So this is also why it would be wise to stay lean and not get fat as a teenager because you could otherwise cause premature growth plate closure and you should also not take SARM serums anabolic agents etc. anything that's going to [\h__\h] up your endocrine profile when you are in your teens. Until now, only one other cast skeleton has ever been examined. A singer named Carlo Maria Michelangelo Nicola Brochi who went by the stage name Farenelli. The castradi were often much taller than their unaltered peers. Researchers explained in a paper published today in scientific reports. Pacquiai [\h__\h] stood more than 6 feet tall. Castrado were unusually tall with a large barrel-shaped chest, infantile larynx, long spindly legs. The authors wrote, "Pacareti's bones confirmed these characteristics, in particular the height that was estimated measuring femurss, tibia, and humorary length, and gave a value of around 191 cm." So um it's not like that's you know exceptionally tall or anything but apparently historically like relative to I guess the averages the cast were very tall. CT scans revealed vertebral fractures and a decrease in bone density. Researchers say the hormonal effects of castration led these singers to develop osteoporosis and disorders of the spine. So this is partially regul like think about when women hit menopause and all of a sudden estrogen production plummets into the ground and all of a sudden you know u what happens you know osteoporosis bone degradation etc. These are all things that happen in the deprivation environment of estrogen. So it's not a coincidence that these individuals experience similar outcomes during a much even like young in their life. The erosion of the cervical vertebrae were also attributed to the posture and movements of the neck and head during singing exercises. They also found modifications in the insertion of three respiratory muscles which work to elevate certain ribs and assistant breathing. Along with this, the analysis revealed markings on the scapuli that indicate Pacquiaoi used his arms frequently during his performances. So anyways, um let's see. CT scans revealed um the singer's skeletal abnormalities weren't only attributed to castration. Um let's see um they were strongly eroded with signs of osteopitic lipping in the body because of osteoporosis and of continuous movements of the head and neck during singing exercises. These conditions can be considered as an occupational marker for the singers as it was confirmed by Pacquiao's vertebral conditions. These findings are very significant because it is the first time that they can be observed in the remains of a castrado. They also found other changes in his bone body and bones including modifications in the insertion of three respiratory muscles which work to elevate certain ribs and assist in breathing. Um along with this the analysis revealed markings on the scapuli. Yeah, we already mentioned that. Umah um the results provide a unique look at the little examined development of the castradi and helped to reveal some of the secrets behind Pacquiao's sublime voice. Sublime despite his castration and bone conditions the researchers say the famous singer who died at the age of 81 still had many amorous relationships during his life. Interesting. So, this is what Michael Jackson was speculated to have happened to him. And I don't know how accurate that is cuz apparently he's the only one of his family of his siblings who maintained a high-pitched uh voice into his uh actual career. Um, but it seemed like there was some push back on that. Like I when I brought it up last time, there were some comments uh um basically uh you know arguing against that point. I don't know if it's factual or not. I was just a hypo a hypothesis um that I had and I actually saw that Joe Rogan had too interestingly enough. So, um I don't know if that was true or not, but nonetheless, very interesting, uh morphological changes that occur as a result of hormonal environment as you develop. And these guys that would just like grow taller for, you know, interestingly, because of hormone deprivation, not like not an excess of something. You would have like a deprivation of something that leads to like unregulated growth. Um, not in a good way either if you have weak [\h__\h] bones, obviously. But, um, and then also obviously the fact that they wouldn't lose hair for the entirety of their lives from lack of androgen sort of reinforces the androgen hypothesis um, for miniaturaturization of hair follicles and whatnot. It's not really a coincidence that um, now the thing is I tried to dig really hard to find some images of castrad um, in old age to see if they actually all had perfect hair or not. And the problem is it's hard to find like actual like human castradi pictures and you often end up finding Unix with hair loss and then you think like oh it's [\h__\h] but it's like you could also argue that it's the lack of estrogen if you even find a picture of one with shitty hair. It's like well they also have no estrogen let alone androgen so you're probably not going to keep your hair either. You know there's it's not a coincidence that women start losing their hair as they get older after menopause and their estrogen's in the toilet. Now, they'll still maintain better hair than a guy who has high androgens and high estrogen, but that's just the [\h__\h] paradox, unfortunately, of being a male. And um um yeah, and it's obviously not a coincidence that males who are severely balding, when they undergo hormonal replacement therapy from male to female, they end up regrowing a [\h__\h] ton of their hair um in the lack of androgens and excess of estrogens kind of thing. So, basically manipulating their hormone profile to a Kuwait to that of a female. So basically the reason the castradi would not lose hair does not seem to be because of their estrogen levels. It's more so the lack of androgen levels. So it's almost like like I said it's like the equivalent of taking dutasteride and like [\h__\h] some other anti-androgen when you are like 12 years old. Like that's like what's going on here or earlier than that actually. So um as well as an aromatase inhibitor I guess cuz that would be the physiologic equivalent. So at least pharmacologically and that's what it seems to be looked at clinically right now is uh for growth deficient children is this aromatase inhibitor growth hormone stack and uh um doesn't seem to be the healthiest thing obviously it's actually very [\h__\h] bad but for somebody who is literally pre going to become 5'1 if they didn't do this you know you can obviously see where the clinical intervention starts to make sense like I think Lionol Messi was determined to be Um I think maybe even like a legal um what's like the the legal cut off for a uh um a dwarf? I don't I don't even remember. But he was like predetermined to be pretty [\h__\h] short if he didn't undergo growth hormone intervention which I don't think back then they were using aromatase inhibitors concurrently. But at the time he used exogenous growth hormone and that you know pushed him up to where he is now. And if he didn't do that he probably wouldn't have ever been as successful as he is. So, um, very interesting and probably could be a dedicated video in itself to be honest. So, anyways, interesting [\h__\h] I've had this on my to-do list for a while. I wanted to bring it up and kind of give some, uh, insight into the physiologic mechanisms behind the, uh, hormonal interplay and the cascades going on in these, uh, guys that have been castrated at a young age. And, uh, you know, I guess it's a story time with Derek. It was kind of fun to read through these. And hopefully you guys enjoyed it. So, thank you guys for watching. Like, subscribe, check out my blog, moreplace.com. Follow me on Instagram at more plates_morates, Facebook, Snapchat, BYU, Twitter, Tik Tok, Apple Podcast. If you want to support the channel, you can check out anything I'm associated with in the video description below. My TRT clinic, uh my recommended blood test panels, pharma grade hair loss medications, um anything else I'm associated with, it's all in the video description below. Thank you guys for watching. Dr.