! We'll go back to Good Day Orlando. Time now is 824. On your health watch this morning, people who eat three or four eggs a day have a higher risk of both heart disease and early death. That's according to a new study out of Northwestern Medicine. It says 300 milligrams of cholesterol per day have been linked to a 17% spike in cardiovascular disease along with an 18% higher risk of death. What's up guys, Jeff Cavaliere, Athleanx.com. So I have a confession to make. I'm an egg eater, a daily egg eater. As a matter of fact, four to five of them every day. But in the process of actually trying to do something healthy, am I actually doing more harm than good? Well, if you're an egg eater like me, then I'm sure clits just like that have probably caused you some concern about whether you're doing the right thing by continuing to eat them. But today, we're gonna separate the fact from the fiction to determine whether or not we should be heeding that advice or maybe on the other hand, just throwing it in the trash along with the eggshells of the eggs that we continue to eat. This just in. Turns out that eating eggs raises your blood cholesterol level. Are you in danger? And so this one might be one of the most recognizable claims of them all. Because for years, people thought that eating dietary cholesterol led to increases in your blood cholesterol levels. The good news is, things have changed quite a bit. It was once thought that you could only eat 300 milligrams of dietary cholesterol in a single day. The problem for egg eaters, one large egg had 200 milligrams of cholesterol in it. In 2015, however, the Dietary Guidelines Advisory Committee recommended that we don't even track dietary cholesterol anymore, allowing us to eat as much as we want as long as we're being mindful of the amount of trans fats and saturated fats in the foods that we're selecting. The bottom line is, there is no direct link between dietary cholesterol and your cholesterol levels. And so if this is one reason why you've been avoiding eggs, we can file this one under exaggerated and just throw it away. Some not so egg-cellent news for those of you that eat eggs. Turns out that eating eggs raises your risk of heart disease. And so this one sort of piggybacks on that last recommendation, advancing that link just one step further, realizing again that if dietary cholesterol increases blood cholesterol levels, well that can lead to an increased accumulation of plaque and ultimately coronary artery disease or heart disease. Well, all I have to do is look at my own grandfather for this recommendation going wrong. Didn't really have the cleanest diet, but did enjoy his daily eggs in the morning. That was until he was diagnosed with coronary artery disease and needed a stent put in his heart. At that point, however, he was told, you can't have eggs ever again. Not unless you were ready to put yourself at immediate risk the next time you cracked one open. So he did what most people did back then and they stopped eating them. Poor guy, however, wound up passing away at just 73 years old for multiple myeloma. Had nothing to do with his love of eggs. As a matter of fact, I wish the poor guy could have indulged his favorite breakfast more often rather than having to avoid it. Because as we know now, in a Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health study that analyzed three decades of data from 215,000 participants, they found no connection between egg consumption and heart disease. So while my grandfather had to avoid his favorite breakfast, hopefully now on the basis of that recommendation, you won't have to. You're not going to believe this one, Jessica. But it turns out that you should be avoiding eating the egg yolk as they are more dangerous than terrorism. Now, I have to admit, this is one that I fell for, hook, line, and sinker. And as I may have related in the past, it kind of sacrificed my health in the process. Because I was looking for the no fat food. I was a product of the era of seeking out no fat when it came to your diet. And it did get me lean. But at the same time, I think it probably cost me my overall health. You need fats in your diet. Especially, you need healthy fats in your diet. And that is exactly what an egg provides you. As a matter of fact, all of the fat in the egg is in the yolk. And by throwing away the yolk, you're throwing away a lot of the nutritional value and purpose for eating the egg in the first place. Now, again, if you're on a very low calorie diet, you're getting rid of 55 calories by tossing the yolk in the garbage. But at the same token, I ask you, how significant is the 55 calories? Even if you just mix in one full egg with the egg whites that you prefer, you're still at least allowing yourself to capitalize on the vitamin B12, D, A, K, E, choline, and all the other vitamins and minerals we talked about that will benefit you long term. Try not to be as fearful as you once were of the egg yolk in particular, and have the whole egg, and be comfortable in the choice that you've made. Looking to lose weight? Well then, fatty, you should be avoiding eggs in your weight loss diet, because they're making you fat. So this is one that I never really fully understood. Because when you look at breakfast food options, they are typically very calorie dense. For instance, if you took even four eggs, that'd be 290 calories total. But if you compare them to something like a short stack of pancakes from IHOP, you're at 420 calories. Or even a simple plain bagel at 300 calories, mind you, before you added cream cheese and other things to it. Or even if you had a custard filled donut from Krispy Kreme. Now you're at around 400 or 500 calories. So the idea being that these are calorie dense just doesn't really hold up. And beyond that, look at the protein content of those different foods. There's only one of them that's worth a damn when it comes to getting meaningful protein in your diet. And that of course is the egg. And in those four eggs, you're talking around 30 grams of protein. The act of eating protein itself adds to satiation, and allows you to not be as hungry later in the morning. What happens when people eat a calorie equal diet of bagels versus eggs in the morning? They gain more weight. When you equalize everything else and just have the difference be between the source of the calories, even though the calories are the same, those that ate those carbohydrate rich foods in the morning, like bagels, wound up leading to more weight gain in the long run. There's nothing wrong with eating eggs, even if weight loss is your goal. Sometimes you just have to stop listening to some of the recommendations that have caused you to think otherwise. Frank, we're live, Frank. We're live? Frank, we're live. A new report from the South Harmon Institute of Technology has reported that brown eggs are healthier than white eggs. Who would have guessed? Frank, we're live. Now the origin of this recommendation might actually date back to a little jingle we used to hear back in the day. It goes a little bit like this. Frank, we're live. Brown eggs are equal eggs and equal eggs are... Catchy, but still bullshit. You see, while the color of the egg may be an indicator of where the egg was laid, and maybe therefore if it's close enough to you, maybe it is a little bit more fresh, it has no bearing on the nutritional content of that egg. Whether it's brown or white, it's still going to have the same nutritional value regarding its fats, proteins, vitamins, and minerals. So bottom line is, don't be swayed on where the egg was laid. Instead, pick whatever color you want and you're still going to get the value that you think you're getting from the egg in the first place. This just in. Turns out the alcohol you're drinking is not bad for your liver. It turns out your morning egg is even worse. Back to you, Jessica. Who's Jessica? Anyway, now this is another one of those recommendations that has done a complete 180, and that's good news. Because we once thought eating egg yolks could actually damage your liver. It's not true. But it is linked once again to the perception of the intake of dietary cholesterol being harmful for your health. And what we thought was by eating foods that raise your cholesterol levels, we would have incomplete digestion of fats that would put more strain and stress on your liver. Well, guess what? A 2016 study highlighted that eggs as a rich source of choline actually support liver function and may help prevent non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Again, the very disease they thought was being contributed to by eating egg yolks. Another journal of Heptology in 2017 found that the adequate intake of choline found in eggs is actually associated directly with better liver health. So if again, you find yourself avoiding eggs or egg yolks specifically because of concerns for your liver, you just don't have to. An egg-exaggerated claim? I think not. It turns out that eggs contribute to high blood pressure. This is another one of those that is related to that assumption that eating cholesterol actually increases dietary cholesterol, which would lead to increases in plaque formation, which would then of course lead to high blood pressure. Again, rest easy because this has actually been proven not true. As a matter of fact, in really not a real recent study, an American Journal of Hypertension found no association between egg consumption and increased blood pressure in healthy individuals. Better than that though, they've actually found within the egg white portion of the egg itself, a specific peptide that actually lowers blood pressure. It's so much so, they've actually found that it reduces blood pressure about as much as a low dose of captopril, which is a high blood pressure drug. Sometimes it is true that food is medicine, in a lot of cases, better than the medicine itself. This just ends. Are eggs giving you a tummy ache? Well, it turns out that eggs are impossible to digest. Back to you, Frank. And so I really don't have to look any further than my own household for validation of at least this being a thought. Are eggs actually harder to digest? My wife has told me that. She has a hard time digesting eggs. However, if you look a little bit deeper, it might be for another reason. See, first and foremost, eggs don't really have much fiber. They don't have any fiber in them, really. So if you're eating eggs as your main constituent of your breakfast, but nothing else, you could be having more repercussions of not enough fiber than you are in just having the eggs. The other thing could be that you might have an egg allergy, which most of us outgrow, even if we have them in childhood, by the time we're 16. There's only very few people that carry that egg allergy all the way into adulthood. But the bottom line is that eggs are a complete source of protein and they actually are incredibly bioavailable and digestible. As a matter of fact, there's a study that was done in the nutrition journal in 2015 that showed that eggs, particularly when boiled or poached, became one of the most easily digestible protein sources. So once again, maybe you've had a bad experience with them, but it might be worth revisiting them in your diet, at least just to see if anything has changed. Newsflash! And this is a scary one. Eggs increase your risk of stroke. And so I feel a little bit like I'm repeating the same concept because we know the relationship between stroke risk, hypertension, heart disease, right? The increased cholesterol. However, because we know the facts about cholesterol not being affected by your consumption of eggs, well, we also know something else about strokes specifically because we know strokes are a pretty common and very scary thing. Well, there's a meta-analysis published in the Journal of American College of Nutrition about eight years ago, which was conducted on nearly 300,000 participants. And they found conclusively that daily egg consumption was associated with a reduced risk of stroke. So not only not increasing your risk, but actually decreasing your risk of stroke. Once again, letting you eat those eggs a little bit easier every morning. Are eggs evil? Well, it turns out it's just the yolk as the egg white is the most healthy part of the egg. And so once again, this is maybe one that I fell for, right? I did feel that the egg white was the part I wanted to isolate because I wanted to strip away some of the unhealthy fat, which again was a big lesson learned at the time to keep the egg itself very low in calories. But you are also stripping away about 40% of the protein when you throw the yolk away. Not to mention the vitamins and minerals that we already talked about. A, D, E, K, all the B vitamins, the folate, lutein, for eye health and brain health. There's so many real nutritional benefits that come within the yellow part of the egg that instead of throwing them out, again, if you want to minimize the effect of them calorically because you're on a very low calorie diet for some reason, then just mix one or two in with the rest of your eggs. You don't have to eat all of them as whole eggs, but I certainly wouldn't be throwing them all out anymore. Again, lesson learned. And as a matter of fact, that's not the only one. You see, because maybe the biggest lesson we all can learn is don't believe every headline you hear. Because when it comes to your health, you are probably your own best scientist. Because even when the latest research comes out, it ultimately takes years before the real truth sort of seems to settle in. And in the case of eggs, I think a lot of these things were overblown and we can be much more comfortable eating them and including them in our diets. And if you're looking for another way to meet your deadly protein goals, we have our RX Pro 30 G protein powder at athleanx.com. That includes an industry-leading 30 grams of protein per serving, including a portion of egg white protein in it as well. Guys, if you found this video helpful, make sure to leave your comments and thumbs up below. Share it with someone else that you know enjoys eggs and let them off the hook. Also, guys, make sure you click subscribe and turn on notifications so you never miss a video when we put one out. All right, guys, see you soon. Oh, uh, this just in. I'm naked.