 obe obeuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhuh here. Or good posture. Or good posture. But take us through a little bit, and I want to get specifically into the lessons here. But a little bit what was going on. I mean look at your arms there. Oh tiny. Look at that squat. Right. But again there's nothing wrong as we're going to say here because everyone, I mean I think I went on the same journey as you. Maybe not quite as skinny, but I definitely went on this journey at some point in my own lifting career. So what was the main point? Because let's be honest here, this was not a straight path for you. No it was not. There was actually a lot of inconsistency in my path. So what was the big thing? The big thing was consistency and showing up to the gym every day that I was supposed to. So now hold on, because everybody will say, I've heard that a million times, the problem is Jeff I can't be freaking consistent. If I could be consistent this wouldn't be a problem for me. Yeah. Believe me, I get it. I was very inconsistent for a long time. The first time I lifted weights was in high school for lacrosse and I did it for three weeks. So what made it now? What was the thing that was the trigger for you? Honestly, the big trigger was being on the channel and you wanting me to be something featured here. That's interesting. All right. So let me illustrate a point here because this is really crucial. First thing you need to do if you're a hard gainer and you want to get on track, find that motivation. But that motivation doesn't oftentimes come solely from within. No, it's definitely partly comes from within. But there are external factors that are important to drive you forward in being consistent and showing up. So candidly for me, obviously this channel and being an example for you guys is a huge motivator for me. But now as a father and especially a father at the age of 40, right now 48 with two eight-year-old twin boys, they're my motivation. I want to make sure that I stay fit and healthy so that I can continue to be around for them, number one. And number two, to be able to be fun and perform with them. Yeah. So consistency. The next thing was actually very concrete for you. Yeah. And this is something I think that a lot of people screw up out there. What is it? Drinking more water. Right. And being adequately hydrated throughout the day. What was your specific change that you could help them with? It was going from drinking little to no water a day to actually your recommendation, which was what? It was one ounce per three-quarter your body weight. Basically for you, you were like what? 125 pounds. Yeah. So when you started. 125, 130. So you're about 90 to 100 ounces of water. Yeah. Per day. Right? Concretely increase the amount of water. If there's one thing that will destroy your consistency because it's destroying your motivation, because it's destroying your concentration and your overall feeling of well-being, it's being dehydrated. Forget about the nutrition. Run off the bat. Fix your water intake. Do what I just said there. That will actually help you a lot. Yeah. The next thing was in relation to your training. Number three here. It was actually overcoming something called exoraphobia. Fear of exercises. Right. And more particularly barbell exercises. Yeah. Like the squat, the bench, the deadlift, and even the overhead press. So when you show up in a gym and you're a hard gainer and you know you're skinny, you feel skinny. You're skinnier than the rest of the guys in the gym. Yeah. The most intimidating lifts that you're going to try to attempt to do are the barbell lifts. Why? Because usually the bare minimum of plates that you see other people lifting on those exercises is the one big plate. Yeah. A 45 pounder. And when you're putting maybe even tens on the end. Thank God for bumper plates because they at least look the same size. Same diameter but you know much less weight. But yes, you can feel self-conscious about that. That could steer you away from doing those exercises which is a giant mistake. Yeah. Because that is the most capable exercises of being overloaded. Yeah. Progressively overloaded and building that base foundation strength that builds you bigger and stronger which was a huge part of your transformation. Yeah. So one of the things that I like to stress here at ATHLEANX is as a physical therapist we have to make sure that form serves as the foundation of whatever lift that you do. So when you start to attempt those exercises it's not about rushing to the weights so quickly as much as it's about learning the proper form. Yeah. You had a built-in excuse which was actually number four the big reasons of how you got to where you were. That form was your focus which helped you to build confidence with the barbell. Yes. It did. And as I built my confidence with the barbell with good form I was able to increase the weight significantly over time. Did you actually take shit for that sometimes from your buddies? Yes. I did take quite a bit of shit for that. But I was looking at the big picture and working on form and safety and everything like that. All right. So now but this is where you get a chance to shine. So I think it's very important. What are we at? Number five. Yeah. The accessory lift. Right? Yes. The other exercises. The non-barbell compound exercises. That's where you get a chance to shine in terms of learning what real effort feels like. Yes. Learning what it actually feels like to train to failure. Yeah. And knowing what failure is. Because a lot of times as a hard gainer or even just a beginner you're told to use RIR or RPE. Not here. Yeah. Not here. The problem with that is if you don't know what failure is, how do you know what two reps and reserve is or seven RPE is? Because for me at least, when I was trying to go a little bit shy at failure, I was stopping when the set got hard. I wasn't stopping at failure. I learned what failure was through the accessory movements and learning like, okay, I can't move this weight in good form anymore. Or if it's mechanical failure where I could not move the weight at all. Yeah. Then I realized what failure was and I could curtail my training based on that. So the only way to actually know what real failure feels like is to actually fail. And by attempting to start out with estimations of what's reserved and what's not, it's not an effective way to do that for a beginner. I've said that many, many times on this channel. Learn what real failure is by actually giving that failure effort. And when you do that and you do it on exercises like your accessories, oftentimes you can safely put the dumbbell someplace. Like you don't have to worry about being crushed by a barbell. So we remove that whole aspect. And plus when you're training for strength anyway, failure is not the goal. No. Right? You're still trying to build your strength progressively. But you have your opportunity. Make sure you take it. And when you do, I promise the gains do start coming. Now, what was the next thing that you did? I actually included at least one bodyweight exercise for every workout that I did. So now obviously that bodyweight exercise is another one that gives you a good chance to actually go to failure. Very safely give you a good chance. And you know what your command of your own body is in space. I say athletically it's a good, it serves a good purpose. What did you do? Like what type of exercises that you could help them with? Well, on leg day or when I was doing a heavy squat session, I always ended with a burnout session of bodyweight Bulgarian flip squats or lunges. What did you like about it? I had lunges. Lunges too. But like with the Bulgarians, I found like that burn was just felt so good. And it was just another way for me to increase a little bit of extra volume for my leg. Metabolically, you're also adding another stimulus for growth. Yeah. So it's not just to do it, but incorporating the bodyweight exercise. What was another couple that you could tell them that you did? I did push-ups with different variations for different muscle groups on my push days or whatever day that was complimenting. Inverted rows was a big one. Did you do pull-ups? I did a lot of pull-ups. Fun fact, actually. I don't know if I told you about this. When I was living at home, I had a pull-up bar in the bathroom. And in the morning, when I went to go use the bathroom, I'd bang out a couple pull-ups. So I was walking out, bang a couple pull-ups. When I got home from work, go to the bathroom, hit a couple pull-ups. Pump up before the chick's going out at night. Right. We've all been there too. Look, these are not things that people haven't, even the biggest of guys in the gym probably went through all the same thing. Yeah. Right? We've all been there. But being candid about it, I think it's going to help everybody. All right. The next thing, whether you're a hardgainer or you're not, I'm going to challenge you with something here. Record your next set of whatever exercise you want to do and perform 12 repetitions with a weight that's challenging for 12 repetitions in time how long it takes you to do the set. I'm going to bet here that if you're not being disingenuous that you're not, almost 100% of you are going to have a set that takes less than 30 seconds, possibly even 25 seconds. Yeah. I wouldn't be surprised at all that that's what they did. That's called speeding through your reps. That's one of the biggest things that you can change today right away to make more gains as a hardgainer. Tell me what you did. I was thinking about three to four seconds per rep. So specifically counting in your head. Yeah. How much on the way up so they know? How much on the way up and down? So like two seconds on the way up. Yeah. Two seconds on the way down. Okay. So just being more deliberate throughout. Just being more deliberate through the rep and really controlling the weight through that kind of slow motion, I guess I would say. So the benefit here, guys, if you're wondering why it's so important to try this, just start doing this on a couple of the exercises you're doing. I promise you it's a game changer. Is you become more in control of the weight. So it's feeding sort of the additional building of that foundation as a hardgainer. The second thing is it's actually allowing you to recruit the muscles you're trying to build. Yeah. So if you're doing a bench press, sure, the triceps and the shoulders are going to help. But if you're trying to build your chest, you want to be able to recruit the chest out of the bottom of the exercise. And if you just go fast, you're not going to be able to do that. Also, if you have any muscle imbalances or if you have any injuries that you never really took the time to diagnose or figure out what was going on, you're going to reveal them very quickly by doing this. And not just that, provide some additional stability during that movement that might make them feel better to allow you to actually start doing more of the exercises that you couldn't do because of these issues. So there's so many reasons why you want to do this. You did this all the time. Yeah. And it actually helped you immensely. It's something I still do today. All right, now can we shift the focus a little bit to the area you're uncomfortable talking about? Do we have to? We're going to talk about nutrition because nutrition is hugely important when it comes to overcoming hard gainer status. I'm sure everyone's heard that they have to eat more food. Eat big to get big is what they always say. What was the problem for you as a hard gainer? I couldn't eat a lot of food. That was the biggest thing. I had a lot of struggles eating food. I got very full very fast and trying to finish my plate was an absolute disaster. So like little skinny Jesse had a little skinny stomach too. Yes. And it's funny because my mom, Italian, used to always say, you need to eat more. You need to eat more. You're not eating enough. And there was nothing I could do about it. So the big move, the big take home for them was there's nothing that grew your stomach overnight, that expanded your stomach, that allowed you to eat more. What did you have to do? I chose more calorically dense foods. First. I wasn't just eating junk food all the time. Right. It started eating good food, but it was making sure that that food had enough calories in it to where it was sustaining muscle growth. So for example, to make it concrete, the goal in the long term is to increase your portion size, but there's no room for that right now. So if you're choosing a protein, you could have peanut butter as a protein choice because it has a lot of fat with it, which increased the caloric density of that. Yeah. You could have a salad if you were having a good old fashioned Italian salad, but you can increase. Adding avocado. Avocado or something or more olive oil. Yeah. Italians are going to be having more olive oil. Yeah, always. And then blood in. So I feel like those things allowed you to calorically increase the amount without having to really increase the volume of your foods. Yeah. It's a critical first step for hard gainers, I find, because they don't really have the capacity to increase the amount of the food that much. People say it all the time, but it's not just that simple. Plus, I don't know if it's the best long term kind of like big bulking process is the best way to go. And then the other thing that I did that really helped with getting those calories in was adding liquid calories to my diet. Now it came in the form of protein shakes. That's huge. Now this is not a plug for just protein, but it is something that- Plug, plug for crying out loud. Plug. But it is something that I used as me taking in two protein shakes a day. Usually it was one in the morning and one at night or one in the afternoon and one at night, especially after training. I did the same thing. Do you know that? You know how much I like Sylvester Stallone, right? Yes. Do you know that he had a protein shake? No, he didn't. Really? It was called Instone, I believe. And it was a cinnamon protein shake. It was unbelievable. We've actually made our own cinnamon, frosted cinnamon butter. That's my favorite flavor. Which is the best flavor, or one of the best flavors, AthleanRx, available at AthleanX.com. But no, it's important to do, to take in those liquid calories because they're far easier to consume. Yeah, I wasn't getting as full as fast. And I was able to finish the shake, whereas finishing a plate was the difficult part. So interesting we talk about protein because it leads to the next big thing that you did. So as you were able to start increasing the volume of food that you ate, what was your big? I made protein, well, I made protein an extreme priority of my diet. Okay. And that was coming in the form of making sure I was eating protein at every single meal. Like everything? Everything. If I had normally like a pasta dish, added chicken on the side, or just threw it on top. So what about morning? Oatmeal or something? Morning, I would add some protein into the oatmeal. Mix it into the oatmeal. Yeah. Or eggs. Eggs was always a big one. Yeah. So every single meal, protein is part of the meal. It's actually something I recommend, guys, on a plate division little technique that we use. Just putting one third of every plate devoted to protein. I will say that that technique that you taught me with the plate division was a game changer for me. So make sure if you're out there, heart gainer, protein every meal. Yeah. In addition to obviously some of that coming in the form of liquids or protein powders. All right. The next thing is actually the mindset thing. Yes. This is, I think this is actually your 10th, but I have one to add after this. Yeah. Okay. What is that? It was that setbacks are part of the journey. I'd say setbacks. Yeah. Setbacks. Right. For me, it was saying like, okay, I can deadlift 560 pounds. I'm going today. I'm going to go work on 495 for a couple reps. Because there's times where I couldn't even get it off the ground. Like it literally wouldn't budge. Even though you were deadlifting far more than that. Yeah. Way more than that. But like, it just, I couldn't get it off the ground. And I figured, you know what? Maybe it's because I didn't sleep last night. Or maybe I didn't drink enough water. Or maybe I didn't eat enough. Or whatever. There's just, there are mentally just not there today. And I realized from there that it's not the end of the world. At first, I was beating myself up. And I was saying, oh my God, I can't believe I'm doing this. I'm not doing this. I'm a failure. This sucks. Once I changed my mindset to say, okay, this is just part of the process. Everything changed for me. Can I tell you something? It's actually a necessary part of the process. Like, I don't believe that the 560 comes without the days that you actually dip down. And sometimes it's your body's own regulation or built-in regulation to make you take a step back, to prioritize that recovery so that it can exceed your expectations the next time. So I think that it's not that any dip in performance or even how you look one day in the mirror versus other days. Because that could be due to hydration. Don't look at it as a setback. Look at it as literally part of that ultimate progression and journey. Because there is no linear journey. It's not straight up. The setback sets up the next victory. I'm sure anyone that's trained for any length of time can tell you that they've had days where they don't succeed the way that they're expecting to. And I said setting up the next victory. Can I tell you this? This is the one I wanted to add. And I want to punctuate this video because it's really important for you guys. Celebrate the victories along the way. Right? Because you don't start looking like the end picture. Like Jesse didn't start clearly as you can see here what he looks like in the after photo. He started what he looks like in the before. But he had the ability to kind of celebrate many victories along the way. I talked about this when it comes to fat loss. You don't start at 40% body fat with a goal of being 5%, 10%, 11% body fat, whatever it might be. You get there by first being 30% and then 25% and then 20%. You have to learn to celebrate those. We've celebrated Jesse here a few times on the channel along the way. Yep. But more importantly, what does it do? To allow yourself to flex your tricep when you walk by the mirror. To pull up the shirt and look at your abs. To maybe do a little bit of a pump up set before you go out with a girl because you feel more confident in yourself. We've all done this shit guys. It's stuff that we've all done. We've all done it. But what it does is those mini victories and the celebrations sets up what? And it's this nice big circle that goes right back up to the top again, which is consistency. Yep. Because when you allow yourself to enjoy the process in the little victories that you have, the consistency becomes that much easier. And that's actually, I think, what led Jesse to his transformation. Once you see that progress and whatever it is, whether it's a new PR or weight loss or weight gained, it's something to celebrate. So if you haven't seen the transformation video, you can watch it in full. I'll include the link to the short and also the link to the longer video for those of you who still have an attention span left these days. You can find it there. If you're looking for the exact programs and the supplements that Jesse used, you can find them at athelenext.com. Congratulations again. Click subscribe, turn on notifications so you'll never miss a video when we put one out. All right, guys. See you.