 What if I told you that there was a series of things that you could start doing right now after this video that would dramatically improve the quality of your life as you get older? That would be awesome. Would you be interested in investing in that time now? Yes. Okay, so let's put you to the first test. I want to grab your attention and prove to you. Go in the corner here. Okay. I want to see you just do a basic squat. You can play along at home. This is the first thing. All right, ready. How's your mobility? Oh, this is good. It actually looks pretty good. I'm going to say he's got good hip depth. Thoracic spine is good. Head is good. Now, head is good. Now, head is up. Now, head is up. Now, do me a favor. You at home, pick up a bar. Put it up overhead. Ready? Let's see if it looks the same. Go ahead. Should be simple. Oh, God, oh, God, oh, God. What's going on? Oh, God, oh, God, oh, God. Everything's… Please don't tell me you're including that. Please c— You're including that, aren't you? Yes, Jesse. Yes, I am. Damn. Do I have your attention now? Yes. Okay, well, hopefully I have everyone's attention because that is one thing that showcases that maybe you aren't doing quite everything you need to do or the right way to do everything. Because that is the difference between mobility and loaded mobility. And everything changes once you put a weight on your back or in your hands when you perform these mobility drills. And if you just stop at being able to do a deep squat and thinking that you have the mobility needed to be good for the rest of your life, trust me, you don't. Because integrating the strength component with range of motion and stability through range of motion is what that loaded mobility test that is not tested when we do not use additional weight when we do not use additional weight. When we do the drills. So, there's a series of things that we can do. We can make a whole video on that in the future that show you how to do some of these things to increase your range of motion and stability all at once. All right. The next thing is, do you ever hang from a bar? Yeah, yes, I do. Now, I believe that we're one of the first I ever talked about hanging from a bar. Here's a video of mine from probably 2012 hanging in my old basement about why it's so important. You need to start hanging from a bar for a variety of reasons. Hanging from a bar will improve your core strength first and foremost. People don't see it as a core exercise, but it very much is. It will improve your grip strength, which we know has other correlations either directly or indirectly to longevity. Speaking of that, it also helped my deadlift and being able to not use straps. It could actually help with your overall strength output in the gym, which we know has other effects and benefits. And also, more importantly, I think kind of feeds into that mobility element where we have to get more thoracic extension and shoulder elevation and mobility there in our shoulder girdle. Well, it does that and it actually is a loaded mobility drill because you're holding your body weight on the bar. How long do you need to do this for? Well, I think you should do it each day. I think if you can work yourself up as a man to two minutes plus, then you're doing a good thing. If you're a female, you can get to a minute and a half or so or somewhere between a minute and a half and two minutes. You're like at the elite level of bar hand capabilities. So, start off as a beginner, 20 seconds, 30 seconds on that bar, but just try to make sure you're doing it consistently if you want to pay off these big dividends like I'm talking about. The third thing, another mobility drill. We're on a little bit of a roll here. Simple thing. Can you touch your fingers behind your back? One going over the top and one from underneath. Let's try it. All right. Again, play along at home. One hand goes up over the top, one hand goes underneath. He's got about, oh, I don't know, like a foot between. Now, you used to be able to do that a lot easier. When I was a kid, yeah. I'm not even going to demonstrate because I used to be able to do it a hell of a lot easier until I tore my labrum, rotator cuff, and everything else in this right arm. What is the importance here, though? You're measuring your external rotation in the top shoulder. You're measuring your shoulder internal rotation on the bottom shoulder. Being able to maximize internal and external rotation at the shoulder is going to normalize shoulder biomechanics. Why is that important? Oh, I know. Why? So you can wash your back in the shower. That. And also, your shoulder girdle takes your spine with it. So, if you are losing mobility in your shoulders, you're not getting your arm up overhead, so it doesn't require as much extension of the spine. If you stop extending at the thoracic spine, then you start rounding at the thoracic spine. So, I think that in the chicken or the egg scenario, working on getting your shoulder mobility and maintaining peak shoulder mobility is going to help your thoracic spine stay as mobile and capable of extending throughout your later years. So, we need to work on that. How would you work on that? Again, try to reach over the top. You can grab a broomstick, as I've shown before, hold onto the broomstick and pull back to get extra rotation. And you can grab a doorknob behind your back like this, and then sink down. Slide yourself down the wall to try to get that arm up more behind your back. So, working on that stretch anytime. It doesn't matter how often you do it. Just work on it both sides. It's going to maintain more flexibility and mobility in your shoulders. Your VO2 max. What's your VO2 max? 10. 10. If you're 10, you probably wouldn't be sitting here next to me at this point. Oh, no. So, your VO2 max is a measurement of your true aerobic capacity. How well your heart can pump and distribute oxygen to the tissues that need it when you're exercising. That is going to decline as you age for all of us. But the biggest indicator, one of the biggest indicators of overall true fitness is being able to hold onto that VO2 max and maximize it as much as you can as you get older. Okay. A simple way to do this is to do 30 seconds of all out sprint activity with 90 seconds of an easier pace. Right? Back and forth around six to eight times. And that's it. And if you work on that once a week even, or twice a week, you will start to see improvements in your VO2 max. You can progress this by adding additional intervals, or you can go for slightly longer intervals where you take it down just a little bit, like one notch or so on the effort level. So, now you're going to go at eight or nine in terms of intensity of effort during that hard all out sprint. And it could be sprinting. It could be riding a bike. It could be… A rower? A rower. Anything like that that can elevate your heart rate and you can go really, really hard for a short period of time. You take that for two minutes and then you go to a two minute rest period. So, one to one work rest ratio. That's four minutes a piece for each of those sequences. You do that about four times or five times. And again, you can add additional rounds if needed, but the idea is you can no longer really afford to ignore that element of fitness. I know a lot of us don't like to spend additional time doing conditioning or cardio. I'm one of them. But you do need to make time at least once a week to work on improving your VO2 max. Water consumption. Two things. Number one, it is very important. I recommend three quarters of your body weight in pounds in ounces of water. So, how much do you weigh? 165. So, 165 is a 40… so, 40 times. It's like 120 something ounces of water every day. Do you drink 120 ounces? Definitely not. All right. So, a lot of people will not be hitting that goal. First of all, knowing the goal is half the battle. Because if you don't know what you're targeting, it's really hard to get there. Knowing now what that number should be, how do you target it more effectively? I always recommend first thing, you get out of bed, you start your day, you have a bottle of water. It's just a habit. It's actually more habit than anything else. But you're starting off with, let's say, 20 ounces of water if you have a Poland Spring bottle. Now, what I usually recommend doing, and I've mentioned this many times before, but it doesn't get old because it works, is you just put a few rubber bands around that. You need to get six of those throughout the day. So, put five additional rubber bands around that bottle. After you drink the first one, fill it up, drink it again. When you drink it, take a rubber band off. Right? You're at four. Drink it again, take a rubber band off. So, it's basically a visual reminder of how much water you drank in the day. And it reminds you that if you've still got five rubber bands on the bottle and it's 5 PM, you're not doing your job. You've got to drink a little bit more. And it's just a matter of sipping it throughout the day. Will you go to the bathroom more often? Yes. Does that matter? No. Because in the long run, staying hydrated makes everything in your body function more efficiently. And it's just a better way to maximize your overall health. Also, if you're getting up to go to the bathroom more often, you're getting your stand goal in. Stand goal and steps. Yeah. You get a few extra steps, depending on how far the bathroom is away from you. Next thing, creatine monohydrate. Are you supplementing with creatine monohydrate? You should be. I am. I see you do it every day, so I know you are. I am as well. I've been supplementing with creatine monohydrate without cycling the product for 35 years. Damn. 35 years. Right? Because I started it when I was a teenager, like 15 years old. I do not believe it's a product that needs to be cycled. I think it's the most well-researched, safest supplement you can put in your body that actually has measurable impacts. Now, we expand that. Right? So, now it's not just for the muscle heads, but now it's actually expanding into the neurological benefits of creatine monohydrate. Helping people who are sleep deprived to function better. Because it's basically feeding your brain's energy system and helping to keep all things running more smoothly. The difference, though, is if you're supplementing creatine monohydrate for your brain, you're going to likely need to have higher doses. So, no longer the 5 grams per day that is adequate for feeding your muscles and energizing your muscles and function, but 10 grams per day. Well, that's what I've been taking to deal with my neurological issues from all my concussions. There's actually a lot of research about post-concussive symptoms and mitigating those. There's some for even mitigating some of the neurological degenerative diseases as well. Like dementia and Alzheimer's. Right. So, it's a supplement that is obviously very much in focus right now, but it sort of has been for a long time. I'm just glad that more people are becoming aware. By the way, if you're looking for a high-quality creatine monohydrate, we have it at AthleanX.com. That's the stuff that Jesse's been taking every day. Yeah. Free, by the way. Free for Jesse. Next thing. When you're in the gym, do you often work on the things that you don't like to do? Yes, I do actually. Okay, that's great. A lot of people do not. A lot of people need to listen to more David Goggins, right? Because David Goggins says, focus on the things that suck because that is where the greatest opportunity lies. And if you don't, who's going to carry the boats? Exactly. And I'm a big believer that you need to devote at least a small portion of every workout, if not half of your workout, to the things that you really don't like doing. And the reason is this. Your bodies are masters of compensation. They love homeostasis. In other words, staying right where they're at. We have a whole series of hormones that work in different cascading patterns to keep your body functioning at this same level. Right? Resistant to change. In a good way, protecting us from the negative changes, but also sort of in a bad way, preventing us from making these positive changes because we don't really want to push to get there and make our systems uncomfortable in the process. Well, I'm telling you we do. So, what I'm recommending is the next time you go train, find one or two exercises that you know have big benefits for you, but you just avoid them because you don't like them as much as maybe sitting down at a comfortable machine and doing an exercise on the machine. Get comfortable being uncomfortable. Which brings me to a very important thing. If you're training, you have to understand the concept of training to failure. Now, I know you've been misled by quite a few people on this platform about the value of training to failure. Please don't believe the hype. Training to failure is incredibly necessary if you want your body to force change, especially if you're a natural lifter. Okay? Now, you have to monitor your overall training volumes in the process. Training to failure and doing 45 sets like I used to when I read my old bodybuilding magazines. I didn't realize they were doing things that were different than I was outside of the magazine article. However, training to failure is the only objective way to know that you've given an adequate effort to stimulate change. Because what happens most often is people who go to the gym, they think what they're doing is failure even when they're attempting to train to failure. And all of a sudden, Arnold walks through the door. Ooh. And then he comes in right next to your ear and whispers in your ear, you're not done. You do it, Arnold. You're not done yet. There you go. Then what do you do? You do more reps. How? Magically, all of a sudden? No, it's because you really weren't truly near failure. So, understanding that you want to make sure that you push yourself because when you likely are falling one or two or three reps shy of failure as it is, and then you're intentionally stopping short of failure because you were told that that was okay or that was enough, you're not getting enough of a stimulus and it's the number one reason why people don't see the results they are seeking when they're training for hypertrophy and size. Now, again, this is different for strength. Well, for a quick example, I remember when I first started training, you came in here watching me do a set of lap pulldowns and you saw me finish my set and you said, what the hell was that? You had plenty more reps. I mean, you were almost comfortable finishing your set. Yeah. The last rep wasn't even that hard. I want to see that last rep to the point where you can't complete it. Yeah. It should still look like, in that case, a lap pulldown, but I want to see that last rep be very difficult to complete to the point where you actually can't complete it. Yeah. And then, again, even there's more room, eccentrically, to challenge yourself in the control of lowering the weight. Some people actually do forced repetitions, forced positive repetitions at that point, and then try to go until they actually can't even control the speed of the ascent of the bar in a lap pulldown or other exercise in that case. Yeah. So, I don't want to take your training to failure. Please. In 2026, please. Next, corrective exercises. So, I talk about these all the time, not just because I'm a physical therapist, but I actually do realize that the benefits of corrective exercises go far beyond fixing the small muscles. When you fix the small muscles, you're fixing the weak links in the kinetic chain. So if you have to convince yourself that there's a bigger, better cause here, then just think about how much more you're going to lift on the big exercises again when you go back to them. Because when you fix those weak links, now you don't have those energy leaks that sort of sap your potential strength. So what are we talking about? Doing the rotator cuff exercises, doing those scapular retraction exercises. Hip mobility. Doing hip mobility, right. Working on face pulls, doing the things that we know actually pay dividends in and of themselves. I think face pulls are a great way to build your upper back. But at the same token, those rotator cuff exercises protect your shoulder, maintain the mobility we talked about before that you can lose, but ultimately make for a stronger kinetic chain. So when you grab that bar in a barbell row, or if you go to do your squat and your hips are sound and strong and mobile and stable, then you have a bigger, stronger squat. Yeah. I mean, for example, I do a lot of corrective exercises and I think that's what built a really great foundation for myself as I started progressing my strength and getting, you know, working on power lifting a little bit. But I think I got the really high totals because I wasn't compensating my body in ways that were going to be not beneficial to me and building my strength. Right. When you build your strength in the gym, you've got a couple options. You've got machines. You've got barbells. You've got dumbbells. You've got body weight. And cables. Well, that's machines. Okay. That's machines. Where should you focus the majority of your time? Free weights. Free weights. If you find that you go to machines simply because they're more predictable, there's less scrutiny because you're kind of almost hidden by the machine. I know people who say that. They say that they feel protected and sort of out of sight when they're not as confident about being, they call it out on the gym floor. Right. I'm going to urge you, especially this coming year, to find your way out to that gym floor, to grab those dumbbells, to grab those barbells, the fixed barbells, the plate loaded barbells, but to start getting yourself to lift more free weights. Because there's a series of additional benefits that come from lifting those free weights that don't necessarily come from the machines. Now machines are a great way to focus the effort to a certain muscle group for hypertrophy. But again, not everything should be looked at through the lens of hypertrophy. We just talked about strength. You need to become multi-dimensional. In terms of my criteria, you want to look like an athlete, you got to train like an athlete. Athletes don't just look good, they also function well. You need everything to function well, so you need to train through a full range of motion. You need to train and load that system like you just loaded back there. Because things are different when you load the system. The body doesn't respond the same way, but you need to train that. And again, even if your body is resilient and resistant to those efforts right now, because it is a little uncomfortable, you got to work your way up through that to get more comfortable. Because there is no way around the value of training with free weights. So I know one benefit. What? When you're working with free weights, you're actually working on stabilizer muscles. When you're using machines, the stability is already there. Yeah, I mean the pattern is dictated by the machine, right? So the machine is giving you the pattern. I want you to learn that movement pattern in space. A perfect example of this is a bench press. When you do a bench press, there is a natural arc of the bar that comes down a little bit lower on the chest and up at the top closer towards your eyes, right? Obviously some well-designed machines will kind of mimic that arc, but a lot of machines don't. And they don't have the perfect arc to meet your body and the demands of your body. And everybody's individual. So I encourage you to use those dumbbells and barbells to find those patterns and those arcs that match your anatomy and your physics. Next thing, when we get older, eating is definitely something that becomes more challenging. Some people will say that I eat what I used to eat before and I get fat, right? That's a real thing. I'm going to tell you why in a second. Other people say I lose my appetite as I get older. As I get into my 70s and 80s, I can't eat what I did before because I'm just not hungry. So why is this? Because as you age, you're going to lose muscle mass. It's an unfortunate consequence of aging. Now we can do everything we can to try to hold on to that and watching this channel and following the advice I already gave you here to make sure you're lifting and doing everything you can to hold on to that muscle is great, but it's going to still happen. You're going to lose muscle mass. As you lose muscle mass, you're losing that metabolically active tissue that allows for those storage areas or the depot of glycogen, which is muscle tissue. You're losing that and therefore, calorically you're not as tolerant. So whatever you did eat before, you cannot eat as much of. So what do you do? You have to prioritize protein. Prioritize protein. If you have a limited amount of calories that your body is going to be able to consume and maintain a certain weight with, prioritizing protein and upping protein intake is going to give you a better chance of holding on to more of that lean muscle tissue because it supports muscle protein synthesis. So what are we looking at here? Again, there's so many numbers that get thrown around here. I am one in the higher protein intake camp. I believe one to 1.2 grams of protein per pound of body weight, especially if you're active. If you're watching this channel and doing the things that I'm recommending here, I would consider you active. One to 1.2 grams of protein per pound of body weight. Well, that's what I've been taking and I think I've made significant progress in muscle mass. Yeah. And I think that it's a little more challenging to do that because protein foods are a little different because they're certainly not as easy to overeat as carbohydrate rich foods are. I always say eating five steaks is a lot harder than eating a five pound plate of pasta. Yeah. But they give you that fullness and they help you to actually control the caloric intake throughout the day because they help to make you feel more satiated if you include it at each meal, which is another recommendation that I make. Inclusion protein every meal. What's another way to increase your protein intake if you're not getting enough just through diet? Well, I'm a big advocate of protein shakes. Again, Pro 30G protein shakes, not an ad, just a fact. One of the best proteins you can find on the market. You can find it over at athleanx.com, but I use protein shakes twice a day. That's 30 grams twice a day at 60 grams. So it helps me to start getting to that number a lot more easily and a lot of other people will use protein shakes for that very reason. Plus they're a lot more economical now when you look at some of the prices of protein comparatively for steaks and fish and everything else. So it's a great way to help people get there. Next thing, I think ab training should be back in 2026. I think that we need a return to focused ab training. And I know that we got off track a little while. It might have been some of the same recommendations we were getting on failure of like, you don't need to train abs. You're good if you just lift heavy weights. And do the compound lifts. That's bullshit. Yeah. Okay. That's bullshit. If you want to maximize the strength of your core, and I'm not just talking about abs. So I said abs, but we're not talking just about abs. We're talking about your abs. We're talking about your obliques. We're talking about your lumbar paraspinal muscles. We're talking about your entire core. Then you need to start doing direct core training. Exercises that challenge rotation, that force you to not rotate, that make you control rotation while it is rotating. That do work in this sagittal plane, but not so many of those exercises because we also want to work on extending and work on that low back. Well, I will say that working on my low back and doing direct low back work really helped, especially with my deadlift because my paraspinals were much stronger and could hit a little heavier weights. Right. Your back was a weak link. Yeah. And it kind of goes back to that corrective exercise part where it's like, yeah, consider it a corrective exercise, but look what it did to the big exercises. Yeah. They skyrocketed. Direct core training. I recommend training your core every day. Every day. It doesn't have to be long. It could be five minutes. And I know we'll laugh, six minute abs, but like, that's all you need. You just need consistency though. And I've made videos on this channel that show you exactly how to do it. You can take any of the ab workouts from this channel and follow them. Just do it consistently and make sure you focus your attention on doing them again because they matter. They haven't lost importance. Sometimes we lose our way. We haven't lost our way here in terms of ab training recommendations. Keep training your abs every day directly if you want your best abs. Another thing that people will always bring up now in terms of what are the options I have for being stronger and healthier as I age? What about pharmaceutical interventions? What about these GLP-1s if I'm struggling with my weight? What about testosterone replacement therapy? What about peptides? They're asking a lot about these other things. What do I feel is the role of these in terms of promoting healthier, longer lives? Well, I think, let me caveat this, that the majority or a majority of people who are using, I'll start with TRT, are doing it as a first line option rather than doing all the things we just talked about already in this video. And I see it because I see it even in your gym. I see it in young kids. I see all of a sudden every young kid has low T. Or they say they saw their doctor and their doctor said they have low T. And it might be true. They might not even be lying about that. Because a lot of times now doctors see this as a great source of income of getting everybody on TRT and they just start handing it out like candy. Please don't do that. Part of the enjoyment of the journey is taking one step at a time and actually following the journey. Because when you see the progress, your own accomplishments become the fuel to more accomplishments. Yeah, I would definitely agree with that. So I don't like when people sort of use this as the first place they go. However, if you are truly suffering from low testosterone, I think that these options are becoming medical miracles for people because they'll talk about the difference in how they felt. They've spent half their life feeling like trash and then all of a sudden now they feel great. But again, even if you have low total testosterone or lower, let's say in the 300s or 400s, I don't think that that's necessarily an automatic that you need to jump on TRT. You have to check your recovery first. You have to check your nutrition. You have to check whether you're trying or training hard enough in the gym in the first place. There's a lot of other check boxes before I think you should go that route. In terms of peptides, I think there's some pretty amazing evolutions in the science. of peptides that could be pretty game changing as the years go on here. One in particular, BPC-157 is a body protection compound. It's made of 15 amino acids. That's where the 1-5 part comes from. But the main job is to essentially seek out areas of damage in the body and help to repair them. We're talking about repairing tendon damage. I popped this biceps tendon. Had I known about the value of BPC-157 then, I might have actually tried to use that to speed up the recovery and actually maybe even improve the repair. Right now, I never got it repaired surgically. I had enough of a tendon remaining there to keep some of it intact. And I still train now pretty much unhindered, but my mind is always thinking. Again, in the world of physical therapy, you have to be aware of the value of these things. I think there's going to be some potential value there. As far as the GLP-1s, again, I do realize that certain people have metabolic disease and metabolic issues that make even the act of getting themselves in the gym to do all the other things we recommend a real challenge. And people that have been using Lozenpic have been seeing miraculous weight loss results. But I will tell you, the loss of muscle that comes at an accelerated pace there is something that you must address. I just don't like to see people take Lozenpic and not realize the additional damage they might be causing by accelerating muscle loss in the process. If you're committed to getting yourself to a weight that's easier for you to get around, to get into the gym and support that by training with weights and building new muscle, then maybe that is a route that I think some people might have to take. And also, intaking more protein would be helpful with that, wouldn't it? Intaking protein. All the things we talked about. But again, I think there's a blocker for certain people because their weight is so prohibitive that it is just preventing even everyday function to be easy enough to get themselves started. I always say the start is what stops most people. A lot of times, in very overweight or obese people, that start is really, really difficult. And so, if these drugs are giving people those options, then so be it. But I think that in terms of the medical possibilities in the future, there's definitely advances being made every single day. But please focus 90% of your effort here first because I think a lot of you will be amazed at what can be accomplished by just focusing there and actually putting in the effort. Last thing. Side planks. Yeah. Right? Random one here, but a side plank. Can you hold a side plank with your top leg up in the air for 30 seconds? Sounds easy, right? No, because I know you made me try it. 30 seconds is all I got. I was trying to drive up the suspense here. You had 27 seconds, actually. You didn't get to 30 seconds. I'm going to challenge you guys here to end this video. Go lay on your side. Put your elbow down on the ground. I'll show a picture here. You actually see it on the thumbnail. Put your elbow down on the ground. Put your top leg up in the air. So you're only being supported by that bottom hip. That is testing your ability to control that frontal plane motion and specifically the glute medius. Can you hold yourself there? I'm going to guarantee that most people cannot. My challenge to you is to build up your ability to do this for 30 seconds. We can't just keep training everything in the sagittal plane. You get a really strong squat. You get a 600, almost 600 pound deadlift, but you couldn't do a 30 second hold. Why? Because your glute medius wasn't strong enough. Guys, work on that. I hope you found the rest of the advice here in this video helpful. If you're looking for those programs and supplements I mentioned before, you can find them over at Athleanx.com. In the meantime, we're almost here at the new year. Happy new year. Let's start the year off right. Let's do the things right. These little things will make a big change and they're going to help you to live a longer, healthier, better quality of life. All right, guys. See you soon. Subscribe to the channel if you haven't already. See ya.