 Geo code code, tb code code, tb code, tb code code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb code, tb eating. And two things happen. Either you are having too hard of a problem with controlling portion sizes, so you're more of an overeater, or you don't have good control over when you eat. You become more of a grazer, right? You're kind of picking as you go throughout the day. So how do we address these two situations? Well, the first one, let's talk about the grazer. The number one most effective method that I've seen people use to help them with grazing is to do this. Write down a few numbers on a piece of paper here. Four, six, and eight. And on the other side, 20, 18, and 16. Okay? Now, you would decide how you want to restrict your eating to within a certain window, right? You're going to adopt an intermittent fasting lifestyle here, just for a short period of time. Because this is going to help you to kind of get on track. And what you're going to choose is either you're going to eat for four hours in a day, six hours in a day, or eight hours in a day. And if you're just starting out, I recommend that you start with the least restrictive time period. So this would be eight hours. Which means, again, that for 16 hours of that day, you're not going to be eating. And you're going to really stick to this. You need to stick to these windows. Because this is going to control that issue of yours. Now, if you adopt this strategy here, let's say starting with eight, you have to do two things. The first thing you have to do is you cannot structure this overlapping the time period that you struggle with right now. So let's say you go to work every day and the problems you have with grazing are every time you walk by the kitchen at work from nine to five in an eight hour window, you're grazing and picking on food. That you wouldn't want to do. You'd want to disrupt your most troublesome part of the day at least by a half. So take half of those hours and lay it out. So instead of nine to five would be your work day, maybe from one to five is when you start that window. So from nine to one, you're not allowed to eat. All right, we're taking away some of that problematic time. The other way people like to do this is they just like to make sure that they start the planning of their window around a time of the day that where there's maybe a non-negotiable meal. So if you like to have dinner with your family, you need to make sure that your eight hour window includes that time for dinner. And then you back it up or push it forward, but you build the window around, let's say six o'clock dinner. Okay, so you could go from, you know, three o'clock to 11 o'clock at night if that worked for you. And again, that would cut into some of that troublesome time that you might be having right now. You'd start with this window here and then you try to become a little bit more restrictive once you become more comfortable with that. So from there, after let's say a week or so doing this, you can go more to a six hour window. Now, most people stop there, but in the warrior diet approach, people actually go as much as just a four hour restricted eating period. I'm not sure that's really necessary for most people, but this will start to control that. Now, let's say you're somebody else. You're the person that tends to overeat at the meals that you have. And I'm going to tell you right now, 99 times out of a hundred, again, it's a problem with carbohydrates because they're the most gratifying, they're the most tasty and delicious. They're also the most likely to be overeaten. It's hard to control portion sizes of carbohydrates. So what I tell you to do is draw a circle. Okay, that is your plate. And all you have to do is identify, pretend this is a clock and identify two specific times on the clock. The first time is nine o'clock, right? That would be your nine, that would be your 12. Okay. And then I want you to do nine 20. And what we've done by drawing nine o'clock and nine 20 is we partition the plate in a way that would make me happy. And it's going to make you happy too, because this is how you're going to see results. You will lose weight if you follow this approach. We're partitioning the plate into different compartments. This compartment over here is protein. Okay. That is almost the biggest portion of your plate. Not to be outdone by the second biggest portion of your plate by just a little bit. And this is your fibrous carbohydrates. I'll tell you about those in one second, which leaves the smallest portion of the plate, right? One quarter of the plate for your starchy carbohydrates. Those are the ones that you're likely already putting on the bottom of your entire plate, right? When you go to set up a plate, you put pasta all over the plate and then you put some protein on top. Or you put rice all over the bottom of the plate and then you put some other protein on top. I want you to have a section of the plate that is confined to the starchy carbohydrates. Now, in terms of the depth of this plate, because we're talking about covering the plate, I also don't want you to build this thing all the way out to the camera, right? I don't want you to have this big mounted high plate that has a huge portion of sizes just building them out this way. You don't want that. You want to be able to look at your plate kind of like I am here and still have about these levels in terms of the amount of food that you're putting on them. Now, what does this do? Well, it controls the most troublesome problem that you're having right now, which is our starchy carbohydrates. It also increases the amount of lower calorie dense foods because of the presence of the fibrous carbohydrates. These are the ones that usually don't have as much carbohydrates, but they have more fiber, which tends to be more filling. So I essentially want you to have twice as many of these as there are these on the plate. The protein also helps in two different ways. Number one, it's also satiating, it's also filling, and it's also providing you with the necessary nutrients you're going to need to build lean muscle, which we can get to in another video about the importance of making sure that you're lifting weights too. But when you're just looking to lose weight, this is going to work. Now, when we have this plate partition this way, everything else is sort of automatic. You don't even necessarily have to count calories because this is taking care of it. Visually, these foods tend to have around the same calories on a gram per gram basis. These foods tend to have the same calories. Again, provided you're not choosing like really fatty versions of the protein. Now, if we follow this, guys, you're going to have the ability to control the main problem you're having right now with those portion sizes. If you want to combine this with the restrictive eating around some time window, then you really have a powerful one-two punch that literally works every single time. Because when we're talking about any type of, and I hate to say the word diet, but manipulation of the way we eat, right, your nutrition, you're really talking about some way of controlling calories. Because ultimately, the rule of thermodynamics states that calories in equals calories out. However, that does require another layer of qualification here. Because, yeah, you're going to lose weight. But what I don't want to see you do is lose muscle in the process. Because losing active muscle or lean tissue is going to cause your metabolism to slow down and make it even more difficult for you to lose weight moving forward. You need to maximize the amount of lean muscle, which is why you want to follow a channel like this, which you can subscribe to right now if you haven't, and follow all the workout advice to maintain and maximize that lean muscle. Because when you want to control where this weight is being lost from, then you're going to want to make sure that you do the following. You have one to 1.2 grams of protein per pound of body weight. Okay? What that will do is it will help to preserve the muscle that you have right now and help you to actively build more. A lot of times people don't really care so much about where their calories are coming from. And it's the number one mistake they make. Because, yes, thermodynamics states that you will lose weight. But I don't care and I don't want you to care just about losing weight. I want you to make sure you're losing body fat. And we want to preserve lean muscle to maintain a higher metabolism to sustain this approach for a lot longer than just this short term approach to help you get on track. Right? So making sure that this requirement is being had. You're following this requirement and making sure that you're not cutting from your protein. And again, when you have the one third plate division, you're already kind of accounting for that. But I want to make sure that you don't do that. Remember, every single meal you have, you should be aiming for that partition of protein on the plate. If you do this, you're well on your way to doing exactly what you're looking to do here, which is lose weight without losing it from the wrong places. Except one other thing needs to happen here. Hand in hand with protein is the need for water. And here we want 0.5 to let's say 0.75 ounces of water per pound of body weight. Okay? So this means at your bare minimum, if you weigh 200 pounds, you're going to want to get 100 ounces of water in a day. If you weigh that same 200 pounds, you go 0.75, you're going to want 150 ounces of water. Now I'm going to qualify this for you because I understand the challenges of drinking this much water. It's pretty damn hard and it's pretty boring. And if you're not conscious of how you do this, you're likely not going to drink enough. You'll shock yourself at how little you actually drink in a day if you actually measure it. So I want you to make sure that you measure in a day here. Again, you're looking to turn 2025 into a year when you finally start to lose weight. Do what I'm telling you here. You'll be shocked and it's going to mean something. You're not drinking enough. So what's the trick here? Drink whatever the hell you want, provided it's zero calorie. So we're not adding to that calorie in and calorie out equation. So you want to drink green tea? Go for it. You want to drink unsweetened iced tea? Go for it. You want to drink like I do, sparkling water? Go for it. Anything you can to make it easier for you to meet this requirement is going to help you to meet your goal finally of losing weight. And when I tell you that it is this simple, it is literally four steps simple. Find your problem, like you said in the beginning. What is your overeating problem or grazing problem? And address it the way I showed you. You want to overlap those methods? Fine. Make sure that you're prioritizing protein regardless of which method that you use. And make sure you're using good high quality protein, which by the way, we have our ATHLEAN Pro 30 G protein available over at ATHLEANX.com. That's how I do it. If you also want to make sure that you're not becoming dehydrated, because even the slightest bit dehydration can drop performance and mental acuity and sharpness by up to 10%. That's not going to make it very easy for you to concentrate on doing the things that we're supposed to be doing to make things right. Make sure you're having enough water in the day, and this is the formula for making sure you do that. Other than that, guys, it is so damn simple, but you just got to make sure you follow the steps. This is the only video you're going to need to make sure you do that. If you're looking for a full plan, guys, meal plans and workouts, we have them available at ATHLEANX.com, all together in single programs. If you're looking for those supplements, you can find them as well. All right, guys, I hope you found this helpful. Share it with someone else that you know it can help. Subscribe and turn on notifications so you'll never miss a video when we put one out. All right, guys, see you soon.