 So, the first exercise up here is actually just going to require a towel that you can roll up and a willingness to start training one leg at a time. See, a lot of us just do bilateral leg training. Squats, deadlifts, leg press, but you're missing out on a very important component and that is stabilization in the frontal plane as well as overloading strength without sort of overloading your spine. So, what we do is we take one foot and put it out in front of the towel and then we perform something called a skater squat, which is a one leg squat. I want your hands out in front of you to help with a little bit of the counterbalance. This leg is going to come up and you're going to target that towel with your knee. So you come down, touch and come up out of it. Now, you're getting 100% of that load on that single leg in this squat, but what's happening is the control of this front knee. If I turn and face you this way, you can see that I'm not just controlling motion in the sagittal plane, but as I go down I'm getting a lot of this happening. And you're likely going to see that happen to you too. And that's good because you need to control your ability to make your leg move in one plane because you need more strength through the hip this way. Now, one thing is that people struggle with the ability to even do this from the beginning. You can turn it into a front leg split squat. If I lean forward over this leg with my chest and go straight down with this foot in contact with the ground, I'm still getting 65% of that load into the front leg. So it's a good place to start until you have the ability to get into this position where you can actually perform it without letting the back leg hit main contact with the ground. One note for you guys who are heavy lifters. If you have half your body weight in your hands, so let's say 160 pound person would have 40 pound dumbbells in their hands. That would be the equivalent load of a 2X body weight squat. So a 320 pound bilateral squat. So without all that load compressing down on your spine, you're able to really overload the quads, still gaining strength and of course have a great exercise option that you could do anywhere. So the next exercise is actually one that we don't work on because we take it for granted. It's actually a balanced exercise and it might look remedial, but I promise you, you're going to show yourself and prove to yourself that you actually need some additional work. And all it is, is standing on one leg with the leg out in front of you like this. Now you have two hand positions here. You can either have them out at your sides for a little bit more balance control or up overhead for a little less balance control, a little bit more of a challenge. But the idea is how long do you do this for? Right? 60 seconds is the target, but don't be too confident right now because this is actually the really easy part. Whether you're here or here, the thing that nobody does is they never train their balance in a more compromised state. And the way to compromise your balance and challenge yourself more is to close your eyes. Because when we have our eyes, we can see when we're starting to fall and we can make those changes in our ankle joint to get ourselves back on track and regain our balance. But when we take away the eyes, now I have to rely completely on my brain's ability to communicate with the ankle and make those changes and adaptations only through feel. And when you think about when most people fall, they fall at night in the dark, especially as we get older. Every person, every 20 seconds dies by a fall. We don't want to subject ourselves to that. We want to train this. And again, the best way to do this is to work on controlling your balance with your eyes closed for up to 60 seconds. And it's natural to have these perturbations and movements like this. The whole idea is do you have to put your foot back down in contact with the ground or not? If you can make it a full 60 seconds, then you've done the right thing. Start with your arms out, eyes closed. Move up to your arms overhead, eyes closed. See if you can master 60 seconds on each leg. So this next exercise actually is going to target your hips. And believe me, your hips need targeting both into flexion and also by having the ability to extend your hip. Because by sitting all day long, we do tend to get tight and get stuck in that position. Our hip flexors don't have the mobility and flexibility that we need. However, at the same time, a degradation of the hip joint is going to lead to a loss of hip flexion, the ability to get your chest down towards that thigh. We don't want that to happen. So what we can do is do this movement here. It's called a warrior lunge. You're going to step out with one leg out in front of you like this and then the back leg is going back behind you. So this is the hip that's getting stretched on the hip flexor. This is the one we want to get into deep hip flexion in the joint itself. So one we're targeting muscles, one side we're targeting joints. So what we do is start with the knee in contact with the ground, right? That's going to make it more stable and easy for all of us to do. You take your hands, you reach out, you let your chest go out as far as you can over that front knee. Okay. To get into this real deep hip flexion on the side at the same time, getting a good stretch on that back leg. From here, you then reach up. What this is going to do is kind of sink the hips down and forward, which will give more of that stretch on that back leg. And again, open up that hip flexor on that side and go back down again. So you kind of handle these in reps forward, hold for two, three seconds, come up, hold for two, three seconds. Now, if you want even more of a challenge here, all you have to do is do the same thing, but with that knee off the ground. So now you've got that stability that we just challenged in the last exercise. So right here. Now that knee is off the ground. I'm going to lean forward as far as I can. The legs are obviously working more here. So it becomes more of a strength challenge. Come up, reach, hold for two to three seconds and come down. You want to do this for about five or six repetitions on each leg. I got to obviously switch up to the other side. It's a great way to challenge not just your stability, but your mobility and flexibility all in one shot. The next exercise here is actually another one of those mobilizer and flexibility increasers, right? It's for the hips again. We call it the NSFW. Not safe for work because it's not one you would just want to go do everywhere. It looks a little shady. I'm going to be honest with you. What it does is a lot of good for you. So what you do is I'm going to turn this way first. You're going to put your feet together like that. Okay? So as long as your toes are together, you want to do that so you get external rotation into your hips. So with this position here, now what I'm going to do is basically allow myself to reach out as far as I can as I sit back down into my hips. Okay? I'm sitting down into my hips at the same time of letting myself reach up overhead. It's another one that's doing what? Doing that deep hip flexion, right? The one that we lose as those hip joints become more and more really destabilized and deconditioned over the years or really degraded at worst. And then what we're doing is on top of that, getting a good thoracic spine stretch, right? By having my chest down and my arms up. From here, what I do is I slide forward. This is the part that gets a little shady looking. And I allow myself to kind of push down to the ground and then let the hips sink. Now, some of you might stay up high like that. You want to try to let your hips sink down as much as you can. That's working on getting more of that external rotation into the hip. Another component that we lose when hips become degenerated. So down into this position here. Again, push yourself up with a little bit of assistance. Sink down and back. Just like that. And again, you get that thoracic mobility and that deep hip flexion. As well as down through here, getting into that hip external rotation assisted by the ground. You go back and forth about five or six times on this. And again, maybe not appropriate for everywhere, but certainly appropriate for you every day that you can do anywhere in your own house. Now, no respect for longevity is going to ever be worth a damn if it doesn't pay attention to the backside, to the posterior chain. Because it's the area that gets unnoticed, overlooked, and oftentimes very, very weak very quickly. So, this exercise I want you to invest some time into is something we call the Angel in Devils. And all you have to do is get face down on the ground like this. And then what we're looking to do is engage a lot of different muscles in that posterior chain. All the ones that tend to get overlooked. You start by having your arms up out in front of you. You're going to lift your thighs off the ground to engage your glutes, right? Get stronger. And then also your low back. At the same time, you're going to lift your arms up off the ground to work some of those upper scap and mid scap muscles. And from this position here, you're just going to swim your hands all the way to the back. Point your thumbs down at this point. And then point your thumbs towards each other at the top. Lift as hard as you can. Try to get your chest as high as you can up off the mat. Touch your thumbs together if you can. Never let your thighs leave the air, right? Don't let them touch the ground again. From here, rotate around again. This time, thumbs are facing forward. Come all the way to the front and the thumbs are facing up. So we're getting that extra rotation. So you're also working the rotator cuff. Again, those mid scap muscles that tend to be very weak. The glutes, the low back. Very slow, very deliberate. Each and every single repetition. You'll find that your range will improve on every one. The idea here is to see if you can get through five or six reps of this with good control without allowing your chest or your thighs to make contact with the ground until you're done. The problem with weak glutes is that number one, most of us suffer from that. Secondly, they're meant to support your low back. In other words, the glutes should drive the support of your low back from the ground up. How do we do it? We have to teach the glutes to fire first and then let the low back assist. The best way to do it is with a simple exercise called the reverse hyper. And all you need is really a bed. Now, of course, if you're doing this in a gym, you do it on the side of a bench. But all you do is you get right to hip level up on top of the bed. Lay forward down on top of it just like this. And then all you're going to do is squeeze your glutes first and lift your legs up. So squeeze and lift. At the top here, yes, you're going to feel your low back right in through here. But only after the glutes have engaged and driven the legs up. So again, from here, legs are down. Lift squeeze through the glutes. Hold for a second and come down. Now, what a lot of people will do is when they lift their legs up into extension, they just rotate. They turn their legs up. They're kind of doing this because they're trying to substitute for the lack of strength that they have in their glute max to actually drive this to the right way. So if you want to test what your actual true strength is, try to do one leg at a time. So when I'm in this position, lift up one leg at a time and see what happens to your leg. Is your toe turning either in or out at all? Or are you able to keep your toe pointed straight down to the ground as you lift the leg up? Ideally, when you bring them back together again, you're able to lift them both up. Toes stay down towards the ground here like this. And you drive that glute contraction as the supporter of the low back. And don't ask the low back to do more than it can in the same time, subject it to strains and stresses. So now, look, you don't have to do all the exercises I showed you. But if you're one of the negotiator types who likes to say, Jeff, what's the one I can do that's going to have the most bang for the buck? Well, this is going to be this one right here. And we talk about the bar hang. All you got to do is set up a pull up bar and a doorway like this and perform it one of two ways. The first one we talk about is a passive version of this. In which case, you hold the bar and then you just drop your body weight. All right? I'm dropping but I'm keeping my toes in contact with the ground. I can actually swivel my feet. What this does is it creates a decompression of the lumbar spine. So anybody that has any disc issues, past or present, or any tightness in the low back, this will feel really good if you hold it for about 60 seconds. That's the goal here, a fixed time done. You also can see that you're getting some additional benefits. Good lat flexibility, good shoulder mobility, and actually thoracic mobility like we showed before in the NSFW by just simply pushing your chest through your arms to get this area of the spine more mobile into extension. The second version of this is more challenging. It's called the active hang. Right? And here, now you pick your feet up off the ground like this and instantly you turn on your This is one of the harder core activities, believe it or not, even though it's isometric. It really, really lights up your midsection. And on top of it, you're not compromising any of the benefits that we just talked about on the passive hang. Maybe just a little bit of the decompression component of the passive because your feet are not in contact with the ground anymore. You're not unweighting your pelvis. But you still have all that thoracic mobility, shoulder flexibility, lat flexibility, shoulder mobility, and at the same time also grip strength. Right? Because we know that grip strength is a good indicator of longevity and quality of life. Here, though, you would hang for as long as possible. So, if you're looking for a little bit of a protocol that you could do, you would go one day of the active hang as long as you can. The second time you did the hang, you do a passive version for a fixed 60 seconds. So, like on day two. And then on day three, when you come back to the active hang, instead of trying to hold for longer, you just take 60% of that hold time that you did the first day and you do it times two with a really short rest in between. So, let's say I held for one minute in this position here like this. Today, when I come back, I'm going to do 36 seconds. That's 60% times two. The rest time after I hit my 36 seconds is enough to just shake my hands out, get my arms kind of feeling loose again, get some blood back in there, maybe 10 seconds, get right back up there again. So, with that little brief reprieve, now you're accumulating one minute and 12 seconds. 36 seconds times two. One minute and 12 seconds of hold time, which is greater than your one minute that you did two days before. And when you do that, you'll start to continue to progress and add more and more hold time in terms of your max effort days. Because the next time out, you come back, you repeat the cycle with another max effort hang. The fact is, guys, these little investments of time are going to pay huge dividends to increasing not just your longevity, but the quality of your life in longevity. Because without that, nothing else matters, guys. And as a physical therapist and someone who puts a lot of training advice here on this channel, knowing how to maximize how you feel to keep yourself in the gym, making gains for a long time to come is the key. If you haven't done so, guys, you can find programs and supplements over at athleanx.com. Make sure you go check them out. And if you haven't subscribed, make sure you click subscribe and turn on notifications so you don't miss a video when I'm putting one out. All right, guys, see you soon.