 So we all make mistakes, even Jesse. I've made plenty of mistakes. And you have too. But the good news is, if you learn from your mistakes, then you can take yourself to whole new levels of progress in the gym. Today I'm going to go over nutrition mistakes, workout mistakes, mistakes that I made that I'm actually pretty glad I made. Yeah. Because it taught me a valuable lesson and it's going to do the same for you. So we can get let go of all of our embarrassments here today because we're all in the same boat. Yeah. All right. So let's start talking about what they are. And so we we we we have a lot of people we have a lot of! we we we have moment in my training journey. When was that? Early. See, what I think people do is they don't treat the big lifts the way they should be treated. Let me give you a little story. So when I trained, anyone that's followed me for a length of time knows that I have an older brother, four years older, who basically motivated me to get started training. I just wanted to hang out with him a little bit. So I trained in the gym down in the basement with him. But I wasn't really doing anything too serious. But when I started to actually bench press, for instance, I was adding weight to the bar. I had him there to spot me. But then something happened. He left for college. He's four years older than me. And he left at a time that was very important developmentally for me in my early teens. 15, 14 years old, right? 15 and there. So what I started to do with no spotter working out in my basement was I started to train on a Smith machine. I went out and bought a Smith machine and that's what I did my bench press in. Or I would do it in a rack. But I have to admit, like whenever I failed, I had to take all the plates off and then put the bar back on top and get myself ready for the next. And I was too lazy to really care about doing that over and over and over again. And doing that's no fun either. I've been pinned under the rack before and it's unracking and re-racking and putting the plates back on. It sucks. Yeah, it's a pain in the ass. So what did I do? I didn't really want to bench press that way anymore. And I kind of abandoned it at a pretty critical time because as a beginner, your foundation around those big three lifts really does set the stage for strength and ultimately building up a solid base and foundation that you can start to pile upon as you get more and more years of training experience. Well, yeah. I mean, also don't forget when I first started working out, I was terrified of the big lifts. I didn't want to go anywhere near barbell and it was under you telling me you have to start lifting this way in order to see growth and strength that I finally did it. And thank goodness that you told me that you, that I needed to do it because I love it now. Yeah. It's what we call it an extra phobia where you just sort of, you're scared of those movements because they're the most complicated with multiple joints moving. And you're also scared of the fact that they do allow for the most weight to be used on the exercise. Yeah. Now, one of the things I think people do still to this day is they appreciate the value of the big lifts and they're probably doing it even in their younger developmental years. And that's a good thing, but they're not treating the big lifts well enough. See, you can't just check the box that you do bench and you do squat and you do deadlift. If you're not progressively trying to get stronger in those exercises. And I mean that, I mean, literally trying to progressively get stronger in those exercises. And that means utilizing proper programming of those exercises so that the right number of times per week, the right type of loads that are being lifted here. A lot of times guys still train to failure on those lifts or they try to approach failure. And we'll get to that in a second, but they try to approach failure when, when we are trying to build strength, that's not the approach you want to use. And that is actually something you learned quite a bit. Yeah. I learned when trying to get stronger that by lifting sub-maximately, I was actually getting stronger in the process. It's a weird kind of concept to get a hold of when you first start out. Like if I'm not lifting max weights, I'm not maxing out in the gym every single time I get on a hold of a ball. How you're getting absolutely stronger. Yeah, exactly. But it does. That's, that's the way strength works. So doing those lifts and doing them the appropriate way is something you need to invest time and knowledge into doing so that you can build that foundation because that starts. So that's something that I think people make early on. Yeah. Progressing down the list here. And again, I made this mistake. The volumes that we train at right now, I grew up in an era where all I had, I did not have YouTube. I had magazines and I had guys like Sean Ray and Lee Labrada and guys that actually still follow. And some of them actually followed me today. I'm very honored about that. Pretty cool. But I, I, I actually saw the volumes they trained with and just followed along because that's what I figured I needed to do. And there were moments and times when I did 35 set workouts for just chest. Wow. Or did 40 set workouts for back and biceps. Jeez. Right. And I can tell you that my biceps never needed that much volume. I can tell you that no muscle group in my body ever needed that much volume. And I can promise you guys that you don't either. However, we have modern day equivalents of this also. And that is we see our favorite influencer and whether or not they're using or not using something, we do sort of sometimes blindly follow what they're doing in an attempt to achieve what they're achieving. Yeah. It's a major mistake. It's a major mistake. And again, I always told you guys volume and intensity are highly correlated. If you train hard, you cannot train long. You can do one or the other. You cannot do both. And I believe as we'll get to in a second here, when it comes to the option of training harder, but shorter, that's the appropriate option for most people. Because if you're natural and you're trying to see gains, optimizing your recovery time is a much faster way to get to the results that you're ultimately looking for. But spending time, too much time in the gym, just using high volume, that's not even adequate to actually produce the change that you're looking for. And a lot of times it leads to these early stage breakdowns earlier than you should see them. Yeah. It's almost like coming from a baseball background. How many of these pitchers are actually blowing out elbows now at ages they never did before? Oh my God. Everyone seems like they're having Tom and John surgery. Growing up, we didn't see these breakdowns start to happen until they were 38, 39, or 40. Now we're seeing it early because there's too much use without any compartmentalization in terms of the types of things that you're doing. So even if you're doing a higher set workout of chest, how are you splitting up the exercises that you're doing? Because if you're doing incline, decline, flat, dips, pushups, there's nothing that's including the elements I always talk about of adduction, you're not complementing the exercise choices based around the specific function of those exercises. You're just piling on more volume into the same function, which is not going to have an additive effect. At some point, it actually starts to have a negative effect. Diminishing returns, as they say. That's what they say. So you need to realize that the option of just simply adding volume, though some studies might point you to increased volume over very low volume being more effective, always consider the fact that the equalizing factor of that is going to be your intensity and the effort that you put forth. And I'm going to always want you to veer more towards the effort if you're looking to build muscle naturally. Another thing I did wrong here, this goes into the diet side of these, but again, I think there's such a modern day equivalent of this too. And there's how do you approach your nutrition? Because I'm going to tell you this. If you want to build muscle or the best physique that you can, you need to get your nutrition in check. Of course. And I don't think people understand how important that really is. I think I've gone on record as saying 70% of how you look is based on nutrition. I will tell you that 90% of how lean you are, 95% of how lean you are, happens to come down to how you eat and fuel your body. Not any of the things that you're doing in the gym, and I don't even care if it's conditioning or cardio and burning a few extra calories here or there. It's how you fuel your body on a consistent basis is what determines your levels of body fat. So if you want to be lean and ripped, that's going to come down to how you eat. Now add on another element that if you want to be lean and ripped or lower levels of body fat, it's going to come down to how you eat consistently. Yeah. Because it's not just about how you do the one thing. Now we add on to the fact that if you want to be lean and ripped and you need to do it well and consistently, then how are you going to do that if you're doing it based around some type of exclusionary approach? Oh, that's the worst. For me, it was dietary fat. Really? Because again, you got to go back to the era that I sort of sharpened my teeth in, and that was back in the 80s and 90s. And dietary fat was the enemy for us, especially guys trying to be lean. So I avoided dietary fat almost completely. Like if I could count my grams of fat, there were times where I don't think I had one gram in my diet unless it was happening accidentally. That doesn't sound healthy. No, I paid the price. And I've shared this story before. Like I literally was freezing during the day. I had no ability to tolerate any temperature change. And I'm talking about even just an air conditioned room was too much for me. I had no insulation capabilities. My worst thing was my eyes and the photosensitivity I had to the sun was horrible. I could not go out in the sun without squinting, like barely able to open my eyes because we know that the fats that you eat are very important to the phospholipid layers of important cells in your body, including those photoreceptors in your eyes and a lot of other important cells in your body that I was literally depleting myself in ways that were completely unhealthy. Luckily, they're so overt that I saw these things and these changes and these negative changes happening that I was smart enough to intervene and actually start having some body fat. But what's the difference nowadays when people want to run to exclusionary dietary approaches regarding, let's say, even carbohydrates? Oh, everyone wants to eliminate carbs completely and thinking they're the enemy and that if they want to get lean that they have to completely avoid it. Just eat meat and fat and no carbs. Yeah. Or, you know, the keto approach, right? Like, guys, I don't want to turn this video into an anti-keto and I know that already there's the commenters are queuing up to call me an idiot and outdated. No, this is about sensibility and this is about longevity and sustainability. I've said it to you before, if you want to follow one of those approaches, but for you it works so well because your body tolerates the fact that you don't do not need carbohydrates, but you can sustain that and you, you, you function at a high level and nothing is compromised, then by all means, go ahead and do that. I'm saying that through my bulk of experience working with people who have tried these things, they do not have sustainability. And without the sustainability, your ability to follow that nutrition to the point where you actually get the results you're looking for is going to go out the window. So the nutrition approach has to be something that you can sustain and anything usually built around deprivation is not going to be sustainable. Yeah. That's my personal opinion. And I believe it's a mistake that still to this day is something people need to be very mindful of. Let's stick on nutrition and talk about the role of supplementation. Okay. You actually have a good experience here. Yeah. Talk about supplementation. I think people still at times view them as more than supplements, they become staples. Now they should be supplement staples, but they shouldn't be the staples. They shouldn't be replacing your meals. Right. That's what Jeff is saying. And you would talk, yours was early hours regarding weight gainers, right? Yeah. So when I first started lifting, um, even back when I was in high school, when I wasn't really taking it seriously or anything like that, I was always still, you got to put on mass, you have to put on size. So I figured the best way to do that was to start drinking mass gainers, just all those liquid calories and those protein shakes and everything like that. Um, however, I found that the problem with that was I wasn't actually increasing my appetite and that was a problem for me because when it came time to eat actual meals and have nutrient dense meals, I wasn't getting in what I probably should have in terms of volume. Can I tell you why that happens? Yeah. Because when you, your body literally like your stomach will actually grow and accommodate in size. Yeah. I know a lot of people hear the bullshit stories sometimes of breeders who go on those big movie bulks, right? And all of a sudden they make those transformations and we probably know there's some other stuff happening behind the scenes that's leading to that. Yeah. But the, the, the reason they, that they always give for what the biggest challenge of that transformation was what? Eating. Yeah. It was like, Oh, I can never, I couldn't eat. The biggest hardest part for me was eating all I had to eat. You know, it's like, it wasn't injecting what I was supposed to inject, but it was eating what I had to eat. But there's truth to that because you literally have to work at that. When I was in high school and starting to go down the road of trying to be more bodybuilder ask, I had never put the tights on. I never did any of that, but I was trying to become bigger and stronger. Um, I remember packing like two sandwiches, right. Or an extra can of tuna. I actually did. I had a can of tuna and I would open that as disgusting as well in the cafeteria, but like I was trying to physically eat more food through more opportunities. So more snacks and also having more food for every meal. Well, that's what you work. That's what you did for me too, is you told me that in order to increase the calories that I was taking in, I shouldn't be rushing to the mass gainers. I should be trying to eat whole foods or at least foods with nutrients. That stretches and build the capacity of the stomach. And if you remember, one of the things that I was doing was every time I came to work, I had like two or three extra peanut butter and jelly sandwiches that I'd have throughout the day, just at random points of the day, just eating a little bit more just to increase that stomach size. So, and the other benefit of that though, is just learning how to actually eat nutrition, how to, how to consume nutrition and how to feed your body and realize that your body is a machine that you are fueling it. The same way that you would put gasoline in, you were putting food into your body for fuel and just simply trying to get it all through a liquid shake. Again, goes back to the last point. Where's the sustainability in that? Yeah. I don't think that's a good long term approach. It also comes down to the fact that like, if you think about it, your body is a car, like a machine and you're putting fuel in it. If you're driving a high-end sports car, you're going to put in the highest minimum octane fuel. You're not going to treat your body the same way in the fact that you're not going to be shoving McDonald's Big Macs down your throat, trying to get bigger and stronger and leaner at the same time. Nutrition quality is a whole other part two. And you need to learn that along the way is that the quality matters. But again, you won't learn about quality if you're never putting any of the food in your body in the first place. And you're trying to do it all through supplements and weight gainers and mass gainers. Yeah. This one actually is close to my heart as a physical therapist, because I see it happen all too often. And this is something that I did really early on because I was blessed with the flattest feet known to man. Yeah. Flippers for flipper feet. But it was training through pain instead of around the pain. Yeah. Right. In other words, like training, despite the fact that I was in pain, doing the things that I still thought I was supposed to be doing. So for instance, I talk all the time about my trashy knees and the fact that there's nothing left there. Right. That happened as a result of basically just hardheadedly going through squat after squat after squat with completely effed up foot biomechanics and being as flat as possible and caving in the, you know, we talked about over pronation caving in, which puts stress on the knees, which then puts stress on the hips as a result of that, which puts stress on the low back, like never really caring enough to delve into what's going on. Why are my knees hurting so bad? What can I do to fix it? Just instead training through it. And a lot of people think that that's some sort of badge of honor. Yeah, that is not a badge of honor. The athletes that I work with these days, they know that it's not a badge of honor. It's actually, uh, it's, it's a mark of stupidity, especially in ignorance for longevity, right? Like they're not, these guys know better to think long-term down the road because modern day technology makes it easier for you to compete for love for many more years, right? Guys are playing into their later years. If they're giving that away because they're hardheadedly, again, not addressing something that could be addressed, that's allows them to keep playing around that pain. Then that's something that they're, they're sort of making a giant mistake on. So what do you do with your own training? When your shoulder hurts, it's time to go bench, right? Or when your knee hurts, it's time to go squat or when your back's hurting, but, but a low bar squat hurts that. Do you just keep low bar squatting? No. Do you, do you switch to a Bulgarian split squat because you can keep your back in a neutral position? Yeah. That's one option. Do you do a high bar squat because it's an, it's another option being understanding of all the different ways you can go and also understanding that there's a lot of ways to get to the same end goal. That's a skill that we all need to develop. And I think people don't understand that enough. They state, they think that there's only one path to where they need to be. I did hear, um, Michael Hearn, Michael Hearn spoke about incline benching, right? Like he says, he exclusively in climb benches does not do flat benching. Abandoned that a long time ago and actually even tells his son, his young son, we're not doing anything but incline benching. I, I honestly, I applaud the conclusion because for him, a lot of people say, I know, but I, I know how valuable flat benching is. I should do flat benching at some point. I've been told I should mix it up. But what if you found that that is the, the, the, the solution that works best for you is to just incline bench press. That's where you see your best results. Yeah. That's not bothering your shoulder. And, and right. Or, well, in this case, maybe that would actually more than a flat bench, but I'm just talking about in general, that path leads to better results, right? Commit to it, commit to it. When you're seeing pain or feeling pain from something, try to find out the source of that pain, try train around it with these other variations. And then again, as you address that pain, you might be able to reintroduce the thing that was causing you pain in the first place, but simply banging away at the same thing that was causing the pain is going to lead to more pain until ultimately you can't train at all. Yeah. It's not a good approach. That's the last thing we want. We don't want to be kicked out of the gym for, for injuries or pains or discomforts. Next up, this one is a very sore spot for me, especially because I feel like people flip flop on us all the time. Um, and I have not, but we're talking about training to failure, right? And the role of training to failure. This is a place where I'm actually lucky to have grown up when I did and learned how to train when I did, because the people that I was watching, though they were doing 35 or 40 sets, you know, were also training to failure and training to failure. As I said before, train long, train hard, but you can't do both. You, you need to be able to put forth that effort and train to failure was a critical part of seeing the results that I believe a natural lifter needs to do. It might sound counterintuitive because, Oh, we can't recover from that. Well, that's because you can't do those volumes and train to failure and all those sets, right? But you have to pull those volumes down, but then you do have to put forth the effort and push yourself to failure. And again, a lot of the people who even recently within the last couple of years were preaching to you all about reps and reserve and how important it is are now all of a sudden suddenly saying how trained to failure is where it's at. Like it's always been at there. Yeah. The thing is that it's your objective way to understand. So even beginners who are just starting out, the giant mistake they would make is not, training to failure because they have to learn what failure is, right? They have to get to that objective end point. I'm talking about failure within good form, not this ugly shit where you can't even recognize the exercise you're doing. That's an injury risk. I'm talking about training to failure through a good mechanical form and then say, yeah, I can't get another rep. I at least know that objectively across the board, I've reached failure. And then I can work off of that. If I do want to back off for a set or so, so I don't do every single set to failure, I can do that. Because at least I know what failure is, but getting into this and saying four to five reps in reserve or three reps in reserve or two rep, there is no context for that. People don't even know what that is. And considering the fact that most beginners always underestimate their capabilities in the gym. Oh yeah. Everyone is always saying, Oh yeah, I, I, it starts to burn. I'm done. I'm done. Right. Like, you know, like, like that's not, as you'll find out the longer you lift, that's not the right feeling to be backing away from. Sometimes that's the exact feeling you need to lean into. And as we talked about before, the higher the rep count goes to where you're going to fail, the more imperative it is in that set that you actually take it through that burn into failure to actually go to full muscle failure in that set. It's like metabolic training. When you always say like the, the, the set starts when the burn starts, right? Because if you stopped when the burn starts, you're stopping so short of failure that you're not going to see any gains that are, that are coming to you. I mean, that's, that's science proven. Now we know that the, the, the capacity to build muscle can happen across a wide variety of rep range from five all the way up to 30. Yeah. But the, the necessity of getting that set to absolute failure is going to be more and more necessary the higher those reps go in a set. So if you're going to failure at 18 reps, 22 reps, 25 reps, you really have to take it to that failure point and beyond like that and get through there to ensure that you get there. Look guys, remember mistakes are only mistakes. Only if you don't learn from them, we all make them. The key is what you do in response to them. If you're looking to fix your gym mistakes, I actually have a video for you to check out over here. And also if you haven't done so make sure you click subscribe and turn on your notifications so you never miss a video when we put it out. Guys, complete programs, meal plans all available over at athleanx.com. Hope this helped you out. See ya.