 So maybe you've been doing a lot of ab workout, you've got nutrition in a good place, but you still can't see your abs, it might be because you're just not loading your abs, it might be because you're just not loading your abs exercises enough. Today I'm going to show you a weighted ab workout that you can use either a 5 pound plate for beginners, a 10 pound plate for beginners, a 10 pound plate for intermediates, or a 25 pound plate for intermediates, or a 25 pound plate for advanced, that will help to develop your abs to make them stand at attention. All you're going to need is just a little bit of space on the floor here in 9 minutes. Let's do it. The first exercise up is this plate pass reverse crunch, and this one's going to hit the lower abs. This is what you're going to hit the lower abs with this bottom up movement. The weight is going to be pushed underneath your tailbone as you curl up, which requires A, that you get enough of a lift on the tailbone from the work of the lower abs, and also that you can hold it up there long enough to accomplish the pass. The heavier the weight, the more friction as you try to push it across, and the more stabilization needed. You do this for 60 seconds. If needed, you can rest pause your way all the way through. You do this for 60 seconds. You do this for 60 seconds. That's called the hideaway twisting leg raise. So here what you do is take the plate and engage the abs by lifting the shoulders up against the weight of gravity. Now, the idea is the rest of the movement is what's happening with the legs. You want to get them lifted to the point where the toes disappear or hide away behind the plate. Once you lose sight of the toes, then you twist the torso at the bottom, again creating that bottom up rotation and intensifying the exercise. 60 seconds once again here. That's turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning Thank you. Here we take that rotation up to another level with the Russian Twist and Press. And what I want you to focus on here is trying to keep the legs up off the ground the entire time, requiring a lot of core stability and balance as you do this. And as you get into the middle of the exercise, you're reaching the plate up and overhead. The higher that plate goes, the more that weight wants to actually try to pull you backwards, requiring, again, more intense contractions of the core. But again, the rotation itself here is what's driving the effectiveness of this exercise. Do it once again for 60 seconds if you can. Do it once again for 60 seconds. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.