 Equipeneb Even people that train their abs aren't doing correctly. And that's because, again, anatomically, which means we break out the muscle markers, if we look at the muscles that we try to train to get a flatter stomach, most of us focus on this one here. It's the rectus abdominis, right? The six-pack muscles that run vertically and are responsible, if you follow those fibers, for moving your spine in this direction, for crunching. That being said, why are we ignoring when we're looking for a flatter stomach or a smaller waistline? Why are we ignoring the muscle that does this? It runs horizontally. It's called the transverse abdominis, right? Its job, when it contracts, is not to pull down. Its job is to pull in. So, if we were to look at the weights like this, and this being the transverse abdominis, when you contract it, it does that, right? It contracts. It brings down the circumference of the waistline by pulling in. It actually supports your internal organs and structures. But, at the same time, it's got this aesthetic effect. So, how do we get ourselves to learn how to do this? Because, I guarantee, 95% of us out there are not even ever training this muscle. And the only way to actually do it is to train the muscle, consciously. So, for me, there's an exercise that you can do literally every morning, if you want to, every day, any time of the day, that will teach you how to engage this. It's the vacuum. And no, it's not just reserved for Mr. Olympia and bodybuilders. It's reserved for people who want to learn how to actually have an effect on the tone of this important muscle. So, what we do is a three-step process. I'll explain it, and then I'll show it, because I can't really talk and do it at the same time. The first thing you do is you just expand your ribcage. So, you get a big chest. Try to get a big, open chest. I always like to say lift the sternum up. Step two. You're going to take a big, deep breath in, and then you're going to exhale all of that out until you feel like you cannot get any more air out. It's at that point that, step three, you take your belly button and you try to pull it back towards your spine. Now, because of the negative pressure that you've created by exhaling all that air, it almost acts like a magnet. It's going to be easier to pull your belly button towards your spine like a magnet than it would be if you were trying to do it right now with a full belly full of air. All right? So, let me show you how it looks. Again, I won't speak as I do it. Chest up. Chest up. And then you let it go. If you can't do it from there, though, you have options. This is why I say you can do it every morning because it's a good time, a good idea to do it when you get out of bed by leaning on the bed. Doing it from this position posturally makes it easier for people to actually pull that belly button in. But the steps are still the same. You're going to take that breath in. Again, chest is up. Breath goes in. Breathe out. Sorry to interrupt Jeff's vacuum with my vacuuming, but I got some not-so-sucky news for you. Jeff actually put together a complete 22-day workout plan that's going to show you step-by-step exactly what he's teaching you in this video. And it's free. Available over at athleanx.com slash flat stomach. I think I missed the spot. And pull. Again, even I get a good, almost cramping right along that entire muscle belly. Now, here's what's important, though. You can't just learn how to activate it. If you're going to train your abs, you need to learn how to engage it during those activities. So, if I get down on my back, what I see a lot of people do when they do their ab exercises is they lose complete control of that muscle. So, they crunch up and they push out. At the same time, they're pushing their belly out. That's not engaging that muscle. That's not cinching it down. I need you to be able to take the activation skills that you learned there and do it when you crunch. So, if you're in this position here, same thing. Breathe in. Out. This is to set the exercise up. Out. Pull down. Good. Hold it. I could actually hold it and talk. I could actually contract and do my crunches from here, too. Leaving that muscle cinched down. And that's the kind of control that you'll get as you do more of this. I'm not pushing out every time I go. You get that almost ab-distention combination look that's no longer really appealing either. So, if you can pull down, cinch down, and then do your ab exercises, I don't care if you do a lot less reps. You're combining the two muscles together in a way that's going to help. Easier. Do it in a plank. And you know I don't really love planks. But if you do it from a plank position, it's going to be easier for you to engage. And it's going to actually make the plank something worthwhile. I don't think the plank should just be done here for as long as possible. Especially with the sagging stomach, no activation of the transverse. For me, I want to see you do the same concept. Breathe in. Breathe out. Pull up. That's the position that I want you to do your plank from. Now, you hold as hard as you possibly can. You could actually drive your elbows backwards and your toes forward in an RKC-type plank to really engage that. And then after you've done that repetition for five seconds, you can let it relax a little bit to almost reset for rep number two. And then same thing. Blow out. Pull. Pull. And drive. And that's an amazing way to actually make that plank something worth doing. Now, the exercises you choose are going to be important for making that muscle become better at holding. Because a lot of us will have a hard time once we stand and do some kind of a standing ab exercise, like a standing crunch or some kind of rotational ab exercise. It gets even harder. But if you learn the progression of that, it's going to be really damn easy to hold it. And I promise you, that waistline will start to become more compact because the underlying muscle structure is more toned and active and holding you in that position more easily. Not to mention, your lobe actually feel better too because it's more stable and supported by this important muscle. If you're looking for progression, I have a video that does exactly that. It's called 22 Days to a Flat Stomach. I lay it all out for you step-by-step on what exercises you should do. You can find that here. And actually, at athelenext.com, I'm giving away that whole plan in printed out form so you can follow it very easily. It's at athelenext.com slash flat stomach. Guys, if you found the video helpful, make sure you leave your comments and thumbs up below. Head over to athelenext.com. We have a Core 4 workout, supplements, meal plans, everything you need to give you that diet plan necessary to get rid of that body fat also. All right, guys. See you soon. Make sure you subscribe.