 In the history of bodybuilding, perhaps there's nobody more recognizable than Arnold Schwarzenegger. But were you aware of the workout routine that consisted of six exercises, his golden six, that he claims is most responsible for him winning seven Mr. Olympias? Well, today I'm going to reveal the golden six exercises and review them at the same time to see if they even stand the test of time against today's modern day science approach to lifting. And so it starts where most classic barbell lifting programs would, and that's with the squat. And Arnold loved the squat, and so do I. So in terms of the exercise selections here, I'm one for one on the golden six. There's no workout program that should avoid the squat, or at least some variation of it. And I can tell you, as someone who has knee problems when I do a classic barbell squat, I've found that squatting to a box eliminates almost all of those. Or I can use an exercise like a dumbbell Bulgarian split squat if I'm having equipment limitations. There's always some version of a squat that you can do that is mandatory for me at least, in any successful lifting program. Now, when you look at Arnold doing this, number one, he's a high bar squatter. But again, this exercise, regardless of where you carry the bar, is still going to comprehensively hit your entire lower body. The other thing is, he doesn't really get down that low. And you can see that very much so from this clip from behind. The depth at the bottom here is nowhere near parallel. Does that mean that you can't see good hypertrophy gains and even strength gains in the exercise? No. I know a lot of people are infatuated with all the way down, ass to grasp. But that's only if your anatomy allows for it. Arnold's legs were reportedly very long for him to be able to get down that low. But he worked around that, going as low as he could, working up here to some pretty heavy weights and making the exercise work for him. You will find the same thing for you as long as you're including it as the number one exercise in your golden six. And from there, now we follow up that one classic barbell lift with the other classic barbell lift. This time for the upper body. And it's the barbell bench press. And you can see when Arnold benched, he had a pretty damn wide grip. In other words, you don't even see his hands in this clip. And when you actually get a chance to see his location on the bars that pulls out here, he's almost touching the ends of the barbell where you load the plates. I mean, it's incredibly wide. But what you do see from this is this extreme amount of stretch. Actually, what appears to be a limited range of motion is happening because the arms don't have to travel very far. But that limited range of motion is confined to the lower portion of the lift, where the chest is most at stretch. So, understanding all the benefits of the stretch position, especially under high loads like this, you can see why this way of bench pressing would be pretty good. However, this is where I kind of jump in and say, but not necessarily for me or maybe some others out there. You do need some extreme shoulder flexibility and mobility to be able to pull off this version of a bench press. As we're really wide like this and we go down, we're not going to be able to get our elbows tight enough to our body. And what happens here is if we get any type of drift of the bar further towards our waist, it's going to get a little bit more internal rotation at the shoulder. So, you'll feel an aggravation in your rotator cuff. You'll feel an aggravation in the bicep tendon if you don't have adequate flexibility and mobility to do this. You can certainly build up to that, as Arnold probably did over his youthful years. But if you're an older bench presser trying this for the first time, this might be pretty difficult. So, I just recommend don't skip the bench press. It's part of the Golden 6 for good reason. Just go to something like a heavy dumbbell bench press where you have much more capability to bring your elbows closer to your body. One other thing to point out, check out this incline barbell bench press that he does. Again, if you want to talk about having flexibility and mobility in the shoulders. I mean, all the way down to his neck, flaring the elbows out to the side, he was able to do this flawlessly because of the extreme mobility he had. And also, check out this one really cool thing. When I always talk about being able to make the chest be the driver of the exercise, look at the initiation of every single rep that he's doing here. He's literally keeping the back pinned to the bench and squeezing from the chest. You could see it because of how big his chest was. He's pushing up as he presses the weight up. Every single press he ever did was initiated fully through the chest actually doing the work. Just something that I don't see very often. I know it's something that I struggle with, but this is an exercise that certainly belongs in your Golden 6. Exercise number 3 in the Golden 6 is the first of which does not use a barbell, but it actually uses a pull up bar to do chin ups. Or at least that's what Arnold called them. You see, there's a discrepancy that most aren't aware of from the Arnold Bodybuilding Encyclopedia, in which when he refers to the word chin up, he actually is talking about a pull up. The overhand grip variation of pulling your body up to the bar. And that's when sometimes when you read the workout and you see chin ups being stated there, modern day lifters like us would say, Oh, put the hands underneath and pull like this. But really what Arnold was talking about was this exercise right here. And what I want you to see is a couple things. Number one, look at the width once again on the exercise. Big wide grip all the way out to the ends of the pull up bar. And by the way, this isn't even as wide as I've seen him go. You can see pictures like this where he's actually going behind the head. Whole other topic, not a fan of that. Or even this one here. Bottom line is he went really wide, but there's a little bit of a misunderstanding about that. I don't believe that while this exercise is amazing and does belong in the golden six, that doing it with this wide of a grip is necessary. Because if it's a lat sit you're trying to build, going wider will do less work for the lats. It actually starts to target a muscle called the Terras Major more effectively in the wide grip than it does with the narrow grip. Not to mention your ability to get up and over the bar is going to be more challenging with this wider grip. So it makes the exercise even less achievable for some. If you want to do the exercise in a more effective way for targeting the lats, start going more narrow. Yes, you're going to get a little bit more arm involvement in the exercise, but you're going to get also a greater stretch on the lats specifically, which again we know is a good driver for growth. I actually sometimes like to do it with a tricep pushdown bar like you see here, just to accentuate the narrowness of the exercise. What you'll see here is much more range of motion of the arms up overhead, and hence a much greater stretch on the lats than every single exercise, and good lat contraction on the way down. Bottom line is I love the exercise, and whether you want to call it a chin up or a pull up, this overhand variation is great, and it does belong in every single six exercise selection that you're limited to. Exercise number four in the golden six actually sparks a different kind of discussion that you and I can have. Because it's actually more of a reflection of a sign of the times of where we stand posturally as a society. Because the guys that lifted back then, as I just showed you before, they had a hell of a lot more mobility and flexibility. Probably something to do with the fact that they weren't doing this all day. Well, it changes your ability to do certain exercises. And this one is the behind the neck press. Now, I do believe that there should be a vertical press to complement the horizontal press in the golden six. We've got the bench press. I do believe there should be an overhead press. That being said, anybody that's watched my channel before, I don't like the behind the neck shoulder press. However, if there was one exception to the rule, the one guy who probably did it really, really well, it was Arnold Schwarzenegger. And why is that? Because of the position of his elbow. When you look at him do this exercise, it's not with the elbows flared back behind the body, which is how we likely would do it. If you honestly assess yourself doing a behind the neck press, if you see your elbows tilting at all in that direction, then you're not doing it right. His are actually coming down and forward at the same time. He's sort of going up on this plane back and behind him and down and towards the front. That's something few can achieve. When you do this, however, you get your elbows more towards that natural scapular plane of your shoulder, making this less of an irritant for your shoulder joint when you're going and pressing up overhead. However, given that most people can't do that well or effectively because we've compromised our posture, trading off for our love of our phones, I wouldn't recommend you do it this way. However, just flip the bar out in front of you, do a normal overhead press. And again, this exercise squarely belongs in your golden six exercises. Next up in the golden six is possibly the most golden of all golden six exercises, at least for me. And it's the barbell curl. And this is actually the exercise that gets the most contention in terms of its placement in the golden six. Because a lot of people want to see a barbell row in its place. Now, I will say the barbell row is a great exercise, but not necessarily the best if you're looking for direct arm development. And we want to have the biggest biceps possible. Even performing an underhand barbell row is not going to produce the same type of gains that having a big, heavy barbell curl will. And that's why I believe it deserves to be here. Now, when we see Arnold do the exercise, I want you to note something. There's a lot of cheating and leaning going on. And I know, again, if he did this exercise now, social media would rip him apart. But luckily he didn't have to worry about that. So I'll cover it for him. The cheat part, I think is one of the most effective parts of the curl. And one of the biggest reasons why he probably had the biceps that you see. Because the cheat allows for you to get through another concentric repetition to the more gains provoking, eccentric lowering of the weight. Now, if I was going to nitpick here, I'd like to see him be a little bit more controlled on the way down. Not leaning the torso with the barbell as it goes down, but rather letting the barbell go by itself, keeping more of the tension eccentrically on the biceps. But again, who am I to argue with Arnold when it comes to bicep development? However, it is meant to understate the fact that cheating on a barbell curl is not a bad thing. You could mix in a few strict curls like you see me do here and then work your way into a cheat curl if you really want to be a stickler for form. But if you only could do one variation, loading up the barbell curl and allowing yourself to cheat your way through some of those repetitions is a good way to get more gains. But more importantly, this exercise in and of itself is a great addition to any golden six exercise routine. All right, so now the barbell curl was a point of contention for some when it comes to the golden six. This one might just be the outlier that doesn't really make a lot of sense. But it does when you understand again that the golden six was a consolidated workout routine. In other words, every one of these exercises was performed as a part of one single workout. So including an ab exercise like the sit up would kind of make sense. But when thought of more globally as the best six exercises, I certainly wouldn't put the sit up in this group. Now, when Arnold does the exercise, again, I have a few issues here. This is done the classic way where you hook your feet underneath the pad to be able to pull yourself up to the top. But what we know about this is you get a lot of hip flexor engagement, making it less effective for targeting the abs. Instead, if you could actually hook your feet on something and pull down, like you see me do here, then you can actually get less hip flexor involvement and then shift the focus a little bit more towards the abs. So if you are going to do a sit up, I'd rather see you do it this way than the way Arnold's doing it here. But again, if we had to include an exercise for the abs here, I wouldn't even do an exercise like this. I would instead do the hanging ab raise. Which brings me again to the point of whether or not an ab exercise belongs in this place or not. Because for me, an ab routine could actually be separated out into a five or six or seven minute deal. Yes, six minute abs that you could do at any point in the day, every single day. But wrapping up this golden six, it's the only place where we really have a big divergence and it's not one I would include. So what would my golden six look like then? Well, honestly, a lot like Arnold's. A barbell squat would be part of it, even if I had to make some modification, in my case, from my knees to maybe a box or a Bulgarian split squat. A wide grip bench press? Likely not, but definitely a bench press and more likely for me because of my shoulder limitations, a dumbbell variation. A chin up or as we know, a pull up overhand variation? Yes, definitely there would be one for me and likely with some additional weight wrapped around me to make sure the repetition count stayed a little bit lower, but the tension remained high. A behind the neck press? No, you're not going to see me do it. Again, I'm not going to recommend that for 98% of the people out there, but definitely without compromise, you can just simply shift that barbell in front of you and perform a standard overhead press. A barbell curl? Yes, for reasons I already stated, especially if bigger biceps and better arm development is one of your goals. And then the sit up? No, not any ab exercise for that matter. Instead, I'd like to see some variation of a hinge, most preferably a deadlift if possible. That being said, what do you feel belongs in your Golden 6? I'd love to find out what you think are the best exercises for a typical or perfect Golden 6 routine. That being said, if you're looking for what Arnold's look like, I'll leave it here so you can screenshot it if you want to try his exact workout. If you're looking to try an ATHLEANX variation of this, you can find it in the Old School Iron program over at ATHLEANX.com. Guys, I hope you found the video helpful. Make sure you leave your comments and thumbs up below. And make sure, if you haven't already done so, click subscribe and turn on notifications so you never miss a video when we put one out. All right, guys. See you soon.