 trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep trep tre fact that you're sitting back too much to start the exercise. You're getting into this position here. There's a lot of vulnerability on the biceps in this position. Actually, if you come close here you can see the tendon in my left arm, which is the only one that's really left intact at this point after tearing the right bicep, is really under a good amount of load and it gets even more and more and I get in the sit back position. So if you want to do this exercise more safely and more properly, I want you to lean forward over the bench a little bit more and dig the elbows into the pad. Because when you dig the elbows back into the pad you engage the lats and the lats in this position are able to actually contribute and offset some of that load that happens to the biceps in the bottom position here. Now, again, this is a good exercise for applying a stretch and load to the biceps in that bottom position. But again, you want to make sure you're doing it safely. We've seen people tear their bicep tendons doing it. Having the lats engaged by digging those elbows back into the pad will give you the benefits without causing any of the problems. That being said, what's the next exercise here? Well, lat pulldown is obviously very popular too. But when we talk about lat pulldown, if you're trying to do it in a way that you want to focus on building your lats, then using this bar might be a big mistake. Why is that? Because holding the bar in this position right around the bend of the bar is good for getting the entire back development. But if I really want to zero in on the lats, then I have to put something on there that gives me a much more narrow grip. This is where something like the tricep pushdown bar comes in really handy. Because in this position here I have to be narrow. What happens with the narrow grip is my elbows go further in front of my body. Wide bar, elbows will drift wide. Narrow bar, elbows will drift in front, placing the lats on more of a stretch. So the exercise starts to look more like this. Good contraction at the bottom, good stretch up here at the top. Now you might be thinking to yourself, well then that means this V-bar handle might be even better, right? Because it keeps me in tight. What you'll notice is it actually limits a little bit of the extension of the arm behind the body though. Because when I get down here the hands become the stopping point of how far this bar can get or how close this bar can get to my chest. Versus when I have this bar here I can get my hands all the way up against the chest and my elbows can go much further back behind my body into extension. Which you'll feel even more so with a great contraction in the lats. Next up, the pushup. Another classic basic exercise that we're all doing. But are you setting yourself up properly to do the exercise right? Here's a little trick to make sure you do every single time. You want to put your arms up over your head when you get down to the starting position here. And then simply slide your elbows down until they're about 45 degrees away from your sides. In this position here all you have to do is just slide your hands back to put them under your shoulders. Right there is the perfect pushup position to make sure that my elbows are stacked over my wrists that give me a good, safe, strong pushup. Now, one other thing to note when you push up do you just go straight up and down? Because we know that's not the natural arc of a pressing movement. If I want to follow the path of a bar when you do a bench press then what happens is I want to make sure that when I'm pressing up I'm actually pushing back a little bit. Rocking a little bit back onto my toes. So you'll see that I let my toes rock down as I go down. And then I rock backwards as I go up. And what that does is that follows the more natural arc of the bar when we do a bench press. Right? When we're in this position here we press, the bar goes up and back just a little bit. We mimic the same thing here when we do the pushup. Number three. A lunge. One of my favorite ways to train my legs is with a lunge. And particularly a dumbbell lunge. Because I think that if you get in trouble and you need to get rid of the weight it's a lot easier to drop the dumbbells than it is to drop a barbell. Now which direction do we go? Forward or do we go backwards? For me I want you to go backwards if possible. Because it takes some of the strain off of the need to do that. But I want you to do it in a particular way. Don't just step directly back to do the lunge. I want you to step back and out to widen your base of support so you come out that way. Okay? Now, the reason for that is with a wider base of support I'm not going to feel balanced challenged. A lot of people that do the exercise claim to not like it because they feel their balance is more compromised than their ability to train their legs. Another way to ensure that you're doing this right though is when you step back also rotate just a little bit with the chest over this front knee. Because that will actually re-center the center of gravity, put it right up over that main base of support here so I feel stable and I can press back up to the top. So the two parts are widened out, little turn of the chest in the direction of the forward knee. If you want to do these forward you can. I actually covered this in the Rock's video, training video. He steps forward and out and with a little turn over that front leg. Do that and I promise you that will actually feel good for the first time in a long time. Moving on. Next exercise. The Lion Tricep Extension. Whether you call this a skull crusher, a nose breaker, or like I do, a Lion Tricep Extension. Where the elbows are in space determines how much your triceps are actually doing the work. So when you do the exercise I don't like the version where your arms start straight up overhead, come down to your forehead, and come back up. And again, it doesn't matter whether you're using dumbbells or an easy curl bar to do this, or even a straight bar. What's lacking here is that in the top position there's not a whole hell of a lot of work being done by the triceps. Yes, they're keeping the elbows extended, but we can put more work on the triceps by getting the arms back over our head to start. Now we can get the long head into a better stretch position at the bottom here, and then when we stop at the top there's still a lot more tension being driven into the triceps here than there would be here. And if you don't know or want to question that all you have to do is do that for yourself. Hold the dumbbells here or hold them here and see which part works the triceps more. Clearly, it's when they stay in this orientation angled back behind the body. Now obviously there's things like the jam press that start and stop in this position here, but that's a different exercise with a lot heavier weight. If you want to do this exercise properly, get them back and keep them back for the duration of the exercise until your very last repetition. Next, Bulgarian split squat. Another great exercise, well actually one of my favorite leg exercises that you can do. I talk about how most people hate the exercise, but once again it's probably for the wrong reasons. You hate it because it's awkward. Or every time you do it you feel like you get set up and then you've got to hop, or hop over here, or over here. Or when you do the exercise, you're falling, and you're like, this shit's not working my legs because I'm too worried about falling over. There's a simple way to make sure you get this right every single time. Sit on the bench with the dumbbells on your thighs. Extend your leg out as far as you can. From here, widen it out just a little bit more. So right from where you are, get a little bit wider. At that point, reach forward, put your dumbbells down like that. Do not move this leg. Come straight up on that heel and put your back foot in contact here with the bench. In this position though, you don't want to be on your toe. You want to again broaden the base of support. So I could do that by folding the foot down. When I fold it, there's more foot in contact with the bench to give me better balance. What this did is this put me in the exact position I need to be in, in terms of my foot of distance away from the bench to ensure that when I go down, I'm in the exact position I need to be to put the work where it needs to be. Either into the thigh or quad if I stay upright, or more into the glute and posterior chain if I lean forward when I do the exercise. But either way, when you do this, you'll feel stable, you'll feel balanced, and you'll feel the exercise exactly where you intend for it to be felt. Next up, we have a crunch pulldown. Working the abs this time. I tell you, if I had a dollar for every time I saw someone do this, I'd be, I've had a lot of dollars. When someone does a crunch pulldown, how many times do you see this? They lock it in here, looks good, and as they go down they crunch. Okay? If you can't spot the problem, then again likely you're doing the same thing. I don't want you to move your butt any closer to your heels from the moment you set this exercise up. Imagine that there's a line right back here that I cannot cross if I want to do this exercise properly. Because what I'm looking for is flexion of the trunk. That's the job of the abs. So when I'm in this position here, if I flex straight down from here and round out the back, then I'm doing the work of the rectus abdominis. Flex the spine down and come up. Flex the spine down. It's a good stretch exercise for the lats too because I'm having to eccentrically control this on the way up. Particularly if I use a lot of heavy weight here, which this exercise is actually conducive to. But what I don't want to do is, again, go down and sit back. Don't cross that imaginary line behind you if you want to do this right. Next up, moving on, my favorite exercise, the face pull. How do we do the face pull? Well, I can tell you right off the bat, to do it right, you don't do it with one rope. I've shared this before. Pull one like this, get that second rope, steal it from whoever else is using it, just for a second. A couple reps, a couple sets. Pull that down also. Okay? So you have this setup. You need the longer rope to be able to establish the right position at the top of the exercise. And what the right position is, is 90 degree angles up here next to my head. Okay? Pull towards the face to get the right height, but keep those 90 degree elbows established at the top. Because what I see all the time is people taking this overhand grip and doing this. Okay? While this might work the rear delt, because you're getting extension of the elbow behind the body, at the shoulder, that's okay. But you're limiting the extent that you could be training the back. We could do much more than the rear delts when we do a properly executed face pull. So you take an underhand grip this way. Okay? Like a handlebar grip on a bike. Then we step out far enough. And again, I look to establish basically this double bicep flex position here, behind me. Thumbs directly pointed towards the floor, and thumbs pointed back behind me. And what this does is now you get external shoulder rotation here, and you work the rotator cuff. Not to mention you work the mid-scat muscles too. So you get a lot more than just the rear delts, which are still being worked heavily in that position too. Now, next exercise. We do the crossover. All right, so we have a cable crossover. One of my exercises I like to do for chest – I talk about all the time – how you want to make sure that you have adduction into your chest exercises. All right, it's not just about pressing, or dipping, or even doing pushups. At some point you have to cross the body, the midline, to really work the chest. So what we need is an exercise, or a variation of this, that lets us do that. But there's something people miss all the time when we do, and that is body position. They'll set up like this, and they'll let the arms come across the body, and they'll say, I did it. This is exactly what I'm supposed to do. When in reality, that's not. Because what I'm doing is I'm chasing my hands with my chest. If I chase my hands with my chest, the shoulders are always going to win that race. They're going to go out faster and further than your chest, leaving your chest behind, and compromising the contraction that you get. Instead, think about letting the chest go backwards instead of forwards. Okay, don't chase the hands. Try to separate from the hands. Hands go forward, chest goes backwards. Let that chest get prominent. Now one other thing here. Let's say you have a hard time feeling the chest contract. This exercise is designed to do that, but you have options. I could take these cables and bring them straight across midline. I could have them go from low to high in this position, or I could go from high to low. Let me ask you a question. If I told you right now to contract your chest as hard as possible, what would you do? Would you go like this? Probably not. Would you go like this? Maybe 30% of you, but without even knowing it, a lot of you would just go like this. Right? You'd go here. And the reason for that is because the natural contraction of the chest is going to occur at this high to low angle because of the orientation of the chest fibers and the abdominal head of the chest. So, if you have a hard time feeling your chest, or you're kind of a chest non-responder, make sure you're going down while you do the exercise. So, when you go down, again, chest still goes backwards, but the overall angle of the crossover is from this high to low position. That's going to help you to feel that a lot. One more. I'm having fun with these. If you like this, I'll do more of these. Just kind of taking you through the gym. So, here we have a lateral raise. Now, I love the lateral raise. I do it with dumbbells all the time. A cable lateral raise is a different beast. A cable lateral raise allows you to train the side delts, middle delts, much more explosively, much heavier. And most importantly, with a good stretch to start them. Because when we use dumbbells, there's not the opportunity for stretch that we get when we have a cable that can cross our body. But instead of going behind the body, which I've coached before, you're going to limit the amount of weight you can use from back here because you're pulling from a very weak position. So, instead of going behind the body, which will give you that pre-stretch on the middle delts, just go in front. Allow yourself to walk away from the machine a little bit and get the stretch on the middle delt. You're going to get one here, you're also going to get one on the rear delts. But I can more explosively pull up and get into that top position. Pull up and get into that top position. So almost like a cheat lateral, again, with the heavier weights, and again, applying the stretch to it becomes a more effective hypertrophy stimulus. If you want to get a little bit more resistance, come down a little bit lower. So now, this is going to have this resistance curve up and away. So at the very top of the exercise I still have a good amount of tension up on the middle delt. I have some here, a little bit less, but that's okay. Again, we have the ability to still kind of abbreviate this a little bit, keep the tension high at the bottom, and also still have the tension high at the top. But regardless of what exact angle you set it up at, I would highly suggest that you incorporate some of the cabral laterals into some of the side lateral work that you're already doing. So there's a little walk around the gym, those are 10 exercises that are very popular. If you're looking for a program that not just incorporates these, it's not just what you do, but how you do it. Head to athleanx.com guys, we have step-by-step programs that show you how to do everything you do properly. Full meal plans, full programs all available over there, and supplements as well. All right guys, see you soon.