 What's up, stabilized stabilized stabilized stabilized stabilized stabilized stabilized stabilized stabilized What's up guys, Jeff Cavaliere, whephinex, stabilized stabilized stabilized stabilized stabilized I've got two numbers for you, 15 and 22. You know what 15 is? They call it Quitters Day in January. That's when everyone stops trying to pursue the resolutions that they set on day one. You know what 22 is? The number you're going to focus on here today, because 22 is the number of days if you do something consistently that you could actually start to establish a habit. So what does that mean? Well, I need you to start doing something for me. Today I'm going to give you an ab routine. That simple, that literally every single person out there watching can do because the exercises are going to be scalable. The beautiful thing is, if you just start knocking off one day at a time, before you know it, instead of being a quitter, you're going to be someone who established this new routine. So what do you do? The first exercise up is something called the W Raise. You can see all you're going to have to do is find some space on the floor to do this entire workout. What you're targeting here is five repetitions. That is if you can do them, because I said it's okay for anybody to try this. If you can't get all five repetitions, that's fine. You simply do as many as you can and you move to the next exercise. If you can do the five repetitions, how do we equalize this for everybody? Well, we established something called extinction training. That means after you've done your five repetitions, you rest 10 seconds and then you attempt another five repetitions. If you got another round in you, great. Rest the 10 seconds and attempt the five repetitions. The point that you cannot get all five repetitions is your extinction point and that's when you move on to the next exercise. Now in terms of this exercise specifically, all you're doing is trying to make a W with your legs, but focus mostly on what's happening with your pelvis. You don't want to just be moving your legs in space. You want to think about lifting your pelvis up for the long legs of the W up once again in the middle and then up towards the other side of the W. Okay, you're only going down halfway through the other portions of the repetitions. The next exercise up is one called the Black Widow Knee Slide. You get into this plank position and you drive your knee towards your opposite elbow and you slide your knee up by once again getting that pelvic tilt and flexing the spine. Drive it up, slide it back down, put it back in place and repeat on the opposite side. Here we're going to use time as your extinction target. So 30 seconds of this exercise is what you're trying to do. Again, if you're a ranked beginner and you can't get through all 30 seconds, don't be discouraged. You will probably even just by day five or six. But if you can complete the 30 seconds, rest your 10 seconds, come back and do it again until you can no longer do a full 30 seconds of the exercise and then you move on. Exercise number three is something called the Butterfly Situp. And here what you're going to try to do is utilize a little bit of upper body momentum. And I said a little bit because you're going to try to get yourself into this we call mid range ab exercise where the top and the bottom move together. You're going to meet at the top. But again, you can see you get some additional benefits in the upper back and back muscles by pulling your arms back behind you into this butterfly position. Your goal here once again is 10 repetitions. Do them for as many rounds as possible until once again you become extinct and you move on. The fourth exercise up here is something called the Seated Corkscrew. And this one is going to target the obliques. And I talk about all the time just working the abs is not enough. The obliques are what create that visual tapering of your waistline and you need to make sure that yours are developed. By the way, here's the good thing. You don't have to have incredibly low levels of body fat to actually start to see the obliques or even the upper abs for that matter. So, again, even if you're just a beginner starting out, you can start to see some early results, especially if you do what I'm going to tell you in the end of this video in terms of your nutrition. So, this exercise here you're targeting 30 seconds and if you can get all 30 seconds you continue to repeat that until you are unable to and then the exercise will become extinct. The next exercise is one called the Frog Crunch. And this one's actually pretty interesting because anybody that's ever tried ab exercises and complained of low back pain it's usually because the hip flexors become overused. This exercise prevents that. By pointing your feet together and actually squeezing them together you're going to activate the adductors and kind of turn off or shut down the hip flexors a little bit. That's a good thing because now when we do this top down movement you're going to force the abs to do most of the work and again quiet those hip flexors that will decrease any chance that these exercises cause any low back pain for you. The target once again here is 10 repetitions. You do it for as many rounds as possible. And again, if you were just starting out and you can't get all 10 you're good. Just keep trying to work towards that goal each time you come back and repeat this workout. And then finally we have an exercise called the Power Over. And what we're doing here is incorporating a little bit of rotation with that top down movement. To do this you target 5 repetitions to each side. Again, that's your goal for each round depending upon how many you're able to do at this point. Because while this is generally one of the easier exercises it's certainly going to be more challenging at this point in the game. Make sure to clear your shoulder blades off of the ground as you reach up and across your body to get that good full rotation and to ensure that you're flexing the spine and activating the abs properly. Now how does this work for you in just 22 days? Are you going to get a 6 pack? Honestly guys, it depends upon where you're starting right now. And if you look like this right now, sure maybe you have to add a zero to the end of the 22. But at the end of the day, who cares? Because if you could fast forward 365 days from now and actually look the way that you want to, wasn't it all worth it in the end? And nobody was keeping score but you. But what I want you to do though is focus on your nutrition because ultimately the level of body fat that you're carrying right now is dependent upon the food that you're putting in your mouth. And you need to have some discipline there. I do have a video for you that makes this incredibly simple in just four steps. Guys, I tell you exactly how much protein to have, how to work your portions on your plates, and maybe even the windows of time that you want to make sure you're eating within. I'll link it for you here so you can make sure that you get that right. Guys, I really want you to start this off on the right foot. This workout will do exactly what you need it to, just make sure you pair up the two things together, your nutrition and the work, and I promise you, you'll get to where you want to be. If you're looking for a complete program and meal plan, you can find them over at ATHLEANX.com. If you haven't already done so, guys, what are you waiting for? Make sure you subscribe to our channel for all the workouts and nutrition advice that you can need and turn on your notifications so you never miss a video when we put one out. All right, guys, see you soon. Good luck.