 There's nothing worse than a guy that has to feel self-conscious about taking off his shirt, be it at the beach or behind closed doors, because they're self-conscious about the look of their lower chest, particularly that saggy droopiness that we see there. As a matter of fact, a lot of guys can handle having a big belly way more than they can having a chest that looks like this. And if it's not bad enough that the women might become a little bit judgmental about it, all they have to do is thank their buddies for all the nice things that they have to say about them for having the same condition. The good news is that they have to say about them for having the same condition. The good news is that they have to say about them for having the same condition. The good news is that they have to say about them for having the same condition. The good news is that they have to say about them for having the same condition. The good news is though, in this video, guys, I'm going to show you how you can actually start to create something that looks a little bit more like this. With that defined, more muscular chiseled chest line, if you follow a step-by-step approach that requires two things, a proper approach to nutrition and training. And before you say, I knew it was going to be those two things, but maybe you don't know exactly what to do. And that's my job is to show you exactly what to do. And maybe not just from the body fat level I showed you there, but from any one of these body fat levels. From the first 40s to the 30s or 20s or high teens, low teens with a goal of being all the way down here in this sub 10%. I can show you what steps you need to do specifically at each one of these stages to get to that next stage. Now, the disqualifiers here. I said both parts are necessary because if you just have your nutrition locked in, you're eating right, but you don't train, you can wind up with more of this flat, bony chested, lack of chest development. However, on the opposite side, maybe you like to train with weights and you get a bigger chest, but you're not getting quite the definition that you're looking for here because you just can't dial in the nutrition. I'll show you what roadblocks you can get by to get there because even with just a few modifications, you can see what a difference that same guy would have by just having a little bit more focus on nutrition. And lastly, we have to do the big disqualification here. If when you grab your chest, you're feeling lumpiness or tenderness, you're actually feeling more glandular tissue at the end of your chest. That is a condition called gynecomastia. And that's a whole different animal that is hormone driven by having excess estrogen that drives up these extra deposits here. And that's handled quite differently than what I'm going to show you here. But for the rest of us, the majority of us who don't fall into this category, I'm going to give you the game plan you need. Let's start at the top. And by at the top, I'm talking about at the highest levels of body fat. And in this example here today, we're talking about in the forties. Now there's the 40% bracket. If you're here, you know, you're here, right? You look in the mirror and you don't like what you see. The good news is you don't have to focus on this quite yet. If you want to actually achieve success where you should focus on focuses right here on the next obtainable goal, because when you shoot too high too soon, you become disappointed too quickly. And then you're likely to quit way before you actually obtain what you could have if you just focused on whoever is in the next bracket above you. If you're in the twenties right now, you want to get to the high teens. If you're in the thirties, you want to get to the twenties. There's no unavoidable way to go from here to here without first going through all of these. And that's a good thing because you're going to be able to set easier goals along the way and be able to get there. Now, how do we do it? Nutritionally, we have something interesting that happens here. This group down here can all do one thing in common. And that is a simple math equation to nutritionally dial in on their maintenance calorie level to assist them in terms of their jump off point. Where do you go? How do you get started? Right here. We group them this way, forties, thirties, and twenties, because conceivably, not going to have abs. So we can say that you're at a point where you do not see your abs, but you take the following equation, your body weight times 12. And you do this for your two week maintenance test. What that means is whatever number this comes out to be, that is the number of calories that you're going to consume for two weeks. Let me explain. This person here we're going to estimate is, let's say 250 pounds. Maybe this guy's 220 and this guy's 280 pounds. By 12, you get 3000 calories. That is where I want this person to be over the course of the next two weeks. A couple of things are going to have to happen though, to be here. Number one, they're going to have to count their calories. So maybe they're not doing that right now. And a lot of times when you look like this, you can see, well, we are not counting your calories. So it's going to force you to become a little bit more aware of the foods that you're putting in your mouth, what they're made of in terms of their macronutrient profiles. And again, just give you a rough sense of how many calories you're actually consuming. If you do this for two weeks, what you'll find is you either will lose weight, you will gain weight, or you'll stay the same. If you stay the same, which a lot of times this rough math equation actually winds up turning out to be the case, then what I want you to do from here is just cut back your calories by 10%. So we're going to create a deficit, not extremely aggressive, but 10% here will be a 300 calorie deficit. So now this person is going to consume 2,700 calories. Now, the next important part of this equation comes into play. Of this 2,700 calories, I need to get my protein. In other words, you need to get your protein. How much? I want one gram per pound of body weight here, which sounds like a lot because you're looking at 250 grams of protein. And you might be saying to yourself, how the hell am I going to get 250 grams of protein in my diet? Well, that's where things like protein powders actually come into play. My Pro 30 G protein powder happens to be a high quality protein powder that allows you to get 30 grams. Plus, let's say the skin milk that goes in it, another 15 grams. That's 45 grams. For me, twice a day, that's 90 grams of protein. I haven't even started with my chicken and other foods yet. You can do it. If you get this in, you're going to find that because you're keeping your protein levels high, you're going to maintain satiety a little bit easier. And you're also going to be able to reach your deficit without losing muscle mass. And we're going to be trying to build muscle as you go into this caloric deficit and lose some of the body fat. Your goal is to do both. Keep your muscle or build some muscle and lose body fat at the same time. What specifically could this person do? Nutritionally, this person right here wants to focus on getting rid of the obvious crap. This is where you get rid of the sweets, the excess alcohol, the snacks, cakes, cookies. You know what they are. You've got to try to start cutting them back as much as you possibly can because when you do, you will start to see the weight drop off really, really easily. And as I mentioned before, you have to start reading the labels, not just to learn the calories that you're consuming, but also become a little bit more educated about what the food is actually made out of. What is the contribution of fiber or carbohydrates or starched carbohydrates and sugar or protein? You need to start getting a better idea. From a training perspective here, the first thing you need to do is get rid of the word exercise and substitute in the word training because that's how I describe this. Training rather than exercise is planned, progressive and purposeful. Everything you do is going to have a plan behind it. It's going to have a purpose behind it, which means you're going to start walking 30 to 45 minutes, three to five times a week, just to kind of move your body around, to increase your caloric expenditure, which is going to help in driving down those losses of body fat. But at the same time, it's easy on the joints. It's not going to be super easy to start training here, but you can start training with bands. So I recommend doing exercises with bands like the ones you're seeing here that allow you to actually start moving and feeling comfortable at the same time that you're getting stronger. And the bands are great for this because they allow you to sort of work within your capacity. And as you're able to push harder, they're able to absorb more force. And again, they do it in a low impact environment. That's not going to be stressful for you and your joints. Body weight options. You might think that they're not available to you. Like for instance, I would never tell somebody here to start doing dips because they're not likely going to be able to do them, first of all, and they're certainly not going to be able to do them safely. But you can do something like this, which is an incline pushup. And what's nice about this is it helps to work more of that lower chest because of the high to low arm angle that you're performing the exercise from. But you also can moderate the difficulty of the exercise by standing either closer or further away with your feet. The closer you are, the less of the body weight that you're lifting. And the further away you go, you're still at an incline, but you're lifting more body weight and the exercise gets more difficult. You progress as you're able to, but this is where you start if you're at this body fat level and you want to get going. Now, congratulations, you've either made it to the next bracket or maybe this is where you're starting from. But you have a very specific set of recommendations as well. Here's where I want to introduce something called timed eating. So not only are you becoming more aware of the foods that you're putting in your body, but you're also starting to become more planned in terms of when you're eating what you're eating. Because when you start to eat around the clock at specific times, you start to control that grazing that could happen that oftentimes derails people. They just reach for food whenever they're around it rather than being restricted around specific times of the day. So what I recommend is that you eat first thing in the morning, let's say 8 o'clock. Once again, at around 10.30 or so. Then at lunchtime, let's say 1.00. Then in mid-afternoon, let's say around 3.30 or 4.00. And then having your dinner around 6 o'clock. Now, the idea around eating these five times during the day is that you don't have to go a very long period of time in between meals. So it's not like when you're not eating snacks that you have to go from 8 to 1 o'clock and be really disciplined when you're lacking discipline as it is. Here, because you know you have the opportunity to have a snack, it's a lot easier to maintain that willpower and it alleviates a lot of the stress and discomfort that comes from not having those opportunities. The next thing you want to do is start making some of these smart swaps at this point. So maybe you were eating a Philly cheesesteak and thinking, Jeff, I'm getting all that protein that you asked me to get. And I'm like, okay, maybe you can have a filet instead. And the same thing goes here too. Again, chicken parm for grilled citrus chicken. You start to make those obvious swaps to improve what you're already eating. And that will actually start to quickly get you from this bracket down into the bracket of the 20s. Now, in terms of the training, there's a few things specifically that you want to do here. Number one, start incorporating machines into your workouts. Because if you want to start to actually build muscle, then we have to figure out ways that you're going to progressively load those exercises. And this is where bands become a little bit limited, whereas weights can give us the advantage. Now, the machines are going to give you a little bit more comfort. They require less stability. Some of the things you might be lacking because you don't have an overall basis or foundation of training, you're going to be able to find some comfort in the machines, but still get that overload. And in this condition here, you can do things like a cable crossover and specifically a high to low cable crossover. Because once again, it follows those abdominal fibers of the chest, the lower pec fibers, that gives us a better opportunity to target them. We could also do an assisted dip, knowing that we can unweight a significant portion of our body and start to include this foundational chest or lower chest exercise without having to incur too much joint stress too early. We also would want to avoid things like, let's say, the decline bench. Because a lot of times in my experience, even offensive linemen, big guys tend to have some issues when they put their head in that decline position with head rush and feeling dizzy. It doesn't feel so good to do that exercise, so I wouldn't recommend that at this point. And again, regular dips themselves would be off limits. But one thing people overlook a lot at this point that I don't want you to is this upper chest right here. Because if you can build the upper chest, even though we're focused so much on the lower chest, look what can happen. Even just with a little bit of extra growth here on the upper chest, it looks completely different even though this is the same lower chest. Because it balances it out. As you start to build up the upper chest, that sagginess or droopiness isn't so pronounced because it's not as steep. You get more of an evenness to it. So what are we going to do here? Start doing incline pressing. And again, if you want to do this on a machine, that's fine. If you feel comfortable enough to start using dumbbells, then that's even better. But for now, make sure you're doing some form of incline pressing to help you to start differentiating and looking better at this level of body fat. So congratulations again if you've made it into the 20% bracket. And if you're like a lot of the people watching the video, you're probably right here wondering what to do. Well, you're going to continue that time of eating because, again, it takes away some of the guesswork when it comes to eating. You're eating on a clock, which makes it a lot easier and less susceptible to that grazing that oftentimes derails the nutrition plan. Again, if we're getting to these levels, we should be motivated. We want to keep doing the right things. That's what you're going to do. But now what you're going to do is incorporate something that I call plate division. The plate division technique essentially looks at your plate like a clock. And I want you to focus mostly on two numbers, the five and the seven, more or less. And what we do is we basically divide our plate towards those two numbers. And what that does is it gives you your answers as to how you want to start to divide up the plate nutritionally. This 40% is going to be devoted to your protein. This 40% is going to be devoted to your fibrous carbohydrates. And then here you have 20% left over for your starchy carbohydrates, your rice, your potatoes, your pasta. I'm not saying to eliminate those. I don't believe that any long-term fix is going to be depriving you of this important 20%. However, you're going to eat double that amount because that much of your plate is going to be allocated here. Once you do that, everything's going to become a lot easier. But I want you to do another thing. Nutritionally, I want you to give it one more pass. In other words, go through those foods again and make one more sweep and try to eliminate as many of the processed foods that are remaining here. If you can get this down to your single ingredient foods, then something really interesting is going to happen here. You're going to have better foods. When you can get single ingredients that have to be put together into meals, you're going to have almost always a healthier meal option that's calorically a lot more responsible. But this becomes an important decision for you. Fast, cheap, and good. Because if you want to start to take all those individual foods and you want to get them in a more cheaper, inexpensive way, you're going to have to shop for them and then put them together. That means you can get them cheap. You can get them to be good, but it's not going to be fast. You're going to have to start to devote some extra time to meal preparation. If instead, though, you want to make sure it's good, you don't care if it's cheap, but you want it to be fast, well, in that case, you can start to do some of the things that I do where I go to the catering menus at places like Stu Leonard's or your local grocery store, and they can prepare the food for me in bulk. So I know it's good, I know it's fast because I don't have to put it all together, but it's not going to be as cheap. You get to make your own decision here, but if you do, you're well on your way to fine-tuning nutrition enough to get you out of that 20% bracket you might have been stuck at this point and get you now into those high teens. In terms of training here, not much changes except for the fact that I would think that a decline bench press can become more of an option for people who want to use it, and also those dips can now start to become either assisted dips or possibly even bodyweight dips if you have the strength to manage your bodyweight now that you're at a leaner level of body fat. Which brings us now into this top shelf here where we start in the high teens and work our way to the low teens and ultimately sub-10%. And if you're in this bracket, any of these actually, well, congratulations because you've probably been watching this channel for a length of time. That's a good thing. However, if we want to specifically talk about this grouping up here, well, then it brings us to this specific graphic once again, which is how do we get to that maintenance test here? Well, again, I mentioned sort of the ab test. Do you have abs? Can you see them in a mirror or do you not? Well, obviously at these levels, we can see abs. What we do here is multiply your bodyweight this time by 15 rather than by 12. And we come up with that caloric total here. You don't need to focus on this over here because you're already at the goal. That would just be to continue doing what you're doing. But if you're in these two brackets here and you want to see how to get down, well, you would do this test, see where you're at and do the same thing. Create that 10% caloric deficit and then monitor how you're progressing. Again, though, your protein levels have to stay high. If you're going to do this, I want to actually see you increase your protein levels from 1 to 1.2 grams of protein per pound of bodyweight because you're training harder, because you've added more lean muscle, and because we know we need to support that lean muscle as we're going into a deficit to try to make sure that we're losing body fat at the same time. We want to preserve the muscle that you have and also build more to be able to get down here. Interestingly, when you talk about this guy, let's say he here is at 200 pounds. If he's at 200 pounds, then once again, calorically, when you multiply by 15, you're at 3,000 calories again. The same that the guy in the 30% bracket was doing at 250 pounds. But you've got a lot more lean muscle, like we said. A lot less body fat, a lot more lean muscle. That has to be supported. And calorically, we know that when you're more active and carry more muscle, you can tolerate more calories. When we do this, though, as I said, you still want to aim for those higher levels of protein, and you do that. Again, however you find fit. Again, using a protein powder or a supplement is a great way to be able to do that. Now, what do we do here specifically? When you're in this bracket here, nutritionally, I find that this is where you turn cheat days into cheat meals. To get to that next bracket here, it's no longer an option to say, I'm going to have a cheat day today, and every meal I eat is going to be shitty. Instead, I want you to think about it more in terms of cheat meals. In other words, I want to see you have an overall accuracy applied to your week. If you're eating five times a day, seven times a week, that's 35 meals. Can you target 80% accuracy, which comes down to 28 meals out of your 35, being really, really good and solid? And those seven other meals, which gives you sort of one a day, can be a little bit more loose. Where that grilled chicken breast turns into that chicken parm, one of those seven meals. Because if you can, I promise you, you'll be able to get from the higher teens into the lower teens, just by having that much flexibility built in to your overall accuracy. Again, 80% is what you're shooting for. From a training perspective here, those dips should now become weighted dips, if you have the ability to. At every opportunity, progressively overloading the exercises that you're continuing to do. And I'd also recommend breaking out the intensity technique. So whatever workout you are doing, whatever exercises you're doing, you're not just taking your sets to failure, but you're doing drop sets after reaching failure. You're doing pause reps at the end of certain sets that you're performing to increase the intensity. And you're also looking into partial repetitions as a way to drive to and through failure for higher intensity, higher stimulus, for more muscle growth. The idea, though, is you can get out of this bracket. It might feel like you're stuck, but if you just do what I'm saying here, I promise you, you will. And lo and behold, whether you've worked your ass off to get down to this bracket, or you're just genetically gifted to actually just sort of reside here naturally, well, how would you get to that next bracket? Because that is sort of the holy grail where a lot of people want to get to, but not everybody's willing to make the sacrifices. And there are certain things you're going to have to do to get down there. Number one, that nutrition accuracy that I talked about is going to have to go up another notch, up to about 90%. So only 10% of the time can be loose on your meals. That means 31 out of 35 theoretical meals in the week have to be really, really locked in and good. But what you'll find is when you get down to this level, you are likely eating well most of the time. So it shouldn't be as much of a challenge as it would have been if we had those aspirations back up in the 40% bracket. The next thing is, yes, there's going to be some social sacrifices that have to be made to get to that sub 10% body fat. In other words, you may not be able to drink with your friends as much as you would like to, or you're going to have to pass up on that extra beer or extra glass of wine when your friends who don't have the same aspirations don't have to. That's a fact of life because some of the extra calories there that are far too easy to consume start to pile up and they prevent you from ever getting in that sub 10% bracket. And that's the ones that we have to be careful of. Meal prep is a fact of life here too. In other words, you're likely going to be prepping your own meals. And it's not just making it, but also knowing when you're going to eat what you're going to eat. So having a plan for the day. If you're going to be out at the office, you're taking your meal with you, or you know where you can get a reliable meal that fits your approach to eating that you're on right now. Finally, your meal plan has to be built for the long run, guys. There is no way that you're going to either be able to get to the 10% bracket or sub 10%, let alone stay there. If you do not like what you eat, you have to have this built around the foods that you like. And I believe that if you did this too aggressively from way back there, you never would have made it to this point. So you likely have chosen the meals and the foods that you like and enjoy. And that's what's formed the foundation. So that may not be even as hard as you would think. In terms of the workouts themselves, guys, your training should be high intensity, shorter workouts. And those intensity techniques should be focused on overload, eccentric overload, driving muscle tension through being very focused on the muscle you're trying to build and try to make it as uncomfortable as possible when you're training it in order to drive up the intensity of the exercise, drive up the focus on the chest itself, and make every exercise you do more effective. Because when you do, this type of chest is obtainable. It's chiseled. It has everything that you were looking for. It's got the upper chest development. We never abandoned that in the entire time. But everything that you're looking for is there and the leanness. And guess what? It didn't just stop at that chest that you were self-conscious about, but that midsection that you're kind of okay with. Well, that looks a hell of a lot better too. You can do this, guys. You can do it through the right training plans, the right nutrition, the right supplements. We have them all available over at athleanx.com. If you're looking for another video where I break down a lot of different chest exercises and rank them from best to worst, you can find that video over here. And also, if you haven't done so, guys, make sure you click subscribe, turn your notifications so you'll never miss a video when we put one out. All right, guys, good luck. You're going to be able to make it step-by-step, one step at a time.