! There's not a day that people don't ask me, Jeff, how do you get those veiny forearms? But I'm not sure that's really what they mean, because just having forearm veins could look like that. When in reality, I think what they really want is something that looks like that. So how do you do it? Let me show you. So if you want to get forearms like this, I've got to start with a little bit of bad news. But I'm going to chase it with some good news too. And that is, you're going to have to eat right. Because we know that having lower levels of body fat are going to make any of your veins a little bit more visible through the skin. But here's the good news. It doesn't have to be that low in order to be able to see these veins. Because the skin in the forearm is naturally thin as it is. So even at slightly higher levels of body fat, you're going to still be able to see these. It's not as challenging, let's say, as getting that lower ab vein that requires very low levels of body fat. So while nutrition is important, it's not as important as some of the other things we're about to discuss. But before we leave the topic of nutrition entirely, the inevitable question always comes up, but Jeff, what about supplements? I heard they're really good at helping to increase vascularity in forearm pumps. And the answer is yes, but temporarily. You see, a lot of the pre-workouts on the market include ingredients that do help you to have better pumps during your workouts or to see more vascularity. And the two main ways they do this is by incorporating one of two different ingredients. One is L-Arginine, which helps your body to synthesize more nitrous oxide, which helps to increase vascularity and therefore experience the greater pumps. The problem with that is that your body breaks down the Arginine as you ingest it, leaving very little left over to actually do its job. The alternative way to do this though is with something like Citrulline Mallate, which by the way is proudly included in an Athlean Excite pre-workout available at AthleanX.com. What that does is it helps the body to synthesize its own Arginine, avoiding that breakdown through digestion and leaving more of it to be able to do the job that you're looking for. The problem with both of these though is that it's transient. It's temporary. It doesn't last. It doesn't address the one main component that we haven't talked about already that is mandatory to the get bigger side of the get bigger and more vascular forearms that I'm going to show you right now. And that's with training. And by the way, you need to train them the right way. Now I'm going to show you all the key exercises to do for your forearms because, let's face it, there's a lot of muscles in the forearms. So we want to make sure we hit all of them. Now, make sure you stick around to the end because I'm going to show you a simple barbell routine that you do with nothing but a barbell that will really blow up your forearms like you've never done before. And I'm actually going to do it for you in real time. But let's say all you had access to was just a simple band or maybe even a cable machine. What would you do? Well, you start with this exercise here and it's just a wrist flexion exercise. But why are we doing it this way? Because if you think about what happens when you use a normal dumbbell, as you get to the top, you actually get less tension on the forearm muscles. But here, when we do it with a band, you can see as I pull down, all I'm doing is getting more and more tension applied to these muscles right at the moment that I need it. So what would you do for the extensions of the wrist? Well, you want to take this position here. And again, this is about angling the arm in the right way. And what you see is that even in the neutral starting position here, I still have resistance and tension to be able to even maintain that spot. If I were to try to do something like this, you can see that at the top, it's actually just pulling me into flexion. I'm really not doing much work there. But if you angle it the way I showed you here, you're doing more work throughout the entire range of motion, making it a more effective way to do this. Next, we have a couple exercises that let's face it, you probably never do. Because who wants to work ulnar deviation or radial deviation? Because these actually matter too. There's muscles that you can see in the forearm that are responsible for tilting the wrist down in that direction. Well, you can train them very easily with this exercise here. Once again, just letting the resistance of the band do the work and just making sure you manipulate your arm in the right space. If you want to work the other side here, the radial deviation, you just have to flip around and do it this way. And you've accomplished the same thing. Again, working all the muscles that oftentimes go overlooked. Now, of course, we also have muscles in the forearm that are responsible for pronation or turning the forearm down or supination and turning the forearm up. If you want to work on pronation, then you want to angle the band this way and work on just turning your arm in this direction. That's going to easily hit these muscles really, really nicely. And again, all we have to do to hit the supinators is to do it in this manner, knowing that yes, the biceps are the primary supinator, but there is a muscle deep down in the forearm that will respond if you train it directly with an exercise like this. Now, keep in mind, all of these exercises can be done just the same way with slight alterations that you're seeing here to accomplish every single thing we just did, but using a cable machine instead. So whether you're at the gym or at home, you've got no excuse. You can train all these muscles appropriately. Now, if you're in the mood for something even more masochistic, then you can set up this torture device right here. And all you have to do is take a kettlebell or even a dumbbell, wrap the band around it as you see me do here, then wrap it around this empty bar in a rack once or twice to get good tension. Now, from here, all you have to do is decide one thing. Do I want to turn my hands forward or do I want to turn my hands backwards? But in each way, you're going to be pulling up the weight that you attach down below by doing this motion. So as you see me do this and start winding up my hands in this forward direction, what am I working? The underside of the forearm because every time I turn forward, I'm working those forearm flexors. If I decided I wanted to go backwards, what am I working there? Well, every time I turn it back this way, I'm working the muscles on the opposite side. So whichever direction you do here, they're both going to work, but both of them together are going to create those complete forearms. Quick note on one of the most overlooked elements of increasing your vascularity. You're going to have to increase your water intake because we know that increasing water intake will increase blood volume. It's one of the reasons why when you go for blood tests, they tell you to drink water beforehand to make sure those veins are nice and juicy. Aim for at least a half an ounce per pound of body weight and more ideally around three quarters of an ounce per pound of body weight to make sure you're fully hydrated throughout the day. Easy cheat code, just drink it between sets of these great exercises that you're already doing. Now, if you prefer to use the dumbbells, like the old fashioned exercises of wrist curls and wrist extensions, do me one favor. Don't always just use the light dumbbells. You see, because just like anything else, your chest, your back, or your shoulders, they do respond to using heavier weights. So the next time you do a set of wrist curls, at least do one set of a heavier weight where you're maybe limiting yourself to six, seven, or eight repetitions to failure. And the same thing with wrist extensions. Go a little bit heavier to once again, where you're limiting yourself to six, seven, or eight reps to failure. I'm not saying train this way all the time. I'm just saying, make sure you mix it in if you want to see the best results. Now, if you're one of those type that says, I just don't have time for that direct forearm training. Well, you can do what I'm doing here, and that's just hang. Because we know that these bigger bang for your buck exercises will definitely work your forearm and grip strength, but at the same time, improve your thoracic mobility, improve your overall shoulder health, and also just improve your overall grit and determination. Not to mention a little bit of spinal decompression if you're doing a lot of squatting right now. In other words, you're getting more out of the restricted time that you have, and in doing so, actually getting an exercise that gives you a little bit more bang for your buck. Of course, you can always grab some dumbbells and just sneak in some farmer's carries because it's another way we know we can increase our forearm and grip strength, even some of our conditioning levels if you just sneak them in on any workout day you're doing. Bottom line is another option for you and another good bang for your buck exercise. And then of course, there's the one simple routine that I love to do that takes just two minutes that all you need is one simple barbell for. And it involves four separate exercises where you're doing an alteration of a curl and a reverse curl, and also something called a ring out where we're working the flexors and extensors of the forearm. As a matter of fact, to prove it, I'm going to do it for you right now, as I promised in real time, to show you the difference it makes in literally just two minutes. Check it out. Over here… Over here… Over here… We'll be right back. And so now with so many options at your disposal, the work is now on you to get the job done. If you're looking for that meal plan I talked about to help you to get to lower body fat levels, you can find that at athleanx.com. If you're looking for those supplements, as a matter of fact, the number one pre-workout, athleanx site, you can find that over at athleanx.com too. Make sure you watch my newest video here and also check out a perfect forearm workout here if you want to try what this looks like in action. All right, guys, make sure you click subscribe, turn on notifications so you don't miss a video when we put one out. See you soon.