 If you've got plantar fasciitis, that unmistakable, searing, burning pain, right here in your heel, well, I'm going to help you fix it today with this, this, a wall, and definitely not this. What's up, guys? Jeff Cavaliere, ATHLEANX.com. So, today we're fixing that plantar fascia of yours by, guess what? Not really addressing your plantar fascia, because it's not the problem. As a matter of fact, it's just the symptom, but the root cause of what's making yours inflamed right now is coming from something else, and I'm going to show you again. Exactly what it is. So, this little piece of tissue, the plantar fascia sits on the bottom of your foot. This job is just basically to connect from the heel towards your toes and provide a little bit of support, a little bit of support for your arch, especially in standing. But when you go to actually move, walk or run, you cannot be asking this piece of tissue to be the main support for your foot, or you're going to lead to the same problem you've got right now while you're on this video, because you're asking it to do way too much, much more than it can handle, especially if you're overweight. But it is a good idea to start focusing on what the heel is doing, because that is where the problem starts. When your foot makes contact with the ground, this heel actually has to turn out biomechanically to do it right. By kicking out, it actually loosens up the bones of your midfoot here, turning your foot into a mobile adapter that can accommodate the forces from the ground and dissipate them up the chain. So, you don't get a lot of stress in your ankles, knees, hips, or low back. And that's a good thing. However, when your foot comes through and now has to push off to take the next step, you have to have the ability to get that heel turned inward. And what that does is it actually locks up those bones in your midfoot, causing your foot to now become a rigid lever that you could actually propel yourself off of with good, effective force. What's happening to you, though, is your foot is not a lever when it needs to be. It's still a mobile adapter. And by doing that, now you have too much looseness in the middle of the foot. And the only thing that can actually support your next step is this tiny little piece of tissue that is not equipped to do it. And by the way, it's an inflamed tissue at this point. So, just rubbing a ball on top of that inflamed tissue is likely just going to make it more inflamed and more painful. So, that's not what we have to do. Instead, we have to focus on getting this heel into the right position. And to do that, we need to stand up. So, let me walk you over to the wall because that's where we're going to solve our problems. But pay attention to the walk as I get over there because this is, again, what's causing your problem. When you walk, you're supposed to be able to have your ankle here get into this dorsiflex position. But if you have tight calves, you're not going to be able to get into this position or at least not the way you should. Because when we take our step, you want that heel like I just showed you to be able to kick out to create the looseness in the midfoot that adapts to the surface and lets you absorb those forces so you don't get anything up and down the kinetic chain here. But when I go to push off, that heel has to change that position. It needs to be able to invert to lock up that midfoot, create a good rigidity there that can propel you forward. That's what happens every single step you take. If, however, this heel is still kicked out, what's going to happen? It's still going to be loose in the midfoot. And by doing that, now you're going to ask this little piece of tissue to absorb all that propulsion force. And guess what it's going to do? It's just going to start tearing and pulling and causing spurs and all kinds of things that you don't want. So, you need to know how to stretch your calves out. Because you might think to yourself, oh I know, I'm just going to do this. I've seen calf stretches before. Just let them hang off the edge of a stair or something like that and I'm good to go. No, because you're not replicating the forces that you're undergoing when you're stepping, which is causing all that transmitted force to that one structure that can't handle it. So, you do this. You go into a wall. Okay? Now, if I want to stretch out this leg over here, you drop the foot back. And again, you're probably thinking, I've done this before. This doesn't really help. That's because this isn't enough either. Because what's the position of that heel when you're doing this stretch? Likely as you're leaning in, it's actually caving down this way and kicking out. So you're in that mobile foot state when I need you to be in that rigid lever state. So how do we do that? We have to roll that ankle out a little bit. Just get into that heel, the outer portion of the heel. Right about here you want to lean into. And then I just want to step in like that. And I can step a little bit across the body instead of straight in, across the body because that's going to make me get a little bit more out onto the edge of that heel. Now I've got the foot in exactly the position that it needs to be in, training myself to get more flexibility through my calf in a good way that's replicating the thing that I don't have right now. Exactly the thing that I'm missing that's causing all these steps, step after step after step to transmit way too much force into that plantar fascia. Causing the inflammation. You're just feeling the inflammation. It's not the plantar fascia's fault. It's the mechanics elsewhere. So now you do that stretch moving forward dynamically. About 10 or 12 times just in here like that. Or get in there and hold it for about 20 seconds at a time. But just make sure you're doing the stretch. The next thing you can do is because we're three dimensional people, we move around in different planes, you can step across the body and stretch it that way. So I'm still leaning into the wall to stretch, but I'm stepping across. So now I'm working this plane of motion. But I'm leaning into the wall, stretching that calf down, keeping that heel down. Outer edge of the heel. Then we can even get some rotational stress in there too because sometimes we move in that direction. So what you want to do is step it across this way. Try to rotate. Try to turn your hips. All of them stepping in this direction so you're causing that outer heel to take the brunt. Again, keeping it on the ground, leaning in, and getting that stretch. So just like this. If you do this stretch every single day, a few this way, a few stepping across the body, a few stepping that way. Over time, that will alleviate the stress on the plantar fascia so they can finally calm down. You're trying to walk around every day constantly re-inflaming it and causing it re-aggravation, and it never goes away. Trust me, I know how long this thing can stay. But if you start to stretch this, you get more mobility. Now you walk around and you're like, oh, this feels really good. That's number one. One other thing to keep in mind, because our body is a kinetic chain. If you evaluate yourself and you're like, wow, my calves are really tight, you know right away that's your problem. So focus on that and you'll be good. If you do this and you have heel pain, but your calves really aren't that tight, they don't really feel a good stretch when you do this, then the second place you need to look is right here in the hip. Because I find that it's almost always the only other place that causes this. And what happens here is you get a weakness in this one muscle called the glute medius. And what that does is it causes your hips to drop when you take a step. Your hips drop like this. If this drops, what happens on the opposite side? As my hip drops here, this foot caves down again and the heel kicks out. And we want to have that heel in position when we propel. So if you have weakness on this side of the body, you can have plantar fasciitis on this side of the body, or vice versa. So how do you strengthen that? Let's pretend this is the weak hip. Your wall is your friend again. All you've got to do is get up against the wall. The weak hip is on the outside. So in this case likely your plantar fasciitis is on this side against the wall. If it's happening on both sides you're going to work both hips. You lift up this foot, the one closest to the wall. You stay on this leg here. Drop it out. Just let it drop. Get loose. Get lazy. And then when you drive back squeeze the muscles of the hip straight into the wall like that. Drop it out. Squeeze right from here straight across. And it doesn't matter how much you're squatting or how much you deadlift. This is a different muscle and a different plane of motion. You need to strengthen this. Again, you can have a lot of lifting history and still have a really bad plantar fasciitis. Squeeze over here. Get that good contraction. Do these for about 12 to 15 repetitions. Again, maybe two times a day, three times a day. Strengthen up the hip. And I promise you if it's not the calves, it's the hips. If you do both those things I promise you it's going to go away. If you're looking for ways to fix back pain that might already be happening because of your inattention to the right fix for plantar fasciitis you're going to want to watch my video on how to fix low back pain here. I actually show you some other exercises you can do to strengthen that glute medius. If you found it helpful, guys, make sure you leave your comments below. Anything else you want me to fix, I'll do that for you. Just leave it down in the comments below. All right, guys. Turn on those notifications so you never miss a video when I put one out. See you.