 So if you've been watching for any length of time that I've been on this channel, you've seen my transformation. However, there are some people out there saying that it's not very impressive, and that what I did in a couple of years, will be done in a couple of weeks. But I'm going to do one better. I'm going to make an amazing transformation in less than 24 hours. So we are starting today on June 5th at 7.44 p.m. I don't know if you can see that. How do you make a transformation in less than 24 hours? Well, it's pretty simple. You just have to take a few easy steps. First step, eat a big meal. I chose 5 Guys Burgers and Fries. I had a double bacon cheeseburger, some Cajun fries, and a Diet Coke. The carbonation from the Diet Coke definitely helps with bloating. Step 2, go in the bathroom. Don't go to the bathroom. Find the worst lighting you can possibly imagine. Take a few photos or videos of yourself looking disheveled, bad posture, and overall just looking not so great. Then, I went to go get a haircut. And I got my beard trimmed. One, it looks like time has passed. Two, it just makes you look a little bit better, more put together. Step 3, shave your chest. Seriously, shave your chest. It's weird, I know, but it's an optical illusion. The reason why you do this is because the hair that covers your chest is going to cover up any size and definition. Once you shave it, your pecs are going to look pretty good. They'll look more defined, they'll look a little bit more shapely, and they won't be covered in hair. Then, step 4, get a tan. Don't have to apply a lot. Just a thin coat is fine enough just to give a little color and take off the edge of that paleness. Easy way to do this is just apply some self-tanner that you get at CVS. Why? Because it highlights the muscles, especially under harsh lighting. Next step, go to the gym, get a pump. Yeah, get a pump. When it comes to the pump, choose exercises that are going to be beneficial for that pump. I chose the bench press, the pec deck, and the crossover to really pump up my chest. Then, for my shoulders, I did some lateral raises, and I also did an overhead press as well. For my biceps, just a few curls, triceps, push downs. Those are going to give me the best pump I can get. Then, for my back, I use some rows and some pull downs. The next step, and final step, is go into a room, whether that's your bathroom that you started in, and you just get a little bit better lighting, or you go into a room that has really good lighting, like I have at my gym. There, take your shirt off, flex, suck in your stomach, get those abs showing, and holy smokes, you're going to look totally different than you did the night before, or a few hours before, depending on when you started this. And so here I am, back at home from the gym, fresh out the shower, and to prove to you guys that this transformation took less than 24 hours, it is Friday, June 6th, at 5.57pm. Pretty amazing for less than 24 hours, am I right? Well, this is the before photo, and this is the after photo. And as you saw, this was achieved by a few simple things, such as manipulating what I ate, a tan, shaving my chest, a haircut, lighting, and a great pump. That's all it takes to make these transformations seem pretty awesome. However, they can be fudged, so you need to take some of these transformations with a grain of salt. Especially the ones that don't show the effort and the process of what it took over time. If they're showing point A and point Z, but nothing in between, it might be fudged. However, the transformations that show you exactly what went on during that process, such as my transformation here on ATHLEANX from day one, through all the videos you've seen me over the years all the way up till now, you know that my transformation is pretty real. So anyways, if you thought this transformation was pretty cool, leave a comment below and let me know. If you thought this whole thing was a bunch of malarkey and you think I still don't look very good, leave a comment below. I'm not going to listen to you, but your comment is still appreciated. And if you want to see me host more videos, also leave a comment below. Those ones will be paid attention to, and I'll pass that along to Jeff, because let's be real, I'm the star of the show here. Alright, so don't forget to leave a comment, like, subscribe, and turn on your notifications so you never miss a video when we put one out. And if you're looking for meal plans, programs, and supplements that will actually aid a true transformation and get you from where you are at point A to where you want to be at point Z, with all the effort in between, you can find them over at ATHLEANX.com. I'll see you soon in another video, most likely with Jeff. I'll see you soon in another video, most likely with Jeff. I'll see you soon in another video, most likely with Jeff.