 What's up, what's up guys, Jeff Cavaliere, athlete, athlete, athlete, athlete, athlete, next.com, physical therapist, and strength coach, and today we're talking about knee pain and how you can fix it actually using exercise. There's nothing more debilitating than that knife-like stabbing pain or that knife-like stabbing pain or that just deep dull ache in your knees every time you try to climb stairs, get out of bed, walk up a hill or down a hill, we have to fix that and I know I can help you to do that. Now, Jesse here is going to be my model today and I know you've probably heard at least at some point though that exercise can help. I'm here. this, a lot of us are probably using the wrong exercises and focusing on the wrong muscles. I'm going to show you what to do, how to do, and every exercise to do to make your knees feel better. And so this is where the problem starts because you might have been told to do exercises that focus on the quads and hamstrings, even as simple in a post-rehab setting as a quad set, where you simply squeeze your quads as hard as you can, trying to drive your knee down into the floor, or you kind of bend your knees a little bit and drive your heels down to create an isometric strengthening exercise for the hamstrings. Again, the issue is not necessarily your hamstrings and your quads in terms of the weakness that's contributing to your knee pain. Stand up, Jesse. I want to show you something very important here because this is really where you need to start to focus your efforts if you want to get rid of this once and for all. The knee itself is what we call a consequential joint. It's literally stuck in the middle of the hip and then the ankle and even the midfoot or the foot itself. Why is that? Because if we can change things down here at the ground, then we're going to put torque on the knee. If we change things up here in the hip, side to side, we're going to change the forces at the knee and the knee has no say in it. And that means yours don't either. So let's look at the foot itself. If you have any type of issues like I do with over pronation of the foot or any chronic plantar fasciitis or any type of issues mechanically where you're over supinated, where your foot rolls out too much, all of that changes position at the knee just like that. And all of that comes in the form of excessive stress inside or outside the knee that over time can wear that knee joint down or cause more acute tendon inflammation and pain. The same thing happens here at the ankle. If the ankle itself is unstable, even if you're on one foot, which we do every time we take a step, if that ankle itself is unstable, every time it moves around, it's causing again some of those forces to be directed up the kinetic chain into the knee joint itself, causing more of that same instability. The hip itself, if I'm on one foot, again, like you do every single time you take a step, if the hip drops out to the side when you do, then that is a present sign of a lot of weakness in this hip. If you have weakness in the hip, which most of us do because we're not training ourselves in that plane, then the same thing applies. Now you're transmitting those forces down from the hip into that same knee, causing those inside outside issues that are causing more of that instability. We're going to fix that with specific exercises and then start worrying about what we do with the quads and hamstrings because it's then and only then that you really want to care about that. So let's start down here on the ground with that foot and ankle. There's two things that you can do here every other day, Monday, Wednesday, Friday, maybe one extra day on the weekend to help to strengthen these muscles and to start to work on improving the condition of your knee. Jesse, take off your shoes here for me while we do it. I want you to do these barefoot if you can, right? Because I want your feet to be able to actually start to feel the ground and not be hidden inside the shoes that you have. The first thing is simply to work on your balance. As I showed you before, just standing on one leg is going to cause some of those muscles inside the foot and the ankle to be challenged, some more than others, right? And we know that we need to work on this, but we can make it even a little bit more fun. We could gamify it by having you use the up leg to simply draw out the alphabet in front of you. So A and then B, just like that. C, you work your way all the way through and try to maintain your balance as Jesse falls up there. Try to maintain your balance. What you'll see is these muscles on the down foot inside the foot will actually start to burn a little bit. You want to work your way all the way through and repeat it one to two times on each foot. Again, three times a week, maybe one extra day on the weekend. The next thing that you can do is work on getting the intrinsic foot muscles to become stronger. So what you're going to do is something we call an RDL. One leg is going to come up off the ground. And what you're going to do is lean forward, hinge at the waist like this, act like you're going to pick something up off the ground. That knee is going to bend a little bit just naturally to go down. And as you come out of this, you drive through the hip all the way through, drive this knee up. But down here at the ground, I want you to act like you're clenching the ground with your foot, basically making a fist with your foot as you come up. So go down, let the foot be loose. That's what it wants to do when it's on the ground like this. Anyway, as you drive into hip extension, though, you pull and clench your foot to get out of you feel that? Yeah, really going to feel a cramping sensation in your foot. But that's a good strengthening exercise that works biomechanically with how your foot, ankle, knee prefer to work together anyway. So it's going to start to give you better mechanics, take some of that stress off the knee. And again, these are super easy to do multiple times a week. Without much extra effort. Moving up now, you want to work on strengthening the hip. And there's a very specific muscle in this hip that needs to be strengthened as the glute medius. It's not the traditional butt muscle that you're probably getting through other exercises. This is only done if you're strengthening in the frontal plane, like this exercise will do. And it's a simple one. It's called the hip lift or a hip bump. And all you do is you lean against something. So either this case, a rack, but you could have a wall on that side, you stand on the leg outside or furthest away from the wall, like Jesse's doing here. Now you just let yourself get lazy. In other words, let the hips drop out, really lazy out to the side. The only muscle that's going to really bring them back to center like this is that glute medius. So what you're trying to do is just allow yourself to drop out and then squeeze really well through that outside of the hip. You'll feel it when you get it. It's like a cramping feeling in that glute medius that drives you over. You feel that? Yeah. All right. So what you want to try to do is 10 good contractions, really making that muscle do the work. Not just swinging your body back through momentum, but shifting your body back. All right. Now, if you can do that and you strengthen yourself the same way, three times a week with that progressively, 10 times on each leg, two to three sets, then you can go into something a little bit more dynamic and it's a hip circle. So it's the same concept. You get on that same one leg. And now what you do is you drop it out, but now you sort of swing around and you drive yourself again back to the side. Now you let your hip kind of go backwards behind you here. Then you circle it out to the side here. You'll feel that stretch on the outside of that muscle. The thing that brings it back across is that muscle once again. Okay. Just like that. So you're going to work all the way around in a circle. That's going clockwise. Now you can go counterclockwise. So now lift it up again, same way. Now work this way, drop it out and go backwards and squeeze over from behind. There is actually a different effect, whether you're squeezing that hip over in a flexed hip position or from an extended hip position, you want to work on both of them. So about five circles, counterclockwise, five circles clockwise. That's how you get your 10 reps. You work both sides, obviously both hips. And so if those exercises are the foundation to get you over the hump with knee pain, we still need to get stronger in your legs. And this is where we can't stop training. Remember the beginning, I said the worst thing people do when they have knee pain is they stop doing leg training. You can't do that. These three exercises are the building blocks. These are the ones that you can always rely on. As a matter of fact, 95% of people with knee pain will find that they could do at least one of these pain-free, if not all three. All right. So here's what you want to try to do to build upon those other more corrective exercises. The first one is simply to grab some dumbbells, or even if you don't have any capacity to hold weight right now, that's fine. But you want to try to squat to a surface, in this case to a bench. All that does is sort of mentally remove some of the hurdles that have been put in place by your chronic knee pain. Because let's face it, if you've got that sharp shooting pain, every time you even start to bend, you lack the confidence in thinking that you can actually get down to a parallel squat without your knees really, really hurting. So having that surface there that in case you couldn't actually go all the way down, you know it's going to catch you, removes a lot of those psychological barriers that biomechanically open up the possibility to actually do the squat. Squat to a surface, you'll change the entire dynamic of how it feels. Next thing you can do is, put those aside for a sec, is take a single dumbbell like this, and what we do is a drop squat. And what the drop squat does is it biomechanically fixes your squat. I don't care how bad your squat form might be right now, because a bad squat form is going to contribute to more knee pain. Putting the dumbbell right here in front of you, and simply lowering that dumbbell straight to the ground, is going to fix how much knee flexion you need for your torso size, how much hip flexion you need for your torso size. Turn to the side, Jesse. And you'll see it just basically creates the biomechanically perfect squat. The hip angle is perfect, the back angle is perfect. It takes you right where it needs to go, because the weight is going straight down, thank you, to gravity. So what we do is essentially work on building up your strength here, holding a heavier and heavier dumbbell, adding additional weight vest if you need that to add more and more weight to the system. Okay, those can go over. Now grab one dumbbell. And the third thing that I like people to do is, I love lunging, because lunging mimics the function of walking, but I don't want to see you lunge forward, because lunging backwards will give me all the benefits without a lot of that knee pain that we get from lunging forward, that anterior knee stress that we get. So all you want to do is lunge backwards, you hold the dumbbell in the same leg or side of the leg that's going backwards. What that does is it causes this hip to want to fall, right, your body to fall in the direction of the weight. If the body falls in the direction of weight, what happens to this hip over here? It bumps out just like it did on that last corrective exercise. Your job is to make sure that it doesn't, that it stays locked in place here, nice and stable. So I don't care about speed on this exercise. I care about precision. And if you want to overcome your knee pain, slow movements, controlled movements with progressively heavier weights is going to be the key to getting over that knee pain once and for all. So you go straight back, really focus on keeping the hip right where it needs to be. You come out of there straight up also. None of this hip shifting. Now one last thing you can do is to pretend that you have one of those little laser pointers, you know, that we use in lectures, laser pointer attached to your kneecap. Where do you want that laser pointer pointed? Directly ahead of you or outside your knee, but not inside your knee. And I'm less concerned when people talk about knee over toe. I don't really care about that. That's actually more biomechanically correct. I don't want to see knee inside toe. Okay. Knee inside the big toe. So as you're doing even that last exercise, pretend that you have a laser pointer right here on that kneecap. Make sure that you're focusing on the position of the kneecap and keeping it directed over the middle toes of your foot, or if anything, a little bit to the outside, but not allowing itself to cave in. Ironically, this is why this all ties together. If we're controlling that hip, that knee is going to be controlled, right? If we control the position, don't let that hip bounce out. What happens when it bounces out, the knee goes in. So if we can focus on either controlling the hip and keeping it tucked in or focusing on the knee itself and keeping it in that alignment over those middle toes, you're going to fix that problem too and alleviate any of that discomfort that you would get from exercises that you probably stopped doing because you thought they just did nothing but irritate you even further. Remember when it comes to knee pain, the only thing worse than the wrong movement is no movement. Make sure you're doing the exercises that I showed you here. Start with those kind of foundational exercises, build up to the three that we just focused on here. And I promise you, your knee pain will feel a lot better. If you have that plantar fasciitis that I mentioned earlier in this video, you're going to want to make sure you check out this video where I show you how to fix that as well as a common fix for a really common problem, low back pain. This is going to work better than anything else. Guys, if you're looking for complete programs where we put physical therapy into our training, you're going to find them over at athleanx.com, full supplements, everything available for you guys there. I hope you found this video helpful. Make sure you click subscribe, turn on the notification so you never miss the video when we put one out. See you soon.