 What's up, what's up, what's up, what's up, what's up, what's up, what's up, guys, Jeff Cavaliere, ATHLETEX.com. Can I introduce you to Mr. Skinny Fat? Jeff, if this guy is skinny fat, call me Arnold Schwarzenegger. Hi, Jeffrey. It's me, Arnold. How are you? Arnold, maybe you want to look at him again now? Ah, he's looking soft and frail. I know what you're talking about. Well, I'll leave you to it. Hasta la vista, baby. Can you get out of here, please? Let's talk about skinny fat today, because if you look like this, you're probably on this video for a reason, and good reason, because I'm going to help you to solve this physique problem today. And it's actually a simple two-step solution here, but you have to make sure you're doing those two steps properly, because you've probably heard them before. You just haven't done it the way I'm going to show you how to do. So again, what is skinny fat? Well, take a look. It's really defined by a few different characteristics. Skinny or undeveloped arms, really a lack of muscle, soft middle. Over here, a lack of chest development, just completely flat, and even skinny legs, if you look down below. The problem is, skinny fat is rather deceptive because when you put a shirt on, it's not so apparent anymore. And you can hide behind the shirt. And if you've ever dealt with this problem, you've likely spent a lifetime hiding behind the shirt. But what happens when it ultimately has to come off for that beach vacation of yours? Or maybe you're in the locker room and your buddies are teasing you. Or maybe in that moment of intimacy, you have to take the shirt off and you're not so comfortable with how you look. The problem is, you don't want to live this way if you have a way to fix it. And I'm going to help you do that. Because it's not age-related. It doesn't have to be limited to guys in their early 20s who look like that. You can look like this in your 40s or 50s and you still have the same characteristics. A lack of a chest, a lack of arms, that pudgy midsection. It only gets worse because body fat deposition gets harder and harder to get rid of as you get older. It's also not just related to the amount of weight that your body carries. Because you can be skinny fat, ironically, at any body weight. And also, ironically, you can look vastly different at around the same body weight if you take care of one thing. And that is the amount of muscle that you carry on your body. Because even if you go back to someone who had a higher body fat, if they're carrying more muscle you see that they look much, much better than somebody who has less muscle. So how do you fix this, guys? As I said, it comes down to one thing, and that is how much muscle can you pack on your body? This will be the first step to solving your skinny fat issues forever. And that means you're going to have to work out. And I know you're probably saying, Jeff, thanks. That was really helpful. You're just giving me a bunch of workouts to go do. No, no, no. I'm not giving you a bunch of workouts to do. I am giving you one workout to do. Actually, two. But one type of workout. Do you follow bro splits or push-pull legs? Typical Arnold split, upper, lower, anterior, posterior? No. What I want you to do that I've found to have the most success with this particular body type is a total body workout, which looks like this. A three day a week workout plan. And the nice thing about total body is you get to work out with a day off in between. So even somebody that has a hard time with commitment right now, looking to find three days out of a seven day week that you can actually get in the gym is a lot easier to start to develop the consistency that will lead to your salvation in terms of your skinny fat body. Now, what's the workouts look like? Again, there's only two variations here, A and B. And I actually put this whole workout together for you that I'll link for you in the description below. That will give you exactly what this workout looks like. It's our perfect total body workout. Six exercises, right? A barbell squat at a three by five, a barbell hip thrust, a barbell bench press, weighted chin up, a farmer's carry and a cable or banded face pull. They're compound exercises that are easily loaded and progressively overloaded, which means that you can progress on these exercises a lot quicker and see more rapid muscle gains and strength gains, which all is going to help you to build more muscle. There's a benefit here too, and that is your naivety when it comes to the gym. You probably haven't trained for long enough, consistent enough or hard enough to see the results that you are capable of. But when you start to follow this plan, you will. And you're hitting all the major functions of the body, whether it be a squat, hinge, push, pull, carry, or corrective. And when you take the second workout, which is a deadlift, a squat or a lunge, a barbell overhead press, a row, and a farmer's carry overhead this time with another corrective, you're complimenting whatever's missing from the first workout. So you don't have a lot of movement patterns to learn. You just have a few, but you learn how to get good at them and to progressively overload once again on that simple calendar. Now, the second part of the equation here though is this, and that is you can't just be doing three sets of 12. And what I mean by that is there's a mentality that goes into the effort that you're putting into your workouts. And I can almost guarantee you with 99.9999% certainty that most skinny fat people do not train hard enough. They take with them to the gym, I'm going to do three sets of 12 because that's what I read. That is the worst mentality to have. I made a whole video on this about why that's holding you back. But suffice it to say that if you're not training at high enough level of intensity, those results will not come. So make sure that you check out this video that I will link for you at the end of this video to make sure that you get this right every single time. But what's left? Well, the skinny fat solution here or equation relies on training, plus as you could have guessed it, nutrition, but with an all important multiplier factor here at the end. And the multiplication factor is protein. Because protein will determine whether or not you see the results you're looking for from your skinny fat transformation. Because when you're trying to simultaneously burn body fat and build muscle, protein is the magic elixir to allow you to do this properly. Why? Because you need to get enough of it. Because when you're in a hypocaloric state necessary for burning body fat, but you still want to build muscle, then protein allows your body to do that even in a slight caloric deficit. But it has to be high enough. And what most people recommend is 0.7 grams to 1.2 grams per pound of body weight in a day. But when you're talking about a skinny fat body, I believe those requirements get nudged up a little bit more from the minimum side to 1 gram to 1.2 grams per pound of body weight. Meaning that 180 pound person would have to have a minimum of 180 grams of protein up to a maximum of about 216 grams. Now ask yourself, are you meeting those requirements? Because if you're not, you're really going to struggle to put on the muscle that we just talked about was so important to do, at the same time not letting your body fat get out of control, creating another issue for you. So now what would this look like in terms of an actual meal plan? So you'll see here three different meals. Breakfast, lunch, and dinner. And this is a sample meal plan that I gave to one of my athletes. But the first thing you'll see is there's a standard variation here, which means somewhat of a maintenance level of calories that they're ingesting here. And you would do the same thing. You would try to find a maintenance meal at each of these three meals. And it could look slightly different, but it better not look too much different than what you see here. Why? Because this is made up of the right types of foods. And this is not removing complete macronutrients. I'm not taking carbs out of the equation. I'm not taking fats out of the equation. I'm giving you a realistic meal plan consisting of healthy food options to get you to not only learn to eat healthier and more responsibly, but also not punish you along the way. That being said, if you're looking at this and it's a big departure for how you're eating right now, because you prefer Lucky Charms and Edmunds crumb cake, it's time to grow up. Because at some point, in order to get away from that eight year old body that you're stuck in, you're going to have to start eating more like an adult. And this is where we start to eat more like an adult. You're going to eat like this on your maintenance calories for about one to two months while you perform the total body workout that I showed you already. Why? Because I want to give your body the chance to actually build muscle by training now consistently, not missing workouts, and training with that proper intensity that we talked about that you're going to want to watch that video for again. And what will happen is, at the maintenance level, as you start to build muscle, that active tissue will actually help you to burn a few additional calories. As that happens, you create that slight deficit that starts to take care of that body fat issue, little by little. If you do this and you don't see the results that you were looking for, like you're still carrying too much body fat even as you're building muscle, then you make small swaps. We call these shred swaps. And all you do is take the same meals, maybe take some of the nuts out of the oatmeal, or you go from 2% milk down to skim milk, or you go from a whole egg omelet down to an egg white omelet. But you make small changes. Because if you've been able to be consistent with this and you actually enjoy this meal, then you don't need to make wholesale changes. And these small caloric changes are oftentimes enough when piled on top of each other day after day to make the change that you're looking for and not doing it too aggressively. Again, if you don't want to do it in breakfast, you could always swap over here instead. You could take your standard lunch meal and then change it to where you're not having mango salsa, but just plain lemon. Or having a baked potato, but maybe asparagus. Small changes to the current meals you already have are going to ultimately lead to where you want to be from getting rid of that body fat. But only if you still prioritize that protein intake. As you get into this slight deficit, that protein intake stays high. If you have a hard time meeting your protein requirements, guys, I wholly recommend a protein powder. Our Pro 30G has more protein per serving, 30 grams, than almost every single protein powder on the market. You can find it over at ATHLEANX.com. That's literally what I use to meet my protein requirements per day. But as long as you're getting in enough, you're going to be able to make this change. Again, you pick the meal you want to do it at. Oftentimes I never see someone have to go more than two meals in a day that they're making the shred swaps to. They've already seen the changes that they're looking for. They stick to that and they maintain that while they continue to build muscle. And if you ever want to come back up again, you can always work your way back towards the standard version of the meal plan to see what you want to see in the mirror. But the bottom line here, guys, is that when you're trying to change your skinny, fat body, it's a two part equation always, but you have to make sure you get it right. Get those total body workouts working for you. Again, you can find those exact workouts in the description below. And also make sure you get new nutrition in place. I have this complete meal plan for you and our ATHLEANX meal plans over at ATHLEANX.com. If you like the video, make sure you click subscribe and turn on notifications so you never miss a video when we put one out. All right, guys. See you soon.