 What's up, what's up, what's up, what's up, what's up, what's up, what's up, what's up, guys, Jeff Cavaliere, Jeff Cavaliere, Athleanx.com. Jesse Laco, Athleanx.com. Jesse Laco, Athleanx.com. Today we're doing the outrageous, or at least Jesse has compiled the outrageous fitness clips from whatever. All over YouTube, Instagram. All over social media. All over social media. That are ridiculous that Jesse wants to react to. Ready? Yep. So, a snatch. No! Not a snatch. That is not a snatch. That is absolutely. Are his shoulders made of iron? Iron? I want rubber bands. It could be rubber bands. So, I actually am a fan of the over and back stretch. If you take a broomstick and go over your back. Yep. I wouldn't advise it with this kind of weight. It's ridiculous. I don't even know what he's really attempting to prove there. I think my arms would tear out of their sockets. Yeah. Next. Oh boy, one of these. This can't be too hard, can it? It's not that it's too hard. It's literally like the thing that smashes your face in half. Because what happens is as soon as they give, of course they're going to give. Yeah. But I will say, I've tried shit like this before. Have you really? Yes. Whenever I see things like this, I always want to privately challenge myself. But I don't do it in a public gym like this. Well, you're never in a public gym. That's true too. Well, that was, see, he cheated there. Oh. That was a cheat. Next one. This is actually, this is a good one. Did you ever see this guy? That's the fastest man alive. What? 228 jumps in 30 seconds. You're kidding me. That, like, people say that it's sped up. And it's not sped up. I've seen people do this before. Competitive jump ropers are probably some of the most athletic people in the world. You don't want to talk about athletes. I got this next clip for you. Check this one out. Okay. So, that is uncoverable in my opinion. But what you see is, it says, Jeff, you act like athletes have superhuman physical talents. I posted this on my Instagram. And 9 million people commented on it. And they also said that this was sped up. This is not sped up. If you get this clip yourself and you go back, you can look at the football in the background. You see the football bouncing around in the background? Yeah. That's bouncing around in real time. The people that are walking in the background are walking in real time. This just goes to show you the level of explosivity of someone like an elite level, all pro receiver like Tyreek Hill. They call him the cheetah for a reason. Yeah. It's impossible to cover. I just love that. I love watching that. Look at that. Yeah. Athletic feats are insane. Crazy. Okay. So, this is fun. This is a fun one for you. This is fun. I'm going to let it play. So, what we're looking for is the height of the glutes. Yeah. In other words, the glute development test. It's a cake challenge as they call it. Yes. So, now, if you can take it, you take a standardized 45 pound plate on an easy curl bar and you roll it towards their back, their low back. If it doesn't stop like it didn't there, then of course you've got a… Oh, he cheated. He cheated, yeah. Do you think my glutes would be good enough to stop the bar? I'll tell you what. Your glutes would absolutely stop the bar. That sounds really awkward to say. My glutes would not stop that bar. That bar would roll right to my low back. And it's not for lack of training, Michael. It's a cake what mama gave you. Exactly. I'm going to blame my parents. All right. This is good. I like this. So, this is a pull up video. So, here we have a recruit who comes in. Now, there's a big size differential between these two guys. Yeah, I guess it's kind of small. Okay. So, how many pull ups do you think he could do? I'm going to guess at least 20. Okay. I'm going to guess he could do a lot because I believe that if it looks like you train like this guy does, but you're not the largest human being in terms of your body size, pull ups are your jam. Or at least they should be. I know that they have always been an advantage for me because I have a good strength to body weight proportion and a light enough body weight that I can pull myself up. Like the guy who was actually challenging him was going to have a lot harder time doing pull ups. You think the lighter guys have the easier time with pull ups? A hundred percent. 24. Do you remember when we did this challenge outside of a… SummerSlam? Yes, I do. Oh my God. How many? What did I… I think I got like 23 or something. Yeah. And you got like 16. I think I got 16. Yeah. And the Navy recruiter was asking if you wanted to join the Navy SEALs, which… I would love to be able to represent my country proudly, but I think my days are over for that. This one. Okay. So now proving everything I just said was wrong, that the larger guy would have a hard time doing pull ups, is this clip. What's he doing? Muscle up? Oh, oh, oh. With a twist. With a twist. Yeah, he's not done yet. Oh my goodness. He's not done yet. Oh, like that. What? Is it Spider-Man? I have such respect for these calisthenic athletes. Like this is obviously a skill that you practice, but the disproving of that whole idea of the larger individual, he's got to be 200 plus pounds here. Being able to do this and make it look easy is a lot harder than you think. It's a lot more talented than me. All right. Now, hold on. So this is the portion where we have to warn you about the time to cover your eyes. Oh. All right. Oh, I know this. The time to cover your eyes portion of the video. Obviously, you've probably seen this clip at some point. If you haven't, then you're going to want to do peeksies here. Okay? Peeksies? Close one eye, put one over and just try to look right through, like a little bit through. It makes it easier to watch if you do decide to watch. This is what happens when you try to lift too much weight and perhaps being enhanced has weakened your tendons. Ah. I know exactly which one this is. This is the bench press by Ryan Crowley. 485. 425. 425. 425. 425. 425. 425. 425. 425. 425. 425. 425. 425. 425. 425. 425. 425. 45. And climb that press. Oh, no. Thankfully, Larry wheels in this spot. And... There she goes. There she goes. We get another angle here in case you missed it the first time. Do I have to watch it again? See it right from here. All looks good until it does. Oh, you can hear it. You can hear it. I've talked about before, I did a whole video on pec tears, where you're most susceptible to it, is going to be in that lowering portion of the bench press. But really, when you're doing it with these extreme amounts of weight, and again, in this case, there's all kinds of anecdotes about not really being warmed up either. The best part about this video, or the best decision he made, was having Larry wheels as his spotter. Strong. Because he pretty much single handedly caught that bar. Yeah. And probably saved his life. Okay, now I have one more for you here, in case you are still wondering whether or not you should be closing your eyes. And this is the bicep curl. Oh, we covered this one before. We did cover this one before. Go ahead and watch. And I'll give you a valuable tip when it comes to this creature curl. Can we skip to the good part? Pop, pop. Oh. Double distal bicep tear. Oh. Now, I can sympathize with this man, because I too have torn my bicep, and it's not fun. It's actually quite painful too. Wow. The biggest problem here was not setting up properly. If you go back and look, he's sitting back too far. And he's basically creating like a seesaw effect for his elbows over the top of the bar with all that weight on the bar. Instead, if you don't want to have any concerns about doing this exercise, lean forward a little bit more and dig your elbows back into the pad. Okay. If you dig your elbows back into the pad, you get the lats assisting you in taking away some of that extreme load and leverage that is what caused that to pop on both sides. Just too much weight and bad setup. Can we go back to something fun? Okay. Now we're back to something fun. Okay. This is, you know, we've all been here before. Someone needs to get a spot, right? So, this young woman's on a leg press. She needs a spot. And that's you, isn't it, Jesse? Oh, no. Is that you? That's not me. Have you guys seen that move before? Have you done that move? Bad spot Barry. We did that before. We did that before. Look, at least he wasn't like, like pack squatting it back up. Oh, that'd be inappropriate. As if this is? Yeah. I've seen you pull off that move. Oh, man. All right. This one, I got a question for you. Okay. Tell me which muscle this is, okay? Okay. Right there. What muscle is that? I don't know anatomy enough to know that. That muscle. One more time for you at home. Oh, goodness. Next one. This is, this is, this is cool. Oh. You like that? Whoa. Now, it's happening on all kinds of balance devices here, too. That just makes it more and more difficult. But I'd say the hard, the very hard part is that control to maintain the stable bar in space. Yeah. Because you have to alter the forces that you're putting into that bar as you do it. To be able to do that that smoothly requires a lot of muscle control. Not muscle control that I have. So, next one. I actually did this myself. This is the old man test. Oh, we've seen this before. I actually just talked about it. So, this looks simple as hell, but can I tell you what you have to do? If you can put on your socks and shoes without letting your foot touch the ground, you also have to tie your shoes. Oh. Okay? So, you have to stay on one foot for the entire time that it takes you to do that activity, and then go to the other side and do the other side. You can't lose your balance at any time here. Okay. If you lose your balance, it's an indicator that you're kind of maybe older than you think you are, or your body is aging a little faster because you don't have the requisite balance to do this. Okay. How do you think you do? Well, I think, one, I think I'd be pretty good at it simply because I've spent most of my life snowboarding and skateboarding, so my balance is pretty decent. But, I think I've got a little bit of a cheat on this one because I don't know if you call me an old man or a little kid, but I keep my shoes tied and I slip them on and off. Oh, so you cheat on this. I cheat on this all the time. So, glute media strength is the key to being able to do this. When the hip shifts out to the side because you lose balance, it's because you don't have good glute media strength. If you're looking for a way to do that, I do have a video on this channel to show you exactly how to strengthen that muscle. You know, Jeff, I've got to tell you, that's not the first test I've ever cheated on. Oh. I do think I graduated college. Shocker. Shocker. So, this next clip. Okay. So, I think we've all seen this, obviously. Oh. Right? So, I don't know what else to say about this other than… Not cool. Not fair. Not cool. Not cool. Um… There's really no place for this nonsense. Yeah. And, uh… I don't know why people hate so much. Dude, why can't I want you to be nice? I don't know why people hate so much. I mean, he had… Jeff had an opinion and then he gets mauled because of it. And it's certainly… Like, I do believe in fair fights. This is not fair. No, that's not fair at all. It's not fair. This is ridiculous. So, anyway… Um… For those who had asked me my opinion on that, it's ridiculous. Next one. You ready? Okay. This is insane. Ah… Now, it actually is… Can I tell you a secret about this? Go ahead. I know this looks ridiculous. I know this looks very dangerous, which it is dangerous. But this is actually a little easier than it looks. Really? So, you're recommending that I try this out? Don't try it. With a nail in my eye or a knife in my neck? Nobody should try that at home. I'm just saying that activity done in different variations is a little bit… It's like one of the magician's secrets. It's a little bit easier than it looks. Okay. Let's just leave it at that. But don't do it. Please. God forbid. I'm just going to give you an inspiration of this, by the way. Oh my God. Do you ever see this one? I don't think I have. That seems pretty easy. See that bar? Yeah, right. Until he goes apart. So, what he was doing there is not just doing the same thing, but squeezing at the same time. Yeah. I don't know how people come up with these things. Why does everyone have to make me feel like I'm so… Inadequate? Inadequate when I can't do cool stuff like that. We've got something that will make you feel inadequate here in a little bit. Oh no. Actually, this makes everyone feel inadequate. This is Dream's World. Is that 585? 6 plates. Yeah. Oh man. So, a little squat. Of course… He walks it over. He's walking with it. He's walking with it. I don't think I can put 585 on my back and stand up. No. And now, you know, because this is what you would do if you squat, you likely bench too, right? Yeah. Not in the same set, but in this case, yes. Oh my god. Down. You can see where this is going, right? Don't tell me he's going to press this. Uh… There you go. No! Actually… Come on! Pretty easy. I've actually seen him squat, bench, and deadlift in one set. Oh my goodness. Next one here. The guy in the back was not expecting him to do this. The strong man picks up the bar from the sides, making it stand upright. What? Do you know what he's setting up for? No. Do you see this? This is a Steinborn squat. Oh my goodness. Isn't that unbelievable? Okay. You want to talk about real free strength. Now he'll freestanding squat it. Right? So, the Steinborn squat, actually people have a lot of problems with it because there's spinal flexion and all that load. And again, as a physical therapist, it's not my favorite movement recommendation for anybody. But I will say that it has some high degree of functionality. I know guys that actually work in construction who pick up rebar that way. Really? Mm-hmm. Damn. So, I mean, it's probably one of the most efficient ways to do it, provided that you're strong enough to do it. I can say that I'm not strong enough to do that. Now here's the inadequacy. Actually, I can make you feel inadequate twice. You ready? Oh, great. That's a video that was actually posted here on YouTube. The same platform that I happily post videos to all the time. This is – and I post a lot of workout videos. And informative content. Informative content. This is geared at – Increasing the size of one's manhood, I guess. I don't even know what to say about this. I mean, they're adductor exercise. The triceps are lighting up there. The shoulders do. Nothing lighting up right in between his legs. I don't see anything happening there, but apparently the eggplant grows from doing that. So if you want this, Jesse, I will screen save this for you. Hey, I can use all the help I can get. I'll send it over to you. And then we have this one. POV, you're lifting weight with a girl. Oh, yeah, okay. Right? That pull down. Okay, go put your weight on there. It's just... Yeah. Now let's see if I'm doing the same thing. Nope. Nope. You know how we just don't stack up when it comes to leg strength. Apparently not. Obviously, a lot's going on out in the world of fitness. If you want real good fitness advice, I recommend tuning into this channel. And also, if you're looking for ways to improve that balance, like I said, that glute medius exercise, and other ways to become more athletic and explosive, just subscribe. Yeah, watch our videos. All right, guys. See you soon.