 but notice that I don't quite measure up to some of the guys I see on social media or even in my own gym. Literally every time I scroll, there's another person that I wish I looked like and I think to myself, what if I just took steroids? Would I make as much progress as they've made? Hell, I'd even settle for 40% of it and I could probably do it in just one cycle. Is it worth hopping on the sauce? If you were in my shoes, would you recommend just biting the bullet and doing it? That actually sounds a lot like, wait, 30 years old? Is it you? Wait, why is that blurred out? What's the blur? Don't worry about it. What do you mean don't worry? Who's this from? Okay, fine. It's from Lesi Jaco. Oh my God. Is this you for real? Yes, it's me. Are you really, is this a real question? It's a real question because I look at how much progress I've made, but I just, every time I go to the gym, I'm reminded of how much I haven't made, how much progress I'm lacking. And every time we post a video with me on here, I get comments. I see the comments and I see that they're saying, you made no progress. You could have getting those gains in just a year or six months. Right, right. I've seen them. So, it's deflating and it really fucks with my head. So, I think this is a very important topic and there are many videos out there that talk about the physiological dangers of steroids. What happens to your liver? What can happen to your heart? Like, I don't want to make that video. That video has been made and guess what? If you do a Google trend search on steroids over the last five years, what do you see? Nothing. If anything, it's increased. The interest in steroids has increased because the normalization of steroids has also increased because of social media. What I think is more potentially important for me to answer this question for you and for others out there who have been considering this is, what are the deeper ramifications of this? And what are the deeper considerations that are leading you to even think this way? Obviously, no one cares enough about the physiologic downsides to steroids to be making that trend go down. Right? So, let me ask you a few questions. Right? And this applies to everybody out there too. Whatever level of achievement you have, I'm going to apply this directly to Jesse. Are you proud of your strength gains? Yes. Do you realize that a 560 pound deadlift, that what is your body weight? 165. At 165 pounds, it's an astronomical deadlift. Yeah. For a non-enhanced person. Do you realize that – what is your squat? 430. Do you realize that a 430 squat at 165 pounds is a really strong squat? Yeah. That's pretty good numbers right there. You have achieved a lot. And those out there – and there are plenty out there, way more out there that are supporting you than have bashed you. Yeah. People are going to bash whoever they see that they wish they could be. Yeah. That's just the nature of people. It's hard to see that because, you know, they say like, the negative comments that you see and the negative attitude towards you outweighs the good that people see because it affects you even more. Dude, I think if you're being honest, I could read 100 comments that are positive and I focus on the one that's negative. Yeah. Right? We all do that. We don't want to hear bad things about ourselves. But what I want you to be proud of is that the achievements that you made, you know with 100% ownership are yours. You made those achievements. Those are yours and yours only. If you had done that enhanced, what percentage of that strength gain would you attribute to the steroids? Like how could you quantify that? I don't know. What are you going to say? It's hard. It's hard. Again, it's hard to say. But some percentage of that would be attributable to steroids. What if it was – what if in your mind everything was attributed to steroids? Then what is the value of that achievement? Well, it wouldn't be as important to me because I'm not doing it myself. I'm doing it with extra help. Right. So, if you're out there and you're considering taking steroids and you make achievements on steroids, to what level of fulfillment will you have even when you get them? And if the fulfillment is not there, I'm telling you right now it's not going to matter because we'll talk about it later. More is never enough. You need to continue to get more, especially if you don't think that it came from your efforts as much. I'm not saying that you can take them and not do anything in the gym. I'm not saying that. But you're always going to attribute some level of that. Let's talk about your body. Okay? People talk about your body. What do they say? They could have made the gains in three months. Yeah. Other people say – And then there's other people that – So you look fucking amazing. Yeah. That have made great progress. Great progress. Right. So, who's right? Probably the people that said I made good progress. Well, in your head, the people that said the negative stuff. Yeah. That's the one that sticks with me the most. And again, anybody out there who's contemplating taking steroids, you're doing it because something in you is not satisfied. Well, it's an insecurity. It's an insecurity. You're measuring yourself up against social media, which is the worst thing possible because people are always going to highlight their best on social media and they're going to look the best on social media. So, you're measuring yourself against something that doesn't even really truly exist. Now, regarding your body, you look at somebody like Larry Wheels, you're going to feel bad about yourself. Yeah. Right? Yeah. And even though we know Larry Wheels is enhanced and he's talked about that, somewhere deep in the dark recesses of our mind, we're still saying, but I look like shit compared to him. Yeah. But let me ask you a question. Did Larry Wheels ever look like this version of Jesse? Probably not. No. Never. I don't think he ever looked like that version of Jesse right there. He didn't start where you started. At 135 pounds. Right. That guy got to this point here, but from that starting point. I don't know Larry Wheels' history enough to know where he exactly started, but I can tell you he was a smaller version of himself. But you have made this transition naturally. Yeah. And have made an enormous percentage change in your body mass. Yeah. In your lean body mass. All of that, again, would be discredited to some degree. Not all of it. Discredited to some degree by simultaneously getting those gains while on steroids. Yeah. And there's a value loss there. To the point where you're not going to feel fulfilled if you did that. And again, what's the point of talking about the potential liver damage and heart damage? That doesn't sway people. They're not being swayed by those types of videos and that type of information. That's not getting to the crux of the matter. This is something that's coming from within. Deeper within. The next thing is, I get accused of being a natty virtuer. Like basically saying that there's a virtue status of being natural when compared to being not natural. I'm not trying to put down those that take steroids. They've reached that conclusion to themselves. When is it time to take steroids? It might already be time for somebody who's already gone through the assessment and made the decision that that is what they need to do. But I have a question for those out there that would say that about me. If there is no virtue to natural, then why is there all the interest in natty or not videos? That's a good question. Why is there all the interest? If there was no interest in natty or not videos, I can understand it. But the fact that people look at those videos and say, oh, he's not natural. So yeah, screw it. I knew I couldn't do that because that's all fake. Or they're assigning a value to like, wow, that's what he looks like and that's natural. Well then that's really good. And that's achievable. Right. But there's some additional value to it having been achieved naturally. It's not discredited. It's pursued. Right. There's a virtue to that. And again, I don't think it speaks to the character of the person. It's not about the character of the person. It's about the inherent value to achieving those gains and feeling the worthiness of them when you achieve them because you haven't gone down that path. Can I bring up a video that you've been very public about? Your own anxiety and depression. Yes. Do you think Jesse Laco or Lesse Jaco should go and pursue anabolic steroids knowing what your depression and anxiety history is? Probably not. I've heard that it makes those issues worse if you have them. Could be substantially worse. And that it can get real dark real fast. So you're not alone as you found out on that video, by the way. In the comment section. You're not alone in some of those feelings that you have. Mm-hmm. And I think a lot of people out there need to highly consider the influence of anabolic steroids in terms of the effect on those symptoms should they decide to pursue that path. Yeah. Their mental health is something they need to consider. And I'll take it a step further. When we make these personal decisions, if you decide, you know, it is time. It's time. I'm ready. I'm so fed up. I don't like the look of myself in the mirror anymore. I need to do something. Do you think that you're making, though it is a personal decision, are you not also making a decision that has interpersonal ramifications? Yeah. I think I get what you're saying. Well, I'll clarify it for you. Do you have a mother? Yes. Do you have a father? Yes. Do you have a girlfriend? Yes. Do you have brothers? I've got two of them. I know all the answers to these questions. Do you have people in your life that care about you and love you? And I hope and pray for most of you out there that you can answer that question, yes, at least to one person. Some of you I know probably may not be able to, and that's a sad situation. But you should love yourself enough to understand, though, that there are ramifications to your actions. And when you make a decision like this that does have the litany of potential health risks that come with it, you're not just jeopardizing potentially yourself and your own personal decision to take them. But you're effectively impacting everybody else. All you have to do is look at the long list of guys that aren't here anymore. Yeah. And I don't have to go down the list of those names. We've made videos on some of these guys. What has been left with their passing? A lot of sorrow, a lot of sadness has been left over in the families of those who they're and they will miss that person for the rest of their life. And they will think to themselves that there's a tragedy behind their loss because it kind of was avoidable. Yeah. You didn't need the steroids. You didn't need them. Just a personal choice. You could have looked really well and really great without them. And the ramifications are going to be felt for the rest of their lifetime by those that survived them. So I think that's the problem. I'll say personally here, I can speak to this. When I was younger I talked about having this sort of set of rules that my father had laid out in place of me because I grew up in a house that only had one parent. And he threatened to throw me out of the house if you ever found out I did anything. Any type of drug. Right. Including steroids. And I was so concerned about losing the one and only place I had to go that it steered me clear of that. But even as I get to be an adult now – as I get to be an adult. You are an adult. Almost 50 years old now. Yeah. I've got two young children. At the age of 50 I've got eight-year-old twin boys. Everything I do – even when I took a recent trip to Las Vegas – I thought about splitting myself up, my wife on one point and me on another. I literally did. Because I'm like, well what if it goes down? My kids are left with nobody. I have to think about the other people in my life all the time. And it's just another reminder of why I think it's important to consider more than just the benefits that exist in that syringe. I alluded to this other point before as well. Some is never enough. Right? Think about yourself. What do you have in your life right now that you experience and you enjoy and you want more? And a lot of it – the first thing I can tell you is, often times it comes down to money. They'll get money and they think it's going to make them happy, but they realize they didn't. So, they think that having more is going to make them happier. Or they think that drinking, just a little bit, is enough to make me happy. But then they realize that they're not quite fulfilled. And maybe it wasn't the drink that was actually going to provide the happiness. But they pursue more of the drinking to find more happiness. Again, thinking more would be better. Right. We do this a lot. And when it comes to anabolic steroids, there's probably two reasons why this doesn't really work out really well. Number one, if you experience what it would be like to have the increased size, what do you think it would be like to then have it all go away? What if I gave you a magic pill right now, today? And I said, here, Jesse, here you go. You woke up tomorrow morning and you had 20 pounds more muscle. All just ripped lean muscle on you. That'd be awesome. Picture what it looks like. Yeah. All right. Cool. Now, two days after that you wake up again and it's all gone. Oh, that would suck. You get to live that way for two days. How deflating will that be? Not just literally, but in your head. To see yourself of what it would look like and then have it all go away. That is some of the reality of steroids. I'm not saying that all of it would go away, but if a large portion of it did and you didn't like what you saw again, you're going to go right back to the well again. And then because we know that there are some potential addictive tendencies to steroids, it starts to follow the same track that other addictions can follow. They talk about gateway drugs, right? Where this drug is sort of your starter drug and then this one becomes the next drug you go to because you need a little bit more of a high to create the same level of satisfaction and it continues to go more and more. They talk about it with porn addiction. You start to watch a little bit and then you need first it's pictures and then it's videos and then it just continues to heighten. Addictions work in a way where more is what you seek out and what you have is never enough. And because we know that there are addictive tendencies to steroids as well, it becomes a very, very twisted path that you don't want to get yourself down. That goes back to the mental health aspect of it and changing the way that you think and the way that you react to life. Yeah. So, let me ask this question in conclusion here. When is it time for steroids? When do you feel like, now I've reached my breaking point? I'm going to tell you right now that 99% of the people that are watching this video, and I want to say 100 but I've got to always leave that 1%. 99% of the people watching out there have not even come close to reaching their natural limit. You have not even come close to reaching your natural limit. What can improve that? Assess your training consistency right now. Assess your training intensity right now. In your effort. Assess your nutritional consistency. Assess the quality of your nutrition. Assess how well you're sleeping. Assess – there are so many factors that create the physique that looks back at you every day in the mirror. Honestly assess where you're at with that before you even start thinking this. And Jesse, could you answer that question that you're doing everything perfect? No, I'm not doing everything perfect. And by the way, neither could I. Neither could I. I don't think some of my workouts have been shit of late. You know what I mean? Neither can I. All of us know that there's more we can do. And when you address those things you realize there's a lot more potential there. And this question doesn't even have to be asked. It doesn't even have to be asked. Because you know that there's more to it and when you think about it at a deeper level with more of the introspective reasons of why you even consider this in the first place, you start to get to the bottom of the actual answers of why you would. And when you realize that you realize it's probably not worth it. And if that's virtue signaling then so be it. All right, guys. I hope that this helps somebody out there. And if it does make sure you leave your comments below. And also if you think it could help somebody else, forward this video to somebody else that needs to see it. All right, guys. Remember, ask your questions. It doesn't have to be Lessey Jayco who's coming in with his own hidden questions. He shouldn't have hit it. He just should have asked me straight out. And we'll answer yours in the future videos. All right, guys. I'll see you over at Athleanx.com. I'll be back here with another video in a couple of days.