

=== FILE: 10 Min Ab Workout for 6 Pack Abs (RESULTS GUARANTEED) [6_g-bui2qcw].txt ===

 d anybody can do them. The first beep you hear will be at the 30 second mark. That's where beginners can stop doing the exercise and start their rest. Intermediate will hear a second beep at 40 seconds. You stop there and then you rest for 20 seconds. In advance, see if you can make it all the way up to 50 seconds on each exercise with a 10 second rest. At that point, I'll show you the next exercise in the corner. Put yourself in position and keep it rolling. The second most important thing when you want to get your abs to show, you're going to have to pay attention to what you're putting in your mouth. I have a free nutrition plan available for you over at athleanx.com slash 28dayabs. You can get the link down below this video. Next thing we've got to do though is check out the first exercise, get in position, and let's put in the work. You can do it. There you go! Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. for you every step of the way. All right, guys. Good luck. Let's do this.

=== FILE: 15 Early Signs of Very POOR Health as You Age! [mCahca4wK-4].txt ===

 What if I told you that there was a series of things that you could start doing right now after this video that would dramatically improve the quality of your life as you get older? That would be awesome. Would you be interested in investing in that time now? Yes. Okay, so let's put you to the first test. I want to grab your attention and prove to you. Go in the corner here. Okay. I want to see you just do a basic squat. You can play along at home. This is the first thing. All right, ready. How's your mobility? Oh, this is good. It actually looks pretty good. I'm going to say he's got good hip depth. Thoracic spine is good. Head is good. Now, head is good. Now, head is up. Now, head is up. Now, do me a favor. You at home, pick up a bar. Put it up overhead. Ready? Let's see if it looks the same. Go ahead. Should be simple. Oh, God, oh, God, oh, God. What's going on? Oh, God, oh, God, oh, God. Everything's… Please don't tell me you're including that. Please c— You're including that, aren't you? Yes, Jesse. Yes, I am. Damn. Do I have your attention now? Yes. Okay, well, hopefully I have everyone's attention because that is one thing that showcases that maybe you aren't doing quite everything you need to do or the right way to do everything. Because that is the difference between mobility and loaded mobility. And everything changes once you put a weight on your back or in your hands when you perform these mobility drills. And if you just stop at being able to do a deep squat and thinking that you have the mobility needed to be good for the rest of your life, trust me, you don't. Because integrating the strength component with range of motion and stability through range of motion is what that loaded mobility test that is not tested when we do not use additional weight when we do not use additional weight. When we do the drills. So, there's a series of things that we can do. We can make a whole video on that in the future that show you how to do some of these things to increase your range of motion and stability all at once. All right. The next thing is, do you ever hang from a bar? Yeah, yes, I do. Now, I believe that we're one of the first I ever talked about hanging from a bar. Here's a video of mine from probably 2012 hanging in my old basement about why it's so important. You need to start hanging from a bar for a variety of reasons. Hanging from a bar will improve your core strength first and foremost. People don't see it as a core exercise, but it very much is. It will improve your grip strength, which we know has other correlations either directly or indirectly to longevity. Speaking of that, it also helped my deadlift and being able to not use straps. It could actually help with your overall strength output in the gym, which we know has other effects and benefits. And also, more importantly, I think kind of feeds into that mobility element where we have to get more thoracic extension and shoulder elevation and mobility there in our shoulder girdle. Well, it does that and it actually is a loaded mobility drill because you're holding your body weight on the bar. How long do you need to do this for? Well, I think you should do it each day. I think if you can work yourself up as a man to two minutes plus, then you're doing a good thing. If you're a female, you can get to a minute and a half or so or somewhere between a minute and a half and two minutes. You're like at the elite level of bar hand capabilities. So, start off as a beginner, 20 seconds, 30 seconds on that bar, but just try to make sure you're doing it consistently if you want to pay off these big dividends like I'm talking about. The third thing, another mobility drill. We're on a little bit of a roll here. Simple thing. Can you touch your fingers behind your back? One going over the top and one from underneath. Let's try it. All right. Again, play along at home. One hand goes up over the top, one hand goes underneath. He's got about, oh, I don't know, like a foot between. Now, you used to be able to do that a lot easier. When I was a kid, yeah. I'm not even going to demonstrate because I used to be able to do it a hell of a lot easier until I tore my labrum, rotator cuff, and everything else in this right arm. What is the importance here, though? You're measuring your external rotation in the top shoulder. You're measuring your shoulder internal rotation on the bottom shoulder. Being able to maximize internal and external rotation at the shoulder is going to normalize shoulder biomechanics. Why is that important? Oh, I know. Why? So you can wash your back in the shower. That. And also, your shoulder girdle takes your spine with it. So, if you are losing mobility in your shoulders, you're not getting your arm up overhead, so it doesn't require as much extension of the spine. If you stop extending at the thoracic spine, then you start rounding at the thoracic spine. So, I think that in the chicken or the egg scenario, working on getting your shoulder mobility and maintaining peak shoulder mobility is going to help your thoracic spine stay as mobile and capable of extending throughout your later years. So, we need to work on that. How would you work on that? Again, try to reach over the top. You can grab a broomstick, as I've shown before, hold onto the broomstick and pull back to get extra rotation. And you can grab a doorknob behind your back like this, and then sink down. Slide yourself down the wall to try to get that arm up more behind your back. So, working on that stretch anytime. It doesn't matter how often you do it. Just work on it both sides. It's going to maintain more flexibility and mobility in your shoulders. Your VO2 max. What's your VO2 max? 10. 10. If you're 10, you probably wouldn't be sitting here next to me at this point. Oh, no. So, your VO2 max is a measurement of your true aerobic capacity. How well your heart can pump and distribute oxygen to the tissues that need it when you're exercising. That is going to decline as you age for all of us. But the biggest indicator, one of the biggest indicators of overall true fitness is being able to hold onto that VO2 max and maximize it as much as you can as you get older. Okay. A simple way to do this is to do 30 seconds of all out sprint activity with 90 seconds of an easier pace. Right? Back and forth around six to eight times. And that's it. And if you work on that once a week even, or twice a week, you will start to see improvements in your VO2 max. You can progress this by adding additional intervals, or you can go for slightly longer intervals where you take it down just a little bit, like one notch or so on the effort level. So, now you're going to go at eight or nine in terms of intensity of effort during that hard all out sprint. And it could be sprinting. It could be riding a bike. It could be… A rower? A rower. Anything like that that can elevate your heart rate and you can go really, really hard for a short period of time. You take that for two minutes and then you go to a two minute rest period. So, one to one work rest ratio. That's four minutes a piece for each of those sequences. You do that about four times or five times. And again, you can add additional rounds if needed, but the idea is you can no longer really afford to ignore that element of fitness. I know a lot of us don't like to spend additional time doing conditioning or cardio. I'm one of them. But you do need to make time at least once a week to work on improving your VO2 max. Water consumption. Two things. Number one, it is very important. I recommend three quarters of your body weight in pounds in ounces of water. So, how much do you weigh? 165. So, 165 is a 40… so, 40 times. It's like 120 something ounces of water every day. Do you drink 120 ounces? Definitely not. All right. So, a lot of people will not be hitting that goal. First of all, knowing the goal is half the battle. Because if you don't know what you're targeting, it's really hard to get there. Knowing now what that number should be, how do you target it more effectively? I always recommend first thing, you get out of bed, you start your day, you have a bottle of water. It's just a habit. It's actually more habit than anything else. But you're starting off with, let's say, 20 ounces of water if you have a Poland Spring bottle. Now, what I usually recommend doing, and I've mentioned this many times before, but it doesn't get old because it works, is you just put a few rubber bands around that. You need to get six of those throughout the day. So, put five additional rubber bands around that bottle. After you drink the first one, fill it up, drink it again. When you drink it, take a rubber band off. Right? You're at four. Drink it again, take a rubber band off. So, it's basically a visual reminder of how much water you drank in the day. And it reminds you that if you've still got five rubber bands on the bottle and it's 5 PM, you're not doing your job. You've got to drink a little bit more. And it's just a matter of sipping it throughout the day. Will you go to the bathroom more often? Yes. Does that matter? No. Because in the long run, staying hydrated makes everything in your body function more efficiently. And it's just a better way to maximize your overall health. Also, if you're getting up to go to the bathroom more often, you're getting your stand goal in. Stand goal and steps. Yeah. You get a few extra steps, depending on how far the bathroom is away from you. Next thing, creatine monohydrate. Are you supplementing with creatine monohydrate? You should be. I am. I see you do it every day, so I know you are. I am as well. I've been supplementing with creatine monohydrate without cycling the product for 35 years. Damn. 35 years. Right? Because I started it when I was a teenager, like 15 years old. I do not believe it's a product that needs to be cycled. I think it's the most well-researched, safest supplement you can put in your body that actually has measurable impacts. Now, we expand that. Right? So, now it's not just for the muscle heads, but now it's actually expanding into the neurological benefits of creatine monohydrate. Helping people who are sleep deprived to function better. Because it's basically feeding your brain's energy system and helping to keep all things running more smoothly. The difference, though, is if you're supplementing creatine monohydrate for your brain, you're going to likely need to have higher doses. So, no longer the 5 grams per day that is adequate for feeding your muscles and energizing your muscles and function, but 10 grams per day. Well, that's what I've been taking to deal with my neurological issues from all my concussions. There's actually a lot of research about post-concussive symptoms and mitigating those. There's some for even mitigating some of the neurological degenerative diseases as well. Like dementia and Alzheimer's. Right. So, it's a supplement that is obviously very much in focus right now, but it sort of has been for a long time. I'm just glad that more people are becoming aware. By the way, if you're looking for a high-quality creatine monohydrate, we have it at AthleanX.com. That's the stuff that Jesse's been taking every day. Yeah. Free, by the way. Free for Jesse. Next thing. When you're in the gym, do you often work on the things that you don't like to do? Yes, I do actually. Okay, that's great. A lot of people do not. A lot of people need to listen to more David Goggins, right? Because David Goggins says, focus on the things that suck because that is where the greatest opportunity lies. And if you don't, who's going to carry the boats? Exactly. And I'm a big believer that you need to devote at least a small portion of every workout, if not half of your workout, to the things that you really don't like doing. And the reason is this. Your bodies are masters of compensation. They love homeostasis. In other words, staying right where they're at. We have a whole series of hormones that work in different cascading patterns to keep your body functioning at this same level. Right? Resistant to change. In a good way, protecting us from the negative changes, but also sort of in a bad way, preventing us from making these positive changes because we don't really want to push to get there and make our systems uncomfortable in the process. Well, I'm telling you we do. So, what I'm recommending is the next time you go train, find one or two exercises that you know have big benefits for you, but you just avoid them because you don't like them as much as maybe sitting down at a comfortable machine and doing an exercise on the machine. Get comfortable being uncomfortable. Which brings me to a very important thing. If you're training, you have to understand the concept of training to failure. Now, I know you've been misled by quite a few people on this platform about the value of training to failure. Please don't believe the hype. Training to failure is incredibly necessary if you want your body to force change, especially if you're a natural lifter. Okay? Now, you have to monitor your overall training volumes in the process. Training to failure and doing 45 sets like I used to when I read my old bodybuilding magazines. I didn't realize they were doing things that were different than I was outside of the magazine article. However, training to failure is the only objective way to know that you've given an adequate effort to stimulate change. Because what happens most often is people who go to the gym, they think what they're doing is failure even when they're attempting to train to failure. And all of a sudden, Arnold walks through the door. Ooh. And then he comes in right next to your ear and whispers in your ear, you're not done. You do it, Arnold. You're not done yet. There you go. Then what do you do? You do more reps. How? Magically, all of a sudden? No, it's because you really weren't truly near failure. So, understanding that you want to make sure that you push yourself because when you likely are falling one or two or three reps shy of failure as it is, and then you're intentionally stopping short of failure because you were told that that was okay or that was enough, you're not getting enough of a stimulus and it's the number one reason why people don't see the results they are seeking when they're training for hypertrophy and size. Now, again, this is different for strength. Well, for a quick example, I remember when I first started training, you came in here watching me do a set of lap pulldowns and you saw me finish my set and you said, what the hell was that? You had plenty more reps. I mean, you were almost comfortable finishing your set. Yeah. The last rep wasn't even that hard. I want to see that last rep to the point where you can't complete it. Yeah. It should still look like, in that case, a lap pulldown, but I want to see that last rep be very difficult to complete to the point where you actually can't complete it. Yeah. And then, again, even there's more room, eccentrically, to challenge yourself in the control of lowering the weight. Some people actually do forced repetitions, forced positive repetitions at that point, and then try to go until they actually can't even control the speed of the ascent of the bar in a lap pulldown or other exercise in that case. Yeah. So, I don't want to take your training to failure. Please. In 2026, please. Next, corrective exercises. So, I talk about these all the time, not just because I'm a physical therapist, but I actually do realize that the benefits of corrective exercises go far beyond fixing the small muscles. When you fix the small muscles, you're fixing the weak links in the kinetic chain. So if you have to convince yourself that there's a bigger, better cause here, then just think about how much more you're going to lift on the big exercises again when you go back to them. Because when you fix those weak links, now you don't have those energy leaks that sort of sap your potential strength. So what are we talking about? Doing the rotator cuff exercises, doing those scapular retraction exercises. Hip mobility. Doing hip mobility, right. Working on face pulls, doing the things that we know actually pay dividends in and of themselves. I think face pulls are a great way to build your upper back. But at the same token, those rotator cuff exercises protect your shoulder, maintain the mobility we talked about before that you can lose, but ultimately make for a stronger kinetic chain. So when you grab that bar in a barbell row, or if you go to do your squat and your hips are sound and strong and mobile and stable, then you have a bigger, stronger squat. Yeah. I mean, for example, I do a lot of corrective exercises and I think that's what built a really great foundation for myself as I started progressing my strength and getting, you know, working on power lifting a little bit. But I think I got the really high totals because I wasn't compensating my body in ways that were going to be not beneficial to me and building my strength. Right. When you build your strength in the gym, you've got a couple options. You've got machines. You've got barbells. You've got dumbbells. You've got body weight. And cables. Well, that's machines. Okay. That's machines. Where should you focus the majority of your time? Free weights. Free weights. If you find that you go to machines simply because they're more predictable, there's less scrutiny because you're kind of almost hidden by the machine. I know people who say that. They say that they feel protected and sort of out of sight when they're not as confident about being, they call it out on the gym floor. Right. I'm going to urge you, especially this coming year, to find your way out to that gym floor, to grab those dumbbells, to grab those barbells, the fixed barbells, the plate loaded barbells, but to start getting yourself to lift more free weights. Because there's a series of additional benefits that come from lifting those free weights that don't necessarily come from the machines. Now machines are a great way to focus the effort to a certain muscle group for hypertrophy. But again, not everything should be looked at through the lens of hypertrophy. We just talked about strength. You need to become multi-dimensional. In terms of my criteria, you want to look like an athlete, you got to train like an athlete. Athletes don't just look good, they also function well. You need everything to function well, so you need to train through a full range of motion. You need to train and load that system like you just loaded back there. Because things are different when you load the system. The body doesn't respond the same way, but you need to train that. And again, even if your body is resilient and resistant to those efforts right now, because it is a little uncomfortable, you got to work your way up through that to get more comfortable. Because there is no way around the value of training with free weights. So I know one benefit. What? When you're working with free weights, you're actually working on stabilizer muscles. When you're using machines, the stability is already there. Yeah, I mean the pattern is dictated by the machine, right? So the machine is giving you the pattern. I want you to learn that movement pattern in space. A perfect example of this is a bench press. When you do a bench press, there is a natural arc of the bar that comes down a little bit lower on the chest and up at the top closer towards your eyes, right? Obviously some well-designed machines will kind of mimic that arc, but a lot of machines don't. And they don't have the perfect arc to meet your body and the demands of your body. And everybody's individual. So I encourage you to use those dumbbells and barbells to find those patterns and those arcs that match your anatomy and your physics. Next thing, when we get older, eating is definitely something that becomes more challenging. Some people will say that I eat what I used to eat before and I get fat, right? That's a real thing. I'm going to tell you why in a second. Other people say I lose my appetite as I get older. As I get into my 70s and 80s, I can't eat what I did before because I'm just not hungry. So why is this? Because as you age, you're going to lose muscle mass. It's an unfortunate consequence of aging. Now we can do everything we can to try to hold on to that and watching this channel and following the advice I already gave you here to make sure you're lifting and doing everything you can to hold on to that muscle is great, but it's going to still happen. You're going to lose muscle mass. As you lose muscle mass, you're losing that metabolically active tissue that allows for those storage areas or the depot of glycogen, which is muscle tissue. You're losing that and therefore, calorically you're not as tolerant. So whatever you did eat before, you cannot eat as much of. So what do you do? You have to prioritize protein. Prioritize protein. If you have a limited amount of calories that your body is going to be able to consume and maintain a certain weight with, prioritizing protein and upping protein intake is going to give you a better chance of holding on to more of that lean muscle tissue because it supports muscle protein synthesis. So what are we looking at here? Again, there's so many numbers that get thrown around here. I am one in the higher protein intake camp. I believe one to 1.2 grams of protein per pound of body weight, especially if you're active. If you're watching this channel and doing the things that I'm recommending here, I would consider you active. One to 1.2 grams of protein per pound of body weight. Well, that's what I've been taking and I think I've made significant progress in muscle mass. Yeah. And I think that it's a little more challenging to do that because protein foods are a little different because they're certainly not as easy to overeat as carbohydrate rich foods are. I always say eating five steaks is a lot harder than eating a five pound plate of pasta. Yeah. But they give you that fullness and they help you to actually control the caloric intake throughout the day because they help to make you feel more satiated if you include it at each meal, which is another recommendation that I make. Inclusion protein every meal. What's another way to increase your protein intake if you're not getting enough just through diet? Well, I'm a big advocate of protein shakes. Again, Pro 30G protein shakes, not an ad, just a fact. One of the best proteins you can find on the market. You can find it over at athleanx.com, but I use protein shakes twice a day. That's 30 grams twice a day at 60 grams. So it helps me to start getting to that number a lot more easily and a lot of other people will use protein shakes for that very reason. Plus they're a lot more economical now when you look at some of the prices of protein comparatively for steaks and fish and everything else. So it's a great way to help people get there. Next thing, I think ab training should be back in 2026. I think that we need a return to focused ab training. And I know that we got off track a little while. It might have been some of the same recommendations we were getting on failure of like, you don't need to train abs. You're good if you just lift heavy weights. And do the compound lifts. That's bullshit. Yeah. Okay. That's bullshit. If you want to maximize the strength of your core, and I'm not just talking about abs. So I said abs, but we're not talking just about abs. We're talking about your abs. We're talking about your obliques. We're talking about your lumbar paraspinal muscles. We're talking about your entire core. Then you need to start doing direct core training. Exercises that challenge rotation, that force you to not rotate, that make you control rotation while it is rotating. That do work in this sagittal plane, but not so many of those exercises because we also want to work on extending and work on that low back. Well, I will say that working on my low back and doing direct low back work really helped, especially with my deadlift because my paraspinals were much stronger and could hit a little heavier weights. Right. Your back was a weak link. Yeah. And it kind of goes back to that corrective exercise part where it's like, yeah, consider it a corrective exercise, but look what it did to the big exercises. Yeah. They skyrocketed. Direct core training. I recommend training your core every day. Every day. It doesn't have to be long. It could be five minutes. And I know we'll laugh, six minute abs, but like, that's all you need. You just need consistency though. And I've made videos on this channel that show you exactly how to do it. You can take any of the ab workouts from this channel and follow them. Just do it consistently and make sure you focus your attention on doing them again because they matter. They haven't lost importance. Sometimes we lose our way. We haven't lost our way here in terms of ab training recommendations. Keep training your abs every day directly if you want your best abs. Another thing that people will always bring up now in terms of what are the options I have for being stronger and healthier as I age? What about pharmaceutical interventions? What about these GLP-1s if I'm struggling with my weight? What about testosterone replacement therapy? What about peptides? They're asking a lot about these other things. What do I feel is the role of these in terms of promoting healthier, longer lives? Well, I think, let me caveat this, that the majority or a majority of people who are using, I'll start with TRT, are doing it as a first line option rather than doing all the things we just talked about already in this video. And I see it because I see it even in your gym. I see it in young kids. I see all of a sudden every young kid has low T. Or they say they saw their doctor and their doctor said they have low T. And it might be true. They might not even be lying about that. Because a lot of times now doctors see this as a great source of income of getting everybody on TRT and they just start handing it out like candy. Please don't do that. Part of the enjoyment of the journey is taking one step at a time and actually following the journey. Because when you see the progress, your own accomplishments become the fuel to more accomplishments. Yeah, I would definitely agree with that. So I don't like when people sort of use this as the first place they go. However, if you are truly suffering from low testosterone, I think that these options are becoming medical miracles for people because they'll talk about the difference in how they felt. They've spent half their life feeling like trash and then all of a sudden now they feel great. But again, even if you have low total testosterone or lower, let's say in the 300s or 400s, I don't think that that's necessarily an automatic that you need to jump on TRT. You have to check your recovery first. You have to check your nutrition. You have to check whether you're trying or training hard enough in the gym in the first place. There's a lot of other check boxes before I think you should go that route. In terms of peptides, I think there's some pretty amazing evolutions in the science. of peptides that could be pretty game changing as the years go on here. One in particular, BPC-157 is a body protection compound. It's made of 15 amino acids. That's where the 1-5 part comes from. But the main job is to essentially seek out areas of damage in the body and help to repair them. We're talking about repairing tendon damage. I popped this biceps tendon. Had I known about the value of BPC-157 then, I might have actually tried to use that to speed up the recovery and actually maybe even improve the repair. Right now, I never got it repaired surgically. I had enough of a tendon remaining there to keep some of it intact. And I still train now pretty much unhindered, but my mind is always thinking. Again, in the world of physical therapy, you have to be aware of the value of these things. I think there's going to be some potential value there. As far as the GLP-1s, again, I do realize that certain people have metabolic disease and metabolic issues that make even the act of getting themselves in the gym to do all the other things we recommend a real challenge. And people that have been using Lozenpic have been seeing miraculous weight loss results. But I will tell you, the loss of muscle that comes at an accelerated pace there is something that you must address. I just don't like to see people take Lozenpic and not realize the additional damage they might be causing by accelerating muscle loss in the process. If you're committed to getting yourself to a weight that's easier for you to get around, to get into the gym and support that by training with weights and building new muscle, then maybe that is a route that I think some people might have to take. And also, intaking more protein would be helpful with that, wouldn't it? Intaking protein. All the things we talked about. But again, I think there's a blocker for certain people because their weight is so prohibitive that it is just preventing even everyday function to be easy enough to get themselves started. I always say the start is what stops most people. A lot of times, in very overweight or obese people, that start is really, really difficult. And so, if these drugs are giving people those options, then so be it. But I think that in terms of the medical possibilities in the future, there's definitely advances being made every single day. But please focus 90% of your effort here first because I think a lot of you will be amazed at what can be accomplished by just focusing there and actually putting in the effort. Last thing. Side planks. Yeah. Right? Random one here, but a side plank. Can you hold a side plank with your top leg up in the air for 30 seconds? Sounds easy, right? No, because I know you made me try it. 30 seconds is all I got. I was trying to drive up the suspense here. You had 27 seconds, actually. You didn't get to 30 seconds. I'm going to challenge you guys here to end this video. Go lay on your side. Put your elbow down on the ground. I'll show a picture here. You actually see it on the thumbnail. Put your elbow down on the ground. Put your top leg up in the air. So you're only being supported by that bottom hip. That is testing your ability to control that frontal plane motion and specifically the glute medius. Can you hold yourself there? I'm going to guarantee that most people cannot. My challenge to you is to build up your ability to do this for 30 seconds. We can't just keep training everything in the sagittal plane. You get a really strong squat. You get a 600, almost 600 pound deadlift, but you couldn't do a 30 second hold. Why? Because your glute medius wasn't strong enough. Guys, work on that. I hope you found the rest of the advice here in this video helpful. If you're looking for those programs and supplements I mentioned before, you can find them over at Athleanx.com. In the meantime, we're almost here at the new year. Happy new year. Let's start the year off right. Let's do the things right. These little things will make a big change and they're going to help you to live a longer, healthier, better quality of life. All right, guys. See you soon. Subscribe to the channel if you haven't already. See ya.

=== FILE: 3 Moves Your Body Is BEGGING You to Do! (UNDO LOST MOBILITY) [LGsS-T-cSEc].txt ===

 What do you think is more important? Strength? What do you think is more important? Strength or mobility and flexibility as you age? Which one do you need to maintain more? And you would think maybe as a strength coach that I would obviously say strength? And while it's incredibly important, it's the base of the pyramid as I've actually shown here in previous videos, ultimately what really matters is maintaining your flexibility and mobility. Today I want to show you how you can start from the ground up again, literally from the ground up, back to the basics to be able to do the things that you're losing every decade and you don't even know it because it's more of a a violent loss than a violent loss than actually an absolute loss in strength. Surprisingly, we are losing 7% of our strength almost every decade, but we're losing more flexibility because a lot of people can't even cross their feet like this and just stand up from that position. That's not a good thing. You should be able to stand up and down without using your hands. More people even just struggle to get up off the floor because they'll just feel more aches and pains or it just becomes more of a labor to get up off the ground and that's a bad thing too. Others will actually have a hard time touching their fingers, right? Behind their back, one arm or the other. The issue is you're losing mobility and you have to reclaim it. And the best way to think of mobility is to think of it as an insurance policy for everything else you do in the gym because you need to maintain this if you want to maximize the strength that you're building. So what we do is we start here at the ground and all I want you to be able to do is actually get into this deep squat position with your hands flat on the ground. So if you can get into this position here, then we know you're starting off in a good place. But the thing is, is a lot of people that are watching this video right now won't be able to get into this deep squat position here with an upright back, hands down flat to the ground and heels in contact with the ground. Most likely what you're going to see is either a rounding of the back, which we want to work on progressively by just pushing off of the fingers. Okay, not working on getting the hands flat just yet, but pushing off of the fingers to get to that more upright position. We also want to make sure that those heels are in contact with the ground. And so what you're going to find is an inability to get them down when you're squared up. But if I turn to one side, now I've actually freed up some mobility to get into that ankle. So I can work on one ankle at a time if you're losing or missing mobility there. Same thing on the other side. If I was squared up and they're both off the ground, if I just turned in one direction here, now that ankle goes back down to the ground flat and I can work on leaning into it to get more of that ankle mobility and flexibility of the cat. Okay, the next thing is I want you to be able to move from these positions and have dynamic mobility. So what that means is, can I move to the side from this position? Because every time I step here, there's more of an adductor stretch and a mobility requirement in this frontal plane that a lot of us don't have. So can you get in this position and just simply work on moving side to side one or two steps in each direction? Again, trying to keep your hands as flat as possible and trying to keep these heels down. Okay, the next thing is, can you go backwards? When I go backwards, now I'm kind of opening up the hip. I'm opening. So more of this adductor mobility in here, flexibility, and also hip mobility and rotation. So as I step back, I'm dropping. I'm actually using my elbow to push and assist with that mobility. So drive it back. Take this elbow, drive it back, push in, drive it back. Another step, drive it back. Finally, can you walk forward? So when you're in this place here, walk and lean. So what is this doing? I'm leaning more into hip flexion on this side. If I turn, you can see it. I'm here, step, lean, lean. All that hip flexion that we're getting in here. And hip flexion is one of the first areas that we lose mobility, especially when we start to get degeneration of a hip. So if we can keep hip flexion mobility, then we're doing something really, really good. Remember that strength question I asked in the beginning? If you took an 800-pound squatter and had them squat on a BOSU ball, you're not going to have an 800-pound squatter anymore. That strength is being undercut by that lack of stability. Stability tied into all this mobility is incredibly important. We've got to talk about another kind though here next. Guys, if you're looking for an insurance policy in terms of nutrition, you can try the Athlean Greens brand new product from AthleanRX available at athleanx.com. This is your insurance policy to fill any of those nutrient gaps that you're overlooking right now. It tastes good. You can actually have it every single day and not have it taste like long clippings like most of the Greens products out there. So doing these ground-based movements is important. But if you're just focusing on the ones that have you facing down, then you're missing a giant opportunity to not only mobilize specifically the hips and shoulders, but also to increase the strength of the hips and shoulders and therefore the stability we just talked about. So all you have to do is flip over to this other position here. Now for some, just sitting like this with the chest open and the head up is difficult because they don't even have the mobility in the wrist to be able to get down to this position, let alone put any kind of weight on it. So if that's you, you want to progressively work on getting more of that mobility by getting in this position and just leaning back further and further over the wrist. So you get more and more of that flexibility through the flexors and into the joint itself. Now let's say you're beyond that point though. You're looking for more of a challenge. Then what you do is you just simply lift up, right? We get to a sort of reverse crab position. Now what you're looking for here, obviously some glute activation to get as high as you can, but you don't want to let the shoulders stay behind because a lot of us will try this position and we'll just round the shoulders to compensate for the mobility. We don't have in our thoracic spine or shoulders. That's not really good enough because here is where you really have to work on getting open. Okay. Open here. Even if you don't have that wrist mobility to work on getting open, I'm okay with you kind of cupping your hands or tenting your hands like this, putting the bones of your fingers on the ground here and getting them off of a completely flat position because that gives me some leverage that I can actually push off of and get higher. And this will allow me to open my shoulders as far as I can, try to push my chest up through the ceiling. And working on this position is really, really important. Now we take this ground-based movement. We make it even more of a challenge by adding some of that dynamic mobility like we talked about before. And that's just with this saw movement. I'm just trying to slide back and forth. So when I slide here, what's happening at the shoulder? I'm getting more of that extension at the shoulder. More mobility to actually move my arm back behind my body. And still keep my chest open. And when you get all that mobility that you need in the wrist, you can do it now from that flat position. So now I can do that same rock here out of that flat position. And now we're working on all these joints and we're actually letting the ground assist us. You're not having to do all the work because the ground is actually helping you to do that. We could take it one step further now. If I slide back just a little bit more, now I can work on getting some more of that dynamic glute strength to support it. So if I take one leg and I march it out, and I take the other leg and I march it out, now I need the muscles of the posterior chain to be able to support my body up. And I come back and back. And I perform in this alternating march. Out and out. Try not to fall. Keep them up, back, and back. Out, out, back, and back. And that's a pretty challenging exercise. But again, it's not just strengthening you, but it's also building up that flexibility and mobility that you're lacking right now and actually allowing the floor to help you along the way. Now I know you're probably thinking at this point in the video that if you just focus on doing some stretches to gain some more flexibility, that you're going to be fine. As a matter of fact, that actually might be the wrong thing to do because flexibility without that stability combined could actually introduce more risk for injury. Because if you can get into new ranges of motion but can't control them, you can become more vulnerable to an injury. So what I want you to do is really focus on how we can combine those two. The last thing I want you to do is a drill that's really simple, but it has good functional carryover to even helping people get off the floor even easier. So if I was down on the ground like this, right, and I had to get up, the first thing I want to be able to do is roll to my side and at least get to this position here. If I'm in this position here, that I could use my hands to walk myself up in this way, right, and get myself up to a standing position like that. However, I can reinforce the mobility and flexibility needed to do that if I focus on a few key things. When I'm in this position, as soon as I come up, I'm in that classic bear stance or that bear crawl position. What I want to do is I want to try to drive my knees back and push at the same time. So as I'm pushing off the heels of my hands, I'm driving my knees back, which is going to reinforce the need for a lot of hamstring flexibility. A lot of people will find it challenging to keep your heels down and your knees back, but I want you to work on forcing that to be the case and pushing through all the way back to where you're here. Now you'll find it easy to actually stand up. You go back in the same position. You walk yourself out. So now I go back down, push my knees backwards, use my fingertips until I can get my hands flat on the ground. I walk myself all the way out. I'm in this good classic plank or push-up position. And I push myself back again all the way, keeping those knees driven backwards and trying to walk myself in. The idea here is that when you're trying to just work on something as simple as getting off the floor, you can hear, I'm out of breath because I'm focusing, I'm using a lot of muscles and controlling joints that are not in control right now. And they're costing you in terms of how you can move and how you can function every single day. Remember, this is the insurance policy for making sure that everything else you're doing in the gym works. You don't want to lose your flexibility and mobility as you get older. Guys, if you're looking for an insurance policy in terms of nutrition, you can try the Athlean Greens brand new product from AthleanRX, available at athleanx.com. This is your insurance policy to fill any of those nutrient gaps that you're overlooking right now. And it helps you because it tastes good. You can actually have it every single day and not have it taste like long clippings like most of the Greens products out there. All right, guys, I hope you found the video helpful. If you're looking for more of them, make sure you click subscribe, turn on notifications. And if you're looking for complete programs as a physical therapist, guys, we focus on how we do things, not just what we do. All right, guys, you can find them at athleanx.com. See you soon.

=== FILE: 5 Exercises That Fix 95% Of Your Problems [qu1pqo-dbXM].txt ===

 If I told you, I could give you just 5 exercises to do, that would undo a lot of the common issues a lot of us have, aches and pains in our back, our shoulders, our knees, our ankles, what would they be? Well as a physical therapist guys, today I put together those 5 exercises, including 1 bonus that you can do literally anywhere starting today. Let me take you through them one by one to show you exactly what to do. So the first thing we have to do is fix all those knots, right, those areas of spasm that you get through your upper back, or the weakness that comes as a result of that, d d d d d d d d d d d converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter for stability by having my hands open. With my feet through the door, I can actually comfortably lean back. And this is just setting up the beginning position of the face pull. And what we're targeting here are all those mid-back muscles as I squeeze my forearms back into the door frame to activate and engage all the muscles of the upper back and the posterior delt and in the rhomboids, right? To get those muscles engaged. And I don't want to just rush through this. I want to go nice and slow, squeeze. And when I get into that contracted position, I want to hold it for about three or four seconds. Because these muscles do need some muscle endurance on top of the fact that they need strength. So don't rush your way through this. And if I want to make this more difficult, I can step myself through the door even more. So I'm leaning back even more to start, and I've got more range of motion to go through. But the idea is if you want to strengthen that upper back and get rid of those spasms that are there as a result of weakness, you're likely going to be able to fix it really, really quickly with a couple sets of this each day. Exercise number two actually has two variations. I didn't even have to leave the doorway to do this. As a matter of fact, all I had to do was invest in what I think is the most versatile, best bang for your buck piece of equipment you could possibly get. And that's a doorway pull up bar off of Amazon or Walmart for 15 bucks. Now, what you're going to do here is fix a whole host of problems by simply just hanging on the bar. See, this dead arm hang gives us a lot of benefits. Number one, by lifting my feet up and performing version number one here, I'm activating my core. Okay? So it becomes a good core strengthening exercise. But more notably, it actually gives me good mobility. By having my arms up overhead in this packed shoulder position, I get good shoulder flexibility and mobility. I have the ability to get more of that thoracic extension that kind of fed into those muscle aches that we were just working on in the first exercise. And more than that, I'm able to increase my grip strength, which we know is a good prognosticator for overall quality of life as you get older, right? Good grip strength is a thing that we want to maintain. If you're not working on it, you're probably going to lose it. So your goal here is to try to hang for at least a minute and then progressively work your way up to as long as you possibly can. Believe me, the longer you can ultimately hang from a bar without having to put your feet down, the better your overall health will be. Now, the second thing you could do is shift the focus by allowing our feet to actually be in contact with the ground. So rather than making this a real holding exercise, instead what you do is you put your toes on the floor, you grab onto the bar, and then all you're going to do is just simply drop. Okay, but my toes are still in contact with the floor. The goal here is to try to create decompression of the spine. Okay, to give you a little bit more room between your lumbar vertebrae to help you with some of that compression or pinching you might feel in your low back or even some of the spasming that you might get in your low back. Any type of disc issues are going to be feeling a hell of a lot better just by doing 30 seconds of this decompressed holding on the bar. And again, you're still getting this good mobility through your spine. So if I were to focus on not just hanging but actively pushing myself through at the same time, then I can get more of that thoracic extension mobility. So this is two exercises done in the same bar, but both with an individual focus that makes you feel really, really good and fixes a lot of things that are going wrong right now. All right, so sticking with the theme of our low back, exercise number three is actually going to really help anyone that has low back pain by targeting a muscle that you really never even think about. And we're talking about the glute medius. As a matter of fact, I have a video with over 40 million views that tells you how significant the glute medius is towards contributing to your low back pain. But if we could strengthen it, then we could actually go a long way towards keeping that back pain away for good. So how do we strengthen it? With a simple exercise called the hip drop. And all you want to do is position yourself where you can lean into a wall and then stand on the leg opposite the wall. Okay, so in this case, here's my left side, my right leg I'm standing on. I'm going to let myself get lazy. In other words, drop the hip out. Get as lazy as you can in this position. To go back towards the wall though, there's one muscle that I'm going to really need to use and that is the glute medius. So what I want to do is think about sliding the hip across at the same time that I'm lifting up this other leg. So I'm going to slide and lift. Drop it lazy, slide and lift across. And if you do this right, you will feel a contraction right here in that glute medius that is responsible for relaying a lot of its dysfunction into the low back so that when this is weak, the low back tries to do too much and you wind up feeling it because you get a lot of low back pain and spasm. You do three, four, five repetitions here in the right way here with a good solid contraction, you're going to feel how weak this is. Progressively start to strengthen it to the point where you can do two to three sets of ten repetitions feeling that good squeeze but without feeling any of the cramping that you might be getting in the muscle. Again, progressively try to increase the strength. And of course, you're not just doing that side. You step onto the other leg again, this time dropping that hip out. Again, you can see what it looks like from the back. I'm shifting the hip across. Okay, just simply moving in this plane straight across my body. At the same time, lifting up this leg to get that good solid contraction here. Strengthen that muscle up. I promise you a lot of your low back pain will go away. The next one you can do right down here on the floor. And we're sticking with the theme of helping the low back by strengthening the muscles that actually their job is to support it. And we're talking about the glute max this time. So again, another glute muscle and even more than that. And this is an exercise I talked about before having such great benefits. It's called the bridge and reach over. Okay, so what we're doing is we're going to teach the glutes to be the main driver of hip extension by squeezing our cheeks together. At the same time, I don't want to overextend to where I start causing that arch in the low back. If I think instead about squeezing but tucking the pelvis at the same time, then I've got a really good solid bridge. But from here, we can get more of that thoracic spine mobility and rotation by reaching back over our head. Okay, come back down again, reset, bridge, scoop, and then lift and touch over our head. And the more I can get across my body, the more that rotation I'm getting through the thoracic spine, that's going to help to, again, increase that mobility overall of our spine that will help to decrease some of that upper back stiffness that you were feeling before. Push through the heels, drive up, reach up and across the body, really focus on squeezing through the glutes to make sure that they're the primary mover of the exercise. Because trust me, more and more work being done by the low back that can't really handle it is just going to lead to low back problems. All right, so now while you're fixing these areas of dysfunction, you also don't want to turn a blind eye towards maintaining strength and upper body strength. And if there's an exercise that you can do that would fix a lot of the dysfunction but also help you to continue to build your strength, then that's the one you want to do. And for me, it's a push-up variation and it's called a dive bomber push-up. Now, there's two versions. This is the more advanced version, but I'll show you how to do this if you're not as strong. The idea is you're going to start from this downward dog position, right? And this is going to help to improve the flexibility of our lower body because by keeping our knees straight, we're going to feel a good stretch through the hamstrings here, down through the calves, okay? And at this point, I'm also going to feel some additional mobility and flexibility work through the shoulders because I'm in this flexed position. And by driving my head down, I'm actually just allowing my arms to flex even more up over my head. So I get more of that thoracic extension we were talking about and all those benefits throughout the spine. But now for the exercise itself, I can slowly lower myself down to the ground, scrape my chest down, and then come up on the other side. I'm actually shifting the focus of the one push-up to three different areas. Right here, I'm really working on the triceps and a little bit of the shoulders too, but mostly the triceps. I lower myself back down. This is going to be mostly chest through here. And as I push myself back in a way, I'm working more of the strength of the shoulders. What I want you to visualize is having like an imaginary fence right here. And I want to slide under the fence and push up on the other side of it. So again, if I'm up here, I'm going to slide down, get under that fence, come up on the other side, work the triceps, come back down, get the head clear under the fence, slide back through and push. Now, if I couldn't do that, the only thing I'd have to forego is that hamstring stretching component. But I would just simply do this from an on-knees position where I dive down and through and press up. And again, even here, I'm getting good mobility through my middle back and also my low back. So anyone that's dealing with any disc issues in their low back, we know that getting into an extended spine is a healthier position. So I can work on them in this sort of push-up or press-up variation. The idea here is to do these exercises until your point of failure, ensuring that you're pushing yourself hard enough to actually build strength and muscle. That number is really irrelevant. As long as you're pushing yourself and you continue to actually try to increase that number from session to session, then you know you're doing the right thing. All right. So I mentioned bonus exercise number six, and this is where we help you out there that have knee issues. The knee is a consequential joint. It's at the mercy of what happens at our ankle or at the hip above. Because if we get weakness in those areas, then the knee is going to kind of feel the brunt of it and eventually, ultimately maybe lead to arthritis and breakdown. So what can we do as far as a catch-all exercise? Just like that upper body one that's going to work the lower body and help to strengthen the hip and the ankle to provide that knee with more support. It's this simple combination exercise you could do right here on our staircase. And again, depending upon your strength level, you either go up one stair or two stairs. Okay, starting at one, we put one foot up on here and what we're going to do is sink down just a little bit to preload this quad. I'm going to drive up and let this other leg come all the way through because what I want to get is full hip extension on this down leg. Right? Feel that glute on this leg to get through full hip extension. Then we step down and immediately go right back off the step into this reverse lunge. Okay, knee just right off to the floor. And I come right back up again, drive up. So I'm working again through that quad on this side, come down, and I lean a little bit forward here to load up the posterior chain on this side. So we're working both sides of the equation here, but we're doing it in this unilateral way that demands that I have stability in the frontal plane. So that hip drop exercise is helping you to do this. This is putting it all into practice. And I can hold weights if I want to, to get stronger at the exercise. Or I can simply start at a higher step, drive up now from here, step down, reverse lunge. Drive up all the way through, step down, reverse lunge. Again, tying it together functionally to train these muscles the way they prefer to. If you're looking for more ways to stretch the lower body, guys, I put this video together for you here to make sure that you know how to do that properly. And also, five other exercises that you're going to want to do now, so you're not regretting it 10 years from now. You're going to want to watch this video right here. All right, guys, subscribe. Make sure you check out our full programs and meal plans and supplements over at AthleanX.com. All right, guys, see you soon.

=== FILE: 5 Exercises You’ll Regret Ignoring in 10 Years! [oLRqAgzD2vU].txt ===

 d converter converter converter, converter converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter, converter converter, converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter Believe it or not, being able to complete this without losing your balance would put you in the 14% of people over the age of 40 that can. And that's not good. What's up guys? Jeff Cavaliere, Athleanx.com, physical therapist and trainer to pro athletes. Look, when it comes to longevity and the quality of life as you get older, there's three very important things that you need to maintain. One is your strength, two is your cardiovascular health, and three, which is often the most overlooked, your mobility and flexibility. Today I've got five different movements. They're the big indicators that you still need to be able to do, no matter what age you are, to maximize that quality of life. The first one that I need you to be able to do is a single leg RDL. What that looks like is a high carryover to that old man test that maybe you're struggling with right now. It's going to test your balance and also your hip strength and your ability to do what we call the hip hinge, which is one of the most fundamentally important movements you can do. And to hinge, guys, off of one leg, you don't just lean down. That's part of the reason why you lose your balance. You want to sit back first. All right. Sit back as far as you can. Act like there's a drawer back here that you're trying to close with your butt. And then reach down with your hands. At the same time, you actively lift this leg up back behind you. Because what that lifting will do is engage that glute on the opposite side and give you a counterbalance to be able to do this without losing your balance. You come out of it. You come out of it. Establish balance. Go right back down. Get a hinge. Stick your leg out behind you. Contract the glute. Come down. Back. Establish the balance. Hinge again. And back. What I'm looking for is five repetitions at a minimum on each leg. Ideally, you'll work yourself up to 10 on each leg without losing your balance. Number two. We do something called the squat and reach. And what you do here is come all the way down to the ground. Get those adductors stretched out. They're a muscle group on the inside of your legs that deceptively gets tight and can throw off your low back. So, what you do is you put your elbows on the inside of your knees and you push out. So, you're intensifying the stretch on the groin muscles. And from here, what we're going to do is take one hand, reach it up towards the sky, and rotate. And what this does is I'm allowing myself to open up through the back that you can see and get something called thoracic extension. And what that is, is that area of your upper back that tends to round out through, again, repetitive behaviors in front of us. And you get that rounded shoulder posture. Here we're going to open it up, reach and turn as far as we can. What I want to see you do here is at least be able to hold this position for a minimum of 30 seconds. Okay? Ideally, I want you to be able to open up for 60 seconds. And with each passing second, go further and further and further, actively squeezing your shoulder blades together to help get further and further and further back. And you'll see, you'll get further even from the beginning of the time you start that stretch to the end of that time that you start that stretch. Again, I want to work on the opposite side as well, opening up and balancing that out. That's exercise or movement number two. Movement number three now works a little bit more on the strength of your lower body. And we do something called the sumo stance. Now, there's two variations here that you can do. You get down, widen out those feet once again, come down to this position like a sumo wrestler. Now, the more beginning version is to be able to keep your elbows posted up against your thighs. This will actually help to almost assist you to maintaining this standing posture. But you'll feel it start to burn in your quads and that's appropriate. That's good. But do have the ability to withstand that for up to 60 seconds. And again, ideally, what you'll do is start off with at least being able to get it for 30 seconds and work your way up. At the same time, I'm opening up my chest. I'm trying to stay nice and tall. Now, the more advanced version of that is to not just sit there, but to, again, reinforce that thoracic extension, that area of your back that we need to make sure remains mobile. So, from this position here, once I get set up, then what I want you to do is cross your hands and just reach out in front of you as high as you can. And you'll see that it actually creates that curvature in that upper back that might be missing right now. All right. Can I hold that for up to 60 seconds? But again, starting with that bare minimum of 30 seconds. Then we come down to the ground. We want to establish some upper body standards and some things that we just don't want to lose. Because the one thing about all these drills is use it or lose it. You might think that they're impossible right now because you probably thought too early in life that they're impossible. So, what you want to do is get down to the ground like this. Okay. We're going to do a regular push-up. Hands under your shoulders just like this. Feet together. Glutes engaged. Push up. Okay. Looks nice and standard. Full extension of the elbows. Push up. Come down. From here, slide your hands out. Reach up by squeezing your glutes and lifting your thighs off the ground and then raising your hands off the ground. This will work literally all the muscles of your posterior chain. And these are the ones that get really weak way too quickly because we don't think about them because we don't see them. So, you lift. Come down. Slide it back under your shoulders. Push up. Down. Lift. Lift. Up. Lift. Up. To me, that's an amazing total body push-up. That's not just working these dominant front side muscles but balancing it out between the posterior and anterior sides. Now, what you have to be able to do is work on the important hip strength. Hip strength. And what we're talking about is hip strength in the frontal plane. And what that means is something as simple as, we call it the Jane Fonda, where I'm on my side like this and I want to see if I can lift my leg up. Now, it looks so remedial and it looks like something you've done so many times in life, but not this way. When you want to test, you have ducture strength, which is really important for maintaining your balance as you get older. Then you want to target the glute medias. The way to do that is to start by pointing the foot down to the ground like that. To do that, I have to turn my leg in, inward, internally rotated, down to the ground. From there, slide your leg back behind you, not losing that downward point of the toe. We're almost there. Now, lift it as high as you can. Immediately, you should start to feel a cramping out here in the hip. That's going to be in the glute medias. This is the muscle that when messed up is going to lead to back pain, is going to lead to weak hips, is going to lead to potentially joint degradation in the hips too early because you're not maintaining proper strength. All I want you to do is be able to hold this position for 30 seconds minimum, working up to 60 on each side. What this does is, exposes one of those areas that probably highlights how far you've let yourself go in all these other areas. That looks so simple, but it's so damn hard for a lot of people to do without that intense burn accumulating. If you want to know how to fix a lot of these things in one shot, guys, especially if you already have low back pain, then check out this video I had here. Over 40 million people have fixed their low back pain by actually attacking that glute medias. If you found this helpful, guys, make sure you share it with as many people as you can because we all need to be able to maintain these five exercises if we want to maintain our health and longevity. All right, guys. See you soon. Make sure you click subscribe and turn on notifications. Full programs at the next.com.

=== FILE: 5 Stretches That Instantly ＂UNDO＂ Sitting (FEEL AMAZING!) [U5VtjFywhIA].txt ===

 d converter converter converter converter, converter converter, converter converter, d converter converter, converter converter, converter converter, converter converter, converter converter, converter converter, converter converter, converter converter, converter converter, of your day sitting in a chair like this, or even an office or desk chair, you got to do something about it. Because I'm sure every time you stand up, you feel about 30 years older than you are because you just feel too damn stiff. Today, I'm going to show you five stretches that you can do too quickly. I mean, instantly undo that stiffness of sitting that if you do this consistently over days and days and days, it's also going to help to permanently undo the problems that are coming from sitting for too long. Now, I don't care if you're in traffic on the way to work, or if you're traveling a lot, we sit a lot. So now, what are the problem areas? Well, the first thing is, we tend to sit with this rounded posture. If you're going to do something about it, you're going to have to undo that. My favorite thing to do before you even get up is this simple stretch where you put your hands up behind your head like this, and all you're going to do is try to get one elbow, pick one side, get it up towards the ceiling, and then open your chest towards the ceiling the same way. Just like this. And you can lean into the back of your chair a little bit for support, but all I'm trying to do is get the elbow up and open up that chest. What this is doing is stretching out one of those underrated areas that gets tight when you sit a lot. And that's your rib cage, which just gets depressed from sitting like this, and also your lats. Especially if you're typing a lot all day, you have your arms out in front of you, that's internal shoulder rotation. We can open that up and stretch out the lats a lot, as well as that rib cage on that side. And here's the thing about this whole routine. You only have to do it three times, three repetitions, five seconds apiece. We call it a three by five routine. So that'd be one repetition, five seconds on that hold, come out of it. Second repetition, try to go a little bit further, five seconds, come out of it, one more time. And of course, you're going to do it to the other side. The next thing that you would do is somewhat of a modified pretzel stretch. You take your hip and you cross it over like this. So one ankle across the opposite knee, and all you're trying to do is push down on this leg, right, to open up this hip to get more external rotation of the hip. So we don't have a lot of it all anyway. And then you're going to reach down towards the floor. Okay, now this arm, if you can, is going to go on the inside here of this knee, just so I can kind of keep it in position and push it out. And this one's just leaning down. And all of a sudden I could feel that stretch right up in through that hip and also through the low back. Because I'm not trying to maintain a good upright posture here. I'm allowing myself, if you come around, to just kind of lean over and slump over that side. But I reach down one, two, three, four, five. Come up for a second. Come back down. Again, we're doing these as dynamic stretches. One, two, three, four, five. Come up. Of course, one more repetition. Switch it up. You might find that one side is tighter than the other. This one actually feels a little bit more loose for me. That's fine. I'm still going to go and push down. If you have a knee that really drifts high, just try to get as far as you can and then reach as far as you can. Okay? It might still be too stiff to go all the way flat. And that's totally fine. Now, that's your second one. Three by five. Three repetitions, five seconds. Three repetitions, five seconds. Now, you stand up. All you need for this is that chair and a wall. Okay? For this one now, it's not just about stretching out muscles that get tight. A lot of the problem that we have with sitting is we get an inactivation or just a quieting down of muscles that don't get an opportunity to fire. So, your job is to try to wake them up. And this is where you start to really feel good. We call this a wall slide. All I'm doing here is just trying to get my hands up against the back of the wall and my forearms ideally up against the back of the wall. Okay? So, a really good upright posture. And I'm going to slide my hands up to a count of five. One, two, three, four, five. Now, at the top, if you can't keep your forearms, which many of you will not be able to, keep them in contact with the wall, that's okay. As long as you keep the back of your hands up in contact, that's what you're looking to do. Come back down again. Slide it down until you get your elbows tucked to your sides and go back up again. Slide. You might find it a little bit easier the second time around. Two, three, four, as high as you can go. Five, and come back down. What's happening on this stretch is by forcing your hands to remain in contact with the wall, you're getting active shoulder external rotation to sort of do opposite of what's happening all day with your shoulders and internal rotation. You're turning on the rotator cuff. Come up, two, three, four, and five. Now, I guarantee you, even at this point in this little routine, you walk away from there, you're going to feel so much looser. But let me take you back to the chair for a second. Because as I mentioned, if you're like most people, you're sitting in the chair with this slump position. If you're like me, you're sitting in the chair like this all day. What's happening to those disengaged muscles of the lower body? The glutes are not working here. And I don't care if you think about squeezing them together throughout the day, because it's not doing anything. Because their main function is they have to be extended. The hip needs to be extended if you want to activate the glutes. That means it needs to be at least out of flexion and even better than that into extension behind you. So, utilize the wall again to help to wake up these muscles. And we can do two things at once here. Stretch the hamstrings and also get these glutes engaged. So, the first thing I do is just utilize the wall. And I'm going to just lift this leg up. And in the process of lifting this one up, it's this leg that's doing all the work. I want you to forcefully squeeze this glute as hard as you possibly could while lifting this leg up. And what the lifting of this leg does is it helps to get more into extension on this back leg. So, it's going to basically assist you in feeling a tighter contraction here. Squeeze for a count of five. One, two, three, four, five. Then I want you to step back and extend this hip. So, now it's this glute that's actively extending behind the body. So, I'm forcing this to work at the same time that I lean forward and get a good stretch on this hamstring. Okay? So, I'm down here and I'm stretching the hamstring at the knee, which could get tight when your knees are bent and sitting down. So, here for a count of five. Now, one thing I don't want to see you do, which you might have a tendency to want to do, is as you're going down, you just turn. Don't turn. That's a cheat. If you want to get the glute maximus to work, you've got to keep it straight behind you. All right? So, no turning of the foot. Keep it pointed straight down towards the ground here and get it behind you. I would do three of these repetitions. Five down there, five up here. Then, of course, I'd work the other leg and do the five and five for three repetitions. And lastly, the one thing we haven't really addressed yet is the tight hip flexor. And we know that sitting all day is going to get tight. We reserve this stretch for last so that if we got any additional tightness from actively engaging the hip flexor this way by lifting the leg up, we can finish by just stretching it out. So, what we do here is we're going to get up against the wall, drop that outside leg back like this. So, we're getting into a hip flexor stretch for this hip, this outside hip. The wall will help us to do one other thing, and that's intensify that stretch. Because I can get a better stretch on the hip flexor if I get my arm up here. I'm lengthening this even more. And then, leaning in this direction. All right? By leaning in this direction, I'm getting even more of that stretch in here. And the wall safely allows me a landing point here for my upper body so I can really sink into that stretch. I go in there for five seconds. I step up for one second. Clear it all out. Step back. Stretch arm up. Lean towards that wall. Really stretch it out here. Five seconds. Come back. Three repetitions. Again, the other side. You just step over. Turn around. Step back with that outside leg. Sink into that hip flexor stretch. Put that arm up overhead. And then, again, lean into that wall. I do three repetitions of five seconds. When it comes to sitting, we all have to do it. But if we don't do anything to undo it, it will have some repercussions down the line here. Don't let that happen. Not when you have something as simple as this to actually help you. If you're looking for more of these guys, more stretches or routines, you can find them all on our channel here. Click subscribe, turn on notifications. And if you look for a step-by-step program that incorporates stretching and training, you can find it over at athelieness.com. All right, guys. If you found it helpful, share it with someone else that you know will as well. All right, guys. See you soon. Bye.

=== FILE: 5 Stretches Your Body Needs EVERY Morning [eU2y-i7mt5Q].txt ===

 What if you, what if I told you rather than just jumping out of bed and running to the shower in the morning that if you just stopped and did the five stretches I'm going to show you here today that you'd feel ten years younger because you will especially if you can string them together consistently and the good news is these are dynamic stretches so if you wake up like me and you feel sort of groggy they'll get the blood flowing the energy going and they're going to address a lot of the common orthopedic weak points that a lot of us have and it starts with the first exercise up here and it's called the squat fold so your feet are going to go close together and it's called the squat fold so your feet are going to go close together and it's called the squat fold bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow I don't want to see this. That's not actually engaging and waking up the muscles that have been dormant all night. We want those thoracic muscles to become a little bit more extended, so I'm trying to get as tall as I possibly can. Again, down, touch, drive the knees back. What you're doing here is trying to go through about five or six repetitions. You don't have to do a lot of these. Like I said, it's only going to take you five minutes, but the reward will be very big. From here, we move into the next exercise. This time, what we're going to do is position ourselves into a side bridge. I get down, I let one hip hit the ground like that. I'm going to let that bottom leg go as straight as I can and through the top leg. Then bring this leg up as far as you can where you can still keep the foot flat on the ground. So as high as you can bring it in this direction, foot flat on the ground. This elbow is straight and the arm is actually supporting you in this position. This top arm here, drive it down into your side just to get into the good starting position. Then you're going to lift up into that side bridge and just reach as far as you can in this direction. So what's happening here is you're getting a good stretch of all the lats, the back of this top side shoulder. You're getting activation through the glute on this side. You're getting activation of something called the quadratus lumborum, which is a muscle that actually is responsible for hiking the hip. Because we oftentimes don't sit very straight. When you sit on one side or the other or one cheek or the other, that muscle gets tight and it causes low back pain. So we're using this exercise here to not only strengthen it in this position by driving up, but then dropping it and getting to this big curve. When you get into this curve here, you're going to feel the stretch all the way down through the lat, into the hip, and really through that QL that I was just talking about which is on the backside. So up and over. And again, five or six reps is all you need here. The idea though is becoming consistent. Remember, this is a daily routine that you can do of these dynamic stretches. And of course, this one I would do the other side by simply switching positions like that. Alright? And then driving up and doing the same thing. The third move here is one that actually focuses on that QL even a little bit more. And so what I do is I drop one leg back and just again land on that opposite hip. Okay? So one leg is coming up. This leg is going back down. If you want to know if you're in the right position or not, you want to have this heel at about mid-thigh. Alright? So if it's bent, it's right about mid-thigh. That leg is all the way as straight back as you can make it and you're on that knee. From here what you do, instead of keeping up like we did in the last exercise, you want to flatten yourself out to your forearm. From here you take this hand, put the back side of it on the ground and you just slide it through. You're going to slide it as far as you can trying to target this rear delt or this middle delt really down to the floor. Alright? So see how far down you can go and you get a really good stretch on that rear delt. Alright? From here you slide it back out and you reach up as far as you can go trying to get good thoracic rotation. So thoracic rotation is the second time I've mentioned the thoracic spine is critical because we lose mobility because of all the time we spend by leaning forward and hunching forward on our phones, at our desks. We lose mobility in the thoracic spine because it's really taken up in this direction. We want to not only extend it but then make sure we maintain the ability to rotate through there. So again back side, up, reach as far as you can go, reach through. Now if you have a hard time getting low on this it's okay to let that back hip lift a little bit to get a little bit lower. Alright? Because you're still going to get a really good stretch in through that piriformis on this back side. Alright? So if you have to lift a little bit because you're lacking flexibility that's totally fine. Stretch number four. We call the hip switch lean. So here you're going to put one foot over the other, right? One foot over the other knee like this and then bend that knee. Now the action at the legs is actually quite simple. It's just going to be doing this. Down and down. That's it. That's all the legs are doing. It's just sort of windshield wipering left and right. But you can do a little bit more by letting the upper body follow the legs when it comes down to the ground. When this top foot actually comes down to the ground I can drive down with it just like that. And when I do I can really intensify not only the hip flexion on this side but get that external rotation through that down hip. The one that's on the ground here you really start to feel a good stretch. And also in here through the adductors and the groin muscle on the top leg when you come down. Alright? It's everything. But I didn't mention this side. This top leg here is actually driving that other leg down into internal rotation. So you can see that this foot, this ankle can actually push down on that leg to get it into internal rotation. And that's going to again stretch out those hip external rotators. Alright? So it's a great movement. It's actually got a lot of different benefits to it. But your entire lower body and most of all your hips are going to feel really nice and loose after you're done doing it. Which brings us to our fifth one here. It's called the London Bridge. So we talked about how important the glutes are. Right? And not just to stretch them but to strengthen them. Because most of us have some element of glute weakness. And it rears its ugly head a lot of different ways. But people will do bridges to address that. Which is great. The only problem is that the regular bridge is going to focus mostly on the glute max. Because it's going straight up and down the sagittal plane. If you want to get that real weak muscle, the glute medius, then you have to get into external rotation of the hip. So the best way to do this is to just drop your leg out to the side and try to flatten it. So you point your toes all the way to the side. Rather than having them straight up and down like this, rotate the leg so you're on the outside of this leg. Like that. This leg is going to bend up into a traditional bridge position. But when you press up, you're going to drive up into a bridge. Because this hip is externally rotated on this side over here, you're getting the glute medius involved. And that bridge is going to feel much weaker. It might even cramp up if you're doing it right and you need the work. But you get up as high as you can go. And then we don't just stop there, but we allow the other leg to drop down on top. So again, getting an additional stretch of the rotators on the backside hip. So lift up and down. So up, everything pulls over and it drops down. Trying to stay as high as you can on this leg with the butt in the air on that side for as long as possible. Drops down as we get to the front. Lift and pull the leg across. But again, leave that right hip up in the air the entire time to really engage that glute medius on this side. Come back, rotate, and then let everything drop down. And again, all we have to do, other side, bring that leg up. Rotate this one out until you're on the outside of that leg. That toe is pointed straight over, you bridge out of there, and then you let this side drop down. I actually felt a little bit of a pop in my low back. A good one when I did that. So the point is, again, you don't have to spend a lot of time, but you should spend time. And that time should take place every single morning because it's a great opportunity to wake up and make yourself feel more refreshed, more energetic. And again, doing these dynamic moves is a great way to do that very effectively in a short period of time. Before you go grab that morning coffee, I'm not saying you can't do that, just do this first and do it consistently and it will pay off. Guys, if you're looking for complete programs where we actually build in all of the training that you want to do to build your body and your muscles to support the new flexibility that you have, then you can find them over at athleanx.com. And if you haven't done so, guys, make sure you click subscribe, turn on the notification so you're never missing a video when we're putting out. All right, guys, try them out. I promise you, you'll feel better.

=== FILE: 6 Exercises That Undo Years of Damage! (SLOW AGING) [NBrek6S8W4o].txt ===

 So, the first exercise up here is actually just going to require a towel that you can roll up and a willingness to start training one leg at a time. See, a lot of us just do bilateral leg training. Squats, deadlifts, leg press, but you're missing out on a very important component and that is stabilization in the frontal plane as well as overloading strength without sort of overloading your spine. So, what we do is we take one foot and put it out in front of the towel and then we perform something called a skater squat, which is a one leg squat. I want your hands out in front of you to help with a little bit of the counterbalance. This leg is going to come up and you're going to target that towel with your knee. So you come down, touch and come up out of it. Now, you're getting 100% of that load on that single leg in this squat, but what's happening is the control of this front knee. If I turn and face you this way, you can see that I'm not just controlling motion in the sagittal plane, but as I go down I'm getting a lot of this happening. And you're likely going to see that happen to you too. And that's good because you need to control your ability to make your leg move in one plane because you need more strength through the hip this way. Now, one thing is that people struggle with the ability to even do this from the beginning. You can turn it into a front leg split squat. If I lean forward over this leg with my chest and go straight down with this foot in contact with the ground, I'm still getting 65% of that load into the front leg. So it's a good place to start until you have the ability to get into this position where you can actually perform it without letting the back leg hit main contact with the ground. One note for you guys who are heavy lifters. If you have half your body weight in your hands, so let's say 160 pound person would have 40 pound dumbbells in their hands. That would be the equivalent load of a 2X body weight squat. So a 320 pound bilateral squat. So without all that load compressing down on your spine, you're able to really overload the quads, still gaining strength and of course have a great exercise option that you could do anywhere. So the next exercise is actually one that we don't work on because we take it for granted. It's actually a balanced exercise and it might look remedial, but I promise you, you're going to show yourself and prove to yourself that you actually need some additional work. And all it is, is standing on one leg with the leg out in front of you like this. Now you have two hand positions here. You can either have them out at your sides for a little bit more balance control or up overhead for a little less balance control, a little bit more of a challenge. But the idea is how long do you do this for? Right? 60 seconds is the target, but don't be too confident right now because this is actually the really easy part. Whether you're here or here, the thing that nobody does is they never train their balance in a more compromised state. And the way to compromise your balance and challenge yourself more is to close your eyes. Because when we have our eyes, we can see when we're starting to fall and we can make those changes in our ankle joint to get ourselves back on track and regain our balance. But when we take away the eyes, now I have to rely completely on my brain's ability to communicate with the ankle and make those changes and adaptations only through feel. And when you think about when most people fall, they fall at night in the dark, especially as we get older. Every person, every 20 seconds dies by a fall. We don't want to subject ourselves to that. We want to train this. And again, the best way to do this is to work on controlling your balance with your eyes closed for up to 60 seconds. And it's natural to have these perturbations and movements like this. The whole idea is do you have to put your foot back down in contact with the ground or not? If you can make it a full 60 seconds, then you've done the right thing. Start with your arms out, eyes closed. Move up to your arms overhead, eyes closed. See if you can master 60 seconds on each leg. So this next exercise actually is going to target your hips. And believe me, your hips need targeting both into flexion and also by having the ability to extend your hip. Because by sitting all day long, we do tend to get tight and get stuck in that position. Our hip flexors don't have the mobility and flexibility that we need. However, at the same time, a degradation of the hip joint is going to lead to a loss of hip flexion, the ability to get your chest down towards that thigh. We don't want that to happen. So what we can do is do this movement here. It's called a warrior lunge. You're going to step out with one leg out in front of you like this and then the back leg is going back behind you. So this is the hip that's getting stretched on the hip flexor. This is the one we want to get into deep hip flexion in the joint itself. So one we're targeting muscles, one side we're targeting joints. So what we do is start with the knee in contact with the ground, right? That's going to make it more stable and easy for all of us to do. You take your hands, you reach out, you let your chest go out as far as you can over that front knee. Okay. To get into this real deep hip flexion on the side at the same time, getting a good stretch on that back leg. From here, you then reach up. What this is going to do is kind of sink the hips down and forward, which will give more of that stretch on that back leg. And again, open up that hip flexor on that side and go back down again. So you kind of handle these in reps forward, hold for two, three seconds, come up, hold for two, three seconds. Now, if you want even more of a challenge here, all you have to do is do the same thing, but with that knee off the ground. So now you've got that stability that we just challenged in the last exercise. So right here. Now that knee is off the ground. I'm going to lean forward as far as I can. The legs are obviously working more here. So it becomes more of a strength challenge. Come up, reach, hold for two to three seconds and come down. You want to do this for about five or six repetitions on each leg. I got to obviously switch up to the other side. It's a great way to challenge not just your stability, but your mobility and flexibility all in one shot. The next exercise here is actually another one of those mobilizer and flexibility increasers, right? It's for the hips again. We call it the NSFW. Not safe for work because it's not one you would just want to go do everywhere. It looks a little shady. I'm going to be honest with you. What it does is a lot of good for you. So what you do is I'm going to turn this way first. You're going to put your feet together like that. Okay? So as long as your toes are together, you want to do that so you get external rotation into your hips. So with this position here, now what I'm going to do is basically allow myself to reach out as far as I can as I sit back down into my hips. Okay? I'm sitting down into my hips at the same time of letting myself reach up overhead. It's another one that's doing what? Doing that deep hip flexion, right? The one that we lose as those hip joints become more and more really destabilized and deconditioned over the years or really degraded at worst. And then what we're doing is on top of that, getting a good thoracic spine stretch, right? By having my chest down and my arms up. From here, what I do is I slide forward. This is the part that gets a little shady looking. And I allow myself to kind of push down to the ground and then let the hips sink. Now, some of you might stay up high like that. You want to try to let your hips sink down as much as you can. That's working on getting more of that external rotation into the hip. Another component that we lose when hips become degenerated. So down into this position here. Again, push yourself up with a little bit of assistance. Sink down and back. Just like that. And again, you get that thoracic mobility and that deep hip flexion. As well as down through here, getting into that hip external rotation assisted by the ground. You go back and forth about five or six times on this. And again, maybe not appropriate for everywhere, but certainly appropriate for you every day that you can do anywhere in your own house. Now, no respect for longevity is going to ever be worth a damn if it doesn't pay attention to the backside, to the posterior chain. Because it's the area that gets unnoticed, overlooked, and oftentimes very, very weak very quickly. So, this exercise I want you to invest some time into is something we call the Angel in Devils. And all you have to do is get face down on the ground like this. And then what we're looking to do is engage a lot of different muscles in that posterior chain. All the ones that tend to get overlooked. You start by having your arms up out in front of you. You're going to lift your thighs off the ground to engage your glutes, right? Get stronger. And then also your low back. At the same time, you're going to lift your arms up off the ground to work some of those upper scap and mid scap muscles. And from this position here, you're just going to swim your hands all the way to the back. Point your thumbs down at this point. And then point your thumbs towards each other at the top. Lift as hard as you can. Try to get your chest as high as you can up off the mat. Touch your thumbs together if you can. Never let your thighs leave the air, right? Don't let them touch the ground again. From here, rotate around again. This time, thumbs are facing forward. Come all the way to the front and the thumbs are facing up. So we're getting that extra rotation. So you're also working the rotator cuff. Again, those mid scap muscles that tend to be very weak. The glutes, the low back. Very slow, very deliberate. Each and every single repetition. You'll find that your range will improve on every one. The idea here is to see if you can get through five or six reps of this with good control without allowing your chest or your thighs to make contact with the ground until you're done. The problem with weak glutes is that number one, most of us suffer from that. Secondly, they're meant to support your low back. In other words, the glutes should drive the support of your low back from the ground up. How do we do it? We have to teach the glutes to fire first and then let the low back assist. The best way to do it is with a simple exercise called the reverse hyper. And all you need is really a bed. Now, of course, if you're doing this in a gym, you do it on the side of a bench. But all you do is you get right to hip level up on top of the bed. Lay forward down on top of it just like this. And then all you're going to do is squeeze your glutes first and lift your legs up. So squeeze and lift. At the top here, yes, you're going to feel your low back right in through here. But only after the glutes have engaged and driven the legs up. So again, from here, legs are down. Lift squeeze through the glutes. Hold for a second and come down. Now, what a lot of people will do is when they lift their legs up into extension, they just rotate. They turn their legs up. They're kind of doing this because they're trying to substitute for the lack of strength that they have in their glute max to actually drive this to the right way. So if you want to test what your actual true strength is, try to do one leg at a time. So when I'm in this position, lift up one leg at a time and see what happens to your leg. Is your toe turning either in or out at all? Or are you able to keep your toe pointed straight down to the ground as you lift the leg up? Ideally, when you bring them back together again, you're able to lift them both up. Toes stay down towards the ground here like this. And you drive that glute contraction as the supporter of the low back. And don't ask the low back to do more than it can in the same time, subject it to strains and stresses. So now, look, you don't have to do all the exercises I showed you. But if you're one of the negotiator types who likes to say, Jeff, what's the one I can do that's going to have the most bang for the buck? Well, this is going to be this one right here. And we talk about the bar hang. All you got to do is set up a pull up bar and a doorway like this and perform it one of two ways. The first one we talk about is a passive version of this. In which case, you hold the bar and then you just drop your body weight. All right? I'm dropping but I'm keeping my toes in contact with the ground. I can actually swivel my feet. What this does is it creates a decompression of the lumbar spine. So anybody that has any disc issues, past or present, or any tightness in the low back, this will feel really good if you hold it for about 60 seconds. That's the goal here, a fixed time done. You also can see that you're getting some additional benefits. Good lat flexibility, good shoulder mobility, and actually thoracic mobility like we showed before in the NSFW by just simply pushing your chest through your arms to get this area of the spine more mobile into extension. The second version of this is more challenging. It's called the active hang. Right? And here, now you pick your feet up off the ground like this and instantly you turn on your This is one of the harder core activities, believe it or not, even though it's isometric. It really, really lights up your midsection. And on top of it, you're not compromising any of the benefits that we just talked about on the passive hang. Maybe just a little bit of the decompression component of the passive because your feet are not in contact with the ground anymore. You're not unweighting your pelvis. But you still have all that thoracic mobility, shoulder flexibility, lat flexibility, shoulder mobility, and at the same time also grip strength. Right? Because we know that grip strength is a good indicator of longevity and quality of life. Here, though, you would hang for as long as possible. So, if you're looking for a little bit of a protocol that you could do, you would go one day of the active hang as long as you can. The second time you did the hang, you do a passive version for a fixed 60 seconds. So, like on day two. And then on day three, when you come back to the active hang, instead of trying to hold for longer, you just take 60% of that hold time that you did the first day and you do it times two with a really short rest in between. So, let's say I held for one minute in this position here like this. Today, when I come back, I'm going to do 36 seconds. That's 60% times two. The rest time after I hit my 36 seconds is enough to just shake my hands out, get my arms kind of feeling loose again, get some blood back in there, maybe 10 seconds, get right back up there again. So, with that little brief reprieve, now you're accumulating one minute and 12 seconds. 36 seconds times two. One minute and 12 seconds of hold time, which is greater than your one minute that you did two days before. And when you do that, you'll start to continue to progress and add more and more hold time in terms of your max effort days. Because the next time out, you come back, you repeat the cycle with another max effort hang. The fact is, guys, these little investments of time are going to pay huge dividends to increasing not just your longevity, but the quality of your life in longevity. Because without that, nothing else matters, guys. And as a physical therapist and someone who puts a lot of training advice here on this channel, knowing how to maximize how you feel to keep yourself in the gym, making gains for a long time to come is the key. If you haven't done so, guys, you can find programs and supplements over at athleanx.com. Make sure you go check them out. And if you haven't subscribed, make sure you click subscribe and turn on notifications so you don't miss a video when I'm putting one out. All right, guys, see you soon.

=== FILE: 7 Diet & Training Mistakes to Avoid Now! [Iio94MY5jFM].txt ===

 So we all make mistakes, even Jesse. I've made plenty of mistakes. And you have too. But the good news is, if you learn from your mistakes, then you can take yourself to whole new levels of progress in the gym. Today I'm going to go over nutrition mistakes, workout mistakes, mistakes that I made that I'm actually pretty glad I made. Yeah. Because it taught me a valuable lesson and it's going to do the same for you. So we can get let go of all of our embarrassments here today because we're all in the same boat. Yeah. All right. So let's start talking about what they are. And so we we we we have a lot of people we have a lot of! we we we have moment in my training journey. When was that? Early. See, what I think people do is they don't treat the big lifts the way they should be treated. Let me give you a little story. So when I trained, anyone that's followed me for a length of time knows that I have an older brother, four years older, who basically motivated me to get started training. I just wanted to hang out with him a little bit. So I trained in the gym down in the basement with him. But I wasn't really doing anything too serious. But when I started to actually bench press, for instance, I was adding weight to the bar. I had him there to spot me. But then something happened. He left for college. He's four years older than me. And he left at a time that was very important developmentally for me in my early teens. 15, 14 years old, right? 15 and there. So what I started to do with no spotter working out in my basement was I started to train on a Smith machine. I went out and bought a Smith machine and that's what I did my bench press in. Or I would do it in a rack. But I have to admit, like whenever I failed, I had to take all the plates off and then put the bar back on top and get myself ready for the next. And I was too lazy to really care about doing that over and over and over again. And doing that's no fun either. I've been pinned under the rack before and it's unracking and re-racking and putting the plates back on. It sucks. Yeah, it's a pain in the ass. So what did I do? I didn't really want to bench press that way anymore. And I kind of abandoned it at a pretty critical time because as a beginner, your foundation around those big three lifts really does set the stage for strength and ultimately building up a solid base and foundation that you can start to pile upon as you get more and more years of training experience. Well, yeah. I mean, also don't forget when I first started working out, I was terrified of the big lifts. I didn't want to go anywhere near barbell and it was under you telling me you have to start lifting this way in order to see growth and strength that I finally did it. And thank goodness that you told me that you, that I needed to do it because I love it now. Yeah. It's what we call it an extra phobia where you just sort of, you're scared of those movements because they're the most complicated with multiple joints moving. And you're also scared of the fact that they do allow for the most weight to be used on the exercise. Yeah. Now, one of the things I think people do still to this day is they appreciate the value of the big lifts and they're probably doing it even in their younger developmental years. And that's a good thing, but they're not treating the big lifts well enough. See, you can't just check the box that you do bench and you do squat and you do deadlift. If you're not progressively trying to get stronger in those exercises. And I mean that, I mean, literally trying to progressively get stronger in those exercises. And that means utilizing proper programming of those exercises so that the right number of times per week, the right type of loads that are being lifted here. A lot of times guys still train to failure on those lifts or they try to approach failure. And we'll get to that in a second, but they try to approach failure when, when we are trying to build strength, that's not the approach you want to use. And that is actually something you learned quite a bit. Yeah. I learned when trying to get stronger that by lifting sub-maximately, I was actually getting stronger in the process. It's a weird kind of concept to get a hold of when you first start out. Like if I'm not lifting max weights, I'm not maxing out in the gym every single time I get on a hold of a ball. How you're getting absolutely stronger. Yeah, exactly. But it does. That's, that's the way strength works. So doing those lifts and doing them the appropriate way is something you need to invest time and knowledge into doing so that you can build that foundation because that starts. So that's something that I think people make early on. Yeah. Progressing down the list here. And again, I made this mistake. The volumes that we train at right now, I grew up in an era where all I had, I did not have YouTube. I had magazines and I had guys like Sean Ray and Lee Labrada and guys that actually still follow. And some of them actually followed me today. I'm very honored about that. Pretty cool. But I, I, I actually saw the volumes they trained with and just followed along because that's what I figured I needed to do. And there were moments and times when I did 35 set workouts for just chest. Wow. Or did 40 set workouts for back and biceps. Jeez. Right. And I can tell you that my biceps never needed that much volume. I can tell you that no muscle group in my body ever needed that much volume. And I can promise you guys that you don't either. However, we have modern day equivalents of this also. And that is we see our favorite influencer and whether or not they're using or not using something, we do sort of sometimes blindly follow what they're doing in an attempt to achieve what they're achieving. Yeah. It's a major mistake. It's a major mistake. And again, I always told you guys volume and intensity are highly correlated. If you train hard, you cannot train long. You can do one or the other. You cannot do both. And I believe as we'll get to in a second here, when it comes to the option of training harder, but shorter, that's the appropriate option for most people. Because if you're natural and you're trying to see gains, optimizing your recovery time is a much faster way to get to the results that you're ultimately looking for. But spending time, too much time in the gym, just using high volume, that's not even adequate to actually produce the change that you're looking for. And a lot of times it leads to these early stage breakdowns earlier than you should see them. Yeah. It's almost like coming from a baseball background. How many of these pitchers are actually blowing out elbows now at ages they never did before? Oh my God. Everyone seems like they're having Tom and John surgery. Growing up, we didn't see these breakdowns start to happen until they were 38, 39, or 40. Now we're seeing it early because there's too much use without any compartmentalization in terms of the types of things that you're doing. So even if you're doing a higher set workout of chest, how are you splitting up the exercises that you're doing? Because if you're doing incline, decline, flat, dips, pushups, there's nothing that's including the elements I always talk about of adduction, you're not complementing the exercise choices based around the specific function of those exercises. You're just piling on more volume into the same function, which is not going to have an additive effect. At some point, it actually starts to have a negative effect. Diminishing returns, as they say. That's what they say. So you need to realize that the option of just simply adding volume, though some studies might point you to increased volume over very low volume being more effective, always consider the fact that the equalizing factor of that is going to be your intensity and the effort that you put forth. And I'm going to always want you to veer more towards the effort if you're looking to build muscle naturally. Another thing I did wrong here, this goes into the diet side of these, but again, I think there's such a modern day equivalent of this too. And there's how do you approach your nutrition? Because I'm going to tell you this. If you want to build muscle or the best physique that you can, you need to get your nutrition in check. Of course. And I don't think people understand how important that really is. I think I've gone on record as saying 70% of how you look is based on nutrition. I will tell you that 90% of how lean you are, 95% of how lean you are, happens to come down to how you eat and fuel your body. Not any of the things that you're doing in the gym, and I don't even care if it's conditioning or cardio and burning a few extra calories here or there. It's how you fuel your body on a consistent basis is what determines your levels of body fat. So if you want to be lean and ripped, that's going to come down to how you eat. Now add on another element that if you want to be lean and ripped or lower levels of body fat, it's going to come down to how you eat consistently. Yeah. Because it's not just about how you do the one thing. Now we add on to the fact that if you want to be lean and ripped and you need to do it well and consistently, then how are you going to do that if you're doing it based around some type of exclusionary approach? Oh, that's the worst. For me, it was dietary fat. Really? Because again, you got to go back to the era that I sort of sharpened my teeth in, and that was back in the 80s and 90s. And dietary fat was the enemy for us, especially guys trying to be lean. So I avoided dietary fat almost completely. Like if I could count my grams of fat, there were times where I don't think I had one gram in my diet unless it was happening accidentally. That doesn't sound healthy. No, I paid the price. And I've shared this story before. Like I literally was freezing during the day. I had no ability to tolerate any temperature change. And I'm talking about even just an air conditioned room was too much for me. I had no insulation capabilities. My worst thing was my eyes and the photosensitivity I had to the sun was horrible. I could not go out in the sun without squinting, like barely able to open my eyes because we know that the fats that you eat are very important to the phospholipid layers of important cells in your body, including those photoreceptors in your eyes and a lot of other important cells in your body that I was literally depleting myself in ways that were completely unhealthy. Luckily, they're so overt that I saw these things and these changes and these negative changes happening that I was smart enough to intervene and actually start having some body fat. But what's the difference nowadays when people want to run to exclusionary dietary approaches regarding, let's say, even carbohydrates? Oh, everyone wants to eliminate carbs completely and thinking they're the enemy and that if they want to get lean that they have to completely avoid it. Just eat meat and fat and no carbs. Yeah. Or, you know, the keto approach, right? Like, guys, I don't want to turn this video into an anti-keto and I know that already there's the commenters are queuing up to call me an idiot and outdated. No, this is about sensibility and this is about longevity and sustainability. I've said it to you before, if you want to follow one of those approaches, but for you it works so well because your body tolerates the fact that you don't do not need carbohydrates, but you can sustain that and you, you, you function at a high level and nothing is compromised, then by all means, go ahead and do that. I'm saying that through my bulk of experience working with people who have tried these things, they do not have sustainability. And without the sustainability, your ability to follow that nutrition to the point where you actually get the results you're looking for is going to go out the window. So the nutrition approach has to be something that you can sustain and anything usually built around deprivation is not going to be sustainable. Yeah. That's my personal opinion. And I believe it's a mistake that still to this day is something people need to be very mindful of. Let's stick on nutrition and talk about the role of supplementation. Okay. You actually have a good experience here. Yeah. Talk about supplementation. I think people still at times view them as more than supplements, they become staples. Now they should be supplement staples, but they shouldn't be the staples. They shouldn't be replacing your meals. Right. That's what Jeff is saying. And you would talk, yours was early hours regarding weight gainers, right? Yeah. So when I first started lifting, um, even back when I was in high school, when I wasn't really taking it seriously or anything like that, I was always still, you got to put on mass, you have to put on size. So I figured the best way to do that was to start drinking mass gainers, just all those liquid calories and those protein shakes and everything like that. Um, however, I found that the problem with that was I wasn't actually increasing my appetite and that was a problem for me because when it came time to eat actual meals and have nutrient dense meals, I wasn't getting in what I probably should have in terms of volume. Can I tell you why that happens? Yeah. Because when you, your body literally like your stomach will actually grow and accommodate in size. Yeah. I know a lot of people hear the bullshit stories sometimes of breeders who go on those big movie bulks, right? And all of a sudden they make those transformations and we probably know there's some other stuff happening behind the scenes that's leading to that. Yeah. But the, the, the reason they, that they always give for what the biggest challenge of that transformation was what? Eating. Yeah. It was like, Oh, I can never, I couldn't eat. The biggest hardest part for me was eating all I had to eat. You know, it's like, it wasn't injecting what I was supposed to inject, but it was eating what I had to eat. But there's truth to that because you literally have to work at that. When I was in high school and starting to go down the road of trying to be more bodybuilder ask, I had never put the tights on. I never did any of that, but I was trying to become bigger and stronger. Um, I remember packing like two sandwiches, right. Or an extra can of tuna. I actually did. I had a can of tuna and I would open that as disgusting as well in the cafeteria, but like I was trying to physically eat more food through more opportunities. So more snacks and also having more food for every meal. Well, that's what you work. That's what you did for me too, is you told me that in order to increase the calories that I was taking in, I shouldn't be rushing to the mass gainers. I should be trying to eat whole foods or at least foods with nutrients. That stretches and build the capacity of the stomach. And if you remember, one of the things that I was doing was every time I came to work, I had like two or three extra peanut butter and jelly sandwiches that I'd have throughout the day, just at random points of the day, just eating a little bit more just to increase that stomach size. So, and the other benefit of that though, is just learning how to actually eat nutrition, how to, how to consume nutrition and how to feed your body and realize that your body is a machine that you are fueling it. The same way that you would put gasoline in, you were putting food into your body for fuel and just simply trying to get it all through a liquid shake. Again, goes back to the last point. Where's the sustainability in that? Yeah. I don't think that's a good long term approach. It also comes down to the fact that like, if you think about it, your body is a car, like a machine and you're putting fuel in it. If you're driving a high-end sports car, you're going to put in the highest minimum octane fuel. You're not going to treat your body the same way in the fact that you're not going to be shoving McDonald's Big Macs down your throat, trying to get bigger and stronger and leaner at the same time. Nutrition quality is a whole other part two. And you need to learn that along the way is that the quality matters. But again, you won't learn about quality if you're never putting any of the food in your body in the first place. And you're trying to do it all through supplements and weight gainers and mass gainers. Yeah. This one actually is close to my heart as a physical therapist, because I see it happen all too often. And this is something that I did really early on because I was blessed with the flattest feet known to man. Yeah. Flippers for flipper feet. But it was training through pain instead of around the pain. Yeah. Right. In other words, like training, despite the fact that I was in pain, doing the things that I still thought I was supposed to be doing. So for instance, I talk all the time about my trashy knees and the fact that there's nothing left there. Right. That happened as a result of basically just hardheadedly going through squat after squat after squat with completely effed up foot biomechanics and being as flat as possible and caving in the, you know, we talked about over pronation caving in, which puts stress on the knees, which then puts stress on the hips as a result of that, which puts stress on the low back, like never really caring enough to delve into what's going on. Why are my knees hurting so bad? What can I do to fix it? Just instead training through it. And a lot of people think that that's some sort of badge of honor. Yeah, that is not a badge of honor. The athletes that I work with these days, they know that it's not a badge of honor. It's actually, uh, it's, it's a mark of stupidity, especially in ignorance for longevity, right? Like they're not, these guys know better to think long-term down the road because modern day technology makes it easier for you to compete for love for many more years, right? Guys are playing into their later years. If they're giving that away because they're hardheadedly, again, not addressing something that could be addressed, that's allows them to keep playing around that pain. Then that's something that they're, they're sort of making a giant mistake on. So what do you do with your own training? When your shoulder hurts, it's time to go bench, right? Or when your knee hurts, it's time to go squat or when your back's hurting, but, but a low bar squat hurts that. Do you just keep low bar squatting? No. Do you, do you switch to a Bulgarian split squat because you can keep your back in a neutral position? Yeah. That's one option. Do you do a high bar squat because it's an, it's another option being understanding of all the different ways you can go and also understanding that there's a lot of ways to get to the same end goal. That's a skill that we all need to develop. And I think people don't understand that enough. They state, they think that there's only one path to where they need to be. I did hear, um, Michael Hearn, Michael Hearn spoke about incline benching, right? Like he says, he exclusively in climb benches does not do flat benching. Abandoned that a long time ago and actually even tells his son, his young son, we're not doing anything but incline benching. I, I honestly, I applaud the conclusion because for him, a lot of people say, I know, but I, I know how valuable flat benching is. I should do flat benching at some point. I've been told I should mix it up. But what if you found that that is the, the, the, the solution that works best for you is to just incline bench press. That's where you see your best results. Yeah. That's not bothering your shoulder. And, and right. Or, well, in this case, maybe that would actually more than a flat bench, but I'm just talking about in general, that path leads to better results, right? Commit to it, commit to it. When you're seeing pain or feeling pain from something, try to find out the source of that pain, try train around it with these other variations. And then again, as you address that pain, you might be able to reintroduce the thing that was causing you pain in the first place, but simply banging away at the same thing that was causing the pain is going to lead to more pain until ultimately you can't train at all. Yeah. It's not a good approach. That's the last thing we want. We don't want to be kicked out of the gym for, for injuries or pains or discomforts. Next up, this one is a very sore spot for me, especially because I feel like people flip flop on us all the time. Um, and I have not, but we're talking about training to failure, right? And the role of training to failure. This is a place where I'm actually lucky to have grown up when I did and learned how to train when I did, because the people that I was watching, though they were doing 35 or 40 sets, you know, were also training to failure and training to failure. As I said before, train long, train hard, but you can't do both. You, you need to be able to put forth that effort and train to failure was a critical part of seeing the results that I believe a natural lifter needs to do. It might sound counterintuitive because, Oh, we can't recover from that. Well, that's because you can't do those volumes and train to failure and all those sets, right? But you have to pull those volumes down, but then you do have to put forth the effort and push yourself to failure. And again, a lot of the people who even recently within the last couple of years were preaching to you all about reps and reserve and how important it is are now all of a sudden suddenly saying how trained to failure is where it's at. Like it's always been at there. Yeah. The thing is that it's your objective way to understand. So even beginners who are just starting out, the giant mistake they would make is not, training to failure because they have to learn what failure is, right? They have to get to that objective end point. I'm talking about failure within good form, not this ugly shit where you can't even recognize the exercise you're doing. That's an injury risk. I'm talking about training to failure through a good mechanical form and then say, yeah, I can't get another rep. I at least know that objectively across the board, I've reached failure. And then I can work off of that. If I do want to back off for a set or so, so I don't do every single set to failure, I can do that. Because at least I know what failure is, but getting into this and saying four to five reps in reserve or three reps in reserve or two rep, there is no context for that. People don't even know what that is. And considering the fact that most beginners always underestimate their capabilities in the gym. Oh yeah. Everyone is always saying, Oh yeah, I, I, it starts to burn. I'm done. I'm done. Right. Like, you know, like, like that's not, as you'll find out the longer you lift, that's not the right feeling to be backing away from. Sometimes that's the exact feeling you need to lean into. And as we talked about before, the higher the rep count goes to where you're going to fail, the more imperative it is in that set that you actually take it through that burn into failure to actually go to full muscle failure in that set. It's like metabolic training. When you always say like the, the, the set starts when the burn starts, right? Because if you stopped when the burn starts, you're stopping so short of failure that you're not going to see any gains that are, that are coming to you. I mean, that's, that's science proven. Now we know that the, the, the capacity to build muscle can happen across a wide variety of rep range from five all the way up to 30. Yeah. But the, the necessity of getting that set to absolute failure is going to be more and more necessary the higher those reps go in a set. So if you're going to failure at 18 reps, 22 reps, 25 reps, you really have to take it to that failure point and beyond like that and get through there to ensure that you get there. Look guys, remember mistakes are only mistakes. Only if you don't learn from them, we all make them. The key is what you do in response to them. If you're looking to fix your gym mistakes, I actually have a video for you to check out over here. And also if you haven't done so make sure you click subscribe and turn on your notifications so you never miss a video when we put it out. Guys, complete programs, meal plans all available over at athleanx.com. Hope this helped you out. See ya.

=== FILE: 8 Most Effective Exercises for Gaining Muscle [ZFPcfYIceBA].txt ===

! N-acetit, N-acetit, naringin, N-acetit, naringin, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, started out. It should be a staple exercise for everybody out there who wants to build bigger biceps. Because even though we know that there are compound exercises, pulling exercises like a row, some people will swear that they're so great for building your biceps. That's not true. They're not going to build bigger biceps more effectively than an actual straight barbell curl. But how do you do them to get the best bang for your buck out of it? You've got to do them right. Jesse, pick up the barbell. Here's what I want you guys to focus on. Two things to do this really, really, really, really well. The first thing is, instead of thinking of curling this bar up, I want you to think about lifting it up straight to the sky. So what does that mean? My focus is on my wrists and my hands. So if I think about the flat part of my hand going up towards the ceiling like a waiter would hold the tray, then what happens is you take a little bit of the forearms out of it because they're bent back a little bit. Not to overly stress the wrist joint, but just to allow the forearm to be a little bit out of it and you're lifting straight up to the sky. Do you feel that? Yes, sir. I do. All right. Now, that's the first thing you can do right. So if you're just lifting, you're thinking about lifting straight up in the air, it's going to take care of that arc. Turn one side to the side for one repetition if you can. Just about there so they can still see with the plate. Now go ahead and do one more. As you're lifting, it's going straight up towards there, but you can see what stress it puts on the biceps. All right, rest for one second. The next thing that would be really, really important when you're doing the curl is to focus on how you're moving the weight through space, not just on the way up, but also on the way down. So for me, number one, the eccentric lowering of the weight is critical. Pick it up. Follow this pace if you want to build bigger arms faster. So lift it up. On the way down, go to my count. One, two, three, right about there. Four. At least three seconds. Okay? You can get it up there. Down. One, two, all the time. Focusing all the way down until it gets down in front of your thighs because there's still tension on the biceps as it elongates. Come down. Two, three. So a minimum of three. Somewhere in that three to four range. Now let's say you start to get tired. You want to cheat a rep up. Go ahead and cheat. You still got to go down slow. I don't care how it got up as long as you're not over cheating, but you still got to go down slow. Up there and down. Now you do this and I promise you, your biceps will blow up. And again, it's just focusing on A the right exercise and B how to do it because that's what matters most. The second exercise that must find its way into your program, if you want to build effectively, your chest, your triceps, your shoulders, it's got to be a dip. And the thing about the dip is it's sort of an alternative in this case to a bench press. But I think a more effective one if we're talking about building muscle on those areas. The bench press is by far a staple strength exercise that we all should do. But I think the dip has a more natural ability to start piling on muscle on your chest because it follows that sort of natural direction that the arms want to travel in if you're trying to create a chest contraction. And at the same time, it gives you the overload on those front delts and also the triceps too. Not only that, but Mike Mentzer also said that this is his favorite exercise for the triceps, shoulders, and chest. You're right. You're right. I actually made a whole video on that. So, what's the way to do the dip though to do this right? First of all, if you can, weight it. So, put a little extra weight around. I'm not interested in you doing 15, 20, 25 reps for this. Instead, I'd rather see you put some weight around your waist and then do some more reps like Jesse's doing here. How would you do it though most effectively? It starts with how you set up in the station. So, what a lot of people will do, especially if they're in between sets, they'll be kind of tired. They're resting. They're letting themselves kind of fold over into the dip machine. And then when they go into their next set, okay, I'm up, everything is folded up. You have this hunchback position here. You have the shoulders shrugged up near your ears. You've got your shoulders, most importantly, rounded forward. When you start to go up and down from here, I understand where there's a lot of hate directed at the exercise. There doesn't have to be so much hate directed at the exercise if you do it the way I'm showing you. So, set your posture beforehand by, instead of being rounded here, conscientiously try to lift your sternum as high as you can and then pull your shoulders down. Look at the difference in that posture. And from there, all you have to do is then release and push through the elbows. And now maintain that throughout and you've got a much healthier shoulder position just by doing that. And when you get to the bottom of the rep, again, this is where we know we can get that good chest stretch, right? That's another benefit of this that we get beyond the bench press. We get a deeper stretch here. But more importantly, watch what we can do. Rest for a sec. How we contract our way back up to the top matters too. So, I mentioned the more natural chest contraction position being down here. If I were to ask you to contract your chest, you wouldn't go like this. No one's naturally doing that. No one's even really naturally doing this. They would go like this. Or they do the most muscular pose down here because that's a more natural plane of motion for us to operate in. So, this high to low position. The dip does that. So, instead of giving that away, when you're pushing yourself back up to the top, try to imagine your hands squeezing towards each other even though they won't move because of the fixed placement on these handles. All right, so do the same thing. Come up to the top, get in that good position. On the way down, get that good stretch. Now, on the way up, think about squeezing up. You feel that? Oh yeah. It lifts it from underneath. People that complain about having a saggy chest, most of the time they're just lacking lower chest development or that side chest development because they haven't built big enough lower pecs. This direction here allows you to target those lower chest fibers better and do so in a more effective way. Now, this one is probably one that people never think of when it comes to building muscle. But again, when you're talking about effective exercises, exercises that do exactly what they're supposed to do, not only is this going to build muscle, but it's also going to fortify your shoulders and actually give you a strong upper back that's going to carry over on everything else that you do. Guess what it might be? Oh, I know this one. It's a face pull. It's a face pull. Now, the first thing you can do is don't just set it up with one rope. See, I've given this tip before and I'll keep doing it even if gym owners get pissed at me because it makes the exercise much more effective. That's attached two separate ropes to this because, Jesse, go ahead and get position. When you do this, you've got to get it right. People don't do this exercise right. There's so many variations. Do the wrong version. They just do that. They're internally rotated. They're pulling towards their face, but they're internally rotated the shoulder with elevation. That doesn't do what I'm looking for it to do in terms of protecting the shoulder. I need you to open up, get the rotator cuffs involved, and to do that you need to get into these 90 degree angles with your hands. So you're in this position here. Elbows are up. Come up one step a little forward that way. There you go. Elbows are up. Elbows are wide, open at 90 degrees, pulling through here. When you do the exercise I want you to think about pulling back and again, creating this thickness up through here because these muscles are all being pulled in unison together to create that pull. Just like that. Elbows stay high. Yep, never drop the elbows down. There you go. That's the first thing. The second thing is, on the way back in, control this. Don't just let it drop. Don't let the weights in the stack go right back. Control – yeah, don't do that. People think, again, they focus so much on one part of the exercise, but you're costing yourself a lot of the size in the process. If you want to turn this into even more of a muscle builder and get some of the lower traps, what you do is get it back here. Now you just simply raise the arms up overhead. Pressing that will bring in these muscles here a little bit lower down the lower traps to sort of thicken those paraspinal muscles still. But this exercise is not just a corrective exercise. It literally is one that will build the muscles up in the back because they don't need a lot of weight, but they do need some attention. And if you do this, guys, I promise you the face pull will become one of the biggest backbuilding exercises you've ever added to your routine. Speaker 1 This fourth exercise might be a little bit controversial to some in terms of its role as a muscle builder. But I can tell you there is nobody that has built a big deadlift who doesn't have a big, thick, wide developed back. It just doesn't happen. It's true. And it happened with Jesse too. You can check it out right here. This is literally what young little Jesse looked like when he started. And this is the back of a behemoth at this point. Speaker 1 Right? Let's call it what it is. But actually built mostly just through Speaker 2 Deadlifts. Through deadlifts and getting very strong at the deadlift, by the way. Speaker 2 Yeah, very strong. Speaker 1 So now, what's the most important thing that you can do for a deadlift though? Because I think this is obviously more of a technical lift. There are a lot of places where people can get this wrong. Because it's a big compound lift, there's a lot of joints moving at different times. I think there's a few ways that you can think about it that can make that almost automatic. Speaker 2 Yeah. Speaker 1 So the basic tips that we always hear is when you approach the bar, you obviously don't want it too far out in front of you. The further out the bar is in front of you, no matter how strong you are, the harder it's going to be to break it from the floor. Because you're basically getting rid of all the levers that are working in your favor by having it out in front of you like that. So the best tip is just over your laces. Speaker 2 Yeah, over the midfoot. Speaker 1 Over the midfoot. Now, from here you go down, but you hinge to the bar to get it, right? You're trying to reinforce the right mechanics. And the hinge to the bar is the way you want to go down, not just bending from the waist. Speaker 2 No, not like this. Speaker 1 Right. It's literally hinging. Speaker 1 Hinging back. So basically trying to create these creases right here that go from your thigh down towards your groin. Allow those to bend themselves back. Now you grab the bar. Now you just keep the shins in contact with the bar by just moving them forward slightly, because they're only a little bit behind it if you set up properly in the first place. Now, the biggest thing I see people screw up with here, and this is what I want you to focus on, is these hips are in the right position now. Mechanically the best position to perform the lift with maximum strength. However, if you are told that you need to pack your lats, right? Get really tight in this position, or take the slack out of the bar, what oftentimes happens is as they lift their chest up, the hips drop. You see that? That's what you want to avoid. That is the critical mistake that people make when they're getting ready to deadlift. You want to maintain that same position that you set up with. So there's a way to do it. When you're down at the bar, and you're in that position, think about opening the chest just like that. And that will pack everything down and get the lats in a good tight position without moving the hips at all. From here, you push straight to the floor, and you drive your hips forward. Think of this movement as a front-to-back move, not an up-and-down move. Okay? Second big key here – although we've given you a few of them already – the second big key is how you lower the bar to the floor. Because if you just drop it, or just let it go with a lot of uncontrolled speed, you're missing the other half of the lift. That's like basically doing a barbell curl up, dropping the bar to the floor, picking it up again, curl, and dropping it to the floor. We're missing the big eccentric portion of the lift. It doesn't have to take a very long period of time just to demonstrate one properly. But you're under control. You're elongating all those muscles of the posterior chain, of the back, of the traps, of the rhomboids, of the erectors, the spinal erectors. All those are getting elongated under tension, and a lot of times under extremely heavy loads. If you do this properly, guys, like I said, there's nobody walking around that has built up a heavy deadlift that has a very poor or underdeveloped back. This exercise is a sneaky builder of your entire back, even though it's not as flashy as, let's say, a pull-up, or a lat pull-down, or a barbell row. This is the one that will do the most for you, and therefore the most effective. Exercise number five undoubtedly has got to be the king of lower body exercises. This should come as no surprise to you. We're talking about the squat. Obviously, if you build up a bigger, stronger squat, you're going to build bigger legs. And the good thing about this exercise is even though you can shift the focus a little bit more towards the quads or the front squat, or more posterior chain if you're doing a back squat, the idea is you're still building your legs up maximally by doing the exercise. There's really no replacement for it. However, there are a couple things that I think people don't do that cost them some of the gains they could get from the exercise. Or at least along the way, not incurring some of the pains that you don't have to incur while you're trying to build up bigger, stronger legs. Right? So here's what I want you to focus on. We're doing it without plates so you can actually see what we're talking about. The first thing is when you're getting ready, Jesse's sitting up here for a low bar squat. So down, lower on those rear delts. Now, when you get ready to initiate the movement, what happens a lot of times is people don't understand what should be happening with the hips. They know that the hips have to bend at the same time that the knees have to bend. And the coordination between those two parts often times leaves people with a squat that doesn't look right because you're not moving in sync the way you should be. You need to think of the hips as a hinge, like we did before, on the squat as well. And not just lifting the low back. Because what a lot of people will do is they'll just do this. They'll just create that anterior pelvic tilt by sticking their ass out. That's not what you want to do. And a lot of people will do it either here in the setup, or as they get ready to begin their descent, they do that. They stick it out. You're putting a lot of unnecessary strain on your low back. But more than that, more than that, you're taking away the advantage that you should have on the lip by doing it properly by hinging. So what instead I want you to think of is, think of what would happen if you were going to do a kettlebell swing. You drop back on a hinge, like that, through the hips. So think about hinging back. Keep going, and don't worry about the knees yet, Jesse. I want to show you what happens. Keep going all the way back, as far as you can. It starts to resemble a good morning, right? This is the position you want your hips in, ultimately. Now to fix this, let the knees bend. There you go. So once the knees bend, now you're in that perfect down position. Now obviously you're not going to segment it this way. What's going to happen is, you're going to think about moving the hips back in that hinge direction, at the same time that you will just allow the knees to bend under you. So go back, and then allow the knees to bend. You're moving everything in one unit. In other words, you're thinking of taking the torso and the hips and moving them together. And the knees are simply going along for the ride. Now when you come back up, this is where things can go wrong too. Because what people do is, they go down, everything could be good. But now, either due to weak quads, or just bad timing of the hips and knees, they start to good morning the weight back up. So they're here, and then they lift the hips first, and then they come up this way. What we call a squat morning. You can avoid that too by visualizing the torso, the chest, and the hips. These two big areas moving together at one time. So go down. Now if I think about just moving them together at the same time, all that desegmentation is not going to happen. Right there. Straight back up again. But it starts with the hips moving back as a hinge, and not simply arching the low back. Because that's not just only compromising your low back, it's ultimately compromising the amount of load that you can handle, the mechanics on the exercise, and ultimately how much muscle you build from it by doing it properly. When it comes to developing a muscular physique like Jesse, we know that at some point you're going to have to pack on some muscle to your upper torso. Right? And we're not just talking about the chest, but really up here in the shoulders. And there's no better exercise, honestly, for doing that than an overhead press. We've talked about all the different variations of it. The seated ones, I'm not really a big fan of. The standing ones, definitely what I'm looking for you to do. I actually like some of the dumbbell variations for me, or for others that have orthopedic issues where you could press one dumbbell up over time, at one time. However, if you don't have any issues in your shoulders, and even if you do, you can navigate your way around it over head press. This is going to be the best exercise for adding the most weight to the bar, that can be progressed the most, that's ultimately going to lead to the biggest shoulders. And it's definitely one that Jesse, as you can see, has been pushing a lot of weight on, and working on getting stronger and stronger at. That's led to some of this thickness that we see, not just there, but even through his upper back too. Right? We know that this is a pressing exercise that even has some benefits for the upper chest if you have a slight lean back. Right? But the most important thing you could do here, for me, is recruit that lower body, but also establish the right width of the grip when you're doing the exercise. See, a lot of times people will go too wide. So what happens is when they go too wide on the bar, that's a little extra wide, but bring them in a little bit from there. When they go even there, right, what happens is the elbows themselves start to change the plane that they're in. They start to get a little bit outside into that frontal plane exclusively. And what happens is you're robbing the triceps from allowing them to contribute to the lift. Because if we can get the arms out in front of the body a little bit more by simply narrowing up the grip, you'll be amazed at how much more you can press, sometimes even 10%, 15% more, just by getting in tight. Because now with the elbows out front, the triceps are in a better position to actually extend and press into the lift and give you that little extra push. What happens if you get that extra push? If you get the weights up a little bit higher and higher, you get more muscular development. Right? Here's where we want these muscles to work together. Right? So again, one more rep, press up and overhead, head comes through. We know all the rest of the mechanics of the lift. The most important thing, though, is setting up properly by getting the grip. And that's the easiest thing because you're doing it before you even press the bar. A lot of these tips that people try to implement, especially, you know, when we're talking about lifts that are compound, they want you to do things while the lift is going on. It's a little hard to control sometimes when the weight's in motion. But when you can do it on a setup tip, those are the ones that really have the most effect, I think. If you come around this side of the bar now, we're talking about including the lower body into the lift. How do you ensure that your lower body can help either stabilize or contribute to the press overhead? That's where the glutes come in. Because here, people forget all about the activity of the glutes and their contribution to a heavy overhead press, and a strong overhead press. What I want you to do, though, is stop doing that. You contract your glutes before you press. So literally squeeze, and then press. Just like that. Now you were loose right there before I even said it, right? No, I squeezed right there before you said it. Okay. No, I'm saying normally before you even think about it. When you're not thinking about it, our body wants to remain loose there because we're thinking about just pressing with the upper body. I'm telling you that once you stabilize there, go ahead and press, you become very strong because you're plugging what we call those energy leaks that are really present on a lot of the exercises that we do. A simple mindfulness of a glute contraction, squeeze as hard as you can, is going to make the feet feel stable and grounded into the floor and transfer all that power up through your legs into your upper body and ultimately through the bar to a stronger overhead press and ultimately much bigger shoulders. So our seventh exercise is another one that targets the back. And again, if you want to look bigger, you better build up that sort of Dorito shape back, right? And that's the V shape. And though we had options for building all that thickness up with the deadlift, the deadlift alone won't create the entire visual that you're looking for. That's going to be devoted to some type of vertical exercise here like the lat pulldown. Now I say the lat pulldown, even though I like the weighted pullup or the weighted chin up. I love those exercises. But why I like this and why it's one of the only machines I actually have in my gym is because it does the job the most effectively. That's again what the spirit of the whole video is. Effective exercises, go ahead and grab the bar gently. Because how you do this is going to determine whether or not you do it most effectively too. Again, not just what, but how. So when you're trying to target the lats and build up the width of your back, then what I want to see you do is two things. Number one, I want to see you take a little bit narrower grip. All right, so not as wide as the bend of the bar, but a little bit closer, Jesse. Come on in closer. A little bit more. A little bit more. Right about there. So I've even given the tip of using a tricep pushdown bar if you really want to get into that more narrow position. Because what that will do is put your elbows out in front of your body. And what the elbows can do from this position is they can actually try to tuck into your front pockets. Visualize trying to put your elbows into your front pockets as you come down. Like that. You feel the lats? Yep. Because you're getting the adduction of the arm into the side, which is one of the main functions of the back and the lats. So in this position, elbows go forward, tuck them into the front pockets. Really try to drive them down into those lower lat insertions. Just like that. And get that good squeeze. Now, the second thing, Jesse kind of speeding through it here. Don't. Don't ever speed through the eccentric portion, especially on a lift like this. These pulling exercises are tailor made for that amazing eccentric overload if you only allow it to happen. And to do that, all you've got to do is slow the damn rep down. If you see Jesse here allowing it to go up nice and slow, you feel the reversal of the rep. You feel the lats really, really stretch out, which puts them in a good position to do the next repetition. Again, people just rush their way through this. If you want to focus on more of the upper back, if that's an area that's sort of missing some of that width, then all you have to do is get a little bit wider again, if you want, on the bend of the bar. But this time, Jesse, instead of keeping the elbows in, then you would just sort of let the elbows drift back behind you and sort of point. I'm going to get behind you here. Sort of point back in that direction like that. Right? So you're looking to open up the width in that direction to create more of that upper back width. So there's some versatility here too. But most of all, don't speed through these repetitions. In other words, I say, don't count your reps. Instead, make your reps count. On this exercise, if you do, your lat width will definitely improve. If you do this exercise properly, it all starts, as always, with how you do it, not just what you're doing. The how you do it has to start with arm positioning from the very beginning. It's not going to start here. Because what happens from this position is people will perform something like a nose breaker or a skull crusher because they're simply letting their elbows bend and the target becomes straight down on top of your face. It's not that it's necessarily dangerous if you're using weight that you can handle. It's the fact that it's less effective. The more effective angle for the arms is going to be to push them back about 30 degrees or so and then lock them in and never leave them there and never move them at this point. Now you bend the elbows. It puts the bar back behind the head, most effectively putting that stretch on the triceps. And this is where you've engaged the long head of the triceps. That part, that big meaty section behind your arm that's responsible for the majority of the size of the triceps. So we're talking about effectively trying to build your triceps up with the right exercises. The ones that place the most stress on that head of the tricep is going to be the one you want to do. You take it all the way there again, and once that elbow is locked in position there, you keep it there. Now bring it back up. If you want to do something heavier, you want to turn this into a cheat version of the exercise, similar to a cheat curl. I'm actually okay with that. At that point, you actually get a little assistance from the lats. So let's say this is even heavier than you used to. You go back there and as you start to pull it up, you can turn into a little bit of a pullover just to get that extra assistance so that you could apply what? A heavier negative once again to that repetition. So let's say slightly heavier than usual. You cheat it back up a little bit with the triceps and the lats, but now you're in position for another heavy negative on that long head of the tricep. So that is going to make your arms grow really, really effectively. The last thing you can do from this position, what I love so much about this exercise is because of what we've got set up here, we're in position for what we call a mechanical drop set. Meaning, I'm tired, I couldn't do any more repetitions of the way Jeff was just showing me, but I could do it if I brought the bar closer to my body and then pressed it up from here. So either a close grip press or what we call a jam press down to your shoulders. So here, drop it to your shoulders and then press back up together. Down, drop it to your shoulders and then press up because we've shortened the length of that barth and the travel behind your head. We're able to get a few more repetitions out even when we're most fatigued. The bottom line though is this is the staple exercise when you're looking to effectively build bigger triceps. And so with those eight exercises, maybe you can get the Manergy that Jesse actually has and start reconstructing your own body. By the way, I want a rematch. You want a rematch? Yeah, right now. Let's go. Ready? Three, two, one. Guys, full programs over at AthleanX.com. The supplements, everything that turned this guy into a beast, but not a beast enough. Energy!

=== FILE: 9 Minute Daily Ab Workout That Flat Out Works! (FOLLOW ALONG) [5c1R1zPceyM].txt ===

 So maybe you've been doing a lot of ab workout, you've got nutrition in a good place, but you still can't see your abs, it might be because you're just not loading your abs, it might be because you're just not loading your abs exercises enough. Today I'm going to show you a weighted ab workout that you can use either a 5 pound plate for beginners, a 10 pound plate for beginners, a 10 pound plate for intermediates, or a 25 pound plate for intermediates, or a 25 pound plate for advanced, that will help to develop your abs to make them stand at attention. All you're going to need is just a little bit of space on the floor here in 9 minutes. Let's do it. The first exercise up is this plate pass reverse crunch, and this one's going to hit the lower abs. This is what you're going to hit the lower abs with this bottom up movement. The weight is going to be pushed underneath your tailbone as you curl up, which requires A, that you get enough of a lift on the tailbone from the work of the lower abs, and also that you can hold it up there long enough to accomplish the pass. The heavier the weight, the more friction as you try to push it across, and the more stabilization needed. You do this for 60 seconds. If needed, you can rest pause your way all the way through. You do this for 60 seconds. You do this for 60 seconds. That's called the hideaway twisting leg raise. So here what you do is take the plate and engage the abs by lifting the shoulders up against the weight of gravity. Now, the idea is the rest of the movement is what's happening with the legs. You want to get them lifted to the point where the toes disappear or hide away behind the plate. Once you lose sight of the toes, then you twist the torso at the bottom, again creating that bottom up rotation and intensifying the exercise. 60 seconds once again here. That's turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning turning Thank you. Here we take that rotation up to another level with the Russian Twist and Press. And what I want you to focus on here is trying to keep the legs up off the ground the entire time, requiring a lot of core stability and balance as you do this. And as you get into the middle of the exercise, you're reaching the plate up and overhead. The higher that plate goes, the more that weight wants to actually try to pull you backwards, requiring, again, more intense contractions of the core. But again, the rotation itself here is what's driving the effectiveness of this exercise. Do it once again for 60 seconds if you can. Do it once again for 60 seconds. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.

=== FILE: 9 Muscle Building Mistakes I REGRET Making! [mhUJIkdToe8].txt ===

 mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage of bouncing or fast repetitions, and especially with lighter weight, your calves ain't going to grow. And that's just a fact. Because if you look at the anatomy of the muscle itself, both the gastroc and soleus insert into one common tendon called the Achilles tendon, and it inserts on the back of our heel. Now, that tendon is built for highly explosive, ballistic-type forces, enough to propel your body through space, and think about it, one leg at a time. So, in what world do you think using light weights is going to stress this enough to make this muscle grow? Because we know that we need to overload a muscle to make it grow. Well, we're going to need to use the heavy weights for that. That being said, doing anything ballistically with bouncing is going to further feed into the function of the Achilles tendon to offload the muscle itself and take on some of those forces. That's not what you want to do when you want to grow that muscle. You want to become a lot more inefficient to create muscle growth. So, what that means is slow it down. Take away the explosivity of the exercise. Instead, slowly descend into the bottom of every calf raise. And when you're at the bottom, hang out there in that stretch position for a count of four. When you do this, you're taking away that rebound effect that's more suited for the Achilles tendon and forcing it to be done by the calves themselves. So, in other words, initiating every contraction up is going to have to happen now through the force of the muscle, loading that muscle up more and leading to more muscle growth. So, stop the bouncing. Stop the light weights. It's not going to work. And believe me, I made that mistake for many, many years. Next up is the biceps. And of course, it's one of my favorite muscle groups to train. But I learned the hard way that there is one thing lacking in all the years I've been building my biceps up. And that is not fully extending my elbows on every repetition. Again, I mentioned I learned this the hard way because I tore my bicep tendon about three years ago when my son was walking on ice and he suddenly dropped. I went to catch him and the next thing you know, pop. Now, I actually did a lot of research on the bicep tendon tears. And one of the leading factors for having these tears occur, especially in bodybuilders, when you remove steroids from the equation, is that they never really truly trained through four-inch motion. If you go through a four-inch motion, you actually apply a stress to the tendons in the elbow and the insertions of the long and short head into the elbow. That just doesn't happen unless you go those extra two inches. And I get it. There's reason for not doing it. We all like to kind of hang on to that last little bit of locked elbow to make that next repetition easier. Hell, we even do it when we're doing pull-ups. We don't go all the way to full extension. But what's happening there is you're costing yourself the safety of that tendon and the longevity of that tendon long-term that could set you up for something like what happened to me. And what happens when you get injured is you can't train the same way anymore. And for over a year and a half, I had to modify my training because of the tear in my biceps. So you don't want to go through that. The simple fix is going through all of your bicep exercises, all those curl variations, and just simply applying a full extension at the elbow. And I'm not talking about some crazy contraptions and exercises that put your elbows way behind your body into extreme stretch. That's not what I'm talking about. It's not necessary. What I'm saying is just simply extending the elbows fully rather than keeping them locked out by one or two inches can pay off in a big way in terms of how your biceps actually develop and also your ability to keep them looking the way they are without any type of disruption with an injury down the road. Now, next up, we talk about the triceps. And for me, this is something that actually is related to my experience with my bicep tear. But it actually is really, really important for all of you, whether you had a torn bicep or not. That is, you need to focus on the long head of your triceps. And I talked about this before. It's the biggest portion of the tricep muscle. It's responsible for, get this, two-thirds of the size of the triceps, which we know is responsible for two-thirds the size of the arm. So it takes up a big portion of that muscle. Now, how do we do this? Through its contracted state and its most extended or stretched state. You hear a lot about people saying, oh, you got to focus on tricep stretch and muscle stretch and elongation. And it's a form of tension in a growth driver. But ignoring the contracted position of the long head is really ignoring a full tricep contraction opportunity. And not just for the well-being of your elbow joint, you do need to focus on forward range of motion. Now, what I do here is I focus on a few exercises that get the muscle into its fully shortened state. And to do that, you have to have your arm behind your body to get that long head fully activated. When the elbow is behind the body and the elbow is extended, then you've got a contraction on the tricep unlike any other. Well, what exercises do that? Not a lot of the big fancy ones, but some of the little ones that become subject of ridicule. But it doesn't mean you shouldn't do them. And I actually avoided things like dumbbell kickbacks or things like bench dips done with just my body weight, or even something like a cobra pushup where I can get my arm closer to the backside of my body rather than a regular pushup. All of these things put the triceps in a more fully contracted state. Well, it was difficult for me because of this bicep tear because it created more of a stretch position, right? Behind your body, extend the elbow is going to have more of a stretch on the bicep. And that was an irritation for me because of the pain I had. So I got away from it. And guess what happened? My triceps shrunk. And I know that for a fact because you can't not do these exercises and have the best tricep development possible. So you need to include those. And of course, you still have to train the long head with those stretch focus exercises like the lion tricep extension or an overhead rope extension, because those do an amazing job at increasing the levels of tension in that muscle to drive further growth. But again, they have to both be done if you truly want to see your best tricep growth, which brings us now to legs. Now, a lot of us have been given the advice and I've been giving it to you as well, that in order to see the best growth from a muscle group or an area is you need to subject that muscle to twice a week training. And what that means is our bodies are capable, as we found out, to responding to a stimulus for growth more frequently than we may have thought they were. And this is with a high enough level of training stimulus, right? The intensity is high enough to cause an adaptation, but not so high that you really can't get back out there and train it again. If you train a muscle with a good level of intensity and focus and effort, you can get it done twice a week and optimize the growth of the muscle because you have more opportunity for growth stimulus. Every 72 hours has been shown to be a good time to re-stimulate. Well, what if it comes to the legs and you just can't do it, right? It's just difficult because you got to get around or you have a job that requires you to use your legs all day and it becomes too hard for you to do that. It doesn't mean that you can't do twice a week training. The best thing you can do is just split them up, anterior and posterior training. And what that means is focusing on the quads in your anterior training and focus on your glutes and hamstrings in your posterior training day. And you can get those two workouts done in a week. And the good thing is you do get the overlap in leg exercises almost all the time because of the way that we train our legs. So we get some anterior effect when we're training our posterior chain exercises. If you're doing a leaning Bulgarian split squat, you're going to still get the quads as well as the posterior chain focus. If you're doing something like a step up, you're going to get an anterior chain focus if you're keeping your torso upright or a posterior chain focus if you're leaning forward. But obviously the entire leg is being developed. Obviously things like front squats would be more anterior chain focused on your quads, but still give you a good enough stimulation of the posterior chain if you're trying to re-hit them again for the second time of the week. But the idea is aim to train your legs twice a week in some capacity. And if you're not doing it right now, the best way to do that is by splitting it into that front side, backside focus. Next up is chest. Now, Lord knows I struggled with chest development for my entire life and I did all the right things, right? I scheduled chest workout number one of my entire life on Monday, International Chest Day. I went and I put weight on the barbell bench press and I think it was actually maybe 10 pounds on each side, but I started where I should start. And I did the incline bench press and I did the decline bench press and I did Arnold's flies. One of the last times I ever did Arnold's flies, but the bottom line is I did all the things I was supposed to do and the chest didn't grow. Well, now here I am 35 years later and I'm still trying to work on my chest, but I have a different approach. And that is I focus almost all my effort and all my pressing on incline pressing. And there's a reason for that. Number one, greater range of motion. When we press through an incline bench press, you're going to have more travel of the bar, more range of motion, more work being done by the pecs in this variation than any other. And you can see that through these clips right here. You have more distance of travel from the bar up. And this is just due to the position of your body on the bench versus a flat or a decline position. The second thing is it's also the one that's going to contribute to the area of the chest that's most likely to be underdeveloped, even in people that have more developed chest, right? The lower chest is sort of almost always developed in people who do any type of chest training. And then we have the middle chest or sternal portion that, by the way, gets hit really well with almost every single upper chest focus exercise we do. Certainly an incline dumbbell bench press or an incline barbell bench press. But the fact is, by almost shifting all of my focus now to the incline, it's not compromising the development of my middle chest. As a matter of fact, I think it's getting better. And finally, after all these years, it's starting to bring up that upper shelf of the upper chest that's been absent from me for my entire life. So don't be afraid of shifting the focus away from those flat bench exercises, because it's not like you're doing something wrong. You're still stimulating the chest. I think a lot of times we get stuck in an approach that we know we should do, or we think we should do in terms of always flat bench pressing. But if it doesn't work for you, and this does, then pursue this because you're not going to compromise your body. Now, I will make this one note. If your shoulders are trashed, like mine sometimes, you might find more comfort in doing a flat bench or even a decline bench variation, because it takes some of the stress off the shoulder. That's all you got, then that's what you should stick to. But if you have the ability to do incline pressing, then for sure, I want you to make sure that you incorporate almost this entire shift or attempt this shift for a short period of time to see what your results are. Now, we go to the back. Now, I've been a big advocate of back training for a long time, because I know as a trainer of athletes, it's not just what we see in the mirror, but it's what balances out what we see in the mirror that probably has the most functional impact on keeping an athlete strong and healthy. Now, the back needs to be trained, but one of my favorite ways to do it is with a bodyweight exercise, and it's the pull-up. Now, what I'm going to tell you is a few things are wrong here. People pursue pull-ups, if they do, in terms of how many repetitions they can get. And the mistake there is, while that's valuable in some regard, it's not the only thing. I think you need to try to turn that exercise into a compound strength builder or mass builder at some point in your training by adding some additional weight around your waist. And even if you're just adding five pounds or a 10-pound plate, you're doing more than you were doing when you were simply doing bodyweight alone, pursuing more and more repetitions. That being said, there's a different effect taking place with a pull-up than there is with a lat pull-down any day of the week. You're not getting the same effect by just running over to a lat pull-down. And I will tell you this, there's not a person alive walking around right now. That could do 20 unbroken pull-ups, 20, 25 unbroken pull-ups, that doesn't have an amazing back, that doesn't have a muscular upper body. Their arms will be developed as well, because your arms take a hell of a lot of a different stress when you're doing a pull-up than they do when you're doing a supported lat pull-down. A lot of the reason is you get those pads driving down to your knees. You're driving up against them. You've got a counterforce to pull that bar down. It's just not as demanding, even if you have heavy weight on that machine, not as demanding as performing a pull-up in space with nothing to brace yourself against and to have just the strength of your core to help you to move your body through space efficiently. Do not stop doing the pull-ups. As a matter of fact, I want you to do pull-ups once at least every two weeks, if not once a week. And it's some type of workout, whether you're doing pull or back focus workout. Next up, the shoulders. So here is one that I actually like. I love training shoulders, number one, and I love the exercises that I'm about to describe to you. And these are exercises that you can perform heavy that are directed more specifically at the individual heads of the shoulder. So yes, you might say I do a heavy pressing exercise and it feels great. That's awesome. Check that box. But it's not enough. You can't then go to the light side of the dumbbell rack and perform only light exercises for the rest of the front delts, middle delts, and rear delts. Now when you have great opportunities to build those muscles up and overload them with exercises that can do that. So for me, let's start with the rear delts right off the bat. Doing a seated row with heavy weight is one of the best ways to build your rear delts of all the ways you could possibly do it. If you keep your elbows high and drive them back behind your body, you're likely using very heavy loads here on the exercise and you're applying very heavy stress to those rear delts in a safe way that's going to grow them faster than any isolated rear delt fly you've ever done. Same thing when you do a high pull. I talk about this exercise all the time. No, it's not an upright row. It's maybe for some, it's an upright row done the right way with the elbows facing down and the hands higher than the elbows. But what this does is it gets the middle delt really well, hits the rear delt really well. And what this is again doing is providing us an opportunity to use heavy weights on an exercise that can stimulate these heads so that they respond in a way that they probably haven't responded for you so far. A cheat lateral is another way that I love to do this. I just load up the weight, sometimes 45 or 50 pounds, and I utilize a lot of swing into the exercise. But I have to control it on the way down or at least attempt to control it eccentrically. And it provides a stimulus to the middle delt that just I don't think can be replaced by simply performing light, strict lateral raises. There's a place for all that strict stuff. It works. But when you're trying to get into these exercises, even something like here, this is called an abduction row, where you're getting the shoulder and the middle delt again, and the rear delt, all these heavier exercises give us a great opportunity, but you need to pursue them if you want to see optimal delt development to complement the heavy pressing that you're already doing. It just can't end at just that one heavy exercise focus. Next up, the abs. I think my biggest problem here, and it comes again from my training of athletes, is that yes, we focus on calling them ab exercises. And we talk about ab exercise, I talk about ab workouts here all the time. But really, in my head, all the time, I'm thinking core. These are core workouts. And one of the things that you can do to improve the outcome of all the exercises you perform is to strengthen your core. And what that means is including exercises like carries, or including exercises like a pow-off press that we can do as correctives if we want to do it that way. Because again, you should be performing correctives every single day. In some form, if you want to maintain your health and longevity in the gym, just one exercise is all you need. If you do core exercises or core training as part of a corrective, or core exercises as part of daily ab routine, you're going to start to increase the stability of your body. Now, rotational ab work, anti-rotational ab work, anti-extension work, anti-flexion work, weighted planks, it's all important. But I'll give you a caveat. Taller athletes will need this a lot more than really short athletes. Really short athletes don't create the torque and limb length that creates the real need for the rigidity of the spine and torso through movement in space. So when you get those long, lanky athletes, they especially need to train all these functions and these controls in the different planes of anti-rotation and anti-extension. When you get to the really short athletes with short limbs and not a lot of torque creation going on because they don't have long torsos or long limbs to do that, it might be a little less important, but it's still an important part of every training routine to make sure that you have some focus on developing the rigidity of your body in space. That pillar strength is critical. And again, if we just think about it as ab training, we're probably going to miss that. Lastly, forearms. So here we go. So I'm just talking about corrective exercises. A lot of you guys probably think, well, I'm out of this video. I don't need to talk about forearms. You do. As a matter of fact, my friend Sylvester Stallone said that there's three muscle groups he could train on an ongoing basis. It would be his forearms, his arms, and his neck. Why? Because it's the only three areas you see, no matter what short sleeve shirt you have on, you're going to see those three areas. So you want to make sure you develop them. I'm going to go further than that. Having strong forearms is going to set up the better, improved performance on all the bigger exercises you do in the gym. But if I want to make your job a little bit easier, I'm going to say focus on just one. And the area you want to focus on are the exercises that work the extensors of the forearm. And one of my favorite ways to do this is one that you're seeing right here, just by setting up a wrist roller environment, which you could do just by putting a kettlebell or a weight on the end of a barbell here that's in a rack, and then just rolling your wrist back. Why is it so important? Well, the flexors of the forearm tend to get a lot of work just based on the fact that they tend to jump in as cheating muscles on our pull exercises. So when you're rowing and they tend to bend backwards, or when you're curling and they tend to bend backwards, or doing pull downs or pull ups, and they tend to bend backwards, you're getting a lot of inadvertent flexion work in your forearms. But we really very rarely get that extension work in the forearms, which is important for creating not only a balanced forearm, but also for protecting the elbow joint and preventing some of the elbow pain that we get that sort of disrupts our training. So if you had to only do one thing here, I'd work it in as a corrective exercise, because it could be viewed as such, and it's going to pay off big dividends just by focusing on the one area that you're probably not doing at all. Now, if you want to create a more complete forum, then you're going to want to go a little bit further than that. But I did put together a video for you with all the different functions of the forums and how to train them all very easily at home. You can watch that video here. If you found the video helpful, guys, make sure you leave your comments and thumbs up below. Tell me what mistakes you're making, and I'll try to address them maybe in a separate video if they're not already addressed here. All right, guys, click subscribe, turn on notifications, and also full programs are available over at athlonex.com. I'll see you soon. Bye.

=== FILE: 90% People Become Flexible With These 5 Stretches! [sa0cbFSizjg].txt ===

 d converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter side, take your hands, put them up against the door frame. Try to reach up as far as you can. Now the idea is to slide your body through, and at the same time try to get your chest into the door. So I'm sliding through, get my chest through the door. If you do this right you're going to feel this in a lot of different areas. The first thing is the hip flexor on the leg that's outside of the door. So you should feel the stretch right up and through here. The second thing is through the upper back. There's an area of the spine we call the thoracic spine, which I believe is the most important area of the spine to maintain our mobility. You're going to get a good extension and lengthening through there because your arms are up here against the door frame. The third thing is because the arms are up you're going to feel a good stretch in your shoulder joints. Especially if you've been sleeping all night with your arms down here at your side. It's going to feel really good. So all I want you to do is just lean through, try to keep your chest through the door, head up, hold it for about 30 seconds or so. And of course you switch through, other leg comes in, drop it back. The hip flexor stretch now shifts to that side. And then again you reach and hold. Now this is where it gets interesting because the same exercise done from a different position, now this time down on your knee, is going to have a different effect. Okay? Now what you're looking to do is still have one foot through the door. That leg is still here down on the ground. But when I do this from a lunging position, I start to feel it even more through that hip flexor and now a little bit more into the quad. So what you do is, you get yourself into that position where you slide through. But this time, instead of having your arms up overhead, this is something we call the kneeling door splat. Now you take your hands right about at chest level and you lean through that way. And what's happening now is you're getting something called an external rotation stretch on your shoulders. So now you should start to feel it in through here. And you'll get that really good feeling. You're trying to pinch your shoulder blades together. Now you've got more hip flexion, so you're getting deeper into your hips. So if you have any restrictions and tight hips, you're going to feel it here too. So again, same concept, completely different feel than what you had before. Again, 30 seconds on one leg, switch it up. Same thing, slide through. Get those elbows in that position down, right? Keep the elbows pointed down towards the ground, shift through, and feel that good stretch. That's two of your five. However, there's still more to do. And like I said, you only need a door or, in this case, the floor. So the third thing here is a hamstring hinge and reach. And I say hinge because it's very important that you learn how to hinge. The hinge is going to happen all at the hip joint. Okay? It's not bending. I don't want you to bend. When you bend and try to stretch your hamstrings out, what happens is you get a posterior tilt of the pelvis, which takes away all the stretch. To get a good hamstring stretch, you have to be what we call anterior pelvic tilt. So the easiest way to do that if you're a beginner is to spread the feet out and take away some of the requirement of hamstring flexibility. Because again, you're likely not at a point where you have a lot of hamstring flexibility, which is fine. That's why we're doing this with me right now. So you start with the feet apart like this. Then put your hands right up here on the inside of your upper thighs. And all I'm going to do is push myself backwards. Right? This is the hinge. Push straight back as far as I can possibly go. Once I've used up all space here, you're going to feel a stretch in two places. Number one, you're going to feel it on the back of your hamstrings. Again, your goal is to try to keep your knees as straight as possible. Just from this position here, if I had the ability to reach, then what I would do next is maintaining this position and maintaining this flat low back here, just reach down to the ground if I could. All right? Just like I'm getting ready to hike a football. If I could. And if you can't do it right now, you're perfectly fine staying right here. But I go down to the ground like that. If I've got that, then I can reach down with the other arm. All right? And I just try to keep that hinge back, keep the low back somewhat arched, and just keep my hands in contact with the ground. You're going to feel it again all through the hamstrings and through the groin a little bit. A great way to stretch your hamstrings as a beginner. And this wide base of support with your legs is going to make it feel more stable. That's number three. Number four, there's something we call a thoracic reach through. So now I talked about that middle upper back, the thoracic area, where we need to get more mobility. It's not just into extension, but it's through rotation because this is where we get all of our functional rotation. So what I want you to do is come down to the ground on your forearms and on your knees. So sort of in this basic all fours position. Then you take one forearm, you're going to slide it behind that elbow, and then try to land on the back of your shoulder. Okay? So from this position here, I'm going to take this arm, put it behind that elbow, land onto the back of my shoulder. I just want to lay down on the floor. Lay on the back of the shoulder here. Just like that. And feel the stretch. You'll see the rotation now through the upper back. And you'll also feel a really good stretch through that posterior shoulder. I want you to do this for about 30 seconds. So again, what you're stretching is that upper back and getting rotation. And you're also getting a stretch on this posterior deltoid that tends to get very tight on people. So once I'm in here, I'm just reaching in this direction. I'm going to rest my head down. This is a very relaxing position. 30 seconds. Come back to the top. Take it back through the side. Lean until I can get all the way down to the ground. Lay on the back of the shoulder here. Just like that. And feel the stretch. And the last move, you get a chance to work on a little bit more of that deep hip flexion. Because as you get older, as you get more arthritic, what's going to go is your ability to flex through the hip joint. And rotate through the hip joint. So this time, I want you to open the feet up a little bit. And then slide yourself back as far as you can. Sit back for however much motion you are allowed. What your body is getting right now. From here, I'm going to extend my arms up. And try to just let my forehead rest on the ground. Just like this. This is somewhat of a child's pose position if my arms are back. But what we do is, we sweep through the position. So when I'm here, I'm going to take my arms, reach, and sweep. So pushing out as far as I can. Go for the distance and the length. And sweep. All reaching as far as I can. Trying to get long. All the way until it's back at my sides. And then come back and sweep and reach. Up at the top here, you'll feel a really good stretch. Again, that thoracic extension through that upper spine feels great. The shoulders get it. That deep hip flexion. All these things working together to make you feel amazing. And what I would do here is just perform 10 sweeps. So that would be number two. You can keep them going at a pace like this. And sweep. And again, my forehead is resting on the ground. And come up. And when you're done with these, again, you'll feel loose pretty much throughout your entire hips, your back, your shoulders, that rotator cuff. All the areas that you're likely having a difficult time with right now, and especially the options that you're having to stretch these areas out, can just be a little bit too challenging, that they're stopping you before you even get started. These will allow anybody to get started and then, of course, progress from there. If you're looking for a whole program, guys, where we walk you through everything I do, put the science, back, and strength. You can find them over at ATHLEANX.com. All my programs, obviously, as a physical therapist created by me. If you're looking for more videos, guys, make sure you click subscribe and turn on notifications so you never miss a video when we put one out. I'll link two more here that I think will be helpful as well. See you soon.

=== FILE: Building Muscle at 40： What Nobody Tells You [BavuJEzLSB0].txt ===

 narkin,liśmy mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage I feel like there's no way you can build muscle like that and be that lean over the age of 40 naturally. I posed the same question to my MD and he agreed with me that it's not possible. I know you're in your early forties and in great shape. So what do you think? Boy. All right. So there's a lot here. Um, I'm going to give Bob, Bob striker, Bob strike. I'm going to give Bob an actual plan here today. If you're out there, if you're over 40, you're going to get a full, like a training concept and a nutrition concept that's going to work for you. I guarantee it's going to be happy. What about those of us that are not 40? You need to watch this because you need to learn where you're ultimately heading here. Okay. And a lot of what I share is going to apply right to you to the universal principles. Okay. But can I start by being ticked off myself? Sure. I just said, I was going to do it to other people. I am myself. Nothing pisses me off more than when MDs make those kinds of blanket statements because they're highly discouraging. And a lot of times this is coming from someone, by the way, who has a father who's an MD. Okay. But he also knows that there's some limits as to what he knows about. It's an all encompassing practice, but he doesn't necessarily know about how to build muscle the best. Okay. Not the best guy you go to. You're sick. You want to get better. That's who you go to, but you want to kind of optimize your health. He's not the right guy for that. And he'd be the first one to admit it. I don't know if this guy should be giving out that advice because he just discouraged him right there. He's looking for agreement. You're not going to get agreement from me that that exists. By the way, there's some very good doctors out there that know exactly about these types of things, but he's not one of them. Okay. Now the next thing is the comparison to Joe and David Goggins. Yeah. Okay. Now we'll get into them specifically, but the point is we are setting ourselves up for failure by comparing ourselves to who we see. Yes. Okay. Now back in the day, we didn't have social media. We didn't have our phones. We looked at ourselves, right? We trained in our basements. We had mirrors, right? You had a mirror. Yeah. Yeah. Well, we started training when I was a kid. We had that full length mirror right next to the dumbbell back. Right. Because you'd catch a glimpse the first time you ever saw a tricep. Oh, dude. Don't even get started. The little wrinkle of a tricep. You're like, wow, I'm making progress. And you'd feel good about it. And you'd string together enough victories to feel motivated to keep going. Yeah. Nowadays, what people do is they don't look at themselves for the gauge of how they're progressing. Instead, they look to the other people. Yeah. And they're very discouraging. Very discouraging. The problem is they're not just looking at Joe and David Goggins. They're looking at regular people who have a job and are in the same position they are. And they look fantastic because of course, they're going to put those fantastic photos under the best lighting on Instagram and they get discouraged by that. So it's when regular people start to look really good, that becomes especially defeating. So I think that's one of the big issues. I want to make sure people steer away from that. When I was a kid, I had bodybuilding magazines. And of course, those guys were immense and everything else. But I kind of did look at them as pros, right? They were the pros. And I was naive to what they were actually taking in terms of drugs. And I figured if I could just look 25% of that, I'd be happy. So again, I still compare myself to myself and not them. And I would encourage people to continue to do that if they want to have more of a positive mindset. As far as Joe Rogan, Joe is actually someone I believe has been openly honest about being on TRT. Yeah, I'm pretty sure. But the thing that people will chase that with is this gentleman here would probably go, ah, I knew it. That's why we can't, we shouldn't even bother training because I'm not taking that. So therefore I can't. First thing is, you might want to get looked at, you know, just responsibly to make sure that testosterone is not an issue for you because it could explain why he's struggling with his results. Yeah. But the point is, is like, you can't then say, oh, well, that's the reason Joe looks the way he does. Completely discounting the fact that he's on a rigorous training program. He does jujitsu outside of just training in the gym. His health and putting in the donations of time towards improving his health is one of his highest priorities. Like he doesn't just fuck around with that. It's actually what he does and he prioritizes that. So therefore that's what I think when you put the big picture together is what accounts for him looking the way he does. Okay. Whether or not the TRT is a factor of that, of course it can enhance things, but it's not the main reason, the only reason why. Then you take a guy like David Goggins on the other end there. He's someone who's claimed to be a hundred percent natural and I believe him and he looks phenomenal too. And he's 50 years old also. So, you know, by the way, he, uh, he gave me some extra years there on that question. Did he? Yeah. He may be younger than I actually am. I'm going to be close to David Goggins age this year. He said early forties. Thank you very much. So now how do we still, how can we look like that? Well, it is possible. It is that see, I'm here to tell all those out there who think it's not possible that 100% it is. And the way to get there is to have a specific approach to training and nutrition. Let's start with training. Okay. Okay. The first thing for me, if you're looking to build muscle and you're over 40, but again, you're aspiring as a, even at your age now, the first thing I would do is I would try to aim for three to four workouts in a week, strength training workouts. Okay. Okay. Lifting weights. And if you could do four, I would do four. If you can only do three, I do three. If I was doing three, I'd be doing total body workouts. Okay. If I'm doing four, I do a Monday and a Tuesday with a day off and then a Thursday and a Friday. And I split it up with upper, lower, upper, lower. Okay. Okay. All upper body stuff, lower body, upper body, lower body. Got it. The next thing is I want you to train both for strength and for hypertrophy. Do you know, some people don't know the difference. Really? Yeah. You do now, but in the beginning, you actually didn't know what hypertrophy was, right? No, I, that was a term that had gone right over. And it's so like, it's, it's part of what I do. So I kind of take it for granted. Yeah. Hypertrophy is when you are trying to build muscle as your main focus. Building strength is trying to become a stronger individual, being able to move more weight in space or move your body around against resistance more easily. As athletes, we're going to need all of that, right? All of the above. So we should be training for that simultaneously. The fact is that as we get older, both of those things are very important. You're going to need your strength because with each passing decade, you're going to actually lose the ability to produce force. Okay. And that could set you up for some disasters down the road. Like if you fall. Now, maintaining muscle mass is also important because sarcopenia starts to set in. You start to lose muscle mass and become more frail and become more susceptible to disease. You can't fend off diseases easily. Now, what I would do is I would try to separate those two workouts where one of my focuses in those workouts was to train more for strength by doing lower repetitions with heavier weights, aiming for a safe five repetitions or so, right? Training in that range, taking longer rest periods between those sets. Those are the workouts that I like to do. Yeah. And not training the failure there. That's not the point. The point is building strength. In order to build strength, you really need to be, especially on exercises like squats and deadlifts, like you're not training an all out failure. No. Never have been. That's so bad. But if you're looking to build muscle, then what I would do in the second upper body workout, let's say that week, and same thing with lower body, is I would focus on slowing down those repetitions even if you had to lower the weight. You've already covered the element of the heavier weights and the benefits that come from those. Go to slightly lower weights, move those weights a hell of a lot slower. Four seconds up, four seconds down. Okay? Taking momentum out. I say, at some point, momentum really isn't a muscle. Yeah. Okay? Make the muscle you're trying to build to the work. You'll be astonished at what happens through the entire middle range of motion there, where you're just moving that weight through space at the sole discretion of the muscle you're trying to train. In other words, it's responsible for moving the weight. You're not swinging the weight anywhere. Yeah. It makes the exercise a lot harder, but a little bit more rewarding. And what that does is it creates more of a stimulus, even with a lighter weight. The lighter weight helps to save and spare those joints a little bit. Okay? And at the same time, the speed of movement will protect those vulnerable joints and ligaments if you're already somewhat injured. If you train right now with some pain and you slow down the reps you're doing, you will feel an immense improvement immediately because your body's more stable. Well, that's what you've been doing with your shoulder, right? A hundred percent. My shoulders are trash. But by going slow and incorporating this style of training in, I've been able to extend. I probably should have had this thing operated on years ago. I've been able to extend the life of this. And again, knock on wood, I don't even have any issues with it right now. That's good. All right? So I'm able to do that because of this approach. So I'm encouraging you to do that. And can we please train through a full fucking range of motion? I'm serious. Like, I am serious. I know this science-based approach is to train exclusively in the stretch position. That's not the approach you want to do as you're getting older because there's a lot of value to strengthening throughout a full range of motion, at least to be able to be functionally productive human being. So you're telling me that if I want to be the most optimal version of myself over the age of 40, I shouldn't be doing martial reps? No. And you shouldn't be doing it your age either. In other words, you want to build resilience and longevity into your training. Train through a full range of motion. There's more than just the one-dimensional aspect of building muscle that's important. Now, conditioning. Because we didn't even mention conditioning, but that's part of the training for me. Conditioning is something that I will admit was not part of my training approach for a long time. So you're saying you don't need – cardio is not necessary to be lean? No. No, no, no, no. Nutrition dictates levels of leanness. Now, how can cardio help? Well, as you start to get older, what will happen is metabolically, you'll become less efficient. In other words, you're going to start to see that you don't burn as many calories as you used to. And a lot of that has to do with the declining levels of muscle mass that we talked about before that you're trying to stave off. That's that sarcopenia. Right. And again, I don't say that you should be looking to add five pounds of muscle each year in your 40s and 50s and 60s. It ain't possible. But think about this. If you are maintaining, then you are gaining. Right. Because you're losing in the process. Right. So if you can even maintain what you've got, you're gaining. Yeah. Right. So understand that. So when you're doing this, if you are experiencing some of that muscle loss and therefore a decreased metabolic rate, then by nature of wanting to keep the body fat away, you might need to increase your cardio output anyway. Okay. Right. Your calories out or that sort of exertion must go up in order to burn more of the calories that you're not burning just through the active metabolism. Right. There is also another added benefit to doing some cardio, especially as you get older. What's that? For your heart. Well, that's, yes, here I am focusing solely on the aesthetic part of what that equation was from the guy's question. But by all means, keeping a strong heart is incredibly important, again, for the overall quality of life. Yeah. So not just hypertrophy, not just strength, but also your overall conditioning levels. Now, I will say when it comes to nutrition, it's the main driver of body fat levels. Okay. If you want to be lean, you can accomplish it all through nutrition. Matter of fact, this is a picture of me from 2019 in a year when I really was doing almost zero conditioning and I was pretty shredded. Yeah. Okay. That is solely a fact of being locked in on my nutrition. All right. But I will tell you this, it is the most challenging thing for people to conquer is maintaining low levels of body fat as they age. Number one, because of this metabolic slowdown we talked about. But number two, I call it the 23 in one concept, the 23 in one. That means there's 24 hours in a day. We might all be able to find the consistency and the dedication to make ourselves in our way to the gym for that one hour. But you got 23 other hours outside that gym that you need to be good in if you want to maintain proper nutrition because there's all the temptations of not having good nutrition. Donuts. 23 hours. Yeah. 23 hours of that. You got to have a plan. You got to have a plan. You got to be able to stick to it. And what happens as we get older, you're starting to experience this now, Jesse, as an adult. What happens as we get older is life's inconveniences and even some of life's pleasures get in the way of having the schedule that you might have scripted for yourself early in the day. I can tell you that. You know, when I was in my 20s and going to the gym and working out was a lot easier than in my 30s. Right. So now I have more responsibilities now than I did then. Family responsibilities, parties, travel, work. There's a lot of things that come up that will easily become a roadblock for you in your pursuit of good nutrition, making it more challenging. So again, when you have these things start to stand in the way, how resilient are you and how dedicated are you to the plan to be able to stay on that good nutrition path? That being said, if I had to give advice, the first thing I would say is try not to focus too much, even though that we know being in a caloric deficit is what is required to lose that body fat. Try not to focus too much on calories in, calories out. Okay. All right. Because when you just focus on calories in, calories out, you're not necessarily as focused on the quality of those calories. As long as those calories are less than the calories that you're burning in that day. Right. Then you will lose weight. Okay. Let's say you have Dunkin' Donuts in the morning and lasagna at night. Okay. And that's all you have. And it totals, you know, 2000 calories for the day. Okay. And you're burning 2100 calories. Right. Right. Then you are in a deficit, but you haven't really learned proper nutrition. No. And your ability to like to stick within that on that fine line is going to eventually probably go wayward. What I'd rather see you do is focus on learning what quality of nutrition really is. Because if you can learn what good foods are that are, that are nutritionally dense, but maybe not so calorie dense. Okay. Right. Then you can get high quality nutrition and you don't have to count calories as much. Really? No, you're not. Because those, those foods that are oftentimes more nutritionally dense are calorie light. Okay. And you're not going to have to be worried as much. You make one screw up in terms of a fettuccine Alfredo, you might have 1500 calories just like that. Right. It's a bad choice. Yeah. But if you learn how to make the smarter choices, you don't have to be doing all the math every single day in terms of dissecting your calories and figuring out where you need to be. Is that why I never see you count calories? Never count calories. Have you ever counted calories? Very early, just to educate myself as to what the calorie contents were in different foods. But I stopped doing that a long time ago. Right. And I, and what I use is a plate division technique that you can find on many of my videos. I'll actually link one at the end of this video that you can see. But the next thing is I would advise you not to be carb phobic. And I'm talking about starchy carbohydrates. Don't be completely carb phobic because what you're setting yourself up for there is an exclusionary based diet where you're taking something out completely. Yeah. And that's not fun. Well, it's, it's not going to be fun. It's not going to be something that you likely could stick with long-term. I'm looking for a long-term solution. So I think that there's a way to respect the carbohydrates and you do so through portion size control. Right. And we do that with the plate division technique too, but you're able to find a way to keep them in so that you aren't craving them all the time and you're learning to live with them. And because they're not completely excluded, you can live with them for the long-term. And you can live with them in a healthy way with like healthy size portions and stuff like that. Cause I, as Italians, pasta is not going to be obsolete from our diets, but knowing how much to eat in relative, uh, or in relation to all the other food on our plate. Yeah. It's, it's a portion of the plate. It's not the whole bottom of the plate with meatballs on top. Right. So though your mom might want it that way. So last thing I'll say is you talked about Joe Rogan. I watched a recent interview we did with Antonio Brown. You know, I love Antonio Brown, right? He's been in here. We trained. I love him. I love him. The one thing about Antonio Brown that he said there was Joe was talking about how it's very difficult to be a NFL wide receiver and perhaps one of the greatest to ever play the game when it comes to AB. That being said, AB was quick to say to him at that point, but you know, it's not just about talent. It's the ability to have the discipline to put in the work over and over and over and over again. To maximize that talent. To maximize the talent, to realize the talent. I would argue that of all the guys in the NFL, they kind of all are rather similar in terms of their level of talent. To rise all the way to the top of that sport. But the guys who put in all the work, the Tom Brady's, the AB's, those are the guys that stand out as some of the greatest of all time. And what I'm advising you to do is to find a way to love the process here so that you could start to be more willing to put in the work. Do it consistently. And with that, you'll find the discipline. You'll find the discipline. The discipline is what's going to keep you on track. But to our question asker over there, and to, first of all, yes, it's very possible to be in great shape. And yes, it's possible to look like a lot of the guys that you see out there. But I would advise you first and foremost to focus on what you look like and make yourself a better version of you. And that could be done through what I just outlined for you here very easily. But if and only if the consistency and the discipline is there to keep you on track. And to those of you out there who say, oh, damn it, I was waiting to see if Jeff would just relieve me of ever having to do any hard work again. Because I thought there's no way that you could look like that if you're over 40 years old. Not true. I just ruined Christmas for you. You need to put in the work and it's possible if you do. Now go do it. All right, guys, if you're looking for plans on how to do this step by step, I have them over at athleanx.com. We've got meal plans, we've got supplements, all the tools you'll need. The fact is, you've got to get your ass motivated enough to go over there and do it. Now's your chance. All right, guys, see you back here soon. Make sure you click subscribe, turn on notifications so you never miss a video when we're pulling out. See you soon.

=== FILE: Creatine： Everything You NEED to Know Before Taking [95qbW9S_WW8].txt ===

 mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage Okay, first of all, Jesse, it's not a steroid. And by the way, why are you dressed like that? And why are you speaking like that? What are you talking about? All concerned parents talk like this. All concerned parents dress like this. And all concerned fathers smoke a pipe. I think you're probably smoking something else. But if you allow me to actually explain to you guys what it actually does to your body, well, then you'll start to understand in simple terms what creatine really actually does. You see, when you work out, that's actually the equivalent, like I said, of this iPad. It has to run and it has to function. Well, in order to do this, you need energy. And to get energy, we have a molecule in our bodies called ATP or iadenosine triphosphate. It has three phosphate groups attached to it. When we work, it just gives one of those phosphate groups away, but it leaves us with something called ADP with two phosphates. But when you supplement with creatine, what you're doing is turbocharging your body's ability to regenerate that ATP to allow you to keep working. Much like when creatine enters the muscle cell, it actually bonds with a phosphate, like this external charger does with this cord. At this point, it could actually help to regenerate the iPad by simply plugging to it and keeping it going. Well, that's what happens in your body. This phosphocreatine molecule is the powerhouse. It's what allows you to continue to work hard by just simply dropping off one of those phosphates to that ADP, getting it back to ATP, and then allowing you to keep working. And it actually does a really good job specifically in those high output, heavy burst activity like strength work. So it does a good job at helping to increase your strength. But the second thing it does is it actually helps to increase muscle size. And that's because any time a molecule enters a cell, it oftentimes brings with it H2O or water. Well, that actually causes the cell itself to swell. And as it swells, you not only get a hypertrophy benefit from the cell swelling itself, but it actually causes it immediate weight gain and long term, you're getting a hydrated muscle cell. And we know just like a plant, if you want it to grow, you got to give it water. If you want a muscle cell to grow, you better keep it hydrated. We know that creating monohydrate through both mechanisms can increase both muscle size and strength. So you're saying this magic powder increases muscle size and strength? Sounds like steroids to me. As I was saying, keep those steroids away from my sweet Chauncey. We know they're totally unsafe for our youths. Okay, so obviously this is a burning question of yours and likely a legit question that a lot of concerned parents have. Not those cosplaying as concerned parents, Jesse. But the difference is light years in difference. Because the testosterone that you take as an anabolic steroid is a synthetic hormone that enters into the cell, binds to these antigen receptors, and then most importantly, enters into the nucleus to cause DNA changes, to increase the expression of new muscle genetics, giving you a chance to actually completely change what once was into something else. So basically taking that iPad and creating a MacBook. That's not what's happening when we look at the creatine. Again, it's just giving you more energy like that battery pack was. So even though they might share the same physiological outcome in terms of size and strength, they're certainly different in terms of the magnitude, the mechanism, and even the legality of them. Because the magnitude is light years difference. You're not going to get ever as big taking creatine as you are anabolic steroids. The mechanism is obviously very different. In the legality, we're talking about a substance that is a class 3 drug that you're going to likely go to jail for if you're in possession of it, versus an over-the-counter supplement that anybody can buy at GNC. Furthermore, it's known as a GRAS or GRAS supplement, which is generally recognized as safe by the FDA. And it has mountains of evidence that show that it actually is safe long term. As a matter of fact, 21% of males in high school right now are taking creatine and 3% of females. Honestly, from a safety perspective, I don't think they come much safer when it comes to supplements. And from Mr. Chauncey there, again, nothing to worry about. Okay, so perhaps it's not a steroid. But explain this. My co-worker said his son went bald from taking creatine. I don't want my sweet Chauncey to part ways with his ravishing hair. Actually, I think it has a lot less to do with your friend's son and more to do with your friend for passing on the bad genetics that might lead to hair loss. Because when it comes to creatine and hair loss, I just don't think the evidence is there. Again, I think this is stemming from this confusion people have between steroids or testosterone and creatine and the effects that one has on the other. Because there was one single flawed study that was done back in 2009 of a bunch of rugby players who saw their serum levels of something called DHT, which is a byproduct of testosterone, that actually is linked to hair loss, but only when it's found in the follicle itself, not just circulating in the blood. And even in that study, though their levels were elevated, they didn't see any evidence of hair loss in the players. So just because we think that elevating DHT will cause a loss of hair in that person, if you don't see it happening, it may not be related. As a matter of fact, just training hard like those rugby players did can actually raise those levels of DHT. This is one of those areas where correlation does not equal causation. As a matter of fact, it's causing more fear. So this is probably more likely that you're going to cause hair loss by worrying about this than actually taking it in the first place. Okay, but I've heard that creatine can be quite damaging to the kidneys. And so if there was ever any myth that was maybe only second to high protein diets causing your kidneys to fail, it's going to be the fact that creatine supplementation causes your kidneys a lot of problems. And it's just simply not the case. And there's no evidence for that. However, there is a reason for it. And I want to explain why you might have heard that, or why you maybe even have had to have double checked your blood work, because of something that sounds exactly like creatine, but is actually much different. And it's called creatinine, right? There's a big difference, even though they look like they're spelled the same. One is the thing that we are trying to supplement with, and the other is the wasteful byproduct of creatine and its breakdown. You see, we know that both creatine and that phosphocreatine, that energy store, right? That battery pack can break down into this byproduct called creatinine. What that does is actually travels to the kidneys through the blood, where it gets filtered out and then excreted through your urine. Well, the reason why people feel like creatine causes kidney damage is because when you supplement with this, you're going to have higher levels of creatinine in your blood, just as a natural byproduct of having more of it in your system, especially if you're going through a loading phase. That usually would be an indicator when they test it in your blood of the function of the kidneys. If you're getting backed up levels of creatinine in your blood, it's an indicator that maybe your kidneys aren't functioning enough to clear it. But that's not the case when you're actually supplementing with creatine and it's causing higher levels. It's not indicating a decrease in function of the kidney. It's just an indicator that you're taking in more supplementally. And of course, your body will do exactly what it always does. It will get rid of it. So nothing to fear here. Are there any other myths that I could help put your mind at ease with? What about cramping and dehydration? I've read on the Facebook that it is very common. And so this proves once again that not everything that you read online, shocker, is accurate. Especially if your source of information is the Facebook. You see, when we talk about dehydration and cramping, it's actually not likely happening directly related to the creatine that you're supplementing with. If you think about the mechanism of how it works, it might be easy to think that because as we talked about, it pulls water into the muscle cells, maybe leaving a little less to support the other tissues in your body. But that doesn't mean that you have to get dehydration symptoms from that. As a matter of fact, most often, the studies that we see show protective effects from taking creatine versus not. That being said, if you want to safeguard and make sure that you're not experiencing any cramping or dehydration, just take in 12 ounces of water for every 5 grams of creatine that you're taking. But the fact is, dehydration and cramping is not one of your worries. And therefore, yet another myth I'm happy to dispel and help you to ease your mind in the process. Okay, so it's safer than I thought. But if one was interested, how would one partake in getting it into one's body? So you want to know how to get it into your body, then you need to know the options you have. And honestly, when we start, we have to know what we're shooting for. There's a rough goal of 5 grams per day. And again, this is going to depend upon whether you're in a loading phase or not, which we'll get to in a second. And also, the size that you are and the type of creatine that you're taking, which we'll also get to. But let's say we're shooting for that down the middle 5 gram dose per day. What do we need to understand? Number one, your body makes 1.5 grams per day itself. And it's made in the liver, pancreas, and kidneys from three amino acids, glycine, arginine, and methionine. Now, that's not going to cut it, though. We're still missing the amount that we need to get to. So we're going to have to look towards the foods that we eat. A meat eater is going to have a lot easier time doing this because meats are the only place you're going to find creatine naturally inside of those foods. So you're looking at 6 ounces of chicken having just 0.45 grams of creatine, however. 6 ounces of steak at 0.7 grams. 16 ounces of herring, the king here of creatine, is 3.8 grams. But again, that's one pound of herring, which leads us right into the big problem here. How economical is it to shoot for this much creatine from your own food? Not very, because that one pound of herring is going to cost you $15 a day. And you're going to have to eat that every day to see these benefits. So that's going to be $450 a month. $26 a day if you opt for steak. $18 a day if you opt for chicken. It gets actually even a little bit worse for the vegans out there because, as I mentioned before, your tofu, tempeh, and edamame have 0 grams of creatine in it. So can it actually produce anything? Yes, because it has those three amino acids in it. But again, you're probably going to top out at those 1.5 grams per day. If you want to see the supplemental benefits of creatine, and there are many, you're going to have to supplement with it. And the good news is a simple 30-day tub of this can cost as little as $0.67 per day. So honestly, a lot more economical. This is how much it costs for ours. Again, whether or not you use mine or not is really irrelevant. But you certainly can see that there's a much better, more economical way to get this. And you're going to have to do it through supplements. So supplementing seems to be most logical. But there's still so much I need to know about creatine, such as what form to take, how much to take. And I've even heard about loading and not loading. Please tell me everything I need to know. Okay, so that's a lot of questions. But let me see if I can do my best to answer all of them for you here very clearly. Now, we talked about there being a range on the dosage. And it really is affected by two major things. Number one, the type of creatine that you're taking, which I'll explain here in a second. And also some new research showing that it's the size of the person taking the creatine that could have an influence on how much you should take. Now, we go back to the five gram dose. That's the pretty much readily accepted dose for creatine monohydrate that's been included in all the research. But there is some variation here that could be very specific to you. Number one, again, what type are you taking? And here it really comes down to two major types of creatine. We're talking about hydrochloride or monohydrate. And the only difference here is the fact that the creatine molecule is bound to something different. In the case of hydrochloride, it's bound to hydrochloric acid. In the case of monohydrate, it's bound to a water molecule. Now, ironically, even though it's bound to a water molecule, monohydrate doesn't dissolve as well in water because the structure gets altered to become more crystalline. When you do this binding here, that doesn't happen with hydrochloric acid. However, that does have some implications. If this is not dissolving as well in water, typically you need to have higher dosages because it also isn't as absorbable in the human body once you ingest it. Whereas the hydrochloric acid bound version of creatine is actually more dissolvable, more absorbable by the body, and therefore you can get away with lower dosages. So the stated dosages are really about two to three grams when you're taking hydrochloride versus five to then 10 grams. Why do I say 10 grams? Because that second part of the equation comes in here. We're talking about body weight. Again, some people suggesting that the heavier the body weight is 200 plus pounds are going to start to benefit more so from higher dosages of creatine per day. Seven, eight, 10 grams per day. People on the lower body weight side of this can get away with less, maybe even around three or four grams of monohydrate. However, again, you don't have to be quite light here. The typical dosage of five grams seems to work well for people in that 160, 170, 180 range. All right, now there is some differences here too. Number one, the taste. If you're going to buy this as a standalone ingredient, this is extremely sour. It tastes like sucking on a lemon. And you couldn't put it in, let's say, a protein shake and not notice. So it tastes like shit. That's why you have to kind of put it into something like a pre-workout, which we do, because you're going to have those highly acidic type flavors. And this is a sunny pink lemonade. So things like that. The monohydrate is going to not really have a flavor, especially if it's highly micronized. But you can probably put it into more things. You could put it into a protein shake and not notice it. So there's some more versatility in terms of the two. I will say that anybody, the only difference here for me is they both mechanically work the same. They're going to give you the same end result. However, getting there might be vastly different. If you have any type of gut issues at all, it's likely due to the lesser absorbability of monohydrate. And I always tell people in that case, just shift to hydrochloride. It might be at a slightly increased cost, but you're not going to have any of those bloating side effects that you might be getting for the monohydrate. And that only happens in about 15% of the people. Now, when we talk about loading or not loading, you mentioned it. The thing is, that really is a personal choice too. It's depending upon how fast you want to start to see the benefits of creatine. But at some point, they're all going to equal out. Because a loading phase would consist of you taking 5 grams 4 to 5 times a day. So that's 20 to 25 grams in a day for 5 days. Which would saturate your body's storage levels of creatine. If you don't want to do that, you don't have to. You can simply take 5 grams per day, every single day. In around 3 to 4 weeks, you're going to be the same level that you were as the people that were taking it in 5 days. So the only consideration here is, if you're doing it for a performance increase, maybe surrounding a game or an event that you're preparing for, then maybe you'd want to take advantage of the loading phase. If not, you can simply just take it and prolong that. Of course, even if you do load, you're still going to continue to take 5 grams per day. The next thing is, what's the best time to take creatine? Because a lot of people ask that question. Pre-workout, post-workout, at night. Well, honestly, the research shows this. 12 a.m. to 11.59 p.m. specifically. That means all day. In other words, you can take this at any point in the day. You're going to have the same type of benefits, as long as you continue to take it on a consistent basis to keep those storage levels high. And finally, do you continue to take it forever? Well, the answer is, do you have to cycle or not? No, you don't have to cycle. There's been a lot of research here too. It's pretty safe to continue to take this without having to get on and off. Again, very, very safe supplement. Depending upon which choice you make here, it's really dependent upon how your body reacts to it. Well then, what kind of muscles can my Chauncey expect to gain from taking creatine? I do fear that he will look like the next Dorian Yates, especially because he's predisposed to superior muscle-building genetics. Like this. You know, it's funny that you said that because this whole time I'm trying to think to myself, who does Chauncey's dad remind me of? And it's Dorian Yates. There's such a striking resemblance. However, on creatine, I want to make sure I clear up for you. You mentioned how much muscle can Chauncey gain. I want to clear up that it's actually the weight that he's going to gain because that weight is going to be divided into water weight and some muscle gain. Now, typically, within the first 7 to 10 days of starting creatine monohydrate, or any form of creatine for that matter, 2 to 3 pounds of weight gain. That's really coming from that intracellular water that's actually going to be a good thing long term. Because over the course of 4 to 12 weeks, that more hydrated muscle, a better, more optimal environment for muscle growth, is going to contribute additional muscle gains to that. So then you're going to see up to 4 to 5 pounds in that time period. So, yes, he's going to gain some weight. Hopefully, yes, he's going to gain some muscle here. But based on his family tree, I think Dorian's Olympia titles are probably safe. Will my Chauncey get stronger? I must admit I did not aim to raise a lad that is frail and cannot hold his own in a tussle with a few rapscallions and ruffians. Well, here again, look, the problems kind of start at home because with a name like Chauncey, I can't really guarantee he's not in for at least a few ass kickings in his life. But when we talk about how much strength gain there is possible, they're actually quite impressive. You're talking about 5 to 15% over the 4 to 12 weeks. Now, keep in mind, that's going to be most pronounced on your bigger compound list. For example, if you take a squat, a 300-pound squatter at the start of taking creatine might actually wind up squatting 315 to even up to 345 pounds. Again, less pronounced if you're talking about isolation lifts like a concentration curl, but the gains are definitely real. And again, that's regardless of what type of creatine that you take. I must admit I'm coming full circle on this creatine supplement that you speak of. Now, if I, wise beyond my years as an older gentleman, want to start taking creatine, is that a good idea? Not only do I think that's a good idea, I actually think it might be a great idea because this represents some of the most exciting new research when it comes to creatine supplementation, and it's in the older population. We're talking about its improvements in overall brain health. So, decreased brain fog, increasing your memory, actually increasing overall brain function. So, even when you have a state of sleep deprivation, or if you're stressed out, your brain's still operating at a higher functional level. Actually decreasing the incidence of progressive neurological diseases like MS, or ALS, or Parkinson's. Having the ability to, as we said before, preserve muscle mass so that you're not only keeping more of your muscle as you age, but you're decreasing the risks that are associated with muscle loss. So, overall, increasing your functional longevity. The idea is this might be one of the best things you could possibly take if you're older. Not just, oh, maybe I should. I think it's looking like it might be a necessity for everybody, athlete or not. That's it. I'm going to buy creatine myself, and for Chauncey. But where should I buy it? Well, of course, the options are unlimited. You can always go to Amazon, GNC, CVS, Vitamin Shop. Of course, you can go to AthleanRx.com, which I would prefer, simply just being honored that you chose mine over others. The fact is, if you're looking for that HCL variation, we actually have it included in our pre-workout Excite. And, of course, available in two sizes, creatine monohydrate, 30 days and 90 days. By the way, you're looking for information on the only supplement more popular than creatine when it comes to muscle building. You're going to want to check out my video on protein powder. That you can watch here. If you haven't done so, make sure you click subscribe, turn on your notifications so you never miss the video when we're putting out full programs, meal plans, supplements, guys, available over at Athleanx.com. See ya.

=== FILE: Do This Right Before Bed EVERY Night [0JeQlfQ5iCg].txt ===

 So it's the end of the day, you're tired, you're tired, you cannot wait to get to bed, but stop, not so fast. What if I told you there's something that you should do every single night as the last thing you do before you get to bed that will not only help you to sleep better, go to sleep faster, but also wake up feeling better every morning, less stressed out and actually less stiff? Well, it's stretching. However, it's not any type of stretching. It's not any type of stretching. It's not any type of stretch actually. I'm going to show you the specific stretches that are going to do the most for making you feel the best when you wake up. So the first thing we wake up to sleep. So the first thing we wake up to wake up to wake up to wake up to wake up to wake up to wake up to wake up to wake up to wake up to wake up to wake up to wake up to wake up to wake up to wake up to wake up to wake up to wake up to wake up to wake up to wake up to wake up to wake up to wake up to wake up to wake up to wake up to wake up to wake up to wake up to wake up to wake up to wake up to wake up to wake up to wake up to wake up to wake up to wake up to wake up to wake up to wake up to wake up wake up wake up wake up wake up wake up wake up wake up wake up wake up wake up wake up wake up wake up wake up wake up wake up wake up wake up wake up wake up wake up wake up wake up wake up wake up wake up wake up wake up wake up wake wake up wake up wake wake up wake wake up wake wake up wake wake up with this first stretch and with all these stretches is to not take them to the point of discomfort or pain. Because any type of stimulus like that is going to wake you up before going to bed, rather than help you to relax. So, we don't want to do that. We take it to the point where we know we're stretching, but not overdoing it. Then what we want to do is, we want to hold them for about 30 seconds at a minimum, up to 60 seconds at a max, and focus on breathing. So, what I want to do is take a deep breath in, through the nose, out through the mouth. And if I can sink a little bit more into the stretch after that breath, then go ahead and go for it. If you can't, you want to leave it right there, that's fine. But just make sure that you're focusing on your breathing, because this is part of the whole process here, is the relaxation. When I get that done, all I have to do is swap it up, go to the other side, ankle up against the bottom of the wall, and again, straight knee, and I do the same thing. Okay, that's stretch number one. Now, how is this different from other stretches? Dynamic stretching, where you're moving around, we don't want that. Again, we want nothing that's excitatory as we're preparing to go to bed. We want to be calming ourselves down and getting these benefits that I'm talking about. But like I said, you want to target the areas that are going to get most affected by sleep, get most tight. And for us, it's the thoracic spine. We tend to sleep on our back or on our side with a rounded shoulder position. So, what we want to do is get that loose. So, the first thing is come down to the ground and put our forearms down like this, flat in contact with the ground. Then from here, we're going to sit back into our hips, just like that. All right, so forearms stay down. Almost drag your arms to lock them in place. You'll find that at some point they stop moving. You've locked yourself in. And now, by sitting back onto your heels, you're going to feel a really good stretch up through the shoulders, here, into the lats, here, which is another muscle that tends to get tight at night because our arms are down all the time. And then we get back into the hips and the glutes. We get a little bit of thoracic spine, but we're going to target that even more so in a second. So, in this position, once again, deep breath in and out and sink down even more. And again, if you have to, you pull yourself back by sitting back into your hips and dragging your arms until they sort of lock you in place here. And again, 30 to 60 seconds. The third stretch is a variation now where we actually directly attack that thoracic spine to get more mobility into extension, right? To undo all that rounded shoulder position we've had throughout the day. So, from here now, what we do is we just sit up a little bit, get the forearms off of the floor, have our hands here in the same position. But now, what I'm going to try to do is just allow my chest to drop. And what happens is I'm almost dropping down between my shoulder blades, right? You'll see the shoulder blades go from this sort of flat position to almost a pinched position here as the chest tries to approach the ground. And again, I take a deep breath in through the nose and then out and sink down even more. Your goal is just to allow your chest to try to get closer to the ground by keeping your arms up though. So, here's where we really focus on getting that extension through that mid-back. All right, and this feels great. And again, every single night for these stretches, and it's a quick routine. By the time I'm done explaining these to you, you guys can be done with what you need to do and you'll wake up feeling so much better. All right, that's number three. Number four, again, attacking these muscles that get tight, the hip flexors are going to get tight. Even for any sleeping position really, unless you're sleeping on your stomach and that's not a great position to be sleeping in anyway. I have a whole video on that. We just pull ourselves up with one hip now up in front of us into what we would call this modified pigeon pose. And what this is doing is stretching out the rotators of this front hip and then the hip flexor, as I just mentioned, on that back hip. Now, to lock this in place, what you want to do is try to put your hand up on top of the front thigh and then this hand up on top of your hand. And right there, what you're doing is you're giving yourself the support to maintain balance, number one. Number two, you're locking this front leg down. So, if you have a hard time getting the flexibility in the front hip here because your rotators are tight, this will actually assist you in doing that. And then what it does is because I can get up higher here into more extension, I get more of that hip flexor stretch on that back leg. And again, this feels amazing. And what happens again is by getting yourself into a more flexible state prior to sleep, you actually create an environment for more relaxed sleep, less disturbed sleep. So, you'll find that you wake up less during the night if you do an effective routine like this. So, there's so many ways that we can benefit ourselves by doing a quick little stretch routine of the right stretches done the right way here, statically holding for 30 to 60 seconds. And again, I do the other side the same exact way just by sliding that down, then opening this hip up like that, and then locking in place the same exact way and doing that. Now, the last stretch you want to do is continue to sort of mobilize our entire back and spine, but not just focus on that thoracic area. Because what we want to do too is make sure that our lumbar spines don't get too tight. So, from here, I'm going to take my leg, bring it up across my body here like this, and then rotate it. You've probably seen this stretch before. But at this point here, I know we can stretch the lats even more. And I keep mentioning the lats because they're one of the muscles that get tight. And when they do, they internally rotate the shoulders. So, how can we maintain better posture when we wake up? By making sure the lats are loose. So, what I want you to do is reach above your head towards the opposite ear. Lock that in so you're getting the lats on stretch here. And then just sort of reach up and out. So, I'm reaching this way and that way away from me while I'm holding on to this leg here. So, really opening up. Everything's opening across my body. Just like this. And again, from this position, once I get that point of stretch, again, not just comfort but stretch, then I take a big deep breath in. And then out. And try to open even a little bit more. And again, I'm reaching almost. Taking this elbow and reaching it back and up in this direction to really open up this lat. But by using these stretches, guys, again, very quickly, 30 seconds if you want is all you're going to need from both sides, you can get a quick little stretch routine done in four minutes. That will prepare your body for a more restful sleep. And when you get more restful sleep, you recover better. If you're in the gym, you're recovering faster. And you're able to attack your workouts and your day much more efficiently the next day. So, guys, don't just jump in bed. I know it's tempting. Do something like this really quickly before you do. And I promise you, your body will be better off for it. If you're looking for a complete program, guys, where I can give you the workouts to do to build your body up. And you come back here and you help to relax yourself and repair yourself overnight. Well, those workouts are over at Athleanx.com. In the meantime, I hope you found this video helpful. Make sure you share it with somebody else that will find it equally helpful as well. All right, guys. See you soon.

=== FILE: Gym Exercises Ranked (BEST TO WORST!) [x9jvUHbbIhU].txt ===

 And so the good girl, bad girl, bad girl, bad girl, and therefore deserves a big red X. What's up, guys? Jeff Cavaliere, Athleanx.com. What you see behind me is a bunch of different gym machines, many of which I get asked about all the time, whether or not they're worth your time or really just worth holding your dirty gym towel. Well, today I'm going to help you to decide which ones are the best and which ones you could pretty much throw in the trash. We're going to rank them from worst to best. Let's get going. We've got a lot to cover. Speaker 1 Now, first, it's important to point out the criteria for our rankings. First and foremost, is the exercise actually providing a benefit? Does it provide something unique or an advantage that's better than what you're currently doing, let's say, with free weights? Because if it does, it's going to rank higher. Secondly, is it biomechanically safe? In other words, does the exercise accommodate most people and most people's body types? If it's instead trying to fit a square peg into a round hole, which is your body, then it's likely not going to rank high on this list. And of course, as always, if there are opportunities here to educate you on how to make some of these exercises just a little bit better with some small tweaks, I'm going to take advantage and do that for you too. So with that said, let's get to the first and the worst category. Now, when it comes to hamstring training, there's a lot of different machines, actually a lot of different hamstring curl machines. But I'm going to make your job a lot easier because I'm going to help to eliminate one of them from your options. And that's the lying hamstring curl, which is probably the most popular. The issue I have with this machine is as a physical therapist, I believe it leads to the most low back issues when you perform it. Because you're performing it from this hip flexed position. And what happens here is as you're trying to move the weight, especially as they get heavier and heavier, you're going to drive your knees or thighs down into the pad, further promoting isometric hip flexion, which is going to pull on your low back and oftentimes lead to that low back pain I talked about. With so many better options available, I say let's pass on this and instead give it the big red X as the first and the worst in our gym machine rankings. Now, these rankings were based on Instagram popularity. This next exercise would actually be the runaway winner, but it's not. It's based on effectiveness. And for that reason, it's going to also go down here in the bottom of the list. And we're talking about the good girl, bad girl exercises. Now, I don't have to go into the science of how these exercises actually got their name, Jesse, but we do want to talk about the science of how we're trying to build muscle when we do these exercises. And for me, if anybody tells you they're trying to build their glute max, then they're focusing on the wrong exercise and they simply don't understand the function of this one, because this is actually targeting abduction, which is more of a glute medius function. Now, even that's not really that great because you're not performing it correctly if you're sitting down and limiting your range of motion. Instead, what you should be doing is propping yourself up like this, turning your foot out to get some hip external rotation, and then keeping that posteriorly rotated hip elevated position throughout the exercise. And when it comes to the good girl exercise, there's just so many better ways to train the adductors that are far more functional. And it starts with putting you on your feet and doing something like a slideboard lunge. The fact is being on your feet is always going to train your hips more functionally in the frontal plane. So sitting on your ass like this is not going to be my favorite choice. And therefore, good or bad, boy or girl, this is going to get the second big red X in our rankings. Next, we have a machine that may not be in everyone's gym, but it's in enough of them to have me raise the red flag and get you to focus on something else. And it's the side lateral machine. Now, the idea here is there's only one small thing wrong, but that small thing to me is really big because it messes with the biomechanics of the exercise. And we're talking about the fixed hand placement, not allowing for external rotation at the shoulder. I tell you all the time, we're not pouring pictures when we do the lateral raise with dumbbells and we're certainly not going to do it here either. And even though this helps you get to a more neutral grip, I'd rather see that thumb end higher than the pinky to give you enough clearance in the shoulder to prevent any shoulder pain that could come from using the exercise. I think you can skip this one, guys. There's so many better options. This ain't one of them. So for me, it's going to get another big red X. Now, if there's one exercise that's blown more biceps than a deadlift, then it's the preacher curl, especially when the machine is designed like this. You see, the preacher curl puts your bicep in a very vulnerable position when the pad is angled pretty flat like this because the elbow becomes the fulcrum and the overload can quickly surpass where you're capable of lifting. In that case, you've also got a seat there inviting you to sit, only making that situation worse. So instead, either ditch the exercise or find one that allows you to do this. Stand up and lean with your elbows into a downward sloping pad. What this does is it changes the entire mechanics of the exercise, allowing me to drive my triceps or my elbows into the back of the pad, creating some additional assistance from the lats that will help to stabilize the exercise even with heavy loads, give me all the benefits I'm looking for, but without the risk. But for now, if you've got a machine like this, I say skip it and instead put another big red X in the preacher curl. Now, I've gone on record maybe once or a hundred times about being an anti-fly guy. But the fact of the matter is, as a physical therapist, it's just not the best thing you can do to your anterior shoulder capsule. Now, what would I say about a chest fly machine? Well, ironically, it may not be the worst thing that you can do, but it's definitely not the right thing for everybody. You can see Jesse doing the exercise here and note that it does have stops at the bottom range of motion, preventing excessive abduction of the arms away from the body. That being said, not everybody's going to have that safety net because if you have a bigger body, a bigger chest, more of a barrel chest, you're going to have more depth, range of motion, and not find the support that Jesse's finding here, which would make the exercise no better than the unsupported version that we do on a bench. And therefore, it's not the worst thing if it fits your body type, but it still deserves that right. Actually, just maybe a little bit smaller than the others. And so with the worst of the worst out of the way, I now get to break out my blue marker as I move into the better category. Not perfect, but definitely better. When we talk about the hamstring curl variations, we have something that's definitely better. We're talking about the standing hamstring curl. Now, first of all, I get to put you on your feet. And even though the working leg is in the air, it's the benefit to the stance leg that provides additional functional carryover. That being said, I can also help to discourage some of that hip flexor involvement that we had in the lying down version, because I can tell you to stand not upright, but to lean forward a little bit, which in the standing variation actually discourages some of that hip flexor involvement that we talked about before. It allows for a more isolated hamstring flexion here, again, taking off some of that strain on the low back. The idea is two factors stand out as bigger benefits than the lying down version. And that's why we're going to give the standing hamstring curl the first in the better category with our big blue circle. Next up in the better category, we have a row machine. And the reason why this is not higher is because actually the arms are not higher. I'd rather you find one like a hammer pulldown machine that starts and stops with your arms in a much higher position. Here you're going to get a better stretch on the lats. And what also happens is you don't get that almost caving that's promoted by this variation of the machine. It sort of drives you down and in or your shoulders wrapped around the pad, giving your chest very little opportunity to stand proud, allowing you to get a good lat contraction. So when it comes to this row, it's certainly not a no, but it's not going to get the best endorsement. So for me, it's just going to get a modest blue circle knowing that there's better row variations ahead. Next up is a machine that I don't see as often today as I used to. However, we know this guy's got a little bit of social influence. So likely the more he posts himself using it, more gyms are likely to start stocking it. We're talking about the seated tricep dip. It's actually a good machine, one that's good for replacing the bench dip bodyweight version of the exercise. And I actually love that version of the exercise, but all too often, as I pointed out many times, people can do it and put their shoulders in a very compromised position. The bench dip machine actually prevents that. However, if you have access to this machine, this is slightly different biomechanically. It's basically putting your arms back into extension more than what was happening with the first version. You can see here the difference side by side. In Sam's version, his arms are out in front of his body in the contracted position. And here in Jesse's version, he's actually getting into that neutral or slightly extended position, which is going to more effectively target the long head. Each way, though, these machines actually are somewhat of an improvement over the bodyweight version of the dip and therefore could be a good addition to your routine. So the seated tricep dip will get another of the blue circles in the better category. And again, Jesse's version might bump it up one notch to even better still. Next up, we have an exercise that proves once again that popularity doesn't always equal best. And we're talking about a popular leg exercise machine, perhaps no more than the leg press. The problem here with the leg press is it has its limitations. First and foremost, don't be fooled by the amount of plates that you can stack on the ends of this machine, because a lot of times you're just what I call leaning on your ligaments, or in some cases just shortening your range of motion so badly that you're being fooled into thinking that you're performing more work than you are. On top of that, even the biomechanics of the exercise are not very good. If you were to take the position your body's in at the bottom of that leg press and simply rotate yourself to a quote standing position like you would be in a squat, it doesn't look like a very good squat, does it? On top of that, people use the machine oftentimes for glute development, not realizing that you don't even come close to full hip extension and therefore not good glute activation by doing the exercise. So while it's popular and while it does give you some benefits, it doesn't belong in the worst category, it simply is not that great. And therefore it's just going to get a modest blue circle in the better category. And so we wrap up our better category with a machine that definitely needs to at least earn some points for its versatility, considering the fact that you can do bench press, shoulder press, squats, rows, shrugs, and a whole host of other exercises on it. And we're talking about the Smith machine. Now I've gone over the issues with the Smith machine before, particularly as it pertains to people using it for squats. You see a lot of people like to do this exercise in particular this way, leaning back against the bar, but it instantly disqualifies normal biomechanics in the process. In other words, when you squat, you rely on dorsiflexion at the ankle, the bending of the ankle up that happens by performing the squat, freestanding in space. When your legs are out in front of you like this, you're getting plantar flexion, which does not put the normal ground reaction forces up through your knee and through your hip. And it forces your body to move in ways it should not. When we look at upper body exercises, be aware of the fact that if you're doing, let's say a shoulder press and find that you're much stronger on it this way, realize that you're not just pushing straight up into the bar like you would in a freestanding overhead press, but you're also pushing into the bar, leveraging it up overhead. I'm not saying that's a bad thing, but it's certainly not maximizing the pure strength of your shoulders and it's deceiving you into thinking that you're stronger than you are. All in all, like I said, you can't knock the versatility of the machine, but a machine that requires your body to adapt to it because of those fixed tracks is not going to get the optimal rating. And so for me, it's going to get the blue circle as good, but not great. Next, we break out the yellow marker to move into the even better still category. And here we're going to kick it off with a basic shoulder press. Now, pretty much every gym is going to have a shoulder press machine. Each one's going to have slight variations. This one in particular I like because you can see the arms actually start to approximate or come closer to each other as you press up overhead. And this is good because it gives you some of that joint stacking of the wrist over the elbow, over the shoulder that makes the exercise more comfortable for those that have shoulder issues, which gets even better. You take advantage of the alternate grip that places your hands in a more neutral position that makes that joint stacking even easier at the top. That being said, I don't like when you push yourself back into the pad. So even though the pad is there for you, ideally it's best if you could just slide yourself an inch or two away from it. So you don't disrupt the biomechanics of your shoulder blades by pushing them back into the pad while you press up. That said, there are better versions of shoulder press machines that we're going to get to later. But for now, let's put the first of the yellow circles around the shoulder press in the better still category. Next up, we get an exercise that actually matches popularity with its utility and function. And we're talking about the pec deck and it belongs in the better still category because number one, it's versatile. So we obviously know it as the chest exercise, but we can turn it into the rear delt exercise, which none of us do enough work for, or also the single sided rear delt exercise, which again, none of us do enough work for. So it has its benefits. On top of that, though, when you get in the machine, make sure you're doing it the right way. Don't reach all the way back behind you, which could compromise your shoulder health. Instead, rotate your body to grab one handle at a time and on dismount, do the same exact thing in reverse, maintaining the health of the exercise and allowing us to put a yellow circle around it in the better still category. Next up in the better still category is a slight improvement on that seated row machine. This time is something we call the humbler. It actually gets its name from the fact that you're not going to use a lot of weight here, but you are going to overload your back in a safe way because it's a chest supported row variation. If you have any low back issues and it sort of hums on you when you're trying to do a barbell row, this would be a good alternative. The one key difference here of why it gets a slight upgrade is the position of the legs. They're straight and you're face down. You see, when you do the seated row, I talked about it almost wanting to pull your body forward. This actually promotes full body extension, right? If you were going to cheat this exercise, you'd likely squeeze your glutes together, try to extend maybe a little bit the low back, try to lift yourself off the pad to pull the weight up. Well, that's actually a good cheat. That's a cheat that promotes good biomechanics in the upper body by getting your shoulder blades back and your chest proud to get a better row. So if anything, this cheat built into this exercise is going to be a more effective one than the one we talked about before. So it's going to give it a slight leg up and earn is better still ranking for back row variations. So when gym owners decide what machines to put in their gym, at the very top of the list, almost always is a chest machine or two or three, but you know what? They're actually really good. And it doesn't matter whether it's a chest press or an incline press. There's some unique benefits here. The first and foremost, you don't have to be afraid to fail. If you're doing a barbell bench press with free weights, you're going to have to consider whether or not you have to go lighter, stop short of failure, or make sure you have a good spotter. The second benefit is the machines actually promote proper alignment of the arms during the bench press. We know that the elbows should be tucked around 45 or 60 degrees, but it's a little bit hard to judge or get that right when we're doing a free weight version of the exercise. But here, because of the angle handles, your elbows will actually naturally find that proper position and therefore give you a healthier, safer press. I have no problems with bench press machines. And almost every single time I find myself in a gym on vacation, I always look for one just to give me something new. This is why they're going to fall into the better still category. Whatever variation you try. There's no denying that the hack squat has its place when it comes to machine training. That being said, the reverse hack squat isn't my favorite version of it. You see, when you invert your body like this, it allows for more effective targeting of the glutes because you get that more lean forward position of the body. However, you never truly finish through full hip extension. It kind of falls into the same category as the leg press, where you really never get back into that hip extension to fully contract the glutes or train them to their best. For that reason, though I like the hack squat and we'll find a better version of it later, the reverse one is a better still option and therefore it's going to stay right here where it is. So despite my personal rocky relationship with this next exercise, it's not going to sway me from giving you the right recommendation when it comes to where you should rank this machine. And we're talking about the leg extension. You see, if you're looking for an exercise that can create hypertrophy in your quads in a more isolated or targeted way, the leg extension machine provides you that opportunity. However, it's not meant for every person. For instance, the compression forces at the top of every single repetition could become problematic for someone that has patellar tracking dysfunction or patellar femoral syndrome. That's going to cause some pain and discomfort just doing the exercise. Secondly, if you have patellar tendonitis or quadricep tendonitis, you're certainly not going to have a great time doing the exercise. Why? Because in an inflamed state, a tendon actually has one fifth the capacity to handle the weight that it normally can. And likely if you're trying to create hypertrophy or growth in the quads, you're probably using some pretty heavy weights to do that. Now you could use this exercise in a more rehabilitative sense and actually accommodate those tendons to stress, but you're going to have to be prepared to back the weights way down and start working way back up from the ground up. So I'm not saying it's not a great exercise. It's just not a great exercise for everybody. And for that reason, it's going to get its earned ranking here as a better still option with the big yellow circle. Speaker 1 And with that, I get to break out my green marker as I now move up into the almost best category. And to lead off this category, I have one of my favorite machines. It's one I actually have here in my gym and it's the functional trainer. And if we want to talk about versatility, this is the king because you're able to do things like curls, tricep pushdowns, my favorite face pulls, maybe even a side lateral raise. One limitation here is that it's not a great option for leg exercises because you're simply not going to be able to load the leg exercises up enough to make it worth your time. However, you do need some level of experience when you're going to use this machine because the freedom of movement of these arms allows you to basically recreate any exercise movement pattern that you want, which is a great thing. But if you're not really familiar with how to manipulate these arms in space to get the right exercise effect, then maybe it has its drawbacks. But if you do have an idea of what you're trying to accomplish, this machine will allow you to do it. And for that reason, it's going to get the first of the green circles here in the Almost Best category. Continuing on in the Almost Best category, we now have a better version of the shoulder press. This here is called the Viking press. And the main advantage of this versus the other two that I share with you so far is the fact that you're on your feet. I always say if you want to look like an athlete, you've got to train like an athlete. Being on your feet is more athletic than sitting on your ass. And for me, doing this variation of the press is going to be better because of that. The nice thing, again, is you have the alteration of the handles that allows for a more neutral grip position if your shoulders are bothering you for any reason. But the fact that you've got that freedom of shoulder blade motion that we don't have to deal with in the seated versions and the fact that you can actually turn this into a more explosive total body exercise by driving with your legs is not only the reason why it belongs in the Almost Best category, but also I went out and bought this piece of equipment to convert my regular Olympic bar into the machine so I could basically do these at home. The idea, though, is it belongs in the Almost Best category. It's the reason why it gets the big green circle. So we've discussed a couple of row variations, but neither of them have lived up to the ranking of Almost Best like this next exercise does. And this is the seated cable row. And the reason why I love it is it actually reinforces the number one requirement for an effective back exercise, and that is the ability to move your chest or sternum forward or make your chest proud while you do the exercise. Why is this important? Because doing so allows for the most extension at the shoulder during those back exercises that ultimately leads to the best engagement and back contraction. The front to back freedom of movement of your torso in this exercise, unlike the last two we covered, is the reason why we are able to do this so effectively. Throw in the fact that we have the versatility of being able to hit different areas of our back depending upon where we carry our elbows during the exercise and it gets even better. Keep them nice and tight and low, you're going to work more of the lats. Keep them up high and wide, you're going to work more of the upper back thickness. The idea is the seated cable row is my favorite row and it belongs up here in the almost best category. When it comes to leg machines designed to more effectively target the quads, for me there's none better than the hack squat. Now the nice thing about this is it actually gives you an alternative to the front squat. We know the front squat does a good job of targeting the quads, but it's not the most comfortable for many, especially if you lack wrist mobility. The hack squat takes care of that by maintaining a perfectly upright torso throughout the exercise. Now the big difference between this and that sort of manipulated squat done on the Smith machine is the foot biomechanics are much better here because of the tilted foot plate. That tilted foot plate will actually encourage the normal dorsiflexion at the ankle, which will promote normal biomechanics at the knee and hip, making it not only a good option, but a safe one too. That's why the hack squat deserves its right foot place up here in the almost best category. And so with that, I now worked my way all the way up to the top in the best of the best category. And when it comes to these exercises, remember the reason why they're here is because these exercise machines either provide a unique advantage that actually we don't get unless we use these machines or they're allowing us to do these exercises in an even safer way for more and more people to be able to do them. And for me, the first one here is going to be the belt squat. And the reason for that is it allows everybody to experience the benefits of the king of all exercises, the squat. You see with the belt squat, even if you had back issues, you can free yourself from those because you don't have to deal with the compression that you might get from the bar on your back. At the same time, you don't have to compromise the amount of weight that you're using on the exercise. As a matter of fact, your hands give you the opportunity to self spot and work yourself through or grind through some of the repetitions that you might not be able to do freestanding in a squat rack. Throw in the fact that the belt positioning itself almost perfects your squat form on its own, putting your pelvis in the right position on every single rep. It solved the issue of knee to hip flexion that a lot of us deal with that causes us to have a not so perfect squat. For all these reasons, this is one of those exercises that if you have access to it, you really should start to incorporate it. And for me, it's going to get the first little green star or whatever that looks like in the best of the best category. And so when it came to hamstrings, we talked about the lying hamstring curl and the standing hamstring curl. But for me, the one that belongs at the very top of the list is the seated hamstring curl. And the big difference here, as you can imagine, is we're decreasing the involvement of those hip flexors, allowing us to focus on that knee flexion component of the hamstring function without having to have those hip flexors start to warp our low back. A nice built in function here is you could take yourself not just to failure, but nicely through some partial repetitions and also in a sort of two to one eccentric overload fashion too, by simply dropping down with two legs and then rising up with just one. There's just a lot of versatility built in here, but most of all, it's the safety that I like about this variation. So it's going to get another one of those jagged green stars as it belongs up here in the best of the best category. Now, look, I get it. If you're like most, you really get your calf work to the end of your workout. But here, relegating it to the end of this video means that we're putting a calf exercise in the best of the best category. And for me, it's the standing calf raise. And once again, this is a machine that just does what it does really good. In other words, if you want to do heavy calf raises, you're going to have to load up that bar. And rather than trying to perform it in a freestanding rack with some plates under your ankles, this just puts you in the perfect position to do this and to do that all important heavy loading that we've come to realize is really important when you want to get those stubborn calves to grow. As always, bonus tip for you calf knots out there, make sure you stay in that bottom position for about four seconds to take away the ballistic advantage that the Achilles provides and force more of the calf muscle to do the work. And I promise you'll thank me. And not just that, you'll find that it belongs up here as well in the best of the best category. Now, when it comes to building a bigger chest, obviously pressing is going to be a large part of that equation. However, it's not the complete equation because for you to get complete chest development at some point, you're going to have to add duct your arms as we talked about. And for me, what better machine is there than a cable crossover? And what's nice is you don't have to just do this in the typical horizontal position. If you want to target more of your lower chest, then go from a high to low crossover. If you want to target more of your upper chest, then go from a low to high crossover. The versatility provided by the adjustment of the handles combined with the fact that you have a safe stretch position that doesn't compromise the health of your shoulder is the reason why the cable crossover really has to be part of a complete training program because of the unique benefits it provides. So when you look around my gym, you won't find a lot of machines here, but there is one that I specifically put in this gym for one very specific reason, because I think it's the best way to train your back and it's the lat pulldown. See, when I'm looking for vertical lat exercises, this machine is the one that makes it most accessible to every single person. Yeah, the pullup is an amazing way to do this, but it's not as accessible because a lot of people have a hard time doing the pullup. But if I sit down on a lat pulldown machine, I could do that vertical lat training in a scalable manner by simply changing the place where I put the pin. Add to that fact that I could actually change the focus of my back training by simply changing the width that I'm grabbing the bar with or actually change out the bar itself. It just becomes a very versatile option and one that I believe is irreplaceable and belonging in that best of the best category when it comes to back training. So if you want a strong low back as you should, then there's a machine out there that can actually do this for you in the perfect way. And we're talking about the reverse hyper. You see, a lot of us will actually use the hyperextension machine, but the issue with that is that you're training your back in a top down approach, moving your torso backwards towards an extended hip. What I'd rather see you do is fix your torso in place like you do with this machine and then extend your hip backwards. Because what this will do is it will drive that low back strengthening through the glutes first as it should be. You see, the low back is not designed to be the main provider of strength and stability to your torso. It's also the reason why there's some of the largest muscles in your body, providing you with great real estate and opportunity to strengthen them. If you have access to this hidden gem, by all means, you should do it. It certainly belongs at the top of the list here in the best of the best. Speaker 1 And rounding out our list is an exercise that does a great job of rounding out that backside of yours. And we're talking about the hip thrust machine. And while we know we have a lot of great compound leg exercises to build our legs, they don't do a great job of providing resistance in that fully extended hip position like the hip thrust machine does. I mean, even a squat doesn't provide resistance when that hip is fully extended at the top. However, the one difference between this and the barbell variation of the exercise is it's just a lot easier for people to perform. If I think there's one big drawback to the barbell hip thrust, it's getting into and out of the exercise that makes a lot of people forgo the exercise in the first place. This exercise machine will not allow you to do that. As a matter of fact, it's going to make it really simple as long as your gym has one. It belongs in the best of the best category. If you're wondering what the best chest exercises are from best to worst, I've made that video for you here. If you're looking for an entire playlist of all the best to worst videos, you can find that one here. Guys, remember to click subscribe, turn on notifications. And also if you're looking for full programs, you can find them over at athleanx.com. All right, guys. See you soon.

=== FILE: How I Transformed My Body in 24 Hours! (STEP ONE： Drink Soda) [Z6uloG17Jhg].txt ===

 So if you've been watching for any length of time that I've been on this channel, you've seen my transformation. However, there are some people out there saying that it's not very impressive, and that what I did in a couple of years, will be done in a couple of weeks. But I'm going to do one better. I'm going to make an amazing transformation in less than 24 hours. So we are starting today on June 5th at 7.44 p.m. I don't know if you can see that. How do you make a transformation in less than 24 hours? Well, it's pretty simple. You just have to take a few easy steps. First step, eat a big meal. I chose 5 Guys Burgers and Fries. I had a double bacon cheeseburger, some Cajun fries, and a Diet Coke. The carbonation from the Diet Coke definitely helps with bloating. Step 2, go in the bathroom. Don't go to the bathroom. Find the worst lighting you can possibly imagine. Take a few photos or videos of yourself looking disheveled, bad posture, and overall just looking not so great. Then, I went to go get a haircut. And I got my beard trimmed. One, it looks like time has passed. Two, it just makes you look a little bit better, more put together. Step 3, shave your chest. Seriously, shave your chest. It's weird, I know, but it's an optical illusion. The reason why you do this is because the hair that covers your chest is going to cover up any size and definition. Once you shave it, your pecs are going to look pretty good. They'll look more defined, they'll look a little bit more shapely, and they won't be covered in hair. Then, step 4, get a tan. Don't have to apply a lot. Just a thin coat is fine enough just to give a little color and take off the edge of that paleness. Easy way to do this is just apply some self-tanner that you get at CVS. Why? Because it highlights the muscles, especially under harsh lighting. Next step, go to the gym, get a pump. Yeah, get a pump. When it comes to the pump, choose exercises that are going to be beneficial for that pump. I chose the bench press, the pec deck, and the crossover to really pump up my chest. Then, for my shoulders, I did some lateral raises, and I also did an overhead press as well. For my biceps, just a few curls, triceps, push downs. Those are going to give me the best pump I can get. Then, for my back, I use some rows and some pull downs. The next step, and final step, is go into a room, whether that's your bathroom that you started in, and you just get a little bit better lighting, or you go into a room that has really good lighting, like I have at my gym. There, take your shirt off, flex, suck in your stomach, get those abs showing, and holy smokes, you're going to look totally different than you did the night before, or a few hours before, depending on when you started this. And so here I am, back at home from the gym, fresh out the shower, and to prove to you guys that this transformation took less than 24 hours, it is Friday, June 6th, at 5.57pm. Pretty amazing for less than 24 hours, am I right? Well, this is the before photo, and this is the after photo. And as you saw, this was achieved by a few simple things, such as manipulating what I ate, a tan, shaving my chest, a haircut, lighting, and a great pump. That's all it takes to make these transformations seem pretty awesome. However, they can be fudged, so you need to take some of these transformations with a grain of salt. Especially the ones that don't show the effort and the process of what it took over time. If they're showing point A and point Z, but nothing in between, it might be fudged. However, the transformations that show you exactly what went on during that process, such as my transformation here on ATHLEANX from day one, through all the videos you've seen me over the years all the way up till now, you know that my transformation is pretty real. So anyways, if you thought this transformation was pretty cool, leave a comment below and let me know. If you thought this whole thing was a bunch of malarkey and you think I still don't look very good, leave a comment below. I'm not going to listen to you, but your comment is still appreciated. And if you want to see me host more videos, also leave a comment below. Those ones will be paid attention to, and I'll pass that along to Jeff, because let's be real, I'm the star of the show here. Alright, so don't forget to leave a comment, like, subscribe, and turn on your notifications so you never miss a video when we put one out. And if you're looking for meal plans, programs, and supplements that will actually aid a true transformation and get you from where you are at point A to where you want to be at point Z, with all the effort in between, you can find them over at ATHLEANX.com. I'll see you soon in another video, most likely with Jeff. I'll see you soon in another video, most likely with Jeff. I'll see you soon in another video, most likely with Jeff.

=== FILE: How To STOP Losing Muscle As You Age (IMPORTANT!) [k0I9fFTekas].txt ===

 Take one look at this graph and you might not be very optimistic. Take one look at this graph and you might not be very optimistic. Because you'll see here that with each passing decade we lose both muscle mass and strength. Because you'll see here that with each passing decade we lose both muscle mass and strength. As a matter of fact even in our 30s we're losing 3.5 to 4% of both. As a matter of fact even in our 30s we're losing 3.5 to 4% of both. And that increases to 6.5 to 9.5% of muscle loss and strength respectively when we get into just our 50s. And guys it gets even worse when we go beyond that. So what are you supposed to do? Throw in the towel or is there something you could actually do? Well today I want to identify for you the 8% of the 8% of the muscle loss and strength.! Many of you asked me to do this before. Many of you asked me to do this before. Many of you asked me to do this before. Many of you asked me to do this before. Many of you asked me to do this before. Many of you asked me to do this before. Many of you asked me to do this before. Many of you asked me to do this before. Many of you asked me to do this before. Many of you asked me to do this before. Many of you asked me to do this before. Many of you asked me to do this before. Many of you asked me to do this before. Many of you asked me to do this before. Many of you asked me to do this before. Many of you asked me to do this before. Many of you asked me to do this before. on that. So what are you supposed to do? Throw in the towel or is there something you could actually do? Well, today I want to identify for you the eight specific things that are contributing to this graph. And the good news is there's something that you could do about every one of them. This is due to something called anabolic resistance. As we get older, there's a simple age-related decline in your body's ability to respond positively to even resistance training and protein intake. Even when you're doing the right things, your body cannot respond as powerfully to the same stimulus that used to build muscle. Things change. I used to be able to read, print on the side of a medicine bottle like nothing. And now all of a sudden I turned 50 and it's very difficult for me to read that. And that's just something happening to my body. Nothing else has changed in terms of how I approach every day. Just things change in your body. And there's not a blue pill to fix everything that goes wrong. All right. So the first trigger that's actually responsible for what you're seeing is this dose response curve when it comes to protein intake. So when you're younger, to stimulate something called muscle protein synthesis, which is the building of new muscle, you might only need 20 to 25 grams of protein per meal. When you're older, that limit is now raised to about 35 to 40 grams. It's actually due specifically to something I'm going to cover here in a second. Now we're talking per meal here. The most important factor is how much you're taking in in a day. And I always go with the recommendation of one gram per pound of body weight and sometimes upwards of 1.2 grams if you're training really hard. And especially as you get older, those numbers are going to become, as you see here, a bigger and bigger requirement. But even at the per meal level, it starts to matter more as you get older because of this blunting of this response to the protein intake to create new muscle growth. But what I want you to visualize is the volume dial on an old radio. There's some radios that when you just turn the volume up just a little, little bit, you get a real big increase in the sound. And then there's some radios where you have to turn it a lot to get that same increase. Both of them are increasing volume, but only one of them is doing them very effectively. Think about the older muscle as that volume control that has to be turned a lot to get the same effect. What you can do about this is to actually start to care a little bit more about how much protein you're having at every meal. Again, number one concern, meeting your daily protein requirement, making sure that you're getting that one gram per pound of body weight. If you are, then trying to divide that up so that you're getting or crossing that threshold a little bit more regularly throughout the day to maximize the number of bouts of muscle protein synthesis that you are going to have each day. Again, realizing that this is going to become more difficult as you get older. The second thing is there's a blunting of something called the mTOR pathway. And the mTOR pathway is actually one of the most significant means by which we build new muscle. And the most effective way to stimulate that pathway is through one specific amino acid, leucine. And in most high quality proteins like whey protein, yogurt, eggs, fish, the percentage of leucine in that protein is around 10%. So if you had 30 grams of protein from, let's say, fish, then three grams of that, 10%, is going to be in the form of leucine. Leucine is the direct trigger for the mTOR pathway that is going to help you to build new muscle. And again, in younger individuals, two to three grams seems to be the amount of leucine that's needed to cross that leucine threshold to create new muscle growth. In older individuals, 40s, 50s, and beyond, that number increases. The sensitivity to leucine goes down. That mTOR pathway is blunted. So what used to be like an on-off switch is now a dimmer switch. Okay, you have to turn that dimmer up. And the way to do that is to have more leucine in your diet and to focus on that. So what can you do? You can either increase the amount of total protein that you take in, realizing that 10% of that, when coming from high quality sources, is going to come in the form of leucine. Or you can actually supplement your regular protein intake with some additional leucine. You can take branch chain amino acids. And I know they've gotten some shit and flack over the years. But as an adjunct to the regular protein intake, remember you'd have to take 90% more if you were taking it in the form of protein. So if you wanted to get, let's say, four grams of leucine, you could have 20 grams of protein in the meal you're eating, and then two additional grams of leucine strictly from the branched amino acids. But just realize that the BCAAs, in addition to promoting recovery, which we're going to talk about here, are going to allow for more muscle protein synthesis by helping you to cross that leucine threshold more readily. Again, amplifying what you're already taking in, in the form of protein. The third thing that we have here is the effect of training on muscle protein synthesis. So here's where it gets interesting, because the number one stimulus for building muscle as you get older is still training, right? You've seen people who do all the right things in terms of eating enough protein. But when they don't stimulate the muscle in terms of working out, and working out, as you're going to see here in a minute, at a high enough or hard enough level, then they don't build new muscle. The number one way to build muscle is going to be by having an effective training plan and doing it consistently. However, what's interesting here is that the intensity of the repetitions has to go up the older you get. Because the lower the weight that you use, the farther away from failure that you go, the lower the intensity level of what you're training at, the much more difficult it becomes to add actual muscle from what you're doing. And I see people do this all the time. They go in the wrong direction. They figure as they get older, they need to step off the gas, lighten things up, and kind of go through the motions just to make sure that they're getting their training in. But that's not training. That to me is just exercising. You're moving your body around, trying to make sure that you're staying active. But staying active is not actively building muscle. The way to actively build muscle is to challenge yourself. And again, as you get older, we saw the age-related decline. Father time is undefeated. We're going to continually lose muscle mass. But you can do a really good job of decreasing that amount by holding on to as much muscle as you can by almost gaining by maintaining, if that makes sense. The way you want to do this is to train with more intensity. Make sure that you're taking your sets to as close to failure, if not all the way to failure, depending on the exercise, not on squats. Train with heavier weights, but train slowly. If you control the weight, you will not have to worry as much about increased injury risk by doing so. And a lot of people will use that as an excuse. I don't train heavy because I don't want to get injured as I get older. Training with lighter weights and not having enough exposure to heavier weights is likely going to get you injured more quickly than it is to actually train with the heavier weights, but by doing them slowly. And by increasing the amount of weight that you use, you're actually stimulating more muscle growth very significantly. That is amplified when you add in what I just told you about protein. Okay, making sure that you're doing the right things when it comes to protein. One of my favorite ways to do this is with a technique called effective reps. And I mentioned before, there's a bunch of videos on the channel that I'll link at the end of this one, that if you took a set to failure, only the last few repetitions of that first set were really difficult, right? The first few were really nothing, just getting you to a point where you're fatigued enough to make the last ones feel something. If you then come right back in on a shorter rest time, you're going to get right back into those effective reps much more quickly. That is a way that you're going to be able to save some unnecessary training volume, which may go a long way to helping you feel better, even though you're training harder, right? You're going to feel less wear and tear on your joints because you're doing fewer repetitions, but the ones that you're doing, you're making your reps count. So I always say, forget counting your reps and worry more about making your reps count as you get older. The next thing that causes this inevitable loss of muscle as we get older is a loss in something called satellite cells. And what these do is they actually become fewer and also less responsive and less effective. It's kind of a common theme here, but think about these as like your pit crew. After a workout, the car comes in, the pit crew comes out, and when you are young, there's a lot of crew members that can do their work and they work really, really quickly and they get you right back on the racetrack again to go as fast as possible. When you get older, there's fewer guys helping out and they don't move as quickly. And because of that, you don't recover as well. And when you don't recover as well as you get older, each subsequent workout becomes more and more difficult to recover from until you start to reach a point where you're under recovering and not able to grow muscle. You don't want to find yourself in that position. You want to be able to stimulate often enough. Best probably for me, four times a week, up or lower. You're hitting all muscle groups twice a week. And you're still able to recover because you're spacing those out with enough days of rest in between the upper and lower sessions to allow for recovery. But you have to be recovering. In the gym, that means planning your days off and sticking to them and realizing they're just as important as the workout days themselves. That means doing some of the corrective exercises that you didn't have to do before. And I understand the reality of that is, you know, these things suck. They're boring. They take up time, but they're not time wasters. Believe me, two plus two equals 10 when it comes to increasing the number of exercises that you do, if they're the right corrective exercises that help you to recover from your workouts. Or they fortify the areas that tend to get weaker as we get older. So therefore, making it more possible to make gains from the exercises that we're doing, that we like to do or focus on. Getting enough sleep, getting proper supplementation like omega-3s, very good for decreasing something else we're going to talk about here, and that's inflammation. But doing the right things, having the right nutritional approach, focusing on recovery just as much as you focus on the training in order to maximize the satellite cell activity and realizing what it can do for you. The next thing I just mentioned, inflammation. There's something called inflammation, and it's the presence of increased inflammation throughout your entire body as you get older. It's like a chronic, low-grade inflammatory state in your body that's always present that definitely blunts that anabolic response or the capabilities of building new muscle because your body's too busy focusing on, first and foremost, decreasing that inflammation. Not on building new muscle tissue. And some of the signs and symptoms of this are mood disorders, difficulty sleeping at night, chronic joint pain, skin changes, hair changes. There's a lot of things that just start to feel off, and a lot of times they can be attributed back to this inflammation that's going on. And again, that inflammation is going to take precedence over everything else you're trying to do. So if you don't intervene by taking supplements like an omega-3 that have shown to be effective at controlling some of that total body inflammation, or by getting more sleep and prioritizing sleep, and not just saying, well, I used to be able to sleep five, six hours a night, so why is it different? It's different for the same reason that you can't read the side of that pill bottle anymore, Jeff? Because things change. It's not always because you've done something different. It's because your body starts to change as you get older. So you need to take the right approach. You need to try to tip the scales back in that balance towards anabolic signaling and away from that oxidative stress and again, that inflammation that's holding you back right now. So this is serious business. It's something that you have to focus on. It's not just going to happen on its own. The next thing that we know, and this is obvious, there's hormonal changes as we get older. And hormones are essentially like the background music for muscle growth. And as you get older, the volume on that music goes down lower and lower and lower. And your body becomes less responsive to even the amount of hormone that you have. Testosterone can decrease by 1% every year once you hit even the age of 30. The amount of hormones and IGF-1 and growth hormone that's pulsed out each time it's released gets lower and lower and lower as you get older. And the lower anabolic hormones just makes the overall environment more difficult to grow in. So even if you're doing the same things, right, you're still watering the plant, but the plant can't grow as well. Or you're still giving it sunlight, but the plant can't grow as well. Well, we're still giving it protein. We're still training, but you can't grow as well. But here's the good news. Training alone can actually increase the responsiveness to those hormones, even if they are in lower levels. So realizing that you might see a drop in those hormone levels year after year after year by training and training hard enough, because that's the key. You're actually increasing your response to those hormones by training with enough weight and again with enough intensity. So you can still get maybe the same effect even at lower levels of hormones. Which is why, by the way, people who use their blood work as the only indicator of when or when they should not start HRT, it's not really that simple. And it shouldn't be the only determinant in terms of whether or not you should be taking additional exogenous hormones. The last thing here is interesting. It's one that people never think about. And it's the decrease in blood flow and the efficiency of blood flow as you get older, because we get endothelial resistance as well, which means that the vessels themselves, they're not as elastic anymore. They don't expand as much. And if they can't expand as readily, then they don't carry as much blood flow in them. They don't deliver as much nutrients to the muscles in terms of recovery. And therefore, the recovery process is blunted and all the things we already talked about start to go down. So how do we fix this? Because if you thought about this like a construction site, you've got a bunch of workers who have all the materials that you need to build your house, but they're stuck in traffic and they can't get there on time. Nothing is going to happen at the construction site. So what can we do here? Well, we can try to pair up some of those increased deliveries of protein in a time when we know we have more efficient blood flow and that's following exercise. So when people talk about the effectiveness of the anabolic window or whether it even exists anymore, I think that in this case, as you get older, there's more to say about maybe why you might want to reinvestigate that because after exercise, there is a period of increased blood flow. So trying to make sure that some of that additional protein that you're trying to get that we talked about earlier is coming in during that time might make it easier to deliver to the muscles because we know we have a period of increased blood flow. Of course, the other things you can do is start to do more cardio, right? Start to do more zone two, start to do more of that zone five high effort, high intensity cardio because that will do a better job at increasing your cardiac output, teaching your muscle to become stronger, to push with more force, which could help to expand some of those arteries that have become a little bit lazy over the years. So all of these things are things that you can do to intervene. But the good news is this. Yes, Father Time is undefeated. He's coming for us all. However, we don't have to age gracefully. And the most important thing that you can do is resist. Because if you don't, then the types of things I showed you in the beginning, this curve here is going to become a reality for many. And your quality of life will go downhill very rapidly. And remember the importance of the protein, guys. You can find the highest quality protein, NSF certified for sport, so all of our athletes can make sure that they can take it with confidence. You can find it over at ATHLEANX.com. A full 30 grams of protein per serving. Also, omega-3s, again, rich in antioxidants and anti-inflammatory properties, as well as leucine. In the meantime, the hard training you're looking for, this channel is built around that. Make sure you follow, make sure you subscribe, turn on your notifications here, and you'll never miss a video when we put one out. All right, guys. See you soon. I hope you found this helpful.

=== FILE: How to Fix FLAT Glutes (MAKE THEM ROUND) [F8DErukW4yo].txt ===

 So, watch this video because I'm going to help you to activate those underactive glutes that you have right now and then also develop their strength. Now we have to target the right muscles. And a lot of us will target this muscle right here. That's the glute max. But what you're really likely missing is development and tone of the glute medius, which is this muscle that lays underneath. So the way we target it is two specific ways. You literally can take just these two moves, do them once each day, and start to make a really big impact. And for those that don't want to do them on the ground, I'm going to show you a way you could do them standing. So the first thing you want to do is get on your side like this and then you're going to take your leg and put it in front of your body, in this flexed state of the hip. In this position, the way to attack the glute medius specifically is to internally rotate the hip. And the way you can do that simply is to just try to point the toe down into the ground, like stab it down into the ground. With this leg straight and out in front, then all you have to do is simply lift that leg up as high as you can. And right away you should feel it right in this muscle. That is the glute medius. And again, it doesn't matter how many times you squat, or how many times you lunge, or how many times you deadlift. You're not training this muscle. You're training the glute maximus. Here, you want to get this internal rotation or rotational component to really target this extremely weak muscle in most of us. And for those that always say, I can't feel a good contraction back there. When you can't feel it, that's often times one of the main reasons why you can't develop it. This is a great way to do that. So, you do as many repetitions as you can from that position. I mentioned there's two moves you can do from here. Both of them are important. So now you want to get your hip back into extension behind you. But if I were to lift the leg from here, what's likely going to happen is your body is going to want to roll. Because the weight of your leg is going to want to pull your body back into this position. You're immediately going to shift that focus away from the glute medius into that front side hip muscle, which is the hip flexor. You don't need to do much more development of that muscle because it's already likely overdeveloped. So for this one you want to get a little bit more flat onto the ground. Pull your chest down towards the ground a little bit more like that. Now you put your hip back into extension and instead of pointing the toe down, this time you want to point the toe up as much as you can. And then lift from there. This will just light you up. Lift up and squeeze. You'll get it right into this area, that weakness right there. Again, trying to turn the toe as much as you can and rotate the hip. But doing it from this extended hip position back behind midline. Lift up. It's back behind you. Lift up. And this, again, will light you up. I'm only doing five or six repetitions here and it's really, really challenging. It just goes to show you how weak these muscles can be even if you're doing a lot of heavy leg work. So you do as many as you can, both with the foot in front of the body and the foot behind the body. Now, if you don't want to do these laying down, maybe you're in an office, there's something else you can do in standing. All right, so now in standing I actually think that there's some additional benefits from this position than there are laying down. Especially the convenience of it if you don't want to be having to lay down in the middle of the day somewhere. So what we do is we just get ourselves up against the wall. And with the wall being used for support and support only, you're going to take your leg and you're going to do some leg swings. All right? What we're doing though is we're doing it in a very specific way. First thing we have to do if we're trying to recreate what we did on the ground is get that leg out in front of the body or into this hip flexion. Then what we're going to do is we're going to lift the leg up, but at the same time turn the toe down. So we're going for that same idea of that toe stabber down, but we're keeping the leg in front of the body. From here you're getting an additional benefit that you may not have noticed or really know to even think about. It's what's happening to not just this leg, but the down leg. What's happening with the down leg is we're getting abduction of the hip. The muscle that's responsible for that shifting of the hip side to side is the glute medius on the down leg. So you want to allow your hip to drop as the leg comes down the swing, and then as you go back up for the swing on this leg you want to slide your hips back across this way, lifting with that glute medius and glute medius only. You'll feel it contract on both sides. So again, looking from this direction I let myself drop on that outside leg and then I lift up and turn the foot down, sliding the hips over and contracting on this side and of course contracting on this side. So that's the benefit that we're not getting when we're doing this exercise down on the ground. And once again, you'd only have to do this once a day to try to start to engage these muscles that are likely very dormant right now. And it's very hard to develop a muscle that you do not have a good mind muscle connection with, or you don't have a good neurological connection with. So being able to do something as simple as this and work on the quality of every repetition. It's not meant to go like this and just swing it around. That's not going to do anything for you. You're trying to build up good neuromuscular control of a muscle that you don't have good control of right now. Second thing you want to do, if you want to recreate the benefit of the second exercise, hitting that glute medius from that other posterior angle, then what you want to do is get yourself squared up into the pole, just like I did when I was on the floor. A little bit more square to the floor. Get the foot behind me. So it starts right about behind the heel, like this. And this time I'm going to be lifting it behind me, but rotating the foot as much as I can. It becomes pretty challenging for a lot of people because, again, they don't have that good connection or they don't have a lot of mobility there. But it will improve over time. So as I swing the leg back behind me, behind midline here, and then rotate as much as I can, you'll really feel that area light up again. And I'm just trying to keep myself square to the pole here so that I don't turn with it too much and just lift and turn it into a hip flexor move again. Remember, I don't want to turn this into a hip flexor move. We've got to get that rotational component and lift with abduction to make sure that we're isolating that glute medius. And again, one set each, each day is going to do a lot. Again, working both sides. But now let's say you've woken that up. You've got better control of the glute medius. How can you now take advantage of that to get more out of the strength training component and the exercises that do a great job of hitting both to allow for bigger glutes or more glute development? So now separate from those activation drills, let's say you have aspirations to get a bigger ass. You want the bigger, more well-developed glutes. This is how you would do it. You've got to add a little bit of weight. And just a single dumbbell is going to allow you to do this. But it's choosing the right exercises and then doing them the right way, as is often the case. So how you do this, or one of my favorite ways to do this, is with an offset reverse dumbbell lunge. And why we go reverse, number one, is because it just helps to alleviate some of that pain that we get in the knee when we lunge forward. A lot of people complain about knee pain when they lunge forward. We're not going to have to worry about that because we're going to lunge backwards. Now if you're going to lunge back, the leg that goes back is the leg that you want to have the dumbbell in. The hand that you want to have the dumbbell in. So if I'm going to lunge back this way, it's that left hand that's going to be holding the dumbbell. And again, how I point my torso is going to make all the difference in the world. So usually people go straight up and down with the torso like this. But that's going to focus more of the effort on the quads. If I want to light up the back side, I have to lean forward. By leaning forward – I could turn this a little bit for you – by leaning forward I've completely shifted this load primarily to the glutes. So down and come up. Stand up. Reverse. Lean forward. Keep that low back straight. Just tilt the entire torso forward and come up. Now what's that side benefit? First of all, good glute max development. Going back and forth into hip extension. Here, and then extending the hip and squeezing through the butt on the way up. But we have that other benefit too. Controlling the same frontal plane abduction that we were talking about in that leg swing. Because when I go down, this dumbbell wants to pull me in this way. Because offset. One side only. And what happens is the hip wants to slide out to that direction. The only way that I can work this glute medius is to keep the hip right where it's supposed to be. So as I go down and this wants to pull me down this way, keep this nice and tight. Lean forward without that shift. Come up out of it. That little move just like this is going to be an amazing way when you strengthen both the right and the left hip to get good glute development. Now the next thing we can do is something called an RDL. But done in a very specific way. I want to go and lean towards the floor. Let the other leg come up behind me. You might be getting a little bit of active hip extension on that side, but it's not really the focus. What you're trying to do is go down and then drive out through that down glute. So in this position here I'm going down to the floor and I'm going to drive out of it with good hip extension. But the same thing applies. Because the dumbbell is in that offset hand, it wants to pull me down. I can't let that happen. I have to keep this hip nice and stable here, straight down, pull through without it sliding out on me. This is a balance challenge as well. If you find it to be too difficult balance-wise, put this foot back and just do it as a slight kickstand position. So if I have this back here, slight kickstand, down, squeeze it through, drag the toe. Down, squeeze it through, and drag the toe. Just enough so that the balance is not the main issue. One more move here. We call this a frog press. This one targets the glute medius specifically because we're going to externally rotate the hips. So not a regular glute bridge, but one done from this externally rotated hip position. So when I put the dumbbell right here on my junk, right across here, and I lift up into that bridge, you can see that I'm favoring the glute medius because I've externally rotated the hips by putting the soles of my feet together and flat on the ground. This set up here will make the rest of this automatic by lifting straight up here. Again, squeeze. You'll feel it deep into that hip, deep into the glutes, underneath that glute max. It's a great compliment to the other two exercises that had a heavy involvement from the glute max. Again, you go here all the way up. Good full extension. A couple of sets to failure to really work on developing. Again, you can overload this with heavier and heavier dumbbells. The idea here, guys, is the glute medius is a prime focus for all of you who are having any type of low back pain right now, any hip pain, or just underdeveloped glutes. Again, if you're already suffering from back pain, guys, I have a video that helps to target that glute medius specifically and some of the trigger points that occur when weakness is there. You can find that video here. It's helped over 40 million people. If you're looking for more glute exercises you can do, I ranked over 15 of them in this one video for you here. All right, guys. See you soon.

=== FILE: How to Fix Knee Pain With SIMPLE Exercise (FOREVER) [lEHqcWy_2_w].txt ===

 What's up, what's up guys, Jeff Cavaliere, athlete, athlete, athlete, athlete, athlete, next.com, physical therapist, and strength coach, and today we're talking about knee pain and how you can fix it actually using exercise. There's nothing more debilitating than that knife-like stabbing pain or that knife-like stabbing pain or that just deep dull ache in your knees every time you try to climb stairs, get out of bed, walk up a hill or down a hill, we have to fix that and I know I can help you to do that. Now, Jesse here is going to be my model today and I know you've probably heard at least at some point though that exercise can help. I'm here. this, a lot of us are probably using the wrong exercises and focusing on the wrong muscles. I'm going to show you what to do, how to do, and every exercise to do to make your knees feel better. And so this is where the problem starts because you might have been told to do exercises that focus on the quads and hamstrings, even as simple in a post-rehab setting as a quad set, where you simply squeeze your quads as hard as you can, trying to drive your knee down into the floor, or you kind of bend your knees a little bit and drive your heels down to create an isometric strengthening exercise for the hamstrings. Again, the issue is not necessarily your hamstrings and your quads in terms of the weakness that's contributing to your knee pain. Stand up, Jesse. I want to show you something very important here because this is really where you need to start to focus your efforts if you want to get rid of this once and for all. The knee itself is what we call a consequential joint. It's literally stuck in the middle of the hip and then the ankle and even the midfoot or the foot itself. Why is that? Because if we can change things down here at the ground, then we're going to put torque on the knee. If we change things up here in the hip, side to side, we're going to change the forces at the knee and the knee has no say in it. And that means yours don't either. So let's look at the foot itself. If you have any type of issues like I do with over pronation of the foot or any chronic plantar fasciitis or any type of issues mechanically where you're over supinated, where your foot rolls out too much, all of that changes position at the knee just like that. And all of that comes in the form of excessive stress inside or outside the knee that over time can wear that knee joint down or cause more acute tendon inflammation and pain. The same thing happens here at the ankle. If the ankle itself is unstable, even if you're on one foot, which we do every time we take a step, if that ankle itself is unstable, every time it moves around, it's causing again some of those forces to be directed up the kinetic chain into the knee joint itself, causing more of that same instability. The hip itself, if I'm on one foot, again, like you do every single time you take a step, if the hip drops out to the side when you do, then that is a present sign of a lot of weakness in this hip. If you have weakness in the hip, which most of us do because we're not training ourselves in that plane, then the same thing applies. Now you're transmitting those forces down from the hip into that same knee, causing those inside outside issues that are causing more of that instability. We're going to fix that with specific exercises and then start worrying about what we do with the quads and hamstrings because it's then and only then that you really want to care about that. So let's start down here on the ground with that foot and ankle. There's two things that you can do here every other day, Monday, Wednesday, Friday, maybe one extra day on the weekend to help to strengthen these muscles and to start to work on improving the condition of your knee. Jesse, take off your shoes here for me while we do it. I want you to do these barefoot if you can, right? Because I want your feet to be able to actually start to feel the ground and not be hidden inside the shoes that you have. The first thing is simply to work on your balance. As I showed you before, just standing on one leg is going to cause some of those muscles inside the foot and the ankle to be challenged, some more than others, right? And we know that we need to work on this, but we can make it even a little bit more fun. We could gamify it by having you use the up leg to simply draw out the alphabet in front of you. So A and then B, just like that. C, you work your way all the way through and try to maintain your balance as Jesse falls up there. Try to maintain your balance. What you'll see is these muscles on the down foot inside the foot will actually start to burn a little bit. You want to work your way all the way through and repeat it one to two times on each foot. Again, three times a week, maybe one extra day on the weekend. The next thing that you can do is work on getting the intrinsic foot muscles to become stronger. So what you're going to do is something we call an RDL. One leg is going to come up off the ground. And what you're going to do is lean forward, hinge at the waist like this, act like you're going to pick something up off the ground. That knee is going to bend a little bit just naturally to go down. And as you come out of this, you drive through the hip all the way through, drive this knee up. But down here at the ground, I want you to act like you're clenching the ground with your foot, basically making a fist with your foot as you come up. So go down, let the foot be loose. That's what it wants to do when it's on the ground like this. Anyway, as you drive into hip extension, though, you pull and clench your foot to get out of you feel that? Yeah, really going to feel a cramping sensation in your foot. But that's a good strengthening exercise that works biomechanically with how your foot, ankle, knee prefer to work together anyway. So it's going to start to give you better mechanics, take some of that stress off the knee. And again, these are super easy to do multiple times a week. Without much extra effort. Moving up now, you want to work on strengthening the hip. And there's a very specific muscle in this hip that needs to be strengthened as the glute medius. It's not the traditional butt muscle that you're probably getting through other exercises. This is only done if you're strengthening in the frontal plane, like this exercise will do. And it's a simple one. It's called the hip lift or a hip bump. And all you do is you lean against something. So either this case, a rack, but you could have a wall on that side, you stand on the leg outside or furthest away from the wall, like Jesse's doing here. Now you just let yourself get lazy. In other words, let the hips drop out, really lazy out to the side. The only muscle that's going to really bring them back to center like this is that glute medius. So what you're trying to do is just allow yourself to drop out and then squeeze really well through that outside of the hip. You'll feel it when you get it. It's like a cramping feeling in that glute medius that drives you over. You feel that? Yeah. All right. So what you want to try to do is 10 good contractions, really making that muscle do the work. Not just swinging your body back through momentum, but shifting your body back. All right. Now, if you can do that and you strengthen yourself the same way, three times a week with that progressively, 10 times on each leg, two to three sets, then you can go into something a little bit more dynamic and it's a hip circle. So it's the same concept. You get on that same one leg. And now what you do is you drop it out, but now you sort of swing around and you drive yourself again back to the side. Now you let your hip kind of go backwards behind you here. Then you circle it out to the side here. You'll feel that stretch on the outside of that muscle. The thing that brings it back across is that muscle once again. Okay. Just like that. So you're going to work all the way around in a circle. That's going clockwise. Now you can go counterclockwise. So now lift it up again, same way. Now work this way, drop it out and go backwards and squeeze over from behind. There is actually a different effect, whether you're squeezing that hip over in a flexed hip position or from an extended hip position, you want to work on both of them. So about five circles, counterclockwise, five circles clockwise. That's how you get your 10 reps. You work both sides, obviously both hips. And so if those exercises are the foundation to get you over the hump with knee pain, we still need to get stronger in your legs. And this is where we can't stop training. Remember the beginning, I said the worst thing people do when they have knee pain is they stop doing leg training. You can't do that. These three exercises are the building blocks. These are the ones that you can always rely on. As a matter of fact, 95% of people with knee pain will find that they could do at least one of these pain-free, if not all three. All right. So here's what you want to try to do to build upon those other more corrective exercises. The first one is simply to grab some dumbbells, or even if you don't have any capacity to hold weight right now, that's fine. But you want to try to squat to a surface, in this case to a bench. All that does is sort of mentally remove some of the hurdles that have been put in place by your chronic knee pain. Because let's face it, if you've got that sharp shooting pain, every time you even start to bend, you lack the confidence in thinking that you can actually get down to a parallel squat without your knees really, really hurting. So having that surface there that in case you couldn't actually go all the way down, you know it's going to catch you, removes a lot of those psychological barriers that biomechanically open up the possibility to actually do the squat. Squat to a surface, you'll change the entire dynamic of how it feels. Next thing you can do is, put those aside for a sec, is take a single dumbbell like this, and what we do is a drop squat. And what the drop squat does is it biomechanically fixes your squat. I don't care how bad your squat form might be right now, because a bad squat form is going to contribute to more knee pain. Putting the dumbbell right here in front of you, and simply lowering that dumbbell straight to the ground, is going to fix how much knee flexion you need for your torso size, how much hip flexion you need for your torso size. Turn to the side, Jesse. And you'll see it just basically creates the biomechanically perfect squat. The hip angle is perfect, the back angle is perfect. It takes you right where it needs to go, because the weight is going straight down, thank you, to gravity. So what we do is essentially work on building up your strength here, holding a heavier and heavier dumbbell, adding additional weight vest if you need that to add more and more weight to the system. Okay, those can go over. Now grab one dumbbell. And the third thing that I like people to do is, I love lunging, because lunging mimics the function of walking, but I don't want to see you lunge forward, because lunging backwards will give me all the benefits without a lot of that knee pain that we get from lunging forward, that anterior knee stress that we get. So all you want to do is lunge backwards, you hold the dumbbell in the same leg or side of the leg that's going backwards. What that does is it causes this hip to want to fall, right, your body to fall in the direction of the weight. If the body falls in the direction of weight, what happens to this hip over here? It bumps out just like it did on that last corrective exercise. Your job is to make sure that it doesn't, that it stays locked in place here, nice and stable. So I don't care about speed on this exercise. I care about precision. And if you want to overcome your knee pain, slow movements, controlled movements with progressively heavier weights is going to be the key to getting over that knee pain once and for all. So you go straight back, really focus on keeping the hip right where it needs to be. You come out of there straight up also. None of this hip shifting. Now one last thing you can do is to pretend that you have one of those little laser pointers, you know, that we use in lectures, laser pointer attached to your kneecap. Where do you want that laser pointer pointed? Directly ahead of you or outside your knee, but not inside your knee. And I'm less concerned when people talk about knee over toe. I don't really care about that. That's actually more biomechanically correct. I don't want to see knee inside toe. Okay. Knee inside the big toe. So as you're doing even that last exercise, pretend that you have a laser pointer right here on that kneecap. Make sure that you're focusing on the position of the kneecap and keeping it directed over the middle toes of your foot, or if anything, a little bit to the outside, but not allowing itself to cave in. Ironically, this is why this all ties together. If we're controlling that hip, that knee is going to be controlled, right? If we control the position, don't let that hip bounce out. What happens when it bounces out, the knee goes in. So if we can focus on either controlling the hip and keeping it tucked in or focusing on the knee itself and keeping it in that alignment over those middle toes, you're going to fix that problem too and alleviate any of that discomfort that you would get from exercises that you probably stopped doing because you thought they just did nothing but irritate you even further. Remember when it comes to knee pain, the only thing worse than the wrong movement is no movement. Make sure you're doing the exercises that I showed you here. Start with those kind of foundational exercises, build up to the three that we just focused on here. And I promise you, your knee pain will feel a lot better. If you have that plantar fasciitis that I mentioned earlier in this video, you're going to want to make sure you check out this video where I show you how to fix that as well as a common fix for a really common problem, low back pain. This is going to work better than anything else. Guys, if you're looking for complete programs where we put physical therapy into our training, you're going to find them over at athleanx.com, full supplements, everything available for you guys there. I hope you found this video helpful. Make sure you click subscribe, turn on the notification so you never miss the video when we put one out. See you soon.

=== FILE: How to Fix Your ＂FLAT＂ Chest (PANCAKE PECS!) [IR1TPr6adH8].txt ===

 spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider spider Second is going to be the position of your head as you lower the dumbbells. First of all, when it comes to the position of your head, you're going to allow yourself to just lift even just one or two inches off of the bench as you lower the dumbbells down. And all that's doing is setting the stage for what's going to happen during the press itself. Because naturally, I'm going to want to put my head back in contact with the bench, along with it my shoulders, which is going to give me the leverage and the counterforce necessary to drive those dumbbells away from me. But what's happening most importantly is putting the chest and the pecs out in that prime position as the main drivers of the movement. Now, don't get me wrong. I'm not lifting to the point where I'm straining my neck. We're talking about a simple one to two inches. As a matter of fact, I would argue that those that keep their head in contact with the bench the whole time and drive down from there actually place more potential strain on their neck than those that are actually doing this simple lift. Now when it comes to the speed of your press, that's the second thing you're going to want to focus on. You need to try to become as explosive as possible even if you're using heavier weights. You want to try to move the weight as fast as possible on the way up and of course really control slowly on the way down. You see, the chest is actually comprised of the third highest percentage of type 2 fibers of all the muscles in your body. What does that mean? It means this muscle is geared to handle more acceleration during the concentric of the exercise. So if you're driving those dumbbells up explosively, much more explosive than you are right now, you might actually start to create more of that chest growth that you're lacking right now simply by training the muscle the way it prefers to be trained. Now there are some instances where even if after you implement those two changes to your bench press, you still really can't fill your pecs. Well, that's where I recommend a detox exercise, right? It's my mind muscle rehab and it comes in the form of a cable incline bench press. Now the cables are the game changer here. It's worth the setup if you have access to this. What you'll find is that by setting the cables out wide and having to actively adduct them just to get them in position to press, you're almost pre-engaging the pecs and setting the stage once again for them to do more of the work and take the delts out of it. So if anybody suffers from feeling the pecs during a press, I guarantee you with 100% certainty you will feel the pecs during this exercise. And some of us might think, but I can't lift as heavy here as I could with dumbbells or a barbell. But that's not the point. The point is you don't have the mind muscle connection here to get the most out of those variations of the exercise. So why not work with this detox exercise and work on developing that so when you go back to those exercises you're doing it better. The next thing you have to do to fix that flat chest is actually start to care about your lower chest. Even somebody that has moderate levels of body fat might be able to see the top row of abs. That top row of abs literally delineates the lower chest line. It's right up against it. And if your abs look more prominent right now than your lower chest, believe me, it's going to look like you have a flat chest. So what you need to do is develop this area mostly with a dip. It's the classic exercise, but you have to do it the right way. Here I want you to make sure that you are not allowing your shoulders to shrug at any point during the exercise. If you allow your shoulders to rise up and shrug up, then that chest is going to get hollowed out. And when you press, most of the pressing is going to come through the front delt and the triceps. But instead, if you drive your shoulders down, keep them forcefully unshrugged. Lean forward so that you get your chest out more so than your delts. And then when you get to the bottom, you don't try to escape the uncomfortability of the stretch, but you actually try to wallow in it by performing something called a 1.5 dip. Again, anything you can do to spend more time in that lowered stretch position of the pecs is going to contribute more to the growth of that lower peck line and one that looks less flat. Now with that lower chest more prominent, I can tell you nothing fixes a flat chest more than working on a more prominent upper chest or that upper chest shelf. As a matter of fact, you can even see this when wearing a shirt if you have any kind of a low cut v-neck. How do you develop it though? This is one of my favorite ways to do it. It's called a cable Y pullover. It's very important that you set the exercise up properly. You want your bench far enough away from the cables that you can get your arms up overhead into this Y position. You pull your hands together at the same time that you drive your arms forward like you would in a traditional pullover. The benefit here is you don't have to stop at vertical. If we had a dumbbell in our hand here and kept going forward, we'd be concerned that we might drop it on our junk and actually taking away all the work being done by the pecs. But with the cables, you have the opposite effect. You still have tension, so you get a tremendous amount of range of motion and you get a tremendous amount of contraction right in those upper chest fibers that are lagging right now. I would also argue that this exercise becomes somewhat shoulder protective because anyone that spends a great amount of time doing their chest exercises in this more delt dominant way is likely to have more of that rounded shoulder posture. This is a good way to restore some overhead mobility and some more normal biomechanics to the joint to make this exercise more than just an upper pec builder, but also a shoulder protector. If you're relying solely on dipping and pressing and wondering why you still have those pancake pecs, then this is going to be one of the main reasons why. Because you need to do and perform all functions of the chest if you want it to grow the best. Here we need to have exercises that bring our arms across midline. And perhaps there's no better or more direct way to do this than with the exercise that literally does this, the crossover. Now, the best thing about the crossover is its versatility. You can perform this in one of three different planes of motion. Either straight out here in front of your body, anchoring from a low position and raising your arm up and across your body, or anchoring in a high position and lowering your arm down and across your body. Going from high to low is going to work more of that lower chest line that we already discussed with the dips. Going from low to high and up and across your body follows the fiber direction of those upper pec fibers or the clavicular fibers that attach to that collarbone, like I said. It will allow you to hit them more effectively. And then again, going across our body is going to work more of those sternal fibers that attach in this direction here. Again, rounding out those pecs. Now, the great thing is this exercise can be performed either individually, one attacking each plane at a time. Or you can perform the exercise as something I call an omni crossover, where you differentiate the plane of motion that each arm is following. One can be set from high to low and one can be set just in the midline. Or one can be set high to low and the other can be low to high. It's up to you which configuration you want to do here. You can save time if you're short on time or again, separate them all out and attack them individually. The bottom line is this is one of the few exercises that gets the adduction needed to start to make that chest of yours become much more three-dimensional. Now, if there's anything that can undermine an attempt to build a more prominent chest, it's a bad shoulder. And if you've got one right now, you might even find some of the exercises that we covered already difficult to do. Except you've got an option here. And this is a variation of the crossover. We call this the 3D crossover. And this exercise is one that will take a lot of the strain off of the shoulder, but still allow you to move a lot of weight and engage the pecs. Again, most importantly, in both of that shoulder flexion and adduction function. Pull the weight in just a little bit to start and then drive your arm across your body, keeping it nice and close. Again, the further it gets out away from your body, the more susceptible you might become to some of that anterior shoulder pain. But by keeping it nice and close and tight and driving your arm as far across your body as you can into adduction, you're going to feel a really great contraction here. What I love about this exercise is it actually saved me during a time where my torn labrum was making chest training almost impossible. It gave me the only exercise option I had that I could still do pain free until the point where I was able to build myself back up without having to feel the pain at the end of every one of those workouts. You want to turn them into something like this, Tig Old Diddy. Tig Old Diddy. P Diddy. I can't say that anymore. Also known as Big Old Fit. Look at me. Tig Old Bitties. Tig Old Bitties. Tig Old Bitties. Big Old Titties. Cut, cut, cut. Remember, whether you're a hard gainer or you're just starting out and this is the type of chest that's staring back at you right now, there is a path to something much better looking and this is the way to do it. Guys, if you're looking for a full workout you can link to this Perfect Chest Workout. If you're looking to see how I rank a lot of the different chest exercises you can see all my rankings for those right here. If you're looking for a complete program, guys, they're available over at ATHLEANX.com. If you haven't done so, click Subscribe, turn on your notifications so you never miss a video when we put one out. All right, guys. See you soon. Bye. Bye.

=== FILE: How to Fix Your ＂FLAT＂ Triceps (GUARANTEED) [TzWgv2BeITs].txt ===

 You're doing triceps, you're doing triceps, you're doing triceps, you're doing triceps pushdowns, close grip, close grip, bench press, and skull crushers like crazy, but you still can't feel your shirt sleeves. And when you flex your arms, your triceps are missing that classic low hang, and instead look just plain flat. And there's a reason for that. And there's a reason for that. And that's usually a misunderstanding of the anatomy of the triceps and also not knowing the best exercises that hit the exact head of the triceps that actually fill in the gap that you're missing right now. So it's my job to make sure that you not only know how to do the right exercises, but you know how to do them the right way. And when we're talking about filling those shirt sleeves, you need the wrong head. So how do you need the wrong head. So how do you need the wrong head. So how do you need the wrongetzency,兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩兩 skull crusher, but we're not. Because if you target the skull, you're finishing and starting from this position here, which is not a position overhead, but rather in front of your body like in a traditional tricep pushdown. What I want to do and what you need to do is get those arms back behind your head. So now with your shoulders in flexion, with the bending of the elbows, I get a lot more tension directed right at that area that we're trying to fill in, that gap. And again, when I straighten out my elbows, I never allow the arm to drift or travel any further towards the torso. Once you set this angle back behind you, now it's just about opening and closing the elbow joint, keeping that arm pointed backwards the entire time. And that's the way you're going to turn that exercise into a more effective one for building your triceps. Sticking with the exercises that do a good job of putting your arm overhead, we have another one that a lot of people do, but unfortunately they do it incorrectly. It's the tricep push away. And you'll see this all the time. They'll get in this position here and extend the rope out in front of them. But what's happening is you're extending it far too low. Your arm position here is incorrect. You can't have a parallel arm position to the floor because the more parallel you keep your arm here, the more parallel it will become to the rope in the finished position. And that's not a good recipe if you want more tension in the triceps. You want more perpendicularity. So the way to do that is to get your arms to a higher position on the finish. The other thing is people don't use enough weight on this exercise. And there's a simple cheat that you can actually add that allows you to use more weight and also still get into that proper finished position. And we call this a step through push away. Now I want you to get away from the stack. In other words, disengage the stack by stepping away. From here with that back leg, I'm going to use that to my advantage. I'm going to step into it and then step through and push. Coming actually towards you. I'm stepping towards you and driving the weight out at the same time. Again, keeping that arm position high and not low. With us in this high position, we're going to get much more tension on the triceps. What's nice is on the rebound here, I get a good stretch with this overhead arm positioning on the triceps. You can actually elaborate that by letting your elbows drift high and then drive forward and step through and push. Back and up, just like that. Now, finishing nice and high again. But you can see I can use a little bit of body English and momentum to almost cheat this the same way I would with a cheat curl. You're using some momentum and now I've got to control the eccentric on that good stretch on the way back. But again, we're finishing with a more perpendicular positioning of the rope to my forearm. A much better exercise. And again, one I can load up heavier to get more benefit from it. Next is an exercise that I know you've seen it, you've likely done it, and you probably have done it wrong. And we're talking about the popular dumbbell overhead extension or powerbomb. And you'll see this exercise where you extend the dumbbell up overhead like this and lower it down to get a good stretch on the triceps. Once again, getting into that overhead stretch position. The problem is the position of your elbows here. A lot of us, maybe either due to immobility of our shoulders or just simply shoulder pain, we'll find our elbows will drift out to the sides. What happens is when they drift, you take a lot of the tension away from the triceps because you're limiting the range of motion. Where your elbows are out wide, this is about the range of motion you get at your elbows. When they come out in front of you, you get much more flexion and extension range of motion, which is going to put more tension overall into the triceps and make it a better builder. However, how do you do it right? Not this way. Not just sitting on the end of a bench. Instead, you do what I did in the beginning and that's you prop up the incline bench. Because this actually fixes whatever biomechanical limitations you're inadvertently avoiding at this moment. Because when I do it this way, I still get the same ability to drop the dumbbell back behind my head, get an intense stretch on the triceps, and get that good long range of motion. But look what's happening at the shoulder joint. I don't have to have as much flexion mobility because my arms are actually a little bit more out in front of my body relative to this position here. They're basically like this as opposed to having to be back here like that. And that little bit of flexion difference is the difference between being able to do this properly with the elbows forward or not with the elbows drifting. So, doing it this way, you drop that dumbbell down, good stretch back here, extend up, and again, just like the first exercise, a little bit back behind you. Keep those elbows locked in that position close to the side of your head. And I promise you this exercise becomes one that delivers the gains without the pain. The fourth exercise actually introduces a mistake that's more prevalent now than maybe ever before. And it's forgetting to then do the other exercises, the one that actually placed the triceps in that more fully shortened position. Because there's still a lot of benefits to be had there. And for this, I actually use an exercise I call the Wolverine Pull Down. So, we can't forget the fact that given the fact that the tricep extends the arm back behind the body, it actually does have functions as a pull muscle. But it also, of course, extends the elbow. So, it's sort of a pull push. This exercise will do both of those. What you do is you take a hand-over-hand grip here on the cable machine, and then you pull until your elbows are close here to your body. Right? They're tight to your body. After you pull, you extend the backs of your hands as far back behind you as possible. And again, we know if we can get the arm back behind us, shoulder into extension, we can really hit that long head. And again, with good full triceps extension, elbow extension. We come up, little bit of recoil, and then pull and push. Pull, push. One of the best contractions you'll get. And again, not just hitting the triceps. If you look at me do this exercise with the shirt off, you can see it's hitting all the muscles on the back side. Literally, the glutes are even working to try to stabilize the lower body. But this exercise hits those triceps in that fully shortened position. And because of that, it becomes an exercise you don't want to skip because others are telling you the only thing that matters is the stretch position. They both matter if you want to fully develop the tricep. Which brings me to one of the most demonized and diminished exercises that we have in the gym. And it's the good old tricep kickback. But for good reason. Because a lot of people will do the exercise like this. And what starts to happen after a few reps is that low back starts to curl under. They lose the ability to hold themselves posturally. And as they start to fatigue, that elbow starts to drop lower and lower. So, what happens at the end is you're simply extending your elbow and not even against gravity. So, the exercise is not very good. However, there's a fix for it. We go right back to the incline bench. With that same incline set up, you position yourself face down. And this does a few things that magically make this exercise much more effective for you. Number one, it gives me a counter force. I could push down into the bench to drive the dumbbells up more effectively. The same way that if I was doing a bench press, I'm pushing down into the bench to be able to drive the dumbbells away from me. That's the first thing. The second thing pretty obviously is it fixes the posture. You're never going to have to worry again about the low back fatiguing and tearing apart the mechanics of the exercise. I'm going to be perfectly situated here face down. The third thing is it allows me to perform a drag on the exercise that ensures that I'm getting my elbow far back into extension so I can maximize the contraction on that long head. So, what does it look like? I want you to take your dumbbells and let them hang straight down underneath you. And then drag your elbows close to your sides and as far back as you possibly can just to your waistline. From here, now you extend back as far as you can with the dumbbells. You'll feel an intense contraction on the tricep long head. Come right back down and do it again. What this is doing is, again, ensuring that I'm getting the right starting position on every rep no matter how fatigued I get. There's no such thing as sagging elbows if every single repetition requires that I drag them back as far as possible to set the stage for the rest of the repetition. When you do this, you'll find that even with light weights here, you get that all intense contraction you're probably missing right now, especially if you're avoiding those contraction based exercises and at the same time most effectively hitting the tricep long head. Look, there's nothing more impressive than a low hanging tricep to complement a baseball bicep. And now you know exactly the right exercises to do and more importantly, how to do them. If you're looking for a full tricep workout, you can check out the perfect tricep workout here. If you want to know how to do incline curls the right way, you can find out how to build your biceps with this video here. Full programs available over at ATHLEANX.com. If you haven't done so, click subscribe and turn on notifications so you don't miss a video when we put one out. All right, guys. See you soon.

=== FILE: How to Get Bigger Legs WITHOUT Squats (PAIN FREE) [l50L2T71xis].txt ===

 that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that have that down to the floor, it actually pulls you into the proper position for the squat. So if you're getting low back pain because you're leaning too far forward, or if you're getting knee pain because you're allowing your knees to go too far forward, this will actually give you the perfect amount of hip and knee flexion and solve a lot of your issues just by simply starting with something that's more fit for you. But that version is not for everybody because not everybody squats less than 135 pounds. If you squat more and you need to have more weight, what you do is you split the dumbbells up, one in each hand, and you perform a split squat. Now you have to get the setup right because this is where it all goes wrong. Too many times I see people do the split squat and when they go down, they look fine. When they come up, they push back and away. You don't want to push back and away from that front leg. You need to stay vertical over the top of that leg. So what you want to do to establish the right depth of this leg is start in the vertical position on that leg and then start to reach back with the other foot. You have to go to the point where you avoid any of this knee bend. If you've bent your knee, you've gone too far with this back leg. You need to, again, be able to stay in that vertical leg position, leg straight, reach back as far as you can. Okay, right about there, he's still in that spot. If you were to go any further, that front knee would bend. This is where you want to be. You bend down, you grab your dumbbells, and now what you do is you keep your chest up and proud. You go straight down just like you did on the drop squat and you come straight up out of there. You can see that that quad is doing the work all the way up to the top. It's not being bailed out by moving your body backwards. Again, more weight can be handled here. The posture is almost automatically corrected. And for those looking for that next step in the progression, this is where you'd be. But now it's time to get serious because now we move on to one of the most hated exercises in the gym, but one of the most productive, and it's the Bulgarian split squat. The reason why people hate it is because it still can cause some knee issues if you set up incorrectly. Here's the hack to make sure you do this right every single time. All you have to do is extend one leg out until your heel hits the ground and your knee is straight. At that point, that is going to be the foot placement. You reach your dumbbells forward and put them to the outsides of your foot. All right, now all you do is keep that foot right where it is and stand up. From there, you put this foot back on the bench. You roll your foot over a little bit so you have more contact area and surface area for balance, and you are good to go. Now, what's great about this exercise – go ahead, Jesse – is, once again, it puts you in that exact position biomechanically. You don't have to worry about how to do the exercise. You just have to do it. And yeah, it's challenging because we're moving now 75% of the load to that front leg. So I mentioned starting to kind of transition you into more of these single-leg activities. This is one of the ways that we do it. Now, you do have the back leg helping you out here, so it's not a full single-leg movement, which we'll get to. But this is an amazing way to strengthen and, yes, build big legs one leg at a time doing the Bulgarian split squat. But ultimately, what's most important here is that you maintain those pain-free knees, hips, and back, but you still got to move, right? If I can get you to move around like I can on a reverse lunge, well, then I'm taking a real step – no pun intended – in the right direction. So how do we do this? You got to get this right, too, in terms of how you set up. When you do the reverse lunge, you don't step straight back in line with one foot in front of the other because that's going to create a balance exercise. And really what we're looking to do is create a strength and muscle building exercise. So what you want to do is when you step back, step back and out so you can widen your feet. And when you do that, you have a lot more support and balance isn't the limiting factor here. The second thing is as you go down, get a little bit of a twist of the torso over the front leg. What that will do is kind of almost screw you into position, right? Lock you in stability-wise to do the exercise properly. And what, again, is happening here is you're getting all the biomechanics right because you set up right. And when you set up right, a lot of times those things that were nagging before – the back, the hips, and the knees – are all fixed because you're doing it with proper positioning. This is an amazing exercise that you can load up really, really heavy and build some pretty damn big legs. But you have to do it right. Now you can. But now if you really want to build big legs and overload them without having to load your body excessively, well, this is what you want to do next. This is a single leg squat. And what you do is either get a bench or a box that will allow you to actually drop your leg down below the level of it so you can get into a deeper squat. Why is this so great? Well, first, let's look at it. What you do is you basically come down like this, try to get down towards parallel, and you come straight up. This is not a pistol squat. The leg is not out here in front. If anything, it's out here to the side. You come up out of that hole just like that. Jesse is doing a good job. But here's where it gets interesting. You actually can load up excessively well with this single leg variation because of how the body treats this load. Did you know that a 2x bodyweight squat – so Jesse weighing 165 pounds – would be a 330-pound squat? You can recreate that in this single leg environment by simply having half of his bodyweight in his hands. So if you took a dumbbell and you actually goblet squatted it here, if this was an 80-pound dumbbell, then what you're getting here is the equivalent of a 330-pound squat in terms of what it feels like on that single leg. So you don't have to have all that load coming down here on his back or your hips or your knees. In this case, you can utilize these loads. Here's where it gets even more interesting. A 3x bodyweight squat. So three times your bodyweight would be 490 pounds, I think? Something like that. That would be recreated here if you could somehow load your body with your own bodyweight. So 165 pounds that Jesse weighs plus another 165 pounds either in the form of a weighted vest, a goblet squat dumbbell in your hand, chains, anything combining it all to get to that system weight of your own total bodyweight. By the way, that's not easy, but you can see how you can take away a lot of the load and also at the same time not have to compromise on the overload that's going to grow those legs are yours. But now what if when you're doing those exercises, your knees rocking all over the place and you can't keep it stable? What if, Jeff, you're going to draw me like one of your French girls? What if you listen to the rest of the video like everybody else? Fair enough. So what we would do is we would try to correct that because what happens is a lot of knee pain comes from a lack of control at the hip. Remember, the knee is just in between the ankle and the hip. You need to be able to stabilize and control that joint by controlling those two places. So the way to control this hip is to strengthen it. You get down on the ground like this and you perform it in one of two variations. For the beginners, you focus on this top leg, you point the toe down into the ground out in front of you. You're going to lift it up at the same time, bringing the leg back behind your body, still keeping the toe turned down towards the ground. This is going to really target a muscle called the glute medias. Again, I don't care if you're a 400-pound squatter, this is still going to be very weak if all you do is sagittal plane squatting exercises. We need to focus on building up this strength so we can have more control of that knee when you're doing any squat variation. That being said, if you want to take it another level up, then you're going to lift up off the ground. So those hands that are placed out in front of you actually assist you in lifting that bottom hip too. So while the top leg is doing its thing, the bottom leg is being lifted up and the abductors of that bottom hip are working at the same time these are. The combination of those two things together create really, really strong hips. And when you get strong hips, that back pain goes away, that knee pain goes away, and that hip pain goes away. The bottom line here, guys, is you have options to get bigger, stronger legs that don't require you to keep hammering away at the very exercise that's bothering you right now. You want to build back up to be able to do bilateral squats? By all means, you can do that. But if you want to continue to overload and progressively overload these exercises, you're going to be able to build from here too. All right, guys, I hope you found the video helpful. Make sure you click subscribe and return your notifications so you never miss a video. If you want two more videos, guys, you have back pain already, I can promise you I can fix it because it's fixed 42 million people's backs over here. And if you want to fix anterior pelvic tilt, another common condition, you can find that over here. All right, guys, make sure you remember to subscribe. I'll be back here soon. See you.

=== FILE: How to Get Lean at ANY Age! (PROVEN METHOD) [YTkHLAF-jgg].txt ===

 This right here is going to help you to lose weight and keep it off forever. There's going to be no more attempt to lose weight because what I wrote down on this paper actually is exactly what I've done that has helped me to not only get lean but stay there now at the age of 50. So I wanted to put some real thought into this. And for you I wrote down 12 actionable things. 12 things that I believe are completely comprehensive, step by step by step, that if you follow these that if you follow these that if you follow these that if you follow these you're going to be able to get very, very, very good results. And by doing this I realized that I come to you in a state of authority. I know that I can speak about this not only having done this myself but having done this for pro athletes, having done this for pro athletes, having done this for actors whose main responsibility was to get lean for a specific role and for lots of people just like you that are watching this video right now who just need to lose weight and have been frustrated by not being able to do it. So that's the premise. Okay? So right off the bat, number one is going to have to do with motivation. And for you people that want to just skip this part because you don't really care about the motivation part you have to listen to this part because it sets the stage for the actionable tips that are going to come next. And I promise you I'll give you all the actionable tips. The first part about motivation is that you have to realize that it doesn't come necessarily before you start. It can come after you start. So a good portion of you that watch this whole video are going to wind up becoming fired up and motivated and have a blue blueprint just like this to be able to go and follow through on and start to see the results that you're looking for. Some will watch this video, see all the things that they know they need to do and not find the motivation to actually go do it. But that's okay. Because a lot of us are not going to find that motivation until we start to see the results from actually doing it. And that's the part I think that trips people up. They feel like they should expect to have motivation. And it's not going to come until you start to see that. If you do feel that motivation you have to be careful because that motivation can sometimes be a wolf in sheep's clothing. In other words, you start extremely motivated, but then the first time something happens you feel like you're reverting back to your old self again. That you're going to go right back to all the habits that led you to the point that you're at right now and that you're just not destined to be able to follow a list like this that I create for you. That's not true either. All right. So you have to be careful when it comes to motivation. The best way to handle this, here's your first actionable tip. The best way to set this up for success is to start by asking yourself why rather than telling yourself what you're going to do based off of my advice here or what you're not going to do, which is even worse, based off of my advice here. Instead say, why am I going to do this? And when you ask yourself why you will get to the real reason and the motivator that will drive you or anchor you to finally get to where you want to be. That why can actually be determined by asking yourself that question more than once. If you say, hey, I just want to get a six pack. Ask yourself, well, why do I want a six pack? Well, because I want to be leaner. Why do you want to be leaner? Well, because I have too much weight and I want to be healthier. Oh, okay, we're getting somewhere. Why do you want to be healthier? Well, because I have kids, young kids, and I want to be healthier and lead a better example for them on how to live a healthier life. Okay, so you're getting at the true why. And when you start to get down, usually after five askings of the question, why, you usually get to the real motivation. That motivation or that anchor, you'll be able to find success. Point number two, when it comes to getting lean, nutrition beats training every single time. And I know as a trainer, you're probably surprised some of you to hear that, but there's no out training a bad diet. There's no overcoming sloppy nutrition. The results that you will get will always be sloppy if you won't fix the way you eat. Now, here's the good news. There's a way to do that. But we have to overcome a certain mindset first. And that is the mindset, that simple mindset that says, you just got to eat less and move more. I can appreciate that, but that's not going to create the type of weight loss that you're looking for. Because I'm not looking to lose muscle at the same time that I'm losing fat. I want you to only lose body fat and maintain your muscle, as you'll see here in a minute, why that's so important. The other thing is, it's really less about eating less and more about eating right. So how do we eat right? The first thing we have to do is prioritize two things at every single meal. Protein and fibrous carbohydrates. So much so that if you can create a meal that has 80% coming from those two places, 40% protein and 40% of those fibrous carbohydrates, that would fix 80% of your nutrition problems right there. Just by simply starting your plate that way. I even go on to show a nutrition partition technique that we use, the plate division technique, where you want to divide your plate in this way. Look at it like a clock and divide that circle up 40% from protein, 40% from the fibrous carbohydrates and leave the remaining 20% for starchy carbohydrates. So how much protein are we talking about? I recommend 0.75 to 1 gram of protein per pound of body weight and up to 1.2 grams of protein per pound of body weight if you're training in the gym. So what I do is I use a protein powder and I'm not doing this to just promote my protein though. It's the best protein out on the market. But truly, I have a protein shake in the morning, 30 grams plus a little bit extra for the milk, and then I have a protein shake at night when I get back from work. And what that does for me is it allows me to start to chase that, let's say for me, 175 grams of protein per day or even slightly higher by getting 70 grams of protein right there just in the two shakes. It makes it a lot easier to do. Now why does that work? Because it helps us to maintain muscle mass. And muscle mass, as you'll see here, is going to be the main driver of metabolism as you age. And as you start to lose muscle when you get older, here a challenge for me at the age of 50, your metabolism will start to slow down. And even staying the same weight you were, even eating the same things can become a challenge. When it comes to those carbohydrates, and I'm talking about starchy carbohydrates, they are the great consistency caveat. Meaning they are either going to work for you or against you, but you better learn how to handle them. Because I do not believe that depriving yourself from those starchy carbohydrates, and we're talking about the ones that you like. Rice, potatoes, bread, pasta. If you avoid them entirely, then the consistency is going to go by the wayside. Because in the long haul, and I'm talking about not just in the next one month even. I'm talking about not even just in the next three or six months. But a year down the road, two years down the road, five years, ten years down the road. I do not believe that anybody can completely avoid starchy carbohydrates, and find themselves to be completely satisfied with their eating. To a degree that they'll never relapse, or find themselves in need of another video just like this again. And I'm not saying that there aren't anomalies in people out there that can actually do this, and prefer to do this, and feel way better by doing this. But I'm talking about being able to sustain that for a very long period of time. The same token, if you overindulge in carbohydrates, even just by a little bit, you're going to find consistency to be equally difficult. Because these are the types of foods that we tend to overeat on. It is the carbohydrates that are so enticing, that are often eaten in great degrees of excess, in large portion sizes, that tend to kill the consistency on any type of plan. So the way to handle it is to find that nutritional balance. And we've actually just done the math for you. Because what you want to do is fill that remaining 20% of that plate with your favorite starchy carbohydrates. Realizing that by having them, and having them partitioned to a very specific portion on your plate, and not exceeding those, unless you have different goals. Like really trying to build muscle, or put on weight. Then you might want to, as an athlete, extend those boundaries a little bit more. To maybe not just 20%, but 35%. So they're not gone completely, but they still have respectable boundaries that keep us from overindulging, and crossing into that zone of being able to kill the plan entirely, or lose all consistency. And by not depriving ourselves of them, or eliminating them completely, we're able to have long term consistency, because we're also keeping our sanity in the process. So what I've just described there, was basically the structure of your meals. In other words, on a plate by plate basis, meal by meal basis, we're talking about the structure and the makeup of the meal. Understand this. Meal frequency will never be more important than meal structure. So a lot of times people ask the question, but Jeff, how many times a day are you eating? How frequently are you eating? And my answer can vary. At times it's five to six times a day, every two and a half hours or so. Other times when I'm really busy, it could just be three times a day. But the difference is not as stark and not as important as you may have thought it would be. Now when I'm talking about training athletes who need to have high levels of performance throughout extended periods of the day, it's generally better to have more frequent meals, to stabilize blood sugar levels, and to be able to stay at a higher level of performance without any crashes. But if we were to equate the calories in that day across those two plans, it wouldn't necessarily make any difference in terms of fat accumulation or weight loss. It would simply just make a difference in terms of how you felt. Some people are going to feel better eating more regularly, smaller meals throughout the day. But again, focusing always on the structure of those meals is going to negate some of the importance of how often you eat during the day. But there is a catch. And that is, if you choose to eat the three meals in a day, that means there's going to be more spacing between those meals in terms of the number of hours before the next meal, which means you're going to likely have to have more willpower to be able to make it to that next meal without reaching for something that you know you shouldn't. Now if you're eating more frequently, willpower is going to be a little bit easier and less of a demand for you. So it's another consideration that you want to make here. So I want you to start to consider something that was a huge difference maker for me. And that was timed eating. Literally eating depending upon when the clock told me to eat. And the reason why this is so helpful is this came long before I had any willpower. But I did have enough discipline. And it didn't take a lot. Just enough discipline to be able to make it to the next specific time that I said I was going to eat. So basically making a series of appointments with your meals throughout the day. Whether that be three, four, five, or six. And the reason why this works is just like you wouldn't break, let's say, a doctor's appointment or an important work meeting. I don't want you to consider that there be any flexibility around these appointments. Right? These meal times. Because what that will do is it will start to take all subjectivity out of eating. And a lot of the reason why we trip up is because we treat nutrition very subjectively. It's like, well, I kind of feel like I'll eat right now. Or I ate yesterday at this time, but I'm going to eat this time today because I'm hungry. I think that's where we start to find the pitfalls in nutrition and why we get tripped up as often as we do. If we treat it very rigidly, just in terms of the time. And I'll tell you how to be more flexible on the meals themselves. But in terms of the time, then we'll find that we can stay a lot more consistent. Because every time 10 o'clock rolls around and that's your mid-morning snack time, you'll know to have one. And every time 1.30 rolls around and that's your lunchtime, you'll know not to skip that or not to miss that. And again, by having this structure built in already, you're going to give yourself a leg up, especially in the beginning when you're trying to find that consistency that it lacks right now. Now, when it comes to that consistency, I've mentioned the word quite a few times already. It's not about not knowing it. It's about how do we implement that. And that's where a lot of us struggle. And a lot of us will swap intensity for consistency. And I'm not talking about in the weight room. I'm talking about in their approach to nutrition, in their approach to following through on what I'm telling you to do here today. By going back out next week and saying, now I'm going to do this. But when you do it, you attack it with an intensity that is bound to fail. You're going to go out and you're going to clean your cupboards of anything that you might enjoy right now because it might possibly not be something that's going to fit in this new meal plan that you're going to follow. Or you might tell people that you usually hang out with socially that you're not allowed to go out anymore. You're not going on any more dates with them because you're not going out to a restaurant to eat because it's not going to fit your meal plan. That is likely going to fail 100 times out of 100. So there's something I wrote down here that I want you guys to understand. 80% effort for three years will be 100% effort for three weeks. Every single time. Don't focus on the intensity of your effort. Focus on something that's actually achievable and something that you can do consistently. And that's where the real power lies. Which leads me now into the other half of the equation. And that is the training that we just mentioned when it came to the intensity of your effort. Well, you're going to need to be intense here and you're going to need to actually be doing this. And I mean need to actually do this. Because trying to lose weight and keep it off forever without having this strength training component is an exercise in futility. It's not going to work long term. I promise you. I've seen this enough. I know what the solution is and it has two parts to it. Nutrition determines body fat levels all the time. I say that all the time. I don't care what you're doing in the walls of the gym. Nutrition determines your body fat levels. But it's the training that determines the muscle mass that you put on. And ultimately that muscle mass determines, as I mentioned before, your metabolic efficiency. So how many calories you burn at rest? Somebody that has more muscle mass is going to burn more calories at rest. Therefore, they're going to have more tolerance in their diet. Because they have more places to utilize those calories. They have even more storage room for those carbohydrates. So those that are avoiding those starchy carbohydrates, the more muscle mass you carry, you have more of a depot for those starchy carbohydrates so you can store them in the form of glycogen. There's so many benefits to doing this. But you might be a little bit lost saying, but I don't have all that much time. We don't need all that much time. You just have to answer the question, how many days a week do you have to do 30 to 45 minutes of training up to an hour? Three? Four? Or let's say even up to six? Because you like to be active and that's where you tend to find your consistency. If you have three days, follow a simple total body workout. Meaning you're going to train all your major muscle groups. Your legs, front and back, your shoulders, your chest, your arms, right? Your back. That's all going to happen in the form of one to two exercises per muscle group in the course of a workout. Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, for instance. If you have four days, do something called a pull-push legs workout. So here we get to divide things up a little bit. You do a series of pull exercises, which would be for your back and biceps. Your pushing exercises on the next day, which would be for your chest, triceps, and shoulders. And then you have your legs that get trained independently on their own day. Front and back, hamstrings and glutes and quads. And then you can come back on a fourth day and just combine them all again like you would in a total body workout and do your total body workout. So you have four days. If you choose the six day split, you have a lot of options. But the simplest thing to do is that pull-push legs, separate it with a day off, and do it again. And again, the focus here should be on including exercises that are big in nature. We call them compound exercises. The ones that work multiple joints together to allow you to move a significant amount of weight, which might be light for you to start, but ultimately enough weight so that you can continue to build strength. So we're talking about exercises like squats, like deadlifts, like lunges, like rows, bench press, pull-ups, just not concentration curls, like those really kind of simple isolation type exercises. The bigger bang for your buck is going to come from these other exercises and the focus being trying to get stronger at them. Because as you get stronger, you'll build that muscle that's potentially lacking right now. That's the key to why you're rebounding and not keeping the weight off for all the reasons I just said. And then it gives you the opportunity to also keep yourself feeling more youthful. Because as I mentioned here at 50 years old, the goal should not be to stop doing the things that are hard, but really actually lean into the things that are difficult and learn how to do them. My biggest tip I can give anybody that has their orthopedic challenges that seem to be making doing everyday things more difficult is to just take them a little bit more slowly. So don't shy away from the heavier weights. Just use weights that you can make sure that you can control and take those weights more slowly to ensure that there's a decreased injury risk. But you're still able to do those things because building that strength and holding on to the strength as you approach each new decade. Where science shows us there is going to be a natural drop off in our strength of 5% to up to 10% per decade. So we don't want to just give in. You want to fight that. This is exactly how to do it. Now here's where you start to ruffle a few feathers, but you have to understand the context. We're talking about getting lean and staying lean. And so the next question comes when we talk about training and working out. Well, Jeff, where does the cardio fit into this? Because for a lot of people, when I mentioned working out, that's the first and only thing they thought of. They weren't thinking about using weights. And I want to flip that for you, hopefully with what I just told you. I want to flip that priority there to make sure that when it comes to body composition, that your weight training is what you're focusing on. The cardio is always going to help to supplement that, but will never be enough to drive the results that you're looking for. And as a matter of fact, here's where the controversial statement comes in. I believe that cardio is what makes people fat in many instances. And hear me out. That's because they will overestimate their efforts in what they've done at the gym, walking on a treadmill, going for a walk around the neighborhood in terms of caloric burn, and then underestimate the calories and the foods that they eat after they do the work that they just did. Feeling as if they have a cushion or a buffer because they put in that effort. And what happens there is this disproportionate climbing and the excess calories start to add up. And even though you're putting forth real effort, and I mean, there's no denying the fact that if you go take a run for an hour or on the treadmill at the gym for an hour, that you're putting in good, solid effort. You're sweating and everything. You feel it. You see it. You know you did it. But in terms of the math of it, it doesn't add up because you're not burning as much as you thought and you're eating too many more calories as a reward for what you did. And it winds up in the end, adding weight and not getting you to your goal. Now when we're talking about heart and the health of your heart, it's a whole different story and there's a really big important part that your cardio plays there. But in terms of body composition, this is how I want you to think about it. For this next one you might think that I'm biased, but it's actually very much true. And that is, your focus in training should have some element of a focus on performance. And what naturally seems to happen as we get older, and even though I'm 50 years old, and I do have very much a channel based around the aesthetics of looking a certain way, Athlean, I always have an eye towards my ability to do things. I've said since day one, it's not just about looking a certain way. If I wanted to just have as much muscle as possible, I either could have jumped on PEDs or I could have followed the training routines of some of the guys that have that look, but can't do a damn thing if asked to do something functional. That's never been what I wanted to be able to do, let alone I have to be able to keep up with the athletes that I train anyway. So I want to be able to do stuff. But it gets a little bit more serious when you start to get into your 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s and beyond, where you can't do even the things that you used to be able to do. You get down on the floor and then getting up it feels like an effort to get off the floor without feeling aches and pains in some of your joints, or all of them. So I want you to challenge yourself in something that you can measure. So even if it is a pushup, find out how many pushups you can do and try to improve upon that in the next 30 days. And I know I'm not all about just stacking up the number of pushups you can do. Ultimately you want to get harder and harder pushup variations, but that in and of itself could be part of the challenge. Find a different pushup variation that's difficult for you today and work on getting better at that. Or the number of pullups you can do, or how long you can hang from a bar, or what your mile time is, what your fastest 100 meter sprint is. Like find something that's actionable that you can actually test yourself on and try to improve upon. And what happens is, ironically, as you get better at this functional performance element of training, you actually get two major benefits. Number one, you oftentimes look better. That's the whole part of ATHLEANX training is that while you're training like an athlete, you get to look like one too. The second thing is you become more affordable. You get more averse to injury, right? That risk starts to go down because you're doing some of the things like the corrective exercises that are meant to help to improve the overall function that add up and keep you free from injury. And why is that important? Because the injury risk is the most damaging thing to your long-term consistency. It's the cornerstone of being able to stay in the gym, doing the things you're doing, burning the calories you're burning. But also, we all know that when we get injured and we're not going to the gym, we're more likely to revert to old habits where we start eating shit all over again and start putting all that weight back on. So maintaining a lower risk of injury and maintaining your health while you train is probably the most important element of all of this. Because when that goes, then things change dramatically. The next thing you have to focus on if you want to have long-term sustainable leanness is your levels of hydration. Because throughout the day, even periods of dehydration can have a significant impact. We know that remaining hydrated helps you to maintain more energy. It helps you to maintain a more efficient metabolism. It's what our muscles crave throughout the day. But it also can lead to lowered levels of focus that can decrease your ability to execute that willpower that we talked about that you're going to need. So when you don't have the willpower because you're feeling dehydrated and you reach for something that you know you shouldn't, well then the whole plan can kind of go off the rails. And it even gets worse when sometimes we confuse that feeling of dehydration for hunger. And then we lead to eating foods that we don't really necessarily need because we weren't even hungry in the first place. The key is just maintaining hydration levels throughout the day. And whether that's just bringing a water bottle with you everywhere that you go, which a lot of people do these days and it's pretty acceptable, or you just simply follow the tip that I always give, which is to put about six rubber bands on a bottle of a 20 ounce bottle of Poland Spring water. Every time you've finished that bottle, you just take off one of the rubber bands and fill it back up again. And at the end of the day, you should have no rubber bands left on that bottle because you will have gone through all those bottles of water. It's just sort of a visual reminder of how much you need to take in throughout the day and it allows you to be more consistent in doing it. The next non-negotiable here is going to be related to sleep. And we do it every single night, but a lot of us don't do it well. If you were able to harness your ability to sleep well, then all this stuff becomes easier. Because when you don't sleep well or you have interrupted sleep, you raise levels of cortisol, your hunger hormones will become increased, you will have issues with recovery. All things that lead to a physique that's not going to be optimal and certainly not one that can sustain the test of time. So what I need you to do is just develop a simple sleep habit. And there's so many things that we can do. But here's some of the things that could be very helpful for you. Number one, set two alarms. The first one is going to be the one to go to bed. And we know that on our phones now it makes it so easy to set multiple alarms. You set one for your bedtime. Because if you don't have that little gentle reminder, a lot of times we can drift a little bit later and later into the night before we actually get ourselves or find ourselves in bed. The second alarm should actually go for the morning. Now I'm somebody who used to be against setting an alarm. But if I had somewhere to be or if I had to be somewhere that next day, I find that I would wake up too many times because I was fearful of oversleeping. And all those times you're waking up are interrupting your sleep and the quality of your sleep. So having the alarm knowing that it's going to wake you when you need to be woken should allow you to have more restful, undisturbed sleep. Getting away from these phones for 30 minutes or so before bed, because the blue light can affect the quality of sleep. Whatever you do, please adopt just one change starting tonight that's going to give you a step in the right direction that when you start to stack them together, that sleep of yours will become a lot easier to sustain, maintain, and then get benefit from each and every day when you wake up feeling refreshed and able to do all the things I've asked you to do much more easily. And perhaps most important of all, don't confuse perfection for discipline. Discipline does not mean having to do everything right because there's going to come a day where you slip on a meal. You don't get the workout in. You don't want to let that day break you from the overall plan here because the overall plan does not require perfection. Like I said before, I'll take the 80% over three years versus 100% effort for three weeks. The only one that's going to be sustainable is the one that has some built-in room for making some mistakes along the way and realizing that those mistakes aren't even going to have a big impact on your level of leanness when you look at the big picture in the long run. You can course correct after one mistake and get right back on track. If you're looking for a plan so you don't have any guesswork, guys, you can find them over at athleanx.com. We have all the workouts that I mentioned before, the meal plans. Also, we have the supplements, the exact protein that I use, Pro 30G, over there. And if you're looking for a video, guys, make sure you check out these two. This is an approach that people should take over 40 when they're lifting weights. And if you wake up stiff in the morning, well, these five stretches will do a great job of helping you to feel looser. All right, guys. Click subscribe, turn on notifications so you never miss a video when we're putting out. See you soon.

=== FILE: How to Get a Chiseled Lower Chest (No Bullsh＊t Guide!) [Aabfoy8HbIc].txt ===

 There's nothing worse than a guy that has to feel self-conscious about taking off his shirt, be it at the beach or behind closed doors, because they're self-conscious about the look of their lower chest, particularly that saggy droopiness that we see there. As a matter of fact, a lot of guys can handle having a big belly way more than they can having a chest that looks like this. And if it's not bad enough that the women might become a little bit judgmental about it, all they have to do is thank their buddies for all the nice things that they have to say about them for having the same condition. The good news is that they have to say about them for having the same condition. The good news is that they have to say about them for having the same condition. The good news is that they have to say about them for having the same condition. The good news is that they have to say about them for having the same condition. The good news is though, in this video, guys, I'm going to show you how you can actually start to create something that looks a little bit more like this. With that defined, more muscular chiseled chest line, if you follow a step-by-step approach that requires two things, a proper approach to nutrition and training. And before you say, I knew it was going to be those two things, but maybe you don't know exactly what to do. And that's my job is to show you exactly what to do. And maybe not just from the body fat level I showed you there, but from any one of these body fat levels. From the first 40s to the 30s or 20s or high teens, low teens with a goal of being all the way down here in this sub 10%. I can show you what steps you need to do specifically at each one of these stages to get to that next stage. Now, the disqualifiers here. I said both parts are necessary because if you just have your nutrition locked in, you're eating right, but you don't train, you can wind up with more of this flat, bony chested, lack of chest development. However, on the opposite side, maybe you like to train with weights and you get a bigger chest, but you're not getting quite the definition that you're looking for here because you just can't dial in the nutrition. I'll show you what roadblocks you can get by to get there because even with just a few modifications, you can see what a difference that same guy would have by just having a little bit more focus on nutrition. And lastly, we have to do the big disqualification here. If when you grab your chest, you're feeling lumpiness or tenderness, you're actually feeling more glandular tissue at the end of your chest. That is a condition called gynecomastia. And that's a whole different animal that is hormone driven by having excess estrogen that drives up these extra deposits here. And that's handled quite differently than what I'm going to show you here. But for the rest of us, the majority of us who don't fall into this category, I'm going to give you the game plan you need. Let's start at the top. And by at the top, I'm talking about at the highest levels of body fat. And in this example here today, we're talking about in the forties. Now there's the 40% bracket. If you're here, you know, you're here, right? You look in the mirror and you don't like what you see. The good news is you don't have to focus on this quite yet. If you want to actually achieve success where you should focus on focuses right here on the next obtainable goal, because when you shoot too high too soon, you become disappointed too quickly. And then you're likely to quit way before you actually obtain what you could have if you just focused on whoever is in the next bracket above you. If you're in the twenties right now, you want to get to the high teens. If you're in the thirties, you want to get to the twenties. There's no unavoidable way to go from here to here without first going through all of these. And that's a good thing because you're going to be able to set easier goals along the way and be able to get there. Now, how do we do it? Nutritionally, we have something interesting that happens here. This group down here can all do one thing in common. And that is a simple math equation to nutritionally dial in on their maintenance calorie level to assist them in terms of their jump off point. Where do you go? How do you get started? Right here. We group them this way, forties, thirties, and twenties, because conceivably, not going to have abs. So we can say that you're at a point where you do not see your abs, but you take the following equation, your body weight times 12. And you do this for your two week maintenance test. What that means is whatever number this comes out to be, that is the number of calories that you're going to consume for two weeks. Let me explain. This person here we're going to estimate is, let's say 250 pounds. Maybe this guy's 220 and this guy's 280 pounds. By 12, you get 3000 calories. That is where I want this person to be over the course of the next two weeks. A couple of things are going to have to happen though, to be here. Number one, they're going to have to count their calories. So maybe they're not doing that right now. And a lot of times when you look like this, you can see, well, we are not counting your calories. So it's going to force you to become a little bit more aware of the foods that you're putting in your mouth, what they're made of in terms of their macronutrient profiles. And again, just give you a rough sense of how many calories you're actually consuming. If you do this for two weeks, what you'll find is you either will lose weight, you will gain weight, or you'll stay the same. If you stay the same, which a lot of times this rough math equation actually winds up turning out to be the case, then what I want you to do from here is just cut back your calories by 10%. So we're going to create a deficit, not extremely aggressive, but 10% here will be a 300 calorie deficit. So now this person is going to consume 2,700 calories. Now, the next important part of this equation comes into play. Of this 2,700 calories, I need to get my protein. In other words, you need to get your protein. How much? I want one gram per pound of body weight here, which sounds like a lot because you're looking at 250 grams of protein. And you might be saying to yourself, how the hell am I going to get 250 grams of protein in my diet? Well, that's where things like protein powders actually come into play. My Pro 30 G protein powder happens to be a high quality protein powder that allows you to get 30 grams. Plus, let's say the skin milk that goes in it, another 15 grams. That's 45 grams. For me, twice a day, that's 90 grams of protein. I haven't even started with my chicken and other foods yet. You can do it. If you get this in, you're going to find that because you're keeping your protein levels high, you're going to maintain satiety a little bit easier. And you're also going to be able to reach your deficit without losing muscle mass. And we're going to be trying to build muscle as you go into this caloric deficit and lose some of the body fat. Your goal is to do both. Keep your muscle or build some muscle and lose body fat at the same time. What specifically could this person do? Nutritionally, this person right here wants to focus on getting rid of the obvious crap. This is where you get rid of the sweets, the excess alcohol, the snacks, cakes, cookies. You know what they are. You've got to try to start cutting them back as much as you possibly can because when you do, you will start to see the weight drop off really, really easily. And as I mentioned before, you have to start reading the labels, not just to learn the calories that you're consuming, but also become a little bit more educated about what the food is actually made out of. What is the contribution of fiber or carbohydrates or starched carbohydrates and sugar or protein? You need to start getting a better idea. From a training perspective here, the first thing you need to do is get rid of the word exercise and substitute in the word training because that's how I describe this. Training rather than exercise is planned, progressive and purposeful. Everything you do is going to have a plan behind it. It's going to have a purpose behind it, which means you're going to start walking 30 to 45 minutes, three to five times a week, just to kind of move your body around, to increase your caloric expenditure, which is going to help in driving down those losses of body fat. But at the same time, it's easy on the joints. It's not going to be super easy to start training here, but you can start training with bands. So I recommend doing exercises with bands like the ones you're seeing here that allow you to actually start moving and feeling comfortable at the same time that you're getting stronger. And the bands are great for this because they allow you to sort of work within your capacity. And as you're able to push harder, they're able to absorb more force. And again, they do it in a low impact environment. That's not going to be stressful for you and your joints. Body weight options. You might think that they're not available to you. Like for instance, I would never tell somebody here to start doing dips because they're not likely going to be able to do them, first of all, and they're certainly not going to be able to do them safely. But you can do something like this, which is an incline pushup. And what's nice about this is it helps to work more of that lower chest because of the high to low arm angle that you're performing the exercise from. But you also can moderate the difficulty of the exercise by standing either closer or further away with your feet. The closer you are, the less of the body weight that you're lifting. And the further away you go, you're still at an incline, but you're lifting more body weight and the exercise gets more difficult. You progress as you're able to, but this is where you start if you're at this body fat level and you want to get going. Now, congratulations, you've either made it to the next bracket or maybe this is where you're starting from. But you have a very specific set of recommendations as well. Here's where I want to introduce something called timed eating. So not only are you becoming more aware of the foods that you're putting in your body, but you're also starting to become more planned in terms of when you're eating what you're eating. Because when you start to eat around the clock at specific times, you start to control that grazing that could happen that oftentimes derails people. They just reach for food whenever they're around it rather than being restricted around specific times of the day. So what I recommend is that you eat first thing in the morning, let's say 8 o'clock. Once again, at around 10.30 or so. Then at lunchtime, let's say 1.00. Then in mid-afternoon, let's say around 3.30 or 4.00. And then having your dinner around 6 o'clock. Now, the idea around eating these five times during the day is that you don't have to go a very long period of time in between meals. So it's not like when you're not eating snacks that you have to go from 8 to 1 o'clock and be really disciplined when you're lacking discipline as it is. Here, because you know you have the opportunity to have a snack, it's a lot easier to maintain that willpower and it alleviates a lot of the stress and discomfort that comes from not having those opportunities. The next thing you want to do is start making some of these smart swaps at this point. So maybe you were eating a Philly cheesesteak and thinking, Jeff, I'm getting all that protein that you asked me to get. And I'm like, okay, maybe you can have a filet instead. And the same thing goes here too. Again, chicken parm for grilled citrus chicken. You start to make those obvious swaps to improve what you're already eating. And that will actually start to quickly get you from this bracket down into the bracket of the 20s. Now, in terms of the training, there's a few things specifically that you want to do here. Number one, start incorporating machines into your workouts. Because if you want to start to actually build muscle, then we have to figure out ways that you're going to progressively load those exercises. And this is where bands become a little bit limited, whereas weights can give us the advantage. Now, the machines are going to give you a little bit more comfort. They require less stability. Some of the things you might be lacking because you don't have an overall basis or foundation of training, you're going to be able to find some comfort in the machines, but still get that overload. And in this condition here, you can do things like a cable crossover and specifically a high to low cable crossover. Because once again, it follows those abdominal fibers of the chest, the lower pec fibers, that gives us a better opportunity to target them. We could also do an assisted dip, knowing that we can unweight a significant portion of our body and start to include this foundational chest or lower chest exercise without having to incur too much joint stress too early. We also would want to avoid things like, let's say, the decline bench. Because a lot of times in my experience, even offensive linemen, big guys tend to have some issues when they put their head in that decline position with head rush and feeling dizzy. It doesn't feel so good to do that exercise, so I wouldn't recommend that at this point. And again, regular dips themselves would be off limits. But one thing people overlook a lot at this point that I don't want you to is this upper chest right here. Because if you can build the upper chest, even though we're focused so much on the lower chest, look what can happen. Even just with a little bit of extra growth here on the upper chest, it looks completely different even though this is the same lower chest. Because it balances it out. As you start to build up the upper chest, that sagginess or droopiness isn't so pronounced because it's not as steep. You get more of an evenness to it. So what are we going to do here? Start doing incline pressing. And again, if you want to do this on a machine, that's fine. If you feel comfortable enough to start using dumbbells, then that's even better. But for now, make sure you're doing some form of incline pressing to help you to start differentiating and looking better at this level of body fat. So congratulations again if you've made it into the 20% bracket. And if you're like a lot of the people watching the video, you're probably right here wondering what to do. Well, you're going to continue that time of eating because, again, it takes away some of the guesswork when it comes to eating. You're eating on a clock, which makes it a lot easier and less susceptible to that grazing that oftentimes derails the nutrition plan. Again, if we're getting to these levels, we should be motivated. We want to keep doing the right things. That's what you're going to do. But now what you're going to do is incorporate something that I call plate division. The plate division technique essentially looks at your plate like a clock. And I want you to focus mostly on two numbers, the five and the seven, more or less. And what we do is we basically divide our plate towards those two numbers. And what that does is it gives you your answers as to how you want to start to divide up the plate nutritionally. This 40% is going to be devoted to your protein. This 40% is going to be devoted to your fibrous carbohydrates. And then here you have 20% left over for your starchy carbohydrates, your rice, your potatoes, your pasta. I'm not saying to eliminate those. I don't believe that any long-term fix is going to be depriving you of this important 20%. However, you're going to eat double that amount because that much of your plate is going to be allocated here. Once you do that, everything's going to become a lot easier. But I want you to do another thing. Nutritionally, I want you to give it one more pass. In other words, go through those foods again and make one more sweep and try to eliminate as many of the processed foods that are remaining here. If you can get this down to your single ingredient foods, then something really interesting is going to happen here. You're going to have better foods. When you can get single ingredients that have to be put together into meals, you're going to have almost always a healthier meal option that's calorically a lot more responsible. But this becomes an important decision for you. Fast, cheap, and good. Because if you want to start to take all those individual foods and you want to get them in a more cheaper, inexpensive way, you're going to have to shop for them and then put them together. That means you can get them cheap. You can get them to be good, but it's not going to be fast. You're going to have to start to devote some extra time to meal preparation. If instead, though, you want to make sure it's good, you don't care if it's cheap, but you want it to be fast, well, in that case, you can start to do some of the things that I do where I go to the catering menus at places like Stu Leonard's or your local grocery store, and they can prepare the food for me in bulk. So I know it's good, I know it's fast because I don't have to put it all together, but it's not going to be as cheap. You get to make your own decision here, but if you do, you're well on your way to fine-tuning nutrition enough to get you out of that 20% bracket you might have been stuck at this point and get you now into those high teens. In terms of training here, not much changes except for the fact that I would think that a decline bench press can become more of an option for people who want to use it, and also those dips can now start to become either assisted dips or possibly even bodyweight dips if you have the strength to manage your bodyweight now that you're at a leaner level of body fat. Which brings us now into this top shelf here where we start in the high teens and work our way to the low teens and ultimately sub-10%. And if you're in this bracket, any of these actually, well, congratulations because you've probably been watching this channel for a length of time. That's a good thing. However, if we want to specifically talk about this grouping up here, well, then it brings us to this specific graphic once again, which is how do we get to that maintenance test here? Well, again, I mentioned sort of the ab test. Do you have abs? Can you see them in a mirror or do you not? Well, obviously at these levels, we can see abs. What we do here is multiply your bodyweight this time by 15 rather than by 12. And we come up with that caloric total here. You don't need to focus on this over here because you're already at the goal. That would just be to continue doing what you're doing. But if you're in these two brackets here and you want to see how to get down, well, you would do this test, see where you're at and do the same thing. Create that 10% caloric deficit and then monitor how you're progressing. Again, though, your protein levels have to stay high. If you're going to do this, I want to actually see you increase your protein levels from 1 to 1.2 grams of protein per pound of bodyweight because you're training harder, because you've added more lean muscle, and because we know we need to support that lean muscle as we're going into a deficit to try to make sure that we're losing body fat at the same time. We want to preserve the muscle that you have and also build more to be able to get down here. Interestingly, when you talk about this guy, let's say he here is at 200 pounds. If he's at 200 pounds, then once again, calorically, when you multiply by 15, you're at 3,000 calories again. The same that the guy in the 30% bracket was doing at 250 pounds. But you've got a lot more lean muscle, like we said. A lot less body fat, a lot more lean muscle. That has to be supported. And calorically, we know that when you're more active and carry more muscle, you can tolerate more calories. When we do this, though, as I said, you still want to aim for those higher levels of protein, and you do that. Again, however you find fit. Again, using a protein powder or a supplement is a great way to be able to do that. Now, what do we do here specifically? When you're in this bracket here, nutritionally, I find that this is where you turn cheat days into cheat meals. To get to that next bracket here, it's no longer an option to say, I'm going to have a cheat day today, and every meal I eat is going to be shitty. Instead, I want you to think about it more in terms of cheat meals. In other words, I want to see you have an overall accuracy applied to your week. If you're eating five times a day, seven times a week, that's 35 meals. Can you target 80% accuracy, which comes down to 28 meals out of your 35, being really, really good and solid? And those seven other meals, which gives you sort of one a day, can be a little bit more loose. Where that grilled chicken breast turns into that chicken parm, one of those seven meals. Because if you can, I promise you, you'll be able to get from the higher teens into the lower teens, just by having that much flexibility built in to your overall accuracy. Again, 80% is what you're shooting for. From a training perspective here, those dips should now become weighted dips, if you have the ability to. At every opportunity, progressively overloading the exercises that you're continuing to do. And I'd also recommend breaking out the intensity technique. So whatever workout you are doing, whatever exercises you're doing, you're not just taking your sets to failure, but you're doing drop sets after reaching failure. You're doing pause reps at the end of certain sets that you're performing to increase the intensity. And you're also looking into partial repetitions as a way to drive to and through failure for higher intensity, higher stimulus, for more muscle growth. The idea, though, is you can get out of this bracket. It might feel like you're stuck, but if you just do what I'm saying here, I promise you, you will. And lo and behold, whether you've worked your ass off to get down to this bracket, or you're just genetically gifted to actually just sort of reside here naturally, well, how would you get to that next bracket? Because that is sort of the holy grail where a lot of people want to get to, but not everybody's willing to make the sacrifices. And there are certain things you're going to have to do to get down there. Number one, that nutrition accuracy that I talked about is going to have to go up another notch, up to about 90%. So only 10% of the time can be loose on your meals. That means 31 out of 35 theoretical meals in the week have to be really, really locked in and good. But what you'll find is when you get down to this level, you are likely eating well most of the time. So it shouldn't be as much of a challenge as it would have been if we had those aspirations back up in the 40% bracket. The next thing is, yes, there's going to be some social sacrifices that have to be made to get to that sub 10% body fat. In other words, you may not be able to drink with your friends as much as you would like to, or you're going to have to pass up on that extra beer or extra glass of wine when your friends who don't have the same aspirations don't have to. That's a fact of life because some of the extra calories there that are far too easy to consume start to pile up and they prevent you from ever getting in that sub 10% bracket. And that's the ones that we have to be careful of. Meal prep is a fact of life here too. In other words, you're likely going to be prepping your own meals. And it's not just making it, but also knowing when you're going to eat what you're going to eat. So having a plan for the day. If you're going to be out at the office, you're taking your meal with you, or you know where you can get a reliable meal that fits your approach to eating that you're on right now. Finally, your meal plan has to be built for the long run, guys. There is no way that you're going to either be able to get to the 10% bracket or sub 10%, let alone stay there. If you do not like what you eat, you have to have this built around the foods that you like. And I believe that if you did this too aggressively from way back there, you never would have made it to this point. So you likely have chosen the meals and the foods that you like and enjoy. And that's what's formed the foundation. So that may not be even as hard as you would think. In terms of the workouts themselves, guys, your training should be high intensity, shorter workouts. And those intensity techniques should be focused on overload, eccentric overload, driving muscle tension through being very focused on the muscle you're trying to build and try to make it as uncomfortable as possible when you're training it in order to drive up the intensity of the exercise, drive up the focus on the chest itself, and make every exercise you do more effective. Because when you do, this type of chest is obtainable. It's chiseled. It has everything that you were looking for. It's got the upper chest development. We never abandoned that in the entire time. But everything that you're looking for is there and the leanness. And guess what? It didn't just stop at that chest that you were self-conscious about, but that midsection that you're kind of okay with. Well, that looks a hell of a lot better too. You can do this, guys. You can do it through the right training plans, the right nutrition, the right supplements. We have them all available over at athleanx.com. If you're looking for another video where I break down a lot of different chest exercises and rank them from best to worst, you can find that video over here. And also, if you haven't done so, guys, make sure you click subscribe, turn your notifications so you'll never miss a video when we put one out. All right, guys, good luck. You're going to be able to make it step-by-step, one step at a time.

=== FILE: How to Perform Reps for Most Muscle Growth [zHXfXaofaTk].txt ===

 What's up, what's up guys? Jeff Cavaliere, Athleanx.com. Today I'm going to try to help you to understand the best way to perform your reps when you're trying to build muscle. Because there's a lot of variables that go into this. However, I have to start in answering this question by asking you one. What are you training for? Because there's a difference between training for strength and training for hypertrophy or increased muscle size. So let's say you were training for strength and we'll give an example like a barbell bench press. So let's say you were training for strength and we'll give an example like a barbell bench press. Right? If you were trying to get stronger here, then there's one way to get stronger here. What's up guys, Jeff Cavaliere, Athlean-ex.com. There's one thing that you should be looking for out of this exercise and that is efficiency. In other words, when you're doing this exercise you should not be caring about how to isolate the chest from the triceps, from the shoulders. You want them all to work in concert because at the end of the day your absolute level of strength or the output of how much you could actually lift is going to rely on the fact of all those muscles contributing together to that lift. So we're not trying to do anything but be very efficient at recruiting those. You also want to have some element of speed. You want to be able to accelerate that bar because power and strength will go hand to hand often. So you want to make sure you're working both of those things. However, when we're talking about building bigger muscles, which is the subject of this video here, you want to actually do the opposite. You want to try to find ways that you can be inefficient. In other words, find new ways to challenge your muscles so that they're forced to have to come back and grow bigger and stronger. That doesn't always come in the form of just using heavier and heavier weights because at some point you wind up stalling out there. So let me use an example here of a lat pulldown. If I was going to do a traditional lat pulldown, if I was trying to do this for strength, I'd have weight on the bar here. Let me go a little heavier. I'd have enough weight on the bar here to challenge me. I wouldn't necessarily care – I'll go underhand – I wouldn't care about isolating the biceps, right? From the back. The lats. The rhomboids. I'm trying to move this thing, still with good form, but try to get strong and let all those muscles that prefer to work together, work together. That's one way to do this. If, on the other hand, I wanted to introduce a different stimulus, I could take a lighter weight and then try to become much more inefficient. That means, let's slow this thing down. Let's make this thing absolutely miserable for my lats, if it's the lats I'm trying to grow here. So what I could do is, firstly, I'll go overhand to get the biceps out of it a little bit. Get into the lats. Get that narrow grip. Keep my elbows in front of my body. Go at a slower pace. Drive my elbows down, really squeeze. Come up out of it. Good stretch at the top. Again, this is all inefficient and it's not what you'd want to seek out if you were trying to maximally test your strength. But when we're trying to overload these lats, all of these individual stimuli are good. That good, hard, focused contraction. That lengthened time that I'm in this stretch. Applying more tension here. Still having good amount of weight on the bar. I didn't go super light. I'll talk about that in a second. I'm using a good amount of weight that still challenges me. But all of these things would make anybody looking at this say, wow, that was pretty damn inefficient there, Jeff. And they'd be right because it is, but it creates growth. Let me take you here to the board for a second. So if we were looking at those two examples. This is intensity on this side. And this is the rep count. Zero, one, two, three, four, five, all the way up to ten. That does not look like a five, by the way. All the way up to ten. In that first example – I'll bring out different colors. I do these more than just drawing my body with these things. So the first example. Let's say it was my ten rep max, or eight to ten rep max here in blue. And I was going to do it to ten rep max failure, or eight to ten rep max failure. Whatever I chose, that would be my failure point. What would have happened is, in terms of the effort level on the first rep, you just imagine that the weight is heavy enough to start a little bit higher on that intensity line here. Because we know we're using something that's going to cause failure in that eight to ten rep range. What happens is, though, it's not that difficult on the first rep, or necessarily the second rep, or the third rep, or the fourth rep. It starts to catch up at the end, where it starts to skyrocket and difficulty level, and it gets very difficult at the end. We talk about this all the time, these being the effective reps. The ones that actually cause real muscle growth. But it takes a while to get up there. If we took that lighter weight, whatever this one was, the second round here. Let's just say it's my 13 rep max weight. Odd number, but I just want to show you that it's lighter. But I'm going to perform it to ten rep failure. Right? Can we do that? We definitely can do that. We can do that by doing what I just did there. Slow down the reps. Do something called one and a half reps, where we come down halfway, go up, and come back. We're using more range of motion. More time and tension. All that stuff. So what happens here is you would think that this, being a lighter weight, would start down here on that intensity line. But if from rep one I do something very difficult, where I slow that thing down, really squeeze, get that elongated stretch on the way up, I could actually theoretically jump that. I really could. I could jump the intensity there because the difference in weight here can be made up through the intensity techniques that I'm using. By getting at a higher level here, we also know that rep two is going to be pretty damn challenging too. Because again, we're using these techniques that intensify things. So rep two, rep three, rep four, it's really getting and staying at a higher level throughout. And then what happens is just the fatigue of the set alone is going to make that continue to climb higher, higher, higher. So whether it finishes above or below, the idea though is they're pretty close. And if anything, this set that was very inefficient actually took place with some of those techniques that made this more difficult from start to finish. So the tension that we got here, the cumulative tension, could actually be higher underneath that curve – the red lighter one – than it could be maybe in this one. Even though it peaked out over here. And even if it peaked out at a higher level. Even if it peaked out somewhat higher over here. It doesn't matter. Now, what's the benefit of that? The benefit is that you don't always have to lift super heavy weights to get things to work. I will actually show you where super heavy weights don't work. You want to make sure you're understanding these things because I think people just think of it in absolutes. Right? If I took a really heavy weight down here and now I grabbed that same weight and I got down and now my set looks like this. Right? Whatever that might look like. I would argue that even though it was super heavy – do I have another color here? – even though it was super heavy, that's down here. Because those are shit reps. That was all momentum. That was not a muscle you were trying to build there. That was momentum. And momentum dictated that there really wasn't a lot of muscular effort going on on that. So therefore, whatever that results in is not going to be what you were looking for. Same token. Do we go super light? If I went super light here, and I grabbed these and I went right for the lats. It doesn't matter how hard I'm squeezing here in that contracted position. Even if I wanted to perform a 1.5 rep and come up and then come back down again. Or if I wanted to go to the top and then get a good stretch and then come down halfway and go back and get another stretch because we know those are good. It doesn't matter. So, the weight isn't enough. The amount of tension on that weight doesn't even qualify. Right? It doesn't even register on this line here because it's just too little. Again, no matter how much I'm doing here, unless I did extremely high rep counts, nothing is going to overcome the fact that there just wasn't enough on that bar to begin with. So, the point is when you're trying to figure out which is best, it really depends on A your goal, being strength or hypertrophy, and from there the exercise that you're doing. Because it will vary depending upon the exercise. The intensity that you train at, that's everything because, again, that determines where the off-ramps are. If you're going really super intense with different techniques, you'll be able to do shorter workouts and fewer repetitions and still reach failure and still get a response. But if you're not doing those things, then you're not going to see that. One final benefit here to this blue line, because I want to really express here how important both of these approaches are in the big picture. But this blue line, don't let people tell you that you can only build strength in, let's say, the 3, 4, 5 rep range. If you started out doing 10 of this weight that you had here, and then you can do 11, and then you can do 12, and you can do 13, you're increasing your strength. Don't let anybody fool you. You're getting stronger at that lift. When you get stronger here, what happens? It brings everything up. So all of these lines here, this red dot, this blue dot, has the strength of your blue dot here, goes up and starts out at a higher point. The red dot is going to go along with it, right? Because it's a higher rep range, but it's still your absolute level of strength. So it's going to raise all boats. So the idea is you don't want to eliminate one technique or one approach versus the other. You certainly don't want to avoid strength training. At some point that matters too, but you want to train for both strength and hypertrophy. You do want to explore these higher and lower rep ranges because they're both going to matter as long as you know how to apply them. Guys, if you're looking for a program where we do this – I actually have a brand new one coming out – where we trade off the workout length for intensity. It's called ATHLEAN EXPRESS, available December 13th. If you're looking for more programs, guys, where you use all the different techniques, you can find them over at ATHLEANX.com. If you've found the video helpful, please share it with somebody else you think could use the tutorial here to understand, finally, what they need to do. If you haven't done so, guys, subscribe. Make sure you watch every video as we put one out. All right, guys. See you soon. You

=== FILE: How to Train LESS and Get Far Better Results (I'LL PROVE IT) [KKBZeZszOOM].txt ===

 So how long does a workout have to be in order to build muscle? My question to you would first be how hard are you willing to train? Guys, if you look at the first thing, let's say a dumbbell bench press. Now, if I were to just simply ask you to perform a set to failure, which I always do, I've been asking you for 15 years to perform your sets to failure, and I've been consistent with that for a reason, because I know that you need an adequate level of stimulus for that muscle to even want to change, right? There's an old saying, if you don't challenge yourself, you won't change yourself, well, let's just say we're getting towards, let's just say we're getting towards, let's say a set of 12, and your last two reps look like this. That's like 10, 11, and 12, right? That's not enough. For every one of those sets that you perform below failure, you're going to need to perform more of them in order to reach an adequate level of volume or stimulus to change. What I'd rather see is a set that looks like this. So, I'll kind of fast forward to the end of the set for you and simulate what I'm talking about. When I get towards those final few reps, they should look like this. Okay, that was hard. Press, I'm really grinding through here. Now, really fight to get up to the top here. A lot of you would say, there's no way I can do another repetition on this. There's no way I can get another concentric. Try. The exercise has built-in safety net here. You can always drop the dumbbells if you have to, but try. Go down again. Realize that there's only a sticking point from here to about here that you have to get through. You might surprise yourself that once you do, the weights will go up again for another repetition. Now, I'll go down again because each time I go down, I'm getting at least another eccentric repetition. And I know that I've got more eccentrics in me than concentrics on any set because I'm stronger that way. So, now I go up again and if I can't get any more, I can at least do a few repetitions down here trying. And finally, I reach failure. What did that do? The weight that was in my hands created tension. The time that I was pushing in these elongated states, these more stretched positions of the pec, caused tension. There's no magic to lengthen partials. That's nonsense. That's not what that's about. It's a matter of accumulating total tension. And because you have two factors there, stretching a muscle, that's tension, and loading a muscle, that's tension, those are going to be more productive. So, by giving myself a few additional eccentric repetitions, more tension, and by giving a few different partial repetitions, more tension, I can guarantee that you reach failure. And that's the key. I don't know, subjectively looking at you, how short of failure you actually were. You thought one. I bet you it was four. If you took Chris Bumstead's brain or mine with people that have experienced training, we put it in your head at the moment that you reached that first set that I showed you and you said, yeah, I'm done. I guarantee Bumstead's pushing four or five more than that. And I'm likely pushing three or four because I'm no Bumstead. Right? But the fact is there's more in you. And if you had the brain and the willpower that knew what you were capable of, you would do and push more and get more out of that set. When you do that, the volume comes down. Because remember this, you either train long or you train hard, but you cannot do both. So, as you increase the difficulty level of the sets, then you decrease the time you need to spend doing them. Let me show you something else. We have a technique here that we call effective reps. What this means is if I can get more of those effective reps out, then again, I can shorten the time that I have to do an exercise or even a workout in general. So, if I took the bench press again and I took a set to failure all the way up and I go, let's say, getting down towards the end of the set. And I'm talking true muscle failure, which means, again, getting that last rep, testing myself again. Can I get another one? Maybe this time I can't. Maybe I can't even get past that sticking point. And I try another rep or two. Just, I can't. I can't. I've reinforced that I've reached failure. Great. The rest time now. If I keep this rest time short, 30 seconds at most, when I get back into this set again, I am not going to need to go through the third, the fourth, the fifth, the sixth repetition to get to those more difficult repetitions. I go back into it now. First rep out of the box, it's already difficult. Right? These are the ones that feel like the ones that came at 9, 10, 11, and 12 on the last set. Now they're already feeling like that on reps one, two, and three. And therefore, these are those growth-inducing, end-of-set, high-intensity repetitions that cause that growth. That's an effective rep. I don't care that my overall rep count went down. I rest again 30 seconds. I get back into it again. What happens? Fewer repetitions for sure, but each one of them at that high end. Right? That one that has the high effort required to perform them. Now I'm accumulating a lot more of these effective repetitions, and in doing so, increasing the intensity and shortening the length of the workout. There are other techniques where you can actually slow down the reps a little bit to increase the overall intensity. You've probably heard of time under tension, but you have to be careful there too, because slowing down or manipulating your time to an exaggerated amount, where it actually starts to limit the amount of weight that you can actually use on the exercise, is going to not really result in more muscle hypertrophy, because you're taking down both of those stimuli. Number one, I said the amount of weight in your hand creates the tension on the muscle, so if you get too light in order to accommodate whatever technique you're doing, then you're not going to build muscle. The same token, you do want to try to accelerate as much as possible on the concentric part of the lift, in general, when you're trying to maximize hypertrophy, because it recruits those type 2 fibers, the ones that grow bigger and stronger. So by manipulating a slow speed, and by lighting the weight because you do that, you're going to actually compromise that. However, I don't just focus always on, let's say, building bigger muscles, because I know that part of this game is not just looking better, but feeling better. As a physical therapist, I know how important it is with all the considerations people have, like joint issues, how do we still train and still get the benefits of intensity, and therefore shorter workouts? Well, there's a technique that we use called a trap set, where you would take that weight, something between your 10 and 12 rep max, and what you do is you do apply a tempo here, where you press up at 1 second and come down on 1 second. And the second rep is up for 2 seconds, so a little bit slower. Come down for 2 seconds, right? Go up for 3 seconds, and come down for 3 seconds. And then we're going to peak out at 4 seconds. So 1, 2, 3, 4, and come down 1, 2, 3, 4. Then you just reverse your way back down again, going to 4, 2, 3, 4, and down 2, 3, 4. Up in 3, and down in 3, right? Up in 2, and down in 2, and then faster at the end, up in 1, and down in 1. So what that's doing is it's still allowing us to experience the faster repetition starting and ending that set, but we're grading that muscle recruitment because people that do have injuries don't have necessarily the ability to do that safely. So when you allow that to grade up, you're able to have the protection of the joint in the process and still have a high-intensity set. Again, even some of the slower repetitions, especially eccentrically, are providing more stimulus because that same weight is being applied over a longer period of time and spending more time in those high-tension areas where they're more stretched. So the bottom line is that technique is perfect for somebody that has some issues, some joint issues or pains, where they can go a little bit more slowly, but not where they're sacrificing the weight so much in the process that they're actually completely eliminating the stimulus for growth. So there's different techniques for different people that will allow you to grow, but you've got to know which ones to use. But the intensity techniques ensure failure, failure is going to be the only objective way to sort of level the playing field so that I know you're working out at a hard enough level of intensity. And when you do that, yes, the workouts can be short. The only way they're going to be short, though, is if you're bringing that effort. And it's what we've been preaching here forever. We don't bounce back and forth at AthleanX in terms of whether it's good or whether it's not good. We've always said if you train hard, you do not have to train long because you can only do one of them if you're going to train hard with intensity techniques like this, you're going to be able to train for a much shorter period of time. If you're looking, guys, we have programs that have incorporated this since the very beginning of time, all of them, with safety as one of the factors we look at always as a physical therapist. You can find our programs, including our new Athlean Express program coming this week over at AthleanX.com. All right, guys, I hope you found it helpful. Make sure you're doing something to increase the intensity of your workouts if you want to get more from them. All right, guys, see you soon.

=== FILE: I Can’t Believe This Sh＊t (OUTRAGEOUS FITNESS VIDEOS!) [bItpulYxwFY].txt ===

 What's up, what's up, what's up, what's up, what's up, what's up, what's up, what's up, guys, Jeff Cavaliere, Jeff Cavaliere, Athleanx.com. Jesse Laco, Athleanx.com. Jesse Laco, Athleanx.com. Today we're doing the outrageous, or at least Jesse has compiled the outrageous fitness clips from whatever. All over YouTube, Instagram. All over social media. All over social media. That are ridiculous that Jesse wants to react to. Ready? Yep. So, a snatch. No! Not a snatch. That is not a snatch. That is absolutely. Are his shoulders made of iron? Iron? I want rubber bands. It could be rubber bands. So, I actually am a fan of the over and back stretch. If you take a broomstick and go over your back. Yep. I wouldn't advise it with this kind of weight. It's ridiculous. I don't even know what he's really attempting to prove there. I think my arms would tear out of their sockets. Yeah. Next. Oh boy, one of these. This can't be too hard, can it? It's not that it's too hard. It's literally like the thing that smashes your face in half. Because what happens is as soon as they give, of course they're going to give. Yeah. But I will say, I've tried shit like this before. Have you really? Yes. Whenever I see things like this, I always want to privately challenge myself. But I don't do it in a public gym like this. Well, you're never in a public gym. That's true too. Well, that was, see, he cheated there. Oh. That was a cheat. Next one. This is actually, this is a good one. Did you ever see this guy? That's the fastest man alive. What? 228 jumps in 30 seconds. You're kidding me. That, like, people say that it's sped up. And it's not sped up. I've seen people do this before. Competitive jump ropers are probably some of the most athletic people in the world. You don't want to talk about athletes. I got this next clip for you. Check this one out. Okay. So, that is uncoverable in my opinion. But what you see is, it says, Jeff, you act like athletes have superhuman physical talents. I posted this on my Instagram. And 9 million people commented on it. And they also said that this was sped up. This is not sped up. If you get this clip yourself and you go back, you can look at the football in the background. You see the football bouncing around in the background? Yeah. That's bouncing around in real time. The people that are walking in the background are walking in real time. This just goes to show you the level of explosivity of someone like an elite level, all pro receiver like Tyreek Hill. They call him the cheetah for a reason. Yeah. It's impossible to cover. I just love that. I love watching that. Look at that. Yeah. Athletic feats are insane. Crazy. Okay. So, this is fun. This is a fun one for you. This is fun. I'm going to let it play. So, what we're looking for is the height of the glutes. Yeah. In other words, the glute development test. It's a cake challenge as they call it. Yes. So, now, if you can take it, you take a standardized 45 pound plate on an easy curl bar and you roll it towards their back, their low back. If it doesn't stop like it didn't there, then of course you've got a… Oh, he cheated. He cheated, yeah. Do you think my glutes would be good enough to stop the bar? I'll tell you what. Your glutes would absolutely stop the bar. That sounds really awkward to say. My glutes would not stop that bar. That bar would roll right to my low back. And it's not for lack of training, Michael. It's a cake what mama gave you. Exactly. I'm going to blame my parents. All right. This is good. I like this. So, this is a pull up video. So, here we have a recruit who comes in. Now, there's a big size differential between these two guys. Yeah, I guess it's kind of small. Okay. So, how many pull ups do you think he could do? I'm going to guess at least 20. Okay. I'm going to guess he could do a lot because I believe that if it looks like you train like this guy does, but you're not the largest human being in terms of your body size, pull ups are your jam. Or at least they should be. I know that they have always been an advantage for me because I have a good strength to body weight proportion and a light enough body weight that I can pull myself up. Like the guy who was actually challenging him was going to have a lot harder time doing pull ups. You think the lighter guys have the easier time with pull ups? A hundred percent. 24. Do you remember when we did this challenge outside of a… SummerSlam? Yes, I do. Oh my God. How many? What did I… I think I got like 23 or something. Yeah. And you got like 16. I think I got 16. Yeah. And the Navy recruiter was asking if you wanted to join the Navy SEALs, which… I would love to be able to represent my country proudly, but I think my days are over for that. This one. Okay. So now proving everything I just said was wrong, that the larger guy would have a hard time doing pull ups, is this clip. What's he doing? Muscle up? Oh, oh, oh. With a twist. With a twist. Yeah, he's not done yet. Oh my goodness. He's not done yet. Oh, like that. What? Is it Spider-Man? I have such respect for these calisthenic athletes. Like this is obviously a skill that you practice, but the disproving of that whole idea of the larger individual, he's got to be 200 plus pounds here. Being able to do this and make it look easy is a lot harder than you think. It's a lot more talented than me. All right. Now, hold on. So this is the portion where we have to warn you about the time to cover your eyes. Oh. All right. Oh, I know this. The time to cover your eyes portion of the video. Obviously, you've probably seen this clip at some point. If you haven't, then you're going to want to do peeksies here. Okay? Peeksies? Close one eye, put one over and just try to look right through, like a little bit through. It makes it easier to watch if you do decide to watch. This is what happens when you try to lift too much weight and perhaps being enhanced has weakened your tendons. Ah. I know exactly which one this is. This is the bench press by Ryan Crowley. 485. 425. 425. 425. 425. 425. 425. 425. 425. 425. 425. 425. 425. 425. 425. 425. 425. 45. And climb that press. Oh, no. Thankfully, Larry wheels in this spot. And... There she goes. There she goes. We get another angle here in case you missed it the first time. Do I have to watch it again? See it right from here. All looks good until it does. Oh, you can hear it. You can hear it. I've talked about before, I did a whole video on pec tears, where you're most susceptible to it, is going to be in that lowering portion of the bench press. But really, when you're doing it with these extreme amounts of weight, and again, in this case, there's all kinds of anecdotes about not really being warmed up either. The best part about this video, or the best decision he made, was having Larry wheels as his spotter. Strong. Because he pretty much single handedly caught that bar. Yeah. And probably saved his life. Okay, now I have one more for you here, in case you are still wondering whether or not you should be closing your eyes. And this is the bicep curl. Oh, we covered this one before. We did cover this one before. Go ahead and watch. And I'll give you a valuable tip when it comes to this creature curl. Can we skip to the good part? Pop, pop. Oh. Double distal bicep tear. Oh. Now, I can sympathize with this man, because I too have torn my bicep, and it's not fun. It's actually quite painful too. Wow. The biggest problem here was not setting up properly. If you go back and look, he's sitting back too far. And he's basically creating like a seesaw effect for his elbows over the top of the bar with all that weight on the bar. Instead, if you don't want to have any concerns about doing this exercise, lean forward a little bit more and dig your elbows back into the pad. Okay. If you dig your elbows back into the pad, you get the lats assisting you in taking away some of that extreme load and leverage that is what caused that to pop on both sides. Just too much weight and bad setup. Can we go back to something fun? Okay. Now we're back to something fun. Okay. This is, you know, we've all been here before. Someone needs to get a spot, right? So, this young woman's on a leg press. She needs a spot. And that's you, isn't it, Jesse? Oh, no. Is that you? That's not me. Have you guys seen that move before? Have you done that move? Bad spot Barry. We did that before. We did that before. Look, at least he wasn't like, like pack squatting it back up. Oh, that'd be inappropriate. As if this is? Yeah. I've seen you pull off that move. Oh, man. All right. This one, I got a question for you. Okay. Tell me which muscle this is, okay? Okay. Right there. What muscle is that? I don't know anatomy enough to know that. That muscle. One more time for you at home. Oh, goodness. Next one. This is, this is, this is cool. Oh. You like that? Whoa. Now, it's happening on all kinds of balance devices here, too. That just makes it more and more difficult. But I'd say the hard, the very hard part is that control to maintain the stable bar in space. Yeah. Because you have to alter the forces that you're putting into that bar as you do it. To be able to do that that smoothly requires a lot of muscle control. Not muscle control that I have. So, next one. I actually did this myself. This is the old man test. Oh, we've seen this before. I actually just talked about it. So, this looks simple as hell, but can I tell you what you have to do? If you can put on your socks and shoes without letting your foot touch the ground, you also have to tie your shoes. Oh. Okay? So, you have to stay on one foot for the entire time that it takes you to do that activity, and then go to the other side and do the other side. You can't lose your balance at any time here. Okay. If you lose your balance, it's an indicator that you're kind of maybe older than you think you are, or your body is aging a little faster because you don't have the requisite balance to do this. Okay. How do you think you do? Well, I think, one, I think I'd be pretty good at it simply because I've spent most of my life snowboarding and skateboarding, so my balance is pretty decent. But, I think I've got a little bit of a cheat on this one because I don't know if you call me an old man or a little kid, but I keep my shoes tied and I slip them on and off. Oh, so you cheat on this. I cheat on this all the time. So, glute media strength is the key to being able to do this. When the hip shifts out to the side because you lose balance, it's because you don't have good glute media strength. If you're looking for a way to do that, I do have a video on this channel to show you exactly how to strengthen that muscle. You know, Jeff, I've got to tell you, that's not the first test I've ever cheated on. Oh. I do think I graduated college. Shocker. Shocker. So, this next clip. Okay. So, I think we've all seen this, obviously. Oh. Right? So, I don't know what else to say about this other than… Not cool. Not fair. Not cool. Not cool. Um… There's really no place for this nonsense. Yeah. And, uh… I don't know why people hate so much. Dude, why can't I want you to be nice? I don't know why people hate so much. I mean, he had… Jeff had an opinion and then he gets mauled because of it. And it's certainly… Like, I do believe in fair fights. This is not fair. No, that's not fair at all. It's not fair. This is ridiculous. So, anyway… Um… For those who had asked me my opinion on that, it's ridiculous. Next one. You ready? Okay. This is insane. Ah… Now, it actually is… Can I tell you a secret about this? Go ahead. I know this looks ridiculous. I know this looks very dangerous, which it is dangerous. But this is actually a little easier than it looks. Really? So, you're recommending that I try this out? Don't try it. With a nail in my eye or a knife in my neck? Nobody should try that at home. I'm just saying that activity done in different variations is a little bit… It's like one of the magician's secrets. It's a little bit easier than it looks. Okay. Let's just leave it at that. But don't do it. Please. God forbid. I'm just going to give you an inspiration of this, by the way. Oh my God. Do you ever see this one? I don't think I have. That seems pretty easy. See that bar? Yeah, right. Until he goes apart. So, what he was doing there is not just doing the same thing, but squeezing at the same time. Yeah. I don't know how people come up with these things. Why does everyone have to make me feel like I'm so… Inadequate? Inadequate when I can't do cool stuff like that. We've got something that will make you feel inadequate here in a little bit. Oh no. Actually, this makes everyone feel inadequate. This is Dream's World. Is that 585? 6 plates. Yeah. Oh man. So, a little squat. Of course… He walks it over. He's walking with it. He's walking with it. I don't think I can put 585 on my back and stand up. No. And now, you know, because this is what you would do if you squat, you likely bench too, right? Yeah. Not in the same set, but in this case, yes. Oh my god. Down. You can see where this is going, right? Don't tell me he's going to press this. Uh… There you go. No! Actually… Come on! Pretty easy. I've actually seen him squat, bench, and deadlift in one set. Oh my goodness. Next one here. The guy in the back was not expecting him to do this. The strong man picks up the bar from the sides, making it stand upright. What? Do you know what he's setting up for? No. Do you see this? This is a Steinborn squat. Oh my goodness. Isn't that unbelievable? Okay. You want to talk about real free strength. Now he'll freestanding squat it. Right? So, the Steinborn squat, actually people have a lot of problems with it because there's spinal flexion and all that load. And again, as a physical therapist, it's not my favorite movement recommendation for anybody. But I will say that it has some high degree of functionality. I know guys that actually work in construction who pick up rebar that way. Really? Mm-hmm. Damn. So, I mean, it's probably one of the most efficient ways to do it, provided that you're strong enough to do it. I can say that I'm not strong enough to do that. Now here's the inadequacy. Actually, I can make you feel inadequate twice. You ready? Oh, great. That's a video that was actually posted here on YouTube. The same platform that I happily post videos to all the time. This is – and I post a lot of workout videos. And informative content. Informative content. This is geared at – Increasing the size of one's manhood, I guess. I don't even know what to say about this. I mean, they're adductor exercise. The triceps are lighting up there. The shoulders do. Nothing lighting up right in between his legs. I don't see anything happening there, but apparently the eggplant grows from doing that. So if you want this, Jesse, I will screen save this for you. Hey, I can use all the help I can get. I'll send it over to you. And then we have this one. POV, you're lifting weight with a girl. Oh, yeah, okay. Right? That pull down. Okay, go put your weight on there. It's just... Yeah. Now let's see if I'm doing the same thing. Nope. Nope. You know how we just don't stack up when it comes to leg strength. Apparently not. Obviously, a lot's going on out in the world of fitness. If you want real good fitness advice, I recommend tuning into this channel. And also, if you're looking for ways to improve that balance, like I said, that glute medius exercise, and other ways to become more athletic and explosive, just subscribe. Yeah, watch our videos. All right, guys. See you soon.

=== FILE: Mark Wahlberg's Day of Eating Reviewed (RIPPED AT 52？!？) [3AUck955soQ].txt ===

 mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage Every day. So the important thing that I think you should do, guys, is adopt a routine of getting up and first thing doing maybe pee first, but then drink water. I drink two glasses of water. And the reason why is I believe we can't get behind on hydration and then play catch up all day long. Instead, for a lot of us chronically dehydrated people, we need to start drinking early in the morning water and then make sure that we're getting ahead of that curve. The second thing is he talks about taking zinc. So zinc is one of those nutrients that we can't store or make ourselves. So we have to get it through some other means. Now, it's pretty readily available. So taking it in supplemental form may not be necessary. But when you're talking about when you should take it, I would say definitely take it in the morning because it's easier to absorb on an empty stomach. So doing it this time makes total sense whether or not you want to do it or not. It does have some good benefits for men in terms of recovery, boosting testosterone and immunity. And then I have a triple espresso. So triple espresso has less caffeine than the venti coffee from Starbucks. Are you serious? Half the amount. So there's 400 milligrams of caffeine in a single venti coffee. There's about 190 or 200 in a triple espresso. It sounds really powerful, but it's not. And by the way, that amount of caffeine is probably the perfect amount to give you the energy that you need without maybe some of the side effects that cause some jitters. Upset stomach. Upset stomach. We don't have to get that. So it is actually the perfect amount. Just sounds like a lot. I grant you that. And then I'll have my creatine and my branched chain aminos while I'm working out. Okay. Creatine, branched chain aminos. A lot of people give branched chain aminos a lot of shit. Yeah. A lot. There are actual clinical studies that show a decrease in delayed onset muscle soreness if you preload your training with branched chain amino acids. There's definitely evidence that shows that they help diminish that and in turn help to promote recovery. So are they direct muscle builders? No, I don't think that aminos are any different than protein in that way. I don't think that they're direct muscle builders in some magical formula. But in their ability to help with recovery, then you're going to be able to have some impact on overall muscle growth down the line. And on top of that, there are studies too that show when you're calorie restricted, which really haven't gotten to see yet how calorie restricted he might be, they have the ability to preserve muscle mass. Now, creatine, no doubt about it, one of the best supplements you could possibly take. I think everybody unequivocally should be taking creatine if they're looking to make gains. Yeah. Two different forms of creatine, hydrochloride or monohydrate, they act exactly the same in terms of what they do. Some people have an easier time with hydrochloride than monohydrate on their stomach. But that's a totally individualistic thing, and that only happens to about 15% of the people. So no problem with what he's taking from me. About 45 minutes after the workout this morning, I had five eggs. I had two hard-boiled eggs and three scrambled eggs. I had a pork chop with just a little bit of salt and pepper on it. I had wild smoked salmon, some Greek yogurt, and berries. It's a big-ass breakfast. Honestly, I don't think that was that much. He described five eggs, three scrambled, two hard-boiled eggs. Pork chop is a small portion. It's essentially like steak and eggs, no? Yeah. And then he was just talking about some lox or some salmon with some berries and Greek yogurt. Like, it's not that – it really isn't that much. And if it sounds like a lot to you, I would start to suggest that as you get more conscientious in terms of cleaning up the types of foods that you eat, then you're going to see that you can have more food. Because when you have healthier food options, you're going to be able to eat more of them. Yeah. Right? Because they're just not packing that caloric punch that comes with a lot of processed foods. Right. And then I had green juice with moronga. That was at 8 o'clock in the morning. Adding on top of it. Told you it's a lot. Now, is green juice a bunch of bullshit? Some people say that. I don't believe that at all. As a matter of fact, the way I do greens, drinks, is really as an insurance policy. Right? So if you're taking your vitamins, you're getting more micronutrients, you're getting things that you might be overlooking somewhere else. And what's the harm in a green juice? I actually think they're beneficial. I use one myself. So I don't disagree with the use of that. Now, the moronga, I have to ask what his intentions are here. Because there's two reasons why I know people take moronga. Number one, it sort of helps with boosting immunity. Right? But the other side of it, some people claim that it burns belly fat. It does not. Or at least there's no studies that I know in humans that show that it can do anything for burning fat. Yeah, it makes sense. But if it's an overall immune booster or recovery booster, then again, why not? At 11 o'clock, I had chicken breast, chicken thigh, sweet potato, broccoli, a bowl of fruit, blueberry, blackberry, raspberry, strawberry. And then I had a handful of pistachios and I had a handful of almonds. Are you kidding me? That sounds like a ton of food. Now, see what's happening here is you're just getting thrown off by the dings. You hear all those dings? Yeah. The dings were thrown. Let me try it on you. What did you have for breakfast? Pancakes. Bacon. Eggs. See? Saucing. See how it works? See what I mean? All right. I get it. I get it. No. You're okay. Stop. Stop. I don't need to hear it anymore. Okay. Oh, my God. All right. See? But that's what I'm saying. You're just thrown off by the dings. All right. Fair enough. But can we play that back? Why? You need to hear it again? Yes. I need to hear it again. So let's play it one more time. Concentrate on the foods. So you can, not the dings, the foods. At 11 o'clock, I had chicken breast, chicken thigh, sweet potato, broccoli, a bowl of fruit, blueberry, blackberry, raspberry, strawberry. And then I had a handful of pistachios and I had a handful of almonds. All right. So the first thing is he says chicken breast, chicken thighs. Do you know why he does that? No. I'm going to take a guess because obviously I don't know directly. A lot of times people in the same way that they will mix and match egg whites and full eggs for the yolk, they might do that with chicken as well. Okay. So that there's some leaner chicken and then the chicken thighs have a little bit extra fat. Got it. So knowing that the extra fat's going to help, I think that might be why he does that. Okay. Then he has a bunch of different berries, which again, why stop at one berry? If you've got access to a lot of berries, more berries taste better than this, one berry. I love to eat berries and I have a big bowl of berries every night. Let's see what else we got. Two o'clock. I had a salmon sashimi, crab salad with a little cucumber and a couple pieces of chicken breast. And tonight I'll have a nice steak, some sea bass or halibut, something and a vegetable. All right. So I heard a couple of things. Number one, he said he used to get it too. So I have eight o'clock, 11 o'clock, two o'clock. That's every three hours? That's like that every three hour deal. Now I'm a big believer in the value of eating every three hours. I know that's an old bodybuilding remnant, but I think that what it does is it controls cravings and it helps people to stay more stabilized from a blood sugar level. There's less cravings. And when you know that the next meal is coming pretty quickly, if you have a hard time with the willpower to resist snacking in between, it's a lot easier to do when you know that's coming. Does it also like control your portions for each meal to make sure you're hungry for the next one? I think so. Yeah. I think that there's a lot of benefits to just keeping that regular timing so much so that I recommend eating specifically around the clock if you have access to do that. I remember you talking about that a bunch of times. The one thing that I'm hearing that I don't like, I didn't hear any more sweet potatoes here. Right? And not just because I love those, but I didn't hear pasta. I didn't hear rice. I didn't hear any more of those starchy carbohydrates. I don't believe that having carbohydrates, starchy carbohydrates are something you can't do in obtain leanness. It's something that I've done now for my entire life. Starchy carbohydrates for the last 35, 40 years. Don't avoid starchy carbohydrates. Just allocate only, let's say, 25% of every meal to the starchy carbohydrates. So the portion sizes are the most important factor. It is because they're also the foods that can become easily overeaten. Yeah. But just control the portion sizes there. Double the amount of those fibrous carbohydrates, those vegetables on top. Then you have the starchy carbohydrates and I think you'll be fine. I just try to eat as clean as possible. Uh-oh. Oh, man. I know this one. It's a trigger word. It is a trigger word for you. But let me clarify. If Mark Wahlberg says, I eat clean, I believe him. If you walk around at low levels of body fat and say you eat clean, then of course I likely believe what you're saying. Yeah. But far too many people label themselves as clean eaters and they don't have any visible abs. They don't have a shred of muscle definition. I can assure you, you don't eat clean. Because how you eat will determine your levels of body fat and clean eating sometimes isn't always what it is. As clean as you think it is. As clean as you think it is. I've had the worst eating habits. And I do want to, let's have a little disclaimer here. If I explain my schedule or my eating habit, let's not let your imagination run wild. And last time I did this, it got out of hand and people thought I took an hour and a half long shower. Can you put that schedule back up? I want to point something out. Hold on. Right there. All right. You see right here? Yeah. I want to know what golf course he's going to where he ends around at an hour and a half. An hour and a half. Two hours. Because he's got to be back in the cryo chamber by 930. Yeah. Because if that's the case, I want to play at that course. Right. Because I don't want a five hour round anymore. All right. Well, it is definitely an interesting schedule. If you haven't had a chance, pause it right now and take a look at that schedule. Yeah. You might have some questions also. But can we go back to the other thing he was saying? He talked about having some strange eating habits. Can I admit to some strange eating habits? Of course you can. Can I have a therapy session right here with my audience? Absolutely. So I had some pretty big obsessions along the way too. And along the way to learning the right way to eat. And I think that's the thing here with Mark Wahlberg. Like he's talked about kind of these ups and downs of following these fads or me getting off track. I think that's natural for anyone out there who's pursuing this. Who's not actually just giving up. But trying to pursue a path to better nutrition. You're going to fall off the wagon sometimes. What I did was I became so scared of dietary fat that I avoided all of it. And I've talked about that many times before to the point where I couldn't even tolerate sunlight. Yeah. Because my eyes have become so photosensitive. That's a bad thing. The second thing that I did was I then realized that dietary fats were good. So about three years later I was in college and I would pack a little tiny Tupperware with sunflower oil. It's an omega-6s to balance out my omega-3s. I used to pack it in my bag and hope it wouldn't go rancid throughout the day. And then in between class I'd sneak out to my car because I was too embarrassed to have it. Because I would drink it right up out of the Tupperware container. Oh my goodness. Straight oil. With a protein bar. And then get back to class. So I'd have my protein with some dietary fats. And sometimes I even do it if I was in the mall shopping. I would leave the store I was in because it said 2 o'clock and I had to go there. So if you think that I've always had my nutrition locked in, you're mistaken sadly. I get that. You remember my gummy bear obsession. Yes I do. Yeah. So we've evolved as hopefully Mark has and you will too. If I was actually smart I would have listened to the people that told me how to do things right a long time ago. But I was hard headed and thought I knew everything like most people I talk to nowadays. It's sad that it took me until I was 52 years old to figure it out. If only I would have done this long ago. I think I'd have had another nice 15 year run at doing more physical movies. Nobody ever regrets things that they didn't eat. Right? They regret the things they ate. And more than that, athletes often times say exactly this to me. If I only could have taken my nutrition more seriously. If I'd only taken my training more seriously. I could have had a lot more life to my career. Or I could have even played better while I played. I'm actually training smart now. So I'll do upper body, lower body, three days on, day off, two days on, day off. So you can't talk about nutrition and Mark Wahlberg given his physique and not talk about the other part of the equation which is training. What I'm imagining he's describing here is an upper lower split but with an anterior posterior or push pull focus. So let's say upper push, lower posterior chain like glutes and hamstrings, upper pull and then a day off and then lower anterior, the quads and then go back to upper push. So you continue to circle that and cycle that around a three on one off, two on one off. And what that does is it really promotes recovery. Because even though he's doing upper body only split apart by one rest day or it's not even a rest day, it's a leg day in between. He's doing an entirely different focus. Pulling muscles versus pushing muscles and they allow that extra recovery time. And recovery as we know is extremely important for building muscle. I think the theme here is recovery is extremely important not just for us 50 year old guys but really for people who are a lot younger than us to set the stage for a lot better 40s, 50s, 60s and beyond. Right. I'm putting as much emphasis now on rest and recovery as I am like time under tension and intensive training. I learned the hard way. I was training seven days a week, two times a day and eating eight meals a day. I couldn't digest the protein I was eating. I was doing it all wrong. I like this because he's talking about openly about some of the mistakes that he made. And again, I think we've all made them. Anybody in my age bracket has made tons of these mistakes. Hopefully the guys your age and below are making fewer of them because there's good resources out there now like our YouTube channel and others that allow you to find out the mistakes ahead of time and not so you don't make them. Then I started fasting and I was like, well, I don't have to do cardio twice a day if I'm fasting or I'm just eating the right amount of protein and eating at the right times. I don't know if I would throw fasting into a fad. Like I think he's sort of lumping it in with the rest of the stuff. But fasting can be very effective, especially for people who are grazers, right? Who have body fat accumulation and weight issues because they graze all day long. Having a clock that restricts you to a certain window of eating can be a really helpful tool to prevent that from happening. But ultimately, at the end of the day, all he's talking about here is if he is controlling the amount of calories in by limiting the window of time he can eat in, then no, he doesn't have to focus as much on the calories out portion of the equation. Because ultimately, calories in, calories out will determine the levels of weight loss, right? And then, of course, the prioritizing of protein that he's been doing here will help him to maintain the majority of that as muscle. Yeah. Right? So not losing much muscle in the process of losing fat. So he's doing a lot of things right. And I think that's pretty cool to see. Breakfast, bacon, pancakes, sausage, maple syrup. That's pretty good. Clearly all foods that are not in his meal plan. You're right. I didn't hear any of those things early on when he described his breakfast. But it doesn't mean that they can't still smell really good. That's true. I have not lost my smell. Do you know, by the way, that smell is the sense that is most directly tied to memory? I did not know that. So if you smell, let's say, a perfume of an ex, then you would instantly remember her because you smell that. Look, it could be a food too. I'm just saying that if you know the association, you realize you could still have a great memory of amazing smells. Or terrible memories. Or terrible memories. As long as I do the cheat meal right this time, because what I'm thinking about is like, okay, I got to have either some tequila, and I'll have chocolate, and I'll have some other dessert, and you know, five different kinds of pasta. Sometimes I'll walk around in the bakery section and just look and think about all the things that I would want to eat. But then I know if I took one of each and ate them, I would probably not feel so good after. I mean, the thing about cheat meal is it's supposed to be a cheat meal. He seemed to describe every single item in the pastry case. Like, more is good sometimes, but not always better. Yeah. Right? The only thing that's good with more is probably money and side delts. You can never get enough. But when we're talking about cheat meals, if you do honor it as a single cheat meal, I don't have a problem with it. As a matter of fact, I think a lot of times people respond more favorably if they've been really clean eating all the way up until this point. I could go out and have a meal that departs from what I normally eat, but because I eat so clean all the time, I almost look better physically. You look cool. Yeah. It just comes down to there's a limit always, and cheat meals should not become cheat days. I'm Mark Wahlberg, and that's what my diet looks like. Boring and repetitive. But thank you for your time. I mean, I disagree. Maybe he feels like it's a little less exciting, but I don't think if it was boring, he'd actually be able to repeat it. So if you're out there, guys, remember, boring, what are you doing? I'm following Mark Wahlberg's meal plan. He didn't say that that's what he did. Only thing that was giving me any comfort was a really tall, ice-cold jumbo beer at the end of the day. Oh, my God. Anyway. Delicious. So if you think age is making it harder for Mark Wahlberg to stay in shape, wait till you see what RFK does to stay in shape. Guys, check out that review right here. And if you're looking for a complete playlist of our reviews, you're going to find them right here. If you haven't done so, subscribe and full meal plans and workouts and supplements available over at athleanx.com. Enjoy your beer, Jesse. Oh, I will.

=== FILE: Masturbation is KILLING Your Gains [UVg096XPLjo].txt ===

 d converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter masturbation and its effects on muscle building and strength. I showed them to my coach and he doesn't buy it. Can you help me to convince him that masturbation won't have any negative effects on my efforts in the gym or even my performance on game day and that it might actually be beneficial? Begging that you'll side with me here. You wrote this. I wrote this. I'm not going to talk to you about masturbation habits. All right. So now let's dial it back a little bit. So there was a long standing belief that partaking in masturbation prior to competition would leave you weak in the legs. Weak in the knees. Weak in the knees. Right. And it would kill your aggression. A lot of it started with boxers and they thought that they shouldn't do this before a fight. Right. All right. Because it became too calm or too, too satisfied. Let's put it. Did Mickey say something about that? I think so. I think so. But that actually was replaced with more recent fears or concerns around its effect on testosterone. Because studies were done that showed that testosterone, both total and free, would drop after climax through masturbation. Now, the difference of that was that two things. Number one, it was a transient drop. So like a few minutes to a few hours? Yes. Like it was very short lived. Unless you're doing this chronically multiple times a day. Am I talking to you? Why are you talking to me? Why are you talking to me? Why are you talking to me? To maintain a low level of testosterone, it really wouldn't have any effect. Okay. But what's also interesting is, because I love the science of this, I always love the science of endocrinology, there's a series of checks and balances in the body. What they didn't say there was that there also was an increased androgen receptor sensitivity to testosterone. So if the testosterone levels dropped, but the androgen receptor sensitivity went up, then maybe it would even net out to no effect at all. So it basically offsets itself. Yeah. So now what was actually one of the conclusions of one of our earlier videos was that perhaps instead of looking for the negatives of masturbation, there actually existed some more positives that would come from this activity. But it would have to do with the timing of it. For instance, if you were to use this as, let's say, your favorite pre-workout, this might be my new favorite pre-workout, then you could potentially have an impact on the training you're about to do. Because we know that there's an increase of an endocannabinoid that's released that binds to something called the CB2 receptor, that actually has an ability to almost blunt discomfort. Really? Yeah. Now, what that would mean is if you were training, let's say, not for strength, but if you were training for hypertrophy or even like a metabolic hypertrophy, if you could blunt the sensation of that burn and discomfort, perhaps you could actually, I'm going to say it, but like last longer in those sets. However, as I always talked about before, because of those checks and balances, the interesting thing about that is it also, we know, has the ability to relax you and kind of make you feel calm. And chill. Right. Now, is that really going to line up well with you attacking your workout? So even if you had the capacity to train longer, could you actually even want to do it because you're not even having the desire to do that? Well, that goes back to what the coach was referring to, that killer instinct. Yeah. But then I also pointed out that the most beneficial time seems to be prior to bed or later at night because of the other effect that we get. And that is a release of oxytocin. You know what oxytocin is? That's the, oh, I learned this one. That's the love hormone. The cuddle hormone, right? Cuddle hormone. So after reaching climax, it's what makes you want to cuddle, right? It's what makes you feel less stressed, more relaxed, closer to your partner, right? It's actually a very important thing, I think, for men. It's a very important hormone that exists. Yeah. It keeps relationships intact. But what it does is it also, in new sort of evidence, starts to show something even more exciting. What's that? It specifically seems to speed up the time it takes us to get to phase three sleep or slow wave sleep. I only know REM sleep. Okay. So it's this phase right before REM. Okay. And in this slow wave sleep, when we're talking about wanting to build muscle, this is the most important wave of sleep that we have. Really? Because it promotes muscle protein synthesis. Okay. Right? It helps to restore glycogen into the muscles that we trained. It actually is the part where we get tissue remodeling and repair. It's the place in our sleep where we get growth hormone release. Okay. And it's basically where we actually kind of boost overall immunity. So it's very, very important. Sounds like all the good stuff happens there. It does. So not only are we going to speed up the pathway to get there, but we also can stay in that phase longer due to the surge in oxytocin. Okay. And we know that masturbation can create a surge in this oxytocin. That's pretty significant. So the timing then becomes a big question. So if someone were to partake in this activity, such as myself, when is the best time to do it? So it's based upon the evidence we have about the release of this oxytocin. So again, just like the testosterone decrease, this is a transient increase. So it's not going to be forever. But what we see is 10 minutes after climax, you get a two times amount of oxytocin in your body than you had prior to. Wow. 20 minutes after, it's three times the amount. Really? Here's the catch though. By 30 minutes after release, it's back to normal again. Oh man. So what would I suggest? If you're going to try to do this, the closer you are to sleep, the more likely you are to see this benefit. Okay. Okay. However, what's not clear is we do know that the oxytocin released during climax actually allows for that prolonged phase three sleep. And that phase three doesn't really get to you within 30 minutes. So it is possible that just the surge itself is what's responsible for setting the stage to have this happen. But again, timing it up so you can benefit from that faster entry or, you know, approach to phase three would actually be pretty useful. So honestly, I mean, I'd say here that more research is needed, right? So if you... How does one go about getting involved in this research? Do we get paid for our efforts? That's what I want to know. Are you interested? Are you asking for a friend or potentially for yourself? Research purposes. So all I would say is this. Anybody who's concerned about improving performance or they are a natural lifter, the number one thing you can do as a natural lifter is promote recovery, right? The number one benefit from anabolic steroids is faster recovery. They pretty much make recovery a non-issue. If you can find methods and mechanisms to try to speed up muscle recovery, I would say you're on the road to actually something that could be pretty beneficial. Now again, it's going to have to be consistent. It's going to have to be something, again, that's timed properly. And maybe there are going to be some new studies coming down the pipe here that could actually, you know... Coming down the pipe. I literally didn't mean to do that. I did not mean to do that. But anyway, more research is approaching or coming. Coming! Anyway, if you can, you know, experiment yourself, you can. But I'm not going to answer... Yeah, Jeff, you like to experiment yourself too? It's all about me and doing it myself. To answer the question, I don't see any detriment here. If anything, maybe possibly it's a benefit. So no worries in doing what you got to do. Oh, yeah? It's a benefit and there's no worries in doing what I got to do? Oh, at least I'm going to go have some fun. Guys, if you're looking for ways to actually promote recovery, first of all, you need a good workout program to stimulate the muscle. You can find it at athelenex.com. Actually, Reconstruction, our best recovery promoting supplement we have, also available over there. I got to get the hell out of here. Oh, come on, Jeff. See you. You don't want to talk about this any further? You don't want to talk about this any further?

=== FILE: New Superman Reveals His Diet and Workout (40 LBS OF MUSCLE!？) [DqNT_u6XoGo].txt ===

 What's up, what's up guys Jeff Cavaliere, Athleanx.com. So do you know who this is? Well, by now, if you read the title, you know this is Superman. But you may not know this is David Corrensweat. He's the new Superman. The next one in line to make the transformation that everyone wants to start talking about and let's face it, question because no one believes that this person put on 40 pounds in just nine months because that is what is being claimed. Well, today I'm going to break down his workout, his nutrition, and we're going to address the questions here today. So I'm going to see what really, to see what really might have caused this transformation. And you know what? And you know what? My answer might not be exactly what you thought it would be. In addition to that, I'm going to tell you about what you can do if you want to actually make your own Superman transformation, right? So stick with me because I've got a lot to cover here. So let's talk about this transformation because certainly other people have been. As a matter of fact, if you go on Instagram, you can see that on FilmBuzzer, David Corrensweat said he built his Superman physique naturally and without using PEDs. He followed a tough but sustainable training routine that pushed the edge of his physical capabilities. His physical capabilities, the 40 pound gain included muscle, water weight, and some body fat. He says, what are your thoughts on this? And of course, this is the internet. So everyone wants to comment and people start jumping in right away, right? And they say, well, I totally believe him just like The Rock and Chris Hemsworth. Or I'm going to get hate, but he looks a hundred times more natural than Cavill, which I think I'm going to agree with that. And then we have Robert Oberst who actually says, famous power lifter, why lie? Right? And it's interesting, right? I mean, people have a lot of opinions here. And then of course the I ate brown rice and chicken breasts, right? Because that's what everyone says, especially when they have to eat like 10 times a day to do it. So what do I think? All right. Well, we have to start by looking at the training, right? You can't discredit no matter what transformation any Hollywood actor makes. There is training that goes into this. And I want you guys to understand what was being done. But to do that, I think we should really kind of start at the source because Corn Sweat said he hadn't discussed what James Gunn, which is the director of the movie, wanted him to look like physically. He said, when he called me to tell me I got in the role, he said, you're in good shape, David, but I want you to get a trainer. He said, I want you to work on your shoulders and your vulnerability. So when we went on strike, I was all ready to start going to the gym and I just decided that I would get as big as I could within reason and healthfully. That was something that I had always wanted to do was put on size. I think that's really important. Okay. Another important piece here. Then he says, I've been a skinny guy. As Christopher Reeve said of himself, a string bean most of my life. So I was excited to have a reason to put on a ton of weight and see what that feels like. Most of the training was to put on weight. You eat a lot. You lift heavy weights as intensely as you can, basically. So most of what I did was think about what to eat, eat it, digest it, go to the gym, lift for two and a half hours a day, go home, sleep, and then sort of repeat that cycle. It was definitely a level of intensity. Another thing I think that's important to point out here, a level of intensity that I'd never pushed myself to before. Now, in this one little paragraph, I think there's a few flags that we're going to want to focus on. We'll kind of come back to them. But the fact that he hadn't trained at this level of intensity, that his goal was to put on a ton of weight, that the director wanted him to focus on building shoulders and lifting as heavy as he possibly could. All right, good. So what did it look like? So the trainer here was Paloma City. Okay. He had him training five to six days a week pre-production. And then when the shooting started, three to four sessions per week, each of them lasting two hours, right? At least two hours or approximately two hours. Now, interestingly, the split was push-pull legs. And the push-pull leg was a choice here because it gave him the ability to train push-pull legs, push-pull legs six times a week. And again, not tap too much into your recovery capabilities because you're training those kind of common functions of the muscles. So legs twice a week, pushing muscles twice a week, and pulling twice a week. Progressive overload was the main goal here. And they were aiming for a heavier side of things, six to 12 reps per set. Now, core training wasn't really a huge factor in what he was doing here, at least aesthetically, because he was given the instruction to have a farm boy body, right? Not a ripped, chiseled Superman, but more of a country-strong Superman. And the abdominal core work he was doing was more to prepare him for stunt readiness that you can see here. However, this is interesting because apparently he didn't read the research, right? Or the research that he should not be doing full-range motion because apparently all he had to do was just partials. I'm joking. He emphasized full-range motion, slow negatives, and stretching, right? Just key components of a good, sound training plan. And then it says here his weak spot was walking lunges, but he did them anyway, which is always a good thing when, you know, when you're still willing to do the things you hate to do because those are usually the things that make you grow the most. But it goes even further because he said in his own words here, we focus on movements like the presses, pull-ups, pull-downs, rows, all the big ones. We switched a little bit after a while, but we kept the focus on progressive overload to encourage muscle growth, keeping track of reps and weight and trying to advance each week. So again, the classic definition of progressive overload, trying to build strength to hopefully bring on some hypertrophy as well. Then he said it's just what works. The trainer said this. A lot of trainers online are looking for the next best thing, but it's not about showy moves. It's about mastering the exercise and focusing on things like, you said, full-range motion, mastering the negative, what I believe is a huge driver of growth, stretching and trying to progress in weights and reps. Now, if we look at the exercises, check it out. Shoulders. Shoulder press. Shoulders. Reverse fly. Shoulders. Push down. Got to get those arms. Superman arms too. Shoulders with a really lot of effort right there too. Tough failure. Triceps. Pull-ups from the back. Triceps. Kind of triceps and shoulders here. Shoulders. Get those pinkies down. Just pour in the pictures there. Shoulders. Actually, one of my favorite rear delt exercises, the seated row, hits the rear delts amazingly well, but we can call this a back exercise too. Now he's got the legs. He's doing the high bar squat here. Amazing form. The pad is fine. Actually, in a high bar, it's fine. Low bar, you would never use that pad on the neck. It just wouldn't stay. But great form. And again, you must have been watching the athlete next video. This is the master tip. Kind of meeting the bar with your chest. But he's got straps on his wrist here. He's going heavy. You can see the whole stack in the background there. He's lifting heavy. And he's doing all these sets with a high level of effort and training to failure. And of course, doing one of my exercises that I can't stand. All right. The seated or the lying hamstring curl. It's okay. You can't go perfect here. The fact is, it's a good builder of the hamstrings. It's just not, I think, sometimes at the expense of the low back. So what does all that mean? So I think from a training perspective, he's doing all the things that he needs to do in order to build muscle. If you were to follow a similar plan like that, you don't have to train that many hours. You'd be able to put on muscle. You'd be able to build strength and put on muscle. If you trained to this level of intensity where he's training all the way to failure and pushing himself like he's never done before. If you were to do that for the first time, you also would find new gains to be had quite easily. Now, again, if he hasn't really ever done this in his life to make some of these newbie gains would be pretty unremarkable too, because it's going to be expected for someone who's rather new to the gym. So from a training perspective, I really can't argue about anything that I see, but I'm going to tell you that this transformation had a lot more to do with nutrition. Because I believe that it's what led to a lot of the change in physique that we're talking about here. Let me explain. So when I look at the nutrition plan here, you can see, this is pretty crazy, that his goal was to take in either 4,500 calories up to 6,000 calories a day during his peak bulk. And make no mistake about this. This is a bulk. This is a big bulk, right? Again, he just wanted to get as big as he possibly could. I'm going to prove to you how big of a bulk it actually was here in a second. He tapered down to 3,500 calories a day before filming to cut some of that fat off. Because of the 240 pounds that he got up to, he actually backed off to 228 when he started filming. So he lost 12 pounds of that right off the bat. Now, when you look at the macro breakdown here, it's 50% carbs, 30% protein, and 20% fat. And again, this is all related to these articles, which sometimes we never know completely how accurate these things are. But it's what they say. And then again, the protein goal here was 0.75 to one gram per pound of body weight from whole foods and whey protein shakes. And whey protein shakes are a good, convenient way to get the protein because it's easier to drink the calories sometimes than it is to consume all of it. Now, one thing though, like I said, the accuracy sometimes where you got to be willing to dive a little bit deeper or question things. Just because it jumps out to me. If he had one gram of protein per pound of body weight at 240 pounds, that's 240 grams of protein per day, right? At four calories per gram, that's 960 calories from protein. At 6,000 calories, 960 is not 30% protein. It's probably only like 15%. So again, sometimes these are a little bit off. I would imagine he probably took an even more protein than the one gram per pound of body weight. And I always say, if you're really trying to build muscle, you can go up as high as 1.2 grams per pound of body weight. If you're training hard, you really want to put on muscle. Now, the next thing though, is a sample meal just so you can kind of see what it looks like. Probably not very surprising because everyone seems to claim these same type of meals, but six egg whites for breakfast plus two whole eggs, 1.5 to two cups of oats, Greek yogurt, berries, almonds, protein shake, right? There's a lot of food there as you would expect. And then other meals, again, here's where we get to the rice and chicken, right? The beef, fish, all the protein sources, veggies, and again, protein smoothies and yogurt snacks. Now, I do think you have to make sure you pay attention to this too. There were cheat items, right? And again, to get to the calorie levels I'm about to show you, I think there's more often, there's cheats in there more than maybe you are right now. But he had French toast, waffles, and his kryptonite was cereal. Which, by the way, I have a bit of a kryptonite for cereal too. Ever since I was a kid, now my son keeps a lot of cereals in the cupboard there, cinnamon toast crunch, apple jacks. It's hard not to just at least, you know, take a few handfuls or a bowl. Now, what does this all mean? If you want to determine how much of a bulk this really was, and maybe why we see the transformation that we did, then you have to calculate two numbers. The first is the basal metabolic rate. What the BMR is, is the number of calories that a person would need to be able to survive. Just at rest. Just laying there in bed to sustain the mass of that individual. This person happens to be 6'4", 240 pounds. Okay? That's a big boy. Now, how do you get to sustain that? Well, you're going to have to do all this math in here, which we don't have to bore you with. But you come out with a number of 2,150 calories per day just to exist. But that's not the number that we really care about. Because what we really need to know is what is TDEE is. That is your total daily energy expenditure. Because you know he's active. He just said he's been working out for two hours a day, which would put him in the highly active category. The highly active category you can see here requires a multiplier of 1.725 times that daily calorie BMR. That then gives you this number down here, which is his TDEE. That's his 3,711 calories. That's the number of calories he needs to sustain the activity that he does to film this movie and to prepare himself to do it. And also account for the fact that the food he's eating in these high quantities has a thermic effect too that requires that it be broken down and you burn calories just in digesting the food. So that number is 3,711 calories. Now, watch what happens. When we go back and we look at this number, let's focus on the big boy version of him. This is the one that was what we just quoted. At 240 pounds with the 2,150 BMR and the 3,600 calorie TDEE or in that range, look at what happens when you take in 4,500 to 6,000 calories per day. Again, like I said, that is no small bulk. That's a big bulk. In other words, if he was taking in 6,000 calories, that's 2,500 extra calories per day above maintenance. You're going to put on size. You're going to put on fat, but you're going to put on size. Mostly fat, but you're going to put on some size too because you clearly have enough calories to do it. And even if you go down here to the low end, you can see at 200 pounds at 3,300 calorie TDEE. Again, even if he was doing 4,500 calories at this point, you're still at a 1,200 calorie surplus every day. That's not the small 300, 400, 500 calorie surplus that we talk about, even when we're talking about bulking at a pretty decent pace. This is a pretty aggressive bulk. All right. And again, we know that it didn't all come in the form of those rice and chicken meals, that there are some of these cheap meals that are contributing to some of these higher calorie amounts. All you got to do is, again, go back to the source. Look what he said. To play Superman and bulk up to 230 pounds, I didn't fit into any of my pants. Now, let me ask you a question. When you just put on all muscle, for the most part, your pant size is not getting to the point where you can't fit in pants anymore. The fact of the matter is, when you can't fit in pants, this is almost always abdominal fat that you've deposited there because you're taking in too many calories. So, it's another indicator that we know he put on a pretty good amount of fat to do this. And he said, I didn't feel great when I underwent the transformation initially because my body hadn't yet adjusted to all the extra weight he had gained. Again, we don't say that when we're just building muscle. Like, it feels good. Here, just to have all the extra weight in the form of fat probably caused him to not feel so comfortable. He even joked that he'd become a 2XL when he donned his champion sweatshirt during a table read for the film. And he said, that was the peak of my bulk. And then I slowly lost weight before we started shooting. I started shooting at about 228, like I told you. I know I wanted this to be my excuse to see what it would feel like to gain essentially as much weight as I could. All right, so let's talk about this transformation because this is where I think people want to focus on whether or not it was natural or not. And they always want to look at the after photo. They'll point to his traps and they'll point to his delts. And they'll say, this is where the androgen receptors are. And this is where all the steroids went because this is how you get big traps. Well, I mean, look at the traps here. They're literally identical. I'm not saying that he didn't make any gains, but like his traps are literally the same. And in terms of his delts here, they're a little bit kind of pulled back with his posture right here. Not saying that he didn't add size here. He did. But he also added a lot of fat around his body. You can see his abs a little bit here. There's a reason why this shirt is conveniently hung around his neck to cover his chest and to cover his abs. There's a reason. Trust me. And if you look back where he had gotten to, I mean, you can see here that this guy versus this guy, I mean, he put on a good amount of fat in his face and his neck covered here by the beard. But like he put on a lot of weight. There's precedent for this, right? If you look at Chris Pratt kind of going the opposite direction, this is a 60 pound difference between this Chris Pratt and this Chris Pratt who's got his abs showing here. In other words, it's not uncommon when you basically drastically change your nutrition plan to put on a lot of body fat. It's not. The only way to really drop body fat successfully is to dial in specifically at what you're eating. I don't care what type of training you're doing or what type of cardio you're doing. And what has the biggest impact on how much body fat you have is going to be what you put in your mouth. And then, of course, core and sweat going back in the other direction if he's drastically changing his diet by adding a lot more food. So when we go back to this transformation, again, I ask you, is this really that crazy? And I'm just going to throw it out there. Is it that crazy? Because if you look at this, I want to talk to you about what this is. This is 6'4", 240 or 235. What we're looking at, I'm going to guess, is right about here. Somewhere in this range. This is the low to high 20s in terms of body fat. Let me go back here to show you. That physique versus this one down here. I would imagine this is kind of like 21, right, or so. I'm going to guess he's around 22% body fat. Right around that range. Right? That's great. I mean, that's great. You can clearly see your abs when you're at like 15% body fat or so. He looks great and he looks super strong. There's no doubt about it. But if he was, let's say, 13% body fat in this photo here, right, and 22% here, guess what? At his lean down version of 228, when he got down to 228, he would only have to put on to make this change in body fat from 13 to 22. A 9% gain in body fat would only require 7 pounds of muscle. 21 pounds of that 28 pound gain would be body fat. 21 pounds to go from 13 to 22%. And he would have 7 pounds of muscle gain. Now, I ask you, is it impossible for him in 9 months to have gained 7 pounds of muscle? Again, training hard for the very first time. Training very intensely. Training for strength. Training with good, solid, progressive overload and exercise choices. Right, under the guidance of a trainer. Six days a week. Having access to supplementation, whatever he needed. Rest and recovery. That's his job. So he gets to be able to do that. I'm just saying, I can see a case where I just hate when everyone always jumps to the conclusion that this guy is, you know, completely not natty. Right, and I think that's just the nature of the business, but that's what happens. But I also want to show you this. This guy over here is also around the same height. He's 6 foot 2. He's also around the same weight. That's 235 pounds. And Arnold in this photo was a known anabolic steroid user. I do not see a comparison between these two bodies. I don't. Is it possible? It's always possible, guys. But is it probable? I don't think so. But it does bring us sort of back to these online comments. And someone said, he has to say that, sadly. The studios can't have their franchise superstars saying that they're on anything. He's playing the game, and I hope he makes a great Superman. And I have to say that myself is that, again, if he was someone that was doing what others before him have done, and they just don't want to talk about it, then are you really going to sit here and criticize him, or are you just going to go watch the movie like you have all the others in the past? You're probably just going to go watch the movie. The fact of the matter is, whether they disclose it or whether they don't, I will tell you that behind the scenes here, it looks like there's some pretty sound training principles. As far as the meal plan, guys, I would never bulk that much. I don't think you need to do that at all. As a matter of fact, you can build muscle and burn fat at the same time if you're following a training program and a smart nutrition plan. I've got all of those. As a matter of fact, I also have brand new a Man of Steel workout program for you. Limited time, how to create a Superman-like body over at Athleanx.com. It's actually free for a very short period of time. By the time this video comes out, probably only one or two more days. You're going to want to head over there. Guys, if you haven't done so, make sure you click subscribe, turn on notifications. And also, if you're looking for a good PPL program, our Beast PPL program does what this does. But again, in a way, I believe, gives you the rest and recovery you need and allows everyone, natural or not, to get amazing results. All right, guys, we'll be back here again soon with another video. Stay tuned.

=== FILE: No More Love Handles (5 STEPS TO A SCULPTED WAIST!) [BhnMhfP3zko].txt ===

! X 하나付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付 start not down here, but up here. We're talking about what you're putting in your mouth because nutrition is where you always have to responsibly start whenever you're talking about trying to create a caloric deficit so that you can lose body fat. But the issue is a lot of us don't know where to start, but there is an easy place to do a jump off from. And that is to take two simple numbers, 12 and 15, and then focus your attention right up here on that top row of abs. Can you see them? If you look in the mirror, if you have visible abs, then what you're going to do is take your body weight and multiply it by 15. If you do not have visible abs, you take your body weight and multiply it by 12. And what that gives you is a simple starting point, a caloric total that you should be targeting each day to then determine whether or not you're in maintenance or maybe you need to make more adjustments. So how long does this last? Just two weeks. If you follow an eating plan, which should roughly be the same types of foods every day or so for the next two weeks, you can identify a caloric starting point that you can now start to make adjustments to that will give you the confidence of knowing you're moving in the right direction to ultimately losing those love handles and getting the physique that you want. There is one thing you have to make sure that you do here, though. I mentioned eating roughly the same foods. There's a reason why. Because all foods are not created equally. If you eat a steak at home, but then you go out to Applebee's and eat steak, I can assure you they're not the same steak calorically. The one you had at home is probably 500 calories or so grilled nicely on your backyard grill. The one at Applebee's with all the extra butter and sauces they throw on it is probably closer to 1800 calories. So when you go back into your calorie counting app and say, I ate steak. No, you did not. At least not the same version of it in the two different places. So in order to be very accurate in determining what that maintenance level of calories is, you want to make sure you're giving it accurate information. The other thing is something called the thermic effect of food. Proteins come at a higher cost calorically for our bodies just to even break them down. So if you start to shift the amount of protein that you eat versus carbohydrates during this time, you're going to maybe lose some of that accuracy. So again, trying to eat the same type of foods during this two week testing period is really crucial. Once you have that number, then the only thing left to do is just watch and see what happens. Now, if you find that you're not losing weight, you just adjust your calories down by 10%. So if you're at 2000 calories, drop them by another 200 and then once again, reassess. Once you've reached a level of maintenance where you're not gaining or losing weight over the course of the two weeks, well, then you can start to adjust from there, whether it be very aggressive by about 500 calorie deficit or so, or maybe less aggressive 200 or 300 calories. The point is, you can start to ensure that you're actually getting into that hypo caloric state required to lose the body fat to put you on the right path to losing those love handles. Now, the good news is creating that deficit that's capable of giving you that tapered waistline isn't all the responsibility of what you put in your mouth, but actually the activity that's going on down here. No, Jesse, not that kind of activity. You see, because even though you can never outrun a bad diet, you can contribute to the calories out portion of the equation to allow you to drop more body fat by increasing your activity. And guess what? You actually don't have to run. As a matter of fact, you might want to start walking some more because that's much more effective when we're talking about creating fat loss. Why? Because it's more sustainable. A lot of us find the task of running to be either too hard on our joints or too demanding to repeat multiple times during the week, but simply taking an extra walk throughout the day or multiple times in a week is actually much more obtainable and achievable. So, what are we talking about? Well, a 180-pound person can burn an extra 330 calories by walking for an hour at a pace of just three and a half miles per hour. That's not really that fast, but again, it's something that we can easily do. And maybe you don't have time to do one hour of additional training multiple times a week, but you can sneak it in other ways. You can take the stairs or you can park your car further away. We can deliberately try to get more steps in our day just by being more conscious of it, realizing that with every extra step we take, we're burning a few additional calories that will help to contribute to that deficit that is required to help you to get to those leaner levels of body fat. Now, I know what you're thinking, but Jeff, doesn't the extra intensity of the HIIT training actually lead to more calories burned? That's actually not how it works. Because even if you took a hard exercise, one of the hardest, a burpee, and performed it for a minute, you're going to burn 15 calories, which is much more than you do in a minute of walking. But how many minutes are you sustaining burpees for? Like, could you even do burpees for 10 minutes straight? Likely not. So the 10 minutes at 15 calories burned is only 150 calories burned. Whereas again, we talked about 330 and a more sustained low intensity effort like walking. So again, it's not always about what can be done, but more importantly about what can be done consistently. And this is actually easier work. So it's more likely you're going to actually do it. Now, what if there was a cheat code or a hack that allowed you to visually attack that waistline of yours through exercise that didn't involve a single exercise for your waistline, specifically, no side bends. Don't ever do a side bend. What I'm talking about here, guys, is actually fixing the appearance of that waistline of yours by visually creating a wider physique through the use of exercises that target your shoulders, specifically your middle delts and your lats. So you get more of that visible V taper from the top to the bottom. You actually create what we call this Dorito chip shape. And the reason we get this is because we get the middle delts becoming more prominent and we get that tapering width down towards the waistline from a well-developed set of lats. We're going to need to do some exercises to do that. And some of my favorite ways to target the middle delts are simply with lateral raises. And there's a lot of ways we can do this. We can either do it with lighter weights, with more focused tension on the delts by performing slower repetitions with really good form and no substitution with other muscle groups, or we can do something more explosive and powerful like a cheat lateral that also helps to overload the delts and build them in the process. When it comes to the back, you're going to want to focus on the exercises that actually train more of the lats rather than the upper back or the thickness of the back. And these exercises are really more of those vertical pulling exercises like a lat pulldown or an underhand pulldown or even a pull-up or a variation of a pull-up. You can even do exercises like the row as long as you're keeping that elbow tucked tight to your side or even something more lat specific like a straight arm pushdown. All these exercises do a great job of training the lats to give you more of that visible V taper and again, create that illusion at least while you're working on the rest of the steps here to get a more broad top and more tapered waistline that will get you liking more of what you see in the mirror while you move on to step four. And so step four is where a lot of you, let's face it, probably skip forward to because you wanted to find out how do I deal with this right here? Again, it starts with all the stuff we discussed already. But if this was in a museum, this would be the part you likely focus on. Your eyes would go right here. And there's a reason for it because a six pack kind of tends to do that. Look, even somebody with definitive love handles looks instantly better when you start to etch in some abs because visibly they actually happen to soften the appearance of those softer love handles by giving you something else to look at. But they also do something much more important than that. This right here becomes the inspiration to keep going in order to get to the point where you can actually lose those love handles. See, what men experience is something called top down fat loss, meaning when we start to lose weight, we start to see it first in our face and then in our neck and then usually through our chest. And then it starts to work its way down into that upper row of abs. And when you can even start to see just that top row, you become inspired to keep going because a lot of us stop long before that point. Do you ever see that cartoon of the two diamond miners where they're digging away, trying to get to the diamonds? One's only about halfway there, but he's really eagerly going and chopping away. Whereas the one on the bottom is quitting, not knowing that he's only about six inches away from finally hitting pay dirt. You don't want to be that guy. It's going to take some time to finally get down to that top down fat loss all the way down to those love handles. Usually the last ones to go is going to be the fat that's right down there low upon your waist. So what does that mean? We need the inspiration. Nobody keeps going without something that continues to drive them. And as you start to see that top row of abs, it really behooves you to make sure that you're doing something to train the abs so they actually look good. So this is where you want to start doing some ab exercises. Now, what are they going to be? I'm going to tell you right now, top down ab exercises. What that means is exercises where you're just moving the top and leaving the pelvis fixed. And it's not because you could specifically target the top abs. You can't do that. But what it does is it gives you an easier set of ab exercises to delve into so that you can remain consistent. And more importantly, you can get started on without being too difficult for you. So we're talking about exercises like a classic crunch where you're moving those shoulders towards the fixed pelvis or maybe a crunch pull down where once again, you're using some additional weight here, but you're moving towards a fixed pelvis or even something like a power up, which requires more of a sit up, but you're doing it once again with just moving your shoulders towards the fixed pelvis. All of these exercises are much easier to do than some of the hanging ab exercises that require you to be able to lift the weight of your legs. You don't need to do that, but you do need to start worrying about hitting those abs if you want to be able to ultimately get down to that stubborn body fat that's hanging around your waistline. And so that now brings us to the obliques. And if you're looking to get rid of those love handles, guess what you're going to have to train? The obliques. Because if we look at that picture of art once again, what would happen if I actually got rid of the frame around those abs? It just doesn't look as impressive because when it comes to the artwork, your obliques are framing in your abs. They're actually giving you that visual tapering that makes your abs look a lot more impressive. But as I said, you're going to have to train them. But this is where we have a problem because a lot of people think the big myth out there that training your obliques gives you a big, thick, blocky waist. No, that's only if you're building your obliques up and you still have them covered by a lot of fat. Because you can see right here, when you get rid of that fat, those obliques look really, really good and really impressive. So when we're talking about training the obliques, you have to do rotational exercises. And I'm going to tell you this, the faster you can move away from just the bodyweight exercises and add some resistance, the more these muscles in here are going to respond to start shaping up and carving in and giving you that really tapered waistline. So I'm talking about exercises like this to start where you're just using rotation either from the bottom up or from the top down, but then moving into some form of resistance like a band where you could do rotational work like this, or even using the weight of your own legs and doing hanging leg raises like this. Again, building up to this, if you can't start here is fine. You can actually do this exercise laying on the ground and still getting that rotational work in. Anything we can do to incorporate the rotation of the pelvis while we're moving is going to help us to start training those obliques. Now, here's the other thing I don't want you to do. Don't be one of those diamond digger quitters, right? Because remember what I said, it's this area that's the last to come off. You could lose all the fat from here and it starts to work its way all the way down. It's that stubborn area around your waistline that's so hard to get rid of. But don't quit. Use the motivation you got from starting to see some of the progress elsewhere and some of these tricks to visually taper in that waistline to keep you motivated to keep going, to keep digging and chipping away until you hit that pay dirt. Because ultimately, there's nobody walking the face of the earth that's genetically disposed to always having fat all around their waist. If you stick to the plan, this fat is not unlike any other fat in your body. It will ultimately come off. And when it does, you'll look much better for it. If you're looking for more help on nutrition, then make sure you check out this video over here where I cover two strategies to help you actually speed up your fat loss. And if you're looking to pair down those ab exercises to just two, then check out the only two ab exercises you need here. Guys, remember to turn on your notifications and subscribe if you haven't already done so. Check out our full progress and meal plans available over at athlenex.com. All right, guys. Good luck.

=== FILE: Sacha Baron Cohen Body Transformation (EXPOSED!) [MTDAe-DCgtY].txt ===

 So I did not have this one on my 2025 bingo card. Neither did I. Okay, so you guys know Sacha Baron Cohen or Borat. Borat. Borat. Borat. Borat. Borat. Ben and Nas, a lot. Okay, so this is Borat, right? And I know this is probably your favorite fashion, Jesse, but uh. Well, listen, if anyone's got the best beachside or poolside attire, it's me. Oh, gosh. Oh, no. Oh, Jesse. Oh, come on. This is great. Is this one of these ones from the intros that you do too? If it's not in an intro already, it will be. Listen, if you guys want another intro, please leave a comment below. No, no, no, no, no, no. No, that's enough. That's enough. That's enough. All right, so, back to the subject of the video, Sacha Baron Cohen. This is what he looked like, and it caused a whole bunch of talk last week on the internet because this is what he now looks like. Ah. Gracing the cover of Men's Fitness Magazine UK Edition. Looking great. Does look great. It's also here too. Ooh. Look at that. And here. Look at those guns. It looks serious too. Yeah. Not looking so funny anymore. And this. Oh, wow. So, we're here today, obviously, to talk about this transformation. Okay? Diet, nutrition, everything that goes into it. Break it all down. And by the way, there's a lot of talk that there's no way that this is natural. Right? Yet another Hollywood faker who's doing what everyone in Hollywood does and basically faking a transformation. Okay? But we'll talk about that too. Here's what we do know though because there's some things we know and what we don't know. Number one, he did this because he's playing a character, I guess, a villain, Mephisto. Mephisto. In a Marvel Comics thing that's on Disney+. Ironheart. I'm not the nerd here. I am. So, he would know everything about this. Number two, he had three weeks to get in shape. That's it? That's it. Three weeks. Now, supposedly, this transformation was made in three weeks. They don't tell you the details. We'll talk about it. Number three, he hired trainer Alfonso Moretti who was someone that Matthew McConaughey was using. Okay. That's known for getting people in shape quickly. He called him to help him get in shape to do this. Three weeks. Number four, he followed a very specific diet plan that we'll cover. Okay. Number five, the workouts consisted of just 25 minute HIIT style workouts. That's it? 25 minutes. That's Moretti's style. That's what he likes to use. That's his go-to method for trying to get people in shape when he needs to do it quickly. Okay? The only video, though, that we have of this transformation or of the training that went into this transformation is the one that's been circulating, which is this one here. Okay? Look at those curls. Now, there's going to be something very important about this video. Okay. Pay very close attention here. Okay. The last thing that we know is that according to Sacha Baron Cohen, there was three things that really were mostly responsible for this transformation. Number one, the help of his trainer. Number two, the help of a chef. And number three, ozempic. So, now, we'll get to that, too, because you have to remember, he's a comedian. But some people actually got very offended by that. They took that to heart. So, if we're going to talk about how we did this, let's start by talking about the workouts. Because a lot of times people think there's got to be some specific workout. And, again, is the HIIT style workout something that can create this type of transformation? Do you know about Tabata workouts? I know a little bit. Some of the things that you've had me do in the past were Tabata-based. So, Azumi Tabata is the person who is responsible for designing this protocol. And he did it back in 1996. And they basically took highly trained individuals and they subjected them to extremely high bouts of intense exercise. 20 seconds on. Okay. Followed by 10 seconds of rest. Yeah. Now, importantly, they did this for just four minutes. Eight rounds of 20 on, 10 off, 20 on, 10 off, 20 on, 10 off. To do these repeated bouts at high levels of intensity can knock you on your ass very, very quickly. They did this, though, on a cycle ergometer. What is that? Is that like a stationary bike? So, it's funny because it looks like a stationary bike. But the difference between a cycle ergometer and a stationary bike is that the stationary bike, you sort of have to step your way up or ramp your way up to your higher speed or your higher intensity level. And then you kind of cool yourself down. So, what's lost in there is the transition periods up and down, which takes away from the 20 seconds of all out effort that you can control with a cycle ergometer. Because you could actually program the wattage at a very specific wattage that will kick in immediately and allow you to instantly be subjected to that very high level intensity. And then remove that intensity so that for your 10 seconds of rest, you're actually getting a full 10 seconds of rest. Okay. So, it's very controlled. It's different. The second thing is, again, these guys were training at 170% of their VO2 max. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. How do you go 170% of your max? Good question. So, your VO2 max, do you know what that is? That's your heart rate? No. So, your VO2 max is the effort level that your body can still provide oxygen to the muscles so they can still function. That's exactly what I was going to say. So, in other words, your ability to continue to deliver oxygen to the working tissues, if that is at your max level, can you train above your max? You can. Really? But what that means is you ain't doing it for very long. Okay. Because when you're exceeding your maximum effort, that VO2 max is the maximum amount that still allows you to provide the oxygen to those working muscles to continue. Okay. But when you go above that, 70% in this case, you can't keep it going for long. In other words, these 20 second duration intervals are really forced intervals. They're forced to be short because you can't go for any longer than that because you've lost the ability to deliver any type of oxygen to those muscles to keep them going. So, that's the premise here. It's a very important premise that you know because when we start to look into these workouts, you have to understand how is it that they can be effective. What we don't have, though, is we don't have Borat doing these exercises. We don't have footage of him doing these workouts. We haven't yet had the magazine come and say, hey, let's go do our makeshift video shoot where it looks like you're doing what you've been doing for the last six months, but we're putting it all in one workout and also choosing the fanciest exercises to make sure it looks really cool when you do it. We don't have that photo shoot or video shoot yet. But what we do have is a lot of footage from Alfonso Moretti's own YouTube channel about these exact style of workouts. And we're going to take apart one of them now just sort of as a representation and then we'll talk about the possibilities of this being able to create the look that we're talking about before. So, the first one here is actually called the Figure 8 workout and we're going way back. We're going back in the annals of history here to find a YouTube video from the Angry Trainer. Look at that intro. Hey, that reminds me of your old intros. No, no, no, no, no. See who can remember this one. That's my old videos. Do you remember that song? Cool Young Reese. It used to play for about 45 seconds as an intro way before we even got into me talking about what was going to happen. So, the intro to the intro. Exactly. So, thank you for bearing with me for all those years. So, in this workout here by Alfonso Moretti, it's called the Figure 8 workout. Let's see how it breaks down. I have put together the Figure 8 workout. It's going to be 8 exercises, 30 second intervals with 15 seconds rest. 30 second interval, 15 second rest. Not the true 2010 Tabata. But again, an interval based workout that's intense in terms of having to do something for 30 seconds. Quick little rest and then back into it again. Alright, so the exercises here that we're looking at starts with a wood chopper. Now, I will say the level of intensity here that's demonstrated is not, I'm sure, what his clients do or what he does even to do these. You have to dial it back when you're doing these workouts for YouTube if you want to talk as he is. Well, I've noticed you have to dial it back. Lots of experience. Lots of experience here. But a total body exercise, cross body patterning, upper body, lower body together. Okay? Next exercise. After 15 seconds rest is a burpee. Again, I know he attacks these with a lot more intensity. I've seen him do it, actually. By the way, it squats. But also, with a burpee, you can't really sustain that for too long, can you? No, so this is a 15 calorie per minute burner. It's a high intensity exercise. But no, you can't sustain this for very long. It's a good exercise if you really attack it and do it really intensely. But you can't do it for very long. But that's the beauty of these workouts. You're not doing them for long. Next one. Alternating reverse lunge into a curl. Okay. So, again, this is sort of reflective of the era where there was these combination movements. Doing a curl, doing a lunge. Now people would say, not an effective curl, not an effective lunge. Right? Because you're compromising one versus the other. Again, that's not the goal of this type of training. The goal of this type of training is to move as many muscles as possible in as short a period of time, as intensely as possible, to get an overall metabolic effect. Okay. Okay? Not necessarily straight hypertrophy. And we'll talk about that. Next exercise here. Looks like he's doing like a push-up. Again, another combination with a fizzy ball ab curl. Yeah. First core. Next exercise. He's doing like a squat banded press. Now here, I'm seeing like push-push. Right? There's a push from the push-up. There's a push from the overhead press. A lot of times when you perform these circuit-style workouts, or in this case the Tabata programming, you don't want to really put two pushes back-to-back. Because again, with such short rest in between, it gets hard to recover enough in between the exercises to get a good effort back-to-back. Right. So I'd like to see a pull. It's not any commentary at all on Alfonso as a trainer. I've said this before. I don't critique trainers. Trainers, especially Alfonso, who continues to get hired to this day, they obviously must know what they're doing because they continue to get hired. Right? But I mean, I'm just saying as an educational standpoint here, if I were to program this, I'd try to put maybe a push or a leg exercise in between. Then we have jump rope. And then he's got sort of this, now another cheat-to-ground push-up. See, there's a lot of pushing here. But again, it's a combination movement. And if it was my specific workout, I probably would, again, try to do some type of pull exercise here. Yeah. And then last we have this T-stand rotation, which I'm not really a big fan of this selection. Good exercise, but not for a high-intensity interval training workout. Right. Because this is not really a high-intensity exercise. It's more of a rest. And critical to the understanding of the effectiveness of this type of training is that you do have to bring that intensity. You have to bring it. Again, we're basing this off of the Tabata protocol that does show benefits, but that 170% VO2 max effort level is definitely not being displayed on an exercise like that. Right. And here's the big thing. It's questionable if you'll ever be able to duplicate that level of effort in any type of workout where you're just stringing together some bodyweight exercises. Are they ineffective? No. They are still effective. We use these workouts ourselves a lot. They're great. They're designed to do exactly that. Improve your anaerobic endurance. Even working towards a better VO2 max, but just not maybe to the maximum levels that you could if you're doing it on a cycle or in that controlled environment. Improving insulin sensitivity. Right. Having metabolic benefits. So all these things are good. To prove that this is still sort of what's going on here, this is a more recent video from what? Two years ago, Jesse? Two years ago, I think. First exercise, push-ups. Second exercise, V-ups. Third exercise, bodyweight squats. And go. Six regular push-ups. One. Two. Three. Keep your abs tight. Glutes are flexed. Six. Awesome. Okay, now we're going to turn over. This is going to seem easy at first. So we're here. Six V-ups. Push core. One. And then we go into… Up to our feet. Proper foot positioning. Shoulder width apart. And squats. One. So there's an example there of upper, lower core. Yeah. Right? Or upper, core, lower. Splitting them all up. One of the things that these types of workouts, though, don't do very well. They don't really build muscle. Hypertrophy. And you can build muscle by getting metabolically stressed. But what we know about metabolic stress as a hypertrophy signal is that it has to go to a high degree of effort to the point of failure. And the thing about these types of workouts is you're never really going to a point of failure. And especially you can't if you start to put exercises back to back that do the same thing. So the push exercise, the push exercise, the push exercise. If you take it to a point of actual failure, then you're not going to be able to do the next push exercise. Right. So it becomes even more important to actually sequence the exercises, push, pull, legs, to move that focus around the body and maybe allow yourself to reach a point of actual momentary muscular failure. Now I think you can actually start to get some more benefits of these types of workouts for building muscle. But again, they can still do a really good job at helping you to lose weight, which forces us to sort of go back, I think, and look at this transformation. Because here's where I have to laugh. Even though we know what Borat looks like here, when we look at the after photo here, I'm not seeing a whole ton of muscle. I mean, correct me, Jesse, if I'm wrong. No, I don't see a ton of muscle. I mean, he looks cut for sure, but I wouldn't say that he's Chris Bumstead. He's got some delts. His arms are not huge by any means. No. He's a tall man. He's 6'3", I think. He's 6'3", I think. He's incredibly fit. He looks amazing. His body fat levels are down, like so much so from that Harry Borat photo from before. Right? Here he is here. He looks amazing. But when I see this, do you know what kind of vibes I get? What? Right here. Oh, Michael Phelps. Michael Phelps. I get like the same type of vibe. If you look here and here. It's like, I'm not saying it's the same guy, but it's sort of that same swimmer's body. Same shape. Same shape and physique. And again, I'm sorry, but nobody can convince me that there were any steroids or performance enhancing drugs that were utilized here. And when we talk about ozempic, this three week rush to get in shape, he was joking. He actually had to come out and clarify that yesterday. You have to remember, guys, he is a comedian. And if you're still trying to hold on to muscle mass at all, ozempic is not really the drug for you. You just want to lose some weight, okay, but not to hold on to muscle mass at the same time that you're trying to lose that weight. So now we have to start to look at that three week transformation and say, what did he really have to do? And that's where we go back to this other video. Remember I told you guys to pay close attention to the video? Were you paying close attention, Jesse? I was paying very close attention. What did you notice here in this video? Do you see anything about Borat here? It's not about Borat. It's about when this video was taken. So you did notice. Yeah. So if you zoom in down here, you can see that here, this was done in 2019. Yeah. So the only training clip I have that's actually been surfaced in these articles about this transformation is this right here. This is 2019. He looks pretty freaking good in 2019. Yeah. See, he wasn't the Harry Borat and the Mankini anymore. That was 2006. So 13 years later, he looked like this already. So maybe he called up Alfonso because he allowed himself to get a little bit out of shape or he needed to tighten up a little bit. And so over the course of the next three weeks, he wanted to dial it in. That's where I think he was able to sort of make these rapid changes. But it wasn't coming from that original Borat picture. Yeah. So when people put these magazine articles out and they have that versus this, it wasn't that versus this. It was actually more like this picture here of him doing the curls versus the one that's on the magazine cover. Right. And I'll tell you how I think he achieved that. But I do want to talk about one other thing. His history is not one that's not based around good genetics and athletics. People would be shocked to understand. I'm going to read right from the article here. My dad played a lot of rugby in Cardiff growing up and my mom was a champion swimmer. My grandmother taught exercise classes until the age of 99 and swam in the sea every day. Her husband was a shot put champion of Saxony, Germany, jogged and lifted weights right up until the end. For the past 14 years, Sasha himself, I've been kickboxing with my incredible trainer, Ed Chow. He's a remarkable fighter who I'm sure could easily kill someone who pissed him off. So I always made sure to pay him on time. During the pandemic, while living in Sydney and Perth, I took up daily sea swimming. There's nothing like the extra adrenaline rush that comes from knowing you might meet a shark with a penchant for kosher cuisine. Now, I don't care who you are. If you're fit enough to swim in the sea outside of Australia and Perth, you're pretty fit. And again, that's the guy that we're seeing in that 2019 curl video. So I believe that this transformation could have happened, but not from the mankini, Borat, to the one we see on the magazine cover. But a guy who looked like this in 2019, trained for an additional six years. It's been six years since 2019. So six more years of training, right? Maybe he can even make some better results than you have, Jesse, in six years. Because lots of our people here think you've made no progress at all. None. But let's imagine he made some additional gains in six years. Well, then we take that guy, we put him in the ocean, swimming around the sharks, and we realize it's probably pretty damn fit. And getting in this type of shape wasn't that difficult. I will say, I don't think it was the workouts, though. What was it? I think it was the nutrition. Nutrition? Always. Because once again, once again, when we're talking about quicker changes and trying to dial it in, that's where I think you need to look at how somebody can eat. Because you can make a pretty significant impact on how somebody looks by changing the way they eat. Here's what we know about how he ate. He followed a high protein diet. He cut back on the starchy carbohydrates. He increased his intake of fiber and fibrous carbohydrates. Between the protein and the fibrous carbohydrates, he has a much more filling diet. You can actually consume fewer calories because you're more full based on the food choices that you made. He also increased his water intake and he decreased both his sugar and fat intake. What happens when you decrease your fat intake? You dramatically decrease your calories. Fats contain nine calories per gram, which is double the amount of calories per gram, more than double, of carbohydrates or proteins. So when you start to limit your fats, you can quickly start to cut calories down. When you're looking to go and lose weight at a faster pace, if you focus in on fat, especially if you have a lot of fat in your diet right now, you're going to be able to make a significant impact calorically. When you start to take in less sugars, you have less cravings than most people have. The more of those starchy carbohydrates and even direct sugars that they eat, the harder it is to sort of control your ability to refrain from them when it's time. So when you do that, your body doesn't even have the temptation even present, so it's a lot easier to stay on track. Got it. So when you make changes like that, and then, let's go back to this photo here, you shave your chest, you oil up a little bit, you do some curls ahead of time, or you pump yourself up a little bit, Get a tan. Get a tan. Turn at the right angle. Get the perfect lighting. You can have an amazing transformation just like this. So where do I sit on this? Guys, by no means do I think that this is just a no effort transformation. I think that there's a lot of effort that went in here. I think that his choice of trainer was a good one. I think that this guy has a track record of helping people get in shape. And I believe that their dedication to nutrition, that I'm sort of taking for granted here as what was responsible for what we see, is oftentimes very challenging for people even though they know how simple it is. They can't stick to it. And being able to stick to it is easier when you know you have a goal, or something that you're targeting and trying to get in shape for. And because he had a specific thing he needed to get in shape for, it probably gave him that extra incentive to make sure that he did not fall off track. I do not believe that this is assisted in any way. Every single person who follows a good nutrition plan, and follows a dedicated training plan, regardless of what split you follow, even if it's not following a Tabata split here, I believe you can get results just like this, and be very, very happy with how you look, without the use of drugs or steroids. If you're looking for a program and a meal plan that will actually take you through your own transformation step by step, you can find them over at athleanx.com. If you want me to review somebody else here, make sure you leave them in the comments below, just so you'll check it out, and we'll do our thing. Alright guys, I hope you found the video helpful. Make sure you click subscribe, turn on notifications, so you never miss a video when we put one out. See you soon.

=== FILE: Size vs Strength ｜ How To Train For Each (OR BOTH!) [BK2HdRp4Oo0].txt ===

 So you want to get stronger? you know can chime in instead of been there I asked the guy what do I have to do and he says well do you want to be big or do you want to be strong and then I said both and he says well here's the the bad news you're not built for either no he says but you could probably be really ripped and you should probably lean into that so suffice it to say that over the years I kind of fine-tuned my training to try to be all of the above but I probably leaned a little bit closer to being on the lean side yeah all right now the first thing you need to do is understand that there is a difference between training for size and training for strength now you may have heard the word hypertrophy yes Jesse actually worked here for two years yeah I was an intern for two summers for two summers the word hypertrophy was thrown around probably 30 times or three or three thousand times and he never asked me until about two years and he said what does that even mean yeah so it means actually growing bigger muscles like bigger cross-sectional area of your muscles themselves so increasing muscle size where strength could just be increasing your ability to exert force right to lift heavier weights even if it's sometimes just neurologically driven better better mind muscle connection now how do we pursue those well there's a lot of different criteria and so I want to do is start to break down and introduce the different criteria and show you the differences so you can pinpoint what you need to focus on yeah the first thing would be technique focus in other words what is the goal of your training when you're focusing on size versus strength if you're focusing on building bigger muscles here's what's interesting you want to make your workouts in the exercises that you do as inefficient as possible this sounds kind of weird right but it's true because on the opposite side if you're looking to build strength you want to become as efficient as possible yeah so let's start there because that makes more sense right if you want to lift a heavier weight like if you want to do a heavier bench press do you want to have a bench press where there's a lot of wasted movement along the way where the bar path is inconsistent no where the bar path isn't really moving remember they said it's shortest distance between two points is a straight line yeah if you want to be strong you need to be very effective and efficient at being able to move that weight as much weight as possible through as short a path as possible right we need to groove that in all of our exercises to do that you need to become coordinated in terms of the numbers of muscles that are contributing to even a bench press that's because they're compound movements and they're requiring multiple muscle groups to be used at the same time so oftentimes when beginners pursue strength it's an awkward pursuit yeah because they don't know how to make the triceps the shoulders the chest the core the coordinate to move a bar you've seen it yourself or you've got we've all been there the first bench press you do the bars moving everywhere yep so these are highly coordinated movements but with practice and this is gonna be a theme that we get into here with continued practice you're gonna find more efficiency so that that bar moves exactly where it's supposed to go with no wasted movement and you're able to continue to overload that exercise which is a key part of actually getting stronger yeah now go to the other side of it now being inefficient because you're trying to build muscle remember when you're trying to grow bigger muscles your body's gonna fight you every step of the way it does not want to do that for you despite your best intentions it wants to do the opposite it wants to be in a state that we call homeostasis which means just keep Jesse the same let's not let Jesse become an animal like he has let's keep them the same way so you need to force that you need to take those gains you can't just think they're gonna happen accidentally so the way that happens is oftentimes using intensity techniques which we'll get into into the training that you do pushing yourself long past the typical levels of exertion so that you're telling your body hey I don't like the way that felt I need to come back bigger and stronger and adapt and the only way I'm gonna do that is by responding by growing bigger and larger to become more resilient so to do that you have to figure out ways to make the muscle that you're trying to grow do all the work realizing that and a lot of the exercises that you do there's a lot of muscles that want to naturally contribute to the lifts that you're doing ie again on a bench press the triceps are built to help especially at the end of the range of motion the shoulders are built to help especially in the beginning of the range of motion you're trying to figure out ways that I can make the chest do all the work and feel all the tension even on a push-up if you make the chest do all the work and make it a very slow painful inefficient movement guess what the results will be better that's how you'll grow yeah it's focused muscular tension that's where you're really trying to drive all the focus and tension into that specific muscle when it comes to strength you are engaging multiple muscles at the same time so you want systemic tension which is basically your whole body is creating tension to to move that bar as efficiently as possible yeah and then what's interesting is like as a trainer of athletes the strength side of it is what athletics is all about yeah because you want efficient movement you want fast powerful movement you don't want wasted motion right being inefficient isn't necessarily the best path for an athlete to improve performance so there's a lot of carryover between strength and performance but when we talk about the aesthetic side of it which a lot of people want you got to go and look at the opposite direction so now people are saying well Jeff so what does that mean then specifically in terms of my workouts like for instance where would I focus my reps if I was trying to do one or the other so if you were trying to let's say build muscle right the hypertrophy side Jesse yes you get it now I understand if you want if you want to build muscle then here's the other interesting thing about this your rep ranges could be all over the map yeah they could be anywhere between five and now research shows thirty even maybe a little bit higher than that thirty-five but you need to learn once again how to take yourselves to extremely high levels of effort especially as those rep ranges get higher and higher what I mean is you need to start learning how to train to failure now a lot of people will talk about not going all the way to failure showing you know almost the same benefits by keeping one rep in reserve or even up to two reps in reserve I think that there's a lot of subjectivity to that meaning I'm not quite sure if I stay below failure I'm not quite sure if I actually got there and a lot of times we underestimate what our efforts are on a given day and what we're capable of so when we stop two reps short we might have stopped four reps short yeah I don't like that because I think it becomes very ineffective those sets that you think you're doing something good on to actually increase muscle size are falling just a little bit too short but when you take it all the way to failure you you remove the subjectiveness of that you become very objective like I literally cannot move that weight anymore I guaranteed that I got there so when you get higher and higher in those rep ranges towards 10 15 20 especially 25 you need at all costs to throw away the idea of saving reps and reserve if you're going to follow that path because you need to take it all the way to failure at that point there's a difference between failure and discomfort obviously a set could elicit discomfort in the first seven reps if you stop there you're not reaching failure you have to go until you cannot move that weight in good form anymore that's failure yeah and people oftentimes especially beginners they lack the ability to grind through that discomfort because that's an acquired taste right the longer you're in the gym the more psychotic you probably become you become more comfortable being uncomfortable that's something that you need to learn how to do in that burn which actually starts to set in as you get into those higher rep ranges 15 plus is something that you're gonna need to push through because that burn is gonna happen way before that final mechanical inability to move the bar it's also a mental thing because if you don't understand what failure is or how to push past the burn you're never going to progress as much as you possibly could because you don't know how to progress exactly so now that's how you would train if again you're looking to train for hypertrophy now if you're looking to train for strength we talk about a whole different approach here this is probably the biggest departure where if you decide I want to train for strength or if I want to train for size like this is probably the biggest departure you're gonna have to make depending upon the path you want to do it in the best of the you want to take yeah so usually your rep ranges are between four and eight reps depending on where you are in your training cycle when you're peaking for a meet if you're power lifter it's usually singles doubles and triples at that point but the whole point of strength training is you do not want to take those exercises to failure right you want to be able to grind those reps out and be able to you know complete them yes I'll complete them but you don't want to be able you don't be crushed under the bar you don't want to have spotters pick a bar up off you every single time because not only is it dangerous is also impedes your progress this is where you see those common protocols of five by five three by five five by three for those who are unaware five by three is five sets of three yeah or five by five is five sets of five or three by five is three sets of five three by five is usually what we program in our strength work for our programs yeah and there's also there's a sensation difference too like understand this when you work hard on a strength set it's kind of the feeling of I don't want to say surviving the set but like you move you get there somehow you went from point A to point B used everything in your body Jesse talked about sort of having that systemic tension you used everything possible to get you through that lift and you completed the repetition whereas in a hypertrophy focus set let's say on a single muscle like a bicep curl the feeling is different feeling is like oh my god my biceps so cramped right now I've got such tension in that muscle it's more about the ability to withstand that discomfort in a single area versus the ability to overcome this sort of external load that just feels pretty heavy and not only that but a great way of visualizing it is if you are doing a Bulgarian split squat you're gonna feel all the tension in your quads and afterwards you're gonna be like oh my god my quads are really really juiced up right now if you go to a heavy heavy heavy squat it's not just your quads that are hurt but it's your whole body right feels the fatigue and feels the tension that that though that load of that bar put on your back right and that's gonna be very important here in a second before that to finish out the other side of this thing you know what what rep ranges should I do well how many sets should I be doing right what's the volume here how many sets and reps am I really trying to achieve in a given week if I'm focusing on hypertrophy or strength so when we talk about the hypertrophy side of the inner again muscle size these could be higher here right they could be spread out like typically most muscle groups are responding somewhere between another range here let's say nine and twenty yeah nine and twenty sets throughout a given week and again they don't have to happen in one session matter of fact it's better performed over multiple sessions so instead of doing a bro split which I still think can be very effective by the way and a brush will be one single muscle group a day instead of doing a bro split we know that the muscle recovery and muscle protein synthesis can be spiked and then brought back down to baseline which would set us up for another session really really well right if we can get another session in during the week then we can restimulate a second time then therefore there's an argument of taking let's say even 18 sets that you might do for your chest or 16 sets you might do for your chest over the course of a week and doing eight and then eight yeah and that's also where we kind of look at the different split options right I mentioned the bro split there are ways you can do what we call an educated bro split which would be realizing that when you do train your back your biceps get a lot of incidental work so let's say you did your biceps on a Monday if you came back and did your back on a Thursday and there's a lot of underhand rowing or underhand pull downs or chin-ups that's obviously going to apply another stimulus to the biceps again you wouldn't necessarily have to hit biceps directly twice yeah so there is some flexibility I actually enjoy I really do enjoy hypertrophy training because there's so much flexibility so many things work there's a lot of ways to get to the end result yeah and you can actually become your own scientists and experiment on yourself to see what works best yeah you can find out which movements feel comfortable which ones give the most tension and also you can just have fun doing it now go ahead and speak about the volume when we talk about strength training so for strength training usually you're gonna want five to fifteen sets per movement per week that means not a muscle group because with the compound lifts you're not focusing on just one muscle so like on a squat you're not just focusing on your quads you're focusing on your glutes and your low back as well so you want to get those sessions in more frequently yeah it's an acquired skill yeah that's that's what strength training is really right it's a skill progression because there's such a neurological component to strength as you start to wire the connections between your desire to move that weight and your actual ability to do it efficiently like I said before you become better at it's just like it's like it's literally like riding a bike when you first rode a bike and the bike's turning all directions because you can't maneuver it as you get more and more comfortable with that activity your body wires that movement more efficiently yeah so it's not just even the efficiency of the actual bar path that you're moving but it's the efficiency of your body's ability to communicate with the muscles neurologically that moves this thing yeah more efficiently exactly so you want to make sure that you're doing again a little bit on the lower side there yeah fatigue tolerance this is another part that I think is really really interesting because fatigue is what we're chasing when we look for that inefficient movement you know that we talked about with hypertrophy like that inefficient approach to really making a muscle uncomfortable to force it you know grabbing it by its throat and squeezing every gain out of that muscle yeah well that would be death to strength yeah right we do not want to be going to these places of extreme fatigue if we want to be able to recover to come back and perform that movement again and get better at that exercise yeah right especially if we're in a position of such discomfort because of pain that's coming from delayed onset muscle soreness from taking it to the extreme you wouldn't even be able to perform the exercise the same way no you would actually you would not only mess with the mechanics right it would also mess with the amount of weight that you're supposed to be lifting in your program you only your program progress progressive weights if you are so fatigued and so sore from your first session and your second session you can't even move that weight you've just set yourself back right and again the the alteration of movement is something that I see as a physical therapist when people are trying to avoid pain from let's say joint injury you can have the same effect when people have pain just from muscle soreness yeah your body knows how to avoid uncomfortable situations so when it starts to alter the biomechanics of your body to perform the exercise you're asking it to perform now all of a sudden you start to shift and compensate and cause all different things to happen that actually can lead to if you do this all the time can lead to you ingraining bad movement patterns on these big lifts that as you continue to start adding weight to them you start to get more and more compensation and that will start to bite you down the road I promise you yeah I promise you which leads us to recovery because again how do you recover if you're inadvertently putting all this stress on your body when you're trying to get stronger and you need those repeated sessions to do that so recovery becomes a real real focus when you're trying to train for strength so when you try to train for strength fatigue management is one of the biggest components of your training if you're if you're able to manage your fatigue properly you can increase the frequency of the sessions that you're doing and the frequency of the lifts that you're doing so if you squat on Monday and you have low fatigue that means you can come back on Tuesday and squat again usually it's just at a lower weight or lower rep range but it's still manageable because you you're not taking it to failure not gassed out from the day before so I actually have a protocol we call the 28 day reset right we are trying to reset postural imbalances tightness is inflexibilities joint joint mobility issues you're better off going very sub maximal there and doing it and a more frequent basis so you can make these consistent little donations right so that your body can start to adapt to what you're trying to do to it doing a high effort like super high intensity stretching session and thinking you're gonna walk out of there like you're made of elastic it's not gonna happen now in fact your body might actually do the opposite because as you're pushing so hard to try to gain this flexibility that you're lacking right now your body's smart enough to actually push back yeah and say like you know if this is not comfortable this is too much so when you're trying to make these changes similar to strength you're gonna want to make those small contributions more frequently and that's where you're definitely in need that recovery to be in place now on the other side of it when you're trying to build muscle it's not uncommon for you to feel delayed onset muscle soreness or to feel like I'm not ready to come back and do another workout right now I'm every time I touch my chest it hurts it hurts and that's not a bad place to be not that that soreness is an indicator of the success or failure of your training session but if you're using eccentric repetitions or a focus on eccentric repetitions which is a slow lowering portion which has a higher level of tension that could be applied on the working muscle right all fits right exactly with what we're talking about when we're trying to build bigger muscles well along with that is going to come some of that higher level of muscle discomfort yeah which is going to make it more important that you shift the focus around the body in your workout so that if I feel sore whether it be in my back from a pull workout or my back from a direct back workout well why can't I just go then and push instead or do a chest workout or a tricep workout because I can focus on a whole different muscle function and give my body the opportunity to come back and repair it so I can focus on my legs if my upper body is sore you have to learn how to become a master of shifting the focus around the body but realize that taking it to a point where you're going to be sore afterwards is a natural consequence of actually pursuing hypertrophy and it's a good thing and that's why for strength we always lift most of the time sub maxillie yeah usually when you're when you're trained for strength you'll you'll have two different options you have percentage-based lifting and RPE which is rate of perceived exertion with percentage you have your max number of weight that you can lift for one repetition and you base your percentages off of that you don't normally it's a you start with 80% and you'll use that for that's about eight reps that you can get so for example if it's a 400 pound squat yeah it would be 320 pounds correct so you can see have a 400 is your max that you can live for one time you're using 320 pounds that you can live for that you can lift for eight times but you're going even more sub max and that you're usually going to lift that for five times you want to write that like two reps in reserve basically and that's where RPE comes in because RPE is allowing you to be subjective on the day because let's say you didn't get a good night's sleep or you didn't eat well the day before and you're just not feeling great at the gym today which is common very common happens to me all the time but instead of focusing on getting that 80% and knowing you can't get it for the for the sets and reps that you're prescribed you would go for an RPE let's say of eight and so that weight may not be 320 pounds they may be 290 or 300. well explain though an eight would be on a scale of 10. right so that would mean two reps shy of your maximal effort correct so you're leaving two in the tank at that point which if you were doing percentages would just basically be like if you had your 80 load that you just talked about yeah i don't want to get too complicated with the numbers here but if you did that that would be let's say eight reps that would be you doing six yeah you know leaving two two in reserve i'm not a huge fan of RPE i'm not either definitely not of for hypertrophy training at all but for strength training i understand its value but i think that we're all going to experience a little bit of a bump in the road every now and then yeah when you realize when i got to the gym i didn't feel like i did i tried to do the lift i you know you you modify your loads according to the fact that you don't have the energy you did you will most likely come back the next session well rested yeah well fed and be able to hit all those numbers because and not have to really steer your training in a different direction just because you have one bad day yeah and it's also helpful to be able to understand how to manage your recovery if you didn't recover well from the last session take note of what you did or didn't do and make the changes for the next time so that way when you come back you come back stronger so what does it look like we talked about like what the individual workouts would look like what does it look like from workout to workout like how quickly are you making variations in how you're approaching your workouts right strength versus size this is another very big departure yeah it's not as difficult sometimes to program strength because they have very defined rules and objectives but it's maybe a little bit more fun to program for hypertrophy so what we're looking at here is if you're training for strength you don't want a lot of variability here you want specificity of the movement that you're trying to get better at you're trying to build a bigger bench you bench you're trying to build a bigger squat you squat you're trying to build a bigger deadlift you deadlift now there is a place for accessory lifts yes so when it comes to strength and your session the session the session the session your block may have the same workouts all four weeks in that block or however long your block is right they're not so they're not changing up very much yeah you may have one or two exercises change throughout the month or so but for the most part you're repeating the same workout over and over and over again because you are looking to progress on those specific movements every single time and even the accessories that you do you're looking to progress on those as well because that's going to help you to progress on your compound lifts now if you're looking at hypertrophy it's interesting sometimes the variation is necessary yeah right because again how do we keep the muscle adapting well sometimes we have to hit it with different exercises different stimulus different approaches like even a slight angle change if you're not used to incline bench pressing can have a whole new impact on how your chest feels or volume change or volume change there's a lot yeah you can change a lot of variety when it comes to your hypertrophy training which again makes it a little bit more fun and fluid but when you're looking at strength you're not going to have that variety you shouldn't be disappointed by the fact that when you open up a strength workout you say this looks so damn boring like it's you know boring is probably pretty good there yeah boring is fun right or at least it's it's effective yeah you know when we talk about that now in terms of one step further but very much related the flexibility or the variability of the exercises themselves yeah right again if you're trying to build strength then you're going to want to be as focused as you can be on those big movements the big lifts so you can get better at them but talk a little bit about like what an accessory would be to help in that cause so an accessory in the in the the strength pursuit usually it is hypertrophy based for specific muscle groups that are that are the primary movers of the compound lift so for example on a squat your quads are the primary movers what you want to do to get them a little bit bigger and a little bit stronger outside of just squatting because let's be real the only way you're going to get a really big squat is to squat you can't do Bulgarian split squats all day every day thinking you're going to squat 500 pounds right but you can use Bulgarian split squats as a accessory to help your legs get a little bit stronger unilaterally so that way there's no imbalances that you have so when you come back to the squat you're not pushing off your right leg you're pushing off your right and left leg or we had casey mitchell in here we made a series of videos that you guys found really helpful where we talked about using like we know that to have a big bench you have to have stability and tightness through your upper upper torso yeah and one of the things that he loved to do was a lean back pull down to be able to stay really tight in his back which would carry over mechanically into the bench press yes so taking an accessory approach to a bench press that's actually targeting a muscle group on the opposite side but knowing that it's a requisite part of having a stable bench press that you can push more efficiently and we come back to that again that bar off your chest right the tighter you can be the more efficient you can move that bar through space that's where you're going to gain your flexibility of movements but again back on the hypertrophy side when you're trying to just build muscle i mean you've probably heard of the idea of muscle confusion and people arnold and people argue whether it's necessary i don't know if it's necessary because i think you can take the same movement and perform it very differently you could change the tempo that you do it at you could do slow motion repetitions six five six seconds up and down which will dramatically change how you feel the exercise you could do pulsed repetitions at the end to make sure you're really sort of you know getting through a full range of motion through that contraction you could do partial repetitions in the elongated range of motion there's a lot of things we can do to the same exercise and make it actually more intense or have a different end effect that doesn't require changing the exercise but i would argue that's still all muscle confusion yeah right doing these things differently just because you're not changing out the exercise doesn't mean that you're not still applying a new stimulus a confusing stimulus to the muscle to keep it growing but again much more of a requirement which leads to this other point here when we're talking about techniques because a lot of people will say jeff you made a whole video about effective reps right and for those that aren't aware of effective reps what i said for effective reps is when you perform a set for hypertrophy and you get to the end remember i talked about earlier how important it is to to to really get close to failure if not all the way to failure especially as those rep ranges go higher and higher well if you perform the set to failure that is a 12 rep set how difficult is rep one or three or four or five they're not they're literally being performed to create a level of fatigue that mounts to the point where 10 11 and 12 are really really difficult yeah well the concept for effective reps is if 10 11 and 12 are where really all that growth happens that's where you're forcing that body where you're grabbing it by the throat where you're forcing the body to go to another level of discomfort and then growth well why can't we make all the reps more effective we can do that by actually decreasing the rest time between sets so once we take a set to failure we rest 15 to 30 seconds we go right back into the next set same weight what's going to happen you're going to get less reps because you're going to hit that fatigue mark not at rep 12 again but now you'll start to see on rep two or three yeah oh my god this is hard already so what that's great right we're getting into those hard reps more effectively more quickly but at the end of the day we're getting more of that effective tension into that muscle in a faster way which is really the main benefit of the effective rep training think about how that would play out 30 second rest periods between sets of a heavy deadlift or between sets of a heavy squat nope it's not going to work so that's where you want to be very aware of what techniques you're using and when and especially when it comes to beginners like techniques are not even really necessary you didn't have me doing any intensity techniques until almost a year into my yeah i mean there's a few that you can do but they're not a requirement just building up a a familiarity with lifts the lifts themselves and getting better at them and learning most of all how to reach failure because again i think people underestimate that that's skill number one through 20 in terms of the first things you should learn when you're in the gym is if you're trying to build muscle how can i get there strength wise though there are other techniques techniques are very frequent in strength work except they're not intensity techniques they're just different techniques of lifting for example you have speed work you have light days you have things such as pauses deficits bands tension like you chains you can use all different techniques to accommodate your progress as you move forward because sometimes we stall out and just a little bit of different technique can make all the difference in the world like if you if you're benching just standard all the time and then you notice that you start to stall out start incorporating some speed work with light weights and you'll notice that your force generation starts to go up because you're able to neurologically push that bar through the sticking get better at getting through the sticking points yeah the most difficult part of the lift or you mentioned some of the deficit training like deficit training can get you stronger through a a longer range of motion yeah right so for me like i when i was struggling with pulling the bar off the floor for my deadlifts i stood on a plate i did some deficit deadlifts with lighter weights but my speed off the floor increased dramatically that's actually where i'm strongest on the deadlift is is right off the floor when you go back to flat ground it's actually it feels like a shortcut yeah right because you've done that and then the pause reps get you to be a little bit more comfortable with the elimination of momentum yeah and that you can actually generate high levels of force even with momentum removed you're also increasing tension through the lift because you are stopping at that yeah at that difficult point whether it's at the bottom of the squat in the hole or just off the floor in a deadlift or in the mid-range of a bench press so now let's say you're like a lot of people out there like i was when i first walked into that gym and it's like i want all of it i want all of it you want to be big and strong i want big strong and i also want to be lean so how do i do that so it can be done and it can be it's certainly be done there's there's really two main ways you do it you can do it concurrently or you can do it sort of in a phasic way where you do one phase where you focus on one thing or one training block where you focus on one thing more than the other and then you go to the other side so if you're talking about a concurrent approach  neurologically fatigued from the strength work. Because again, remember, your muscles don't read the side of the dumbbell that you're lifting or the side of the place that you're lifting. If you could just direct tension into those muscles effectively and it feels really difficult, then that's an adequate amount of tension to get to that end result of hypertrophy, as long as you're really leaning into that and pushing yourself really, really hard. So even if those numbers have to come down a little bit, let's say you're fresh and you could do a cable crossover with 80 pounds in each arm. Well now you're not fresh because you did your bench press, but the 60 pounds now feels exactly like what the 80 did fresh. Hypertrophy-wide, you're fine. It's all about the tension. Right, you're fine. You're still going to be able to grow as long as you're really, really grinding through those repetitions and you're reaching failure or very, very close to failure on those sets. And the other thing about using intensity techniques in those kinds of workouts is it can actually cut down the amount of time that you spend in the gym. Because usually your strength sets are longer periods of time because of longer rest. Once you start incorporating intensity techniques into the hypertrophy work after that, you can actually cut down the amount of time that you spend and the amount of volume that you have for that hypertrophy work and you still get the same result because you increase the tension. Because as we know, as intensity goes up, volume goes down. Right, and you brought up a good point. Rest time, if you're wondering about rest time in between your sets, strength-wise it's not uncommon to rest five minutes or even a little bit more. Yeah, three to seven minutes is pretty common. If you're doing hypertrophy work, I think minus some of the intensity techniques, it's going to be on the shorter end, maybe 90 seconds to two minutes or so. If you're doing some of the intensity work, like I said, or an intentional intensity work, like the effect of retrow, it's meant to be short. You're going to have some differences there. But the point is that definitely more elongated when you're doing strength work versus hypertrophy. Yeah. The last thing that I'd address here, if you were to do more of that phasic approach to building both sides and strength, then all that is, is that you're focusing on a dedicated block of training. Let's just say four weeks or maybe even eight weeks of training that's focused on building up your strength progressively, like Jesse explained, with a real secondary focus. It's just light work for the hypertrophy stuff. You might be just using metabolic fatigue as the driver of hypertrophy there. So not using some of the real high intensity techniques like partials, like elongated partials, like heavy eccentric overloads, because you wouldn't want to impede your ability to focus on strength. And then when we're done with that block, then you shift it back up and now the strength takes the back seat. It still gets maintenance work or maybe it does some of the accessory movement we talked about, but you're really focusing on increasing the intensity techniques of those hypertrophy focused exercises during that training block. You just bounce back and forth between them and that becomes the focus. So a lot was just said and covered there. Watch this video again, go back through it. It's a very important video because you do want to understand that there are two different paths and depending upon which one you take, you're going to need to make some very important changes in how you approach your training. That being said, if you want to do them both, you certainly can do them. As a matter of fact, a lot of our programs are geared to do exactly that. You can find them over at Athleanx.com. And again, prioritize your recovery. Recovery is going to occur most through proper nutrition and better sleep. We cover a lot of proper nutrition with our high quality supplements over at Athleanx.com. So everything you basically need is there and hopefully with this video you got a lot of free information here in terms of how to focus on what needs to be focused on. Alright guys, I hope you found it helpful. Make sure you click subscribe, turn on notifications so you never miss a video when we put one out. Alright guys, see you soon.

=== FILE: Stop Doing ＂100 Pushups A Day＂ (I'M BEGGING YOU!) [ThyVhkr2964].txt ===

! So you think this video is going to piss off the 100 pushups per day people? No, I actually think this is going to help those people. As a matter of fact, anybody that does pushups should watch this video. Okay. Because I think it's probably one of the most misperformed exercises but has a lot of potential. Alright, so let's talk about 100 pushups per day. I think the one thing we can all agree on is that when people do 100 pushups a day, right, they hear the routine, they want to try it, they do it for what reason? To get a bigger, stronger chest. Right, and it's interesting because the pushup isn't just a chest exercise, right? It builds triceps, shoulders, but I think everyone thinks of it or starts that because they want to build a bigger chest. Okay, now, you said two things, bigger, stronger. Yeah. Alright? If they do their 100 pushups a day, right, it looks like this, again, in an attempt to build that bigger, stronger chest, the first question I would ask you is if we could focus on stronger is I got another number up here for you. Alright? 65 to 75%. Do you know what that is? My functional brain capacity. Yes, it is. That's very accurate. For anyone that's worked with Jesse, they'll tell you that. So what this is, is actually the percent of your body weight that you're lifting during a pushup. Because you're not lifting your entire body weight because half of it's in contact with the ground, right? So let's go to the high end here, right? 75%. Okay. Another math problem to test and stretch that functional capacity. Oh, God. That brain capacity. If we had a 160 pound person, what would 75% of that body weight be? Well, I... I'll give you a hint. Divide by four, multiply by three. Two-step process. 120. 120. There you go. So that means that a 160 pound person, if that resonates with you out there, is doing a 120 pound equivalent of, let's say, a bench press. Okay. That's what you're lifting when you're doing a pushup. Now, let me ask you a question. Is there a world, and I'm not trying to be insulting in any way, I'm trying to be totally objective. Is there a world where a 120 pound bench presser would be considered strong? I mean, probably not. No. I mean, you might start out, we all started out somewhere. I started out with a bar and then 65 pounds. So in some point, it's going to represent a point where you've gotten stronger, but as an absolute level of strength, 120 pounds is not going to be a representative weight as something that's a strong lift. Very impressive. Right. No. Now, what if I asked you, what if you could do that 20 times? Is that any better? I mean, a little bit better. Does it get more impressive if you could do that 120 pound bench press 40 times? I would say. 50 times. I would say at that point, you should just increase the weight. Okay. It's a good point, right? Why is it that when we do these pushups, and we have a fixed amount of weight, because that's what our body weighs, is the goal to keep doing more and more repetitions? Because that's the same idea as that if you are doing your bench press and you've worked yourself up to 120 pounds, at some point you decide, yeah, I'm not going for 135 or 185 or 205 or 220. I'm not doing that. I'm just going to stick here and keep increasing the repetitions that I'm doing. It doesn't seem very logical. It's not something people really do. You're also not going to get much stronger doing that. No, you're capping out your strength. You might get better strength endurance, but you're not getting an overall maximal increase in strength because that overload isn't there. You're just adding more and more repetitions. So as a strength builder, this approach is not a good approach. For most people who are intrigued by this, even if you're a very ranked beginner, the strength benefits are going to be very shortcoming. However, now we can start asking about the hypertrophy benefits though, because you can still build muscle without necessarily getting strong. Yeah. If you have the right level of stimulus. So if we're going to do these, well, we know we're likely not doing, especially if we're beginners, we're not doing 100 repetitions straight out. We're doing them in sets. Okay. So if you're doing sets of them and breaking them up, you have two options. Anytime you do a set of anything, are you taking that set to failure or are you stopping short? Are you going to stop a few reps short or maybe very many reps short? You're just going to kind of do a few and stay very submaximal and then you kind of get back into it again? Or are you taking each set to failure? Well, here's where an interesting part of this comes in. Why the 100 pushups a day starts to become a problem. If you're going to take your sets to failure, this whole thing falls apart. Because there's no world where the natural lifter who's trying to build muscle should subject a muscle to multiple bouts of failure every single day consecutively without rest. Yeah. You need recovery because as we know, muscle building occurs or the most growth occurs during your recovery period when you're not living. You stimulate in the gym, you grow outside the gym from that stimulus. So that approach doesn't work. So if you're sitting there right now and you're doing your 100 pushups a day and you keep taking each one of your sets to failure and then stringing them day after day after day after day, at some point you're going to start to dip down into your body's recovery capabilities and make it impossible to actually come back bigger and stronger from the last session. You're just going to continue to pile on this volume that's not going to allow you to recover. Jump volume. Yes. Now, if you did the opposite, here's where something interesting starts to happen. So you're stopping shy of failure. How short of failure can that be before it's even still an effort that counts? Because there is an understanding out there that stopping short of failure is okay if the effort that you put forth is really close to failure within one or two repetitions. And that means a true representation of what that is. Not what you thought it was and that you actually could have done four or five more. Well, there's another part of this that becomes a problem. And that is when we're trying to build muscle, I mentioned this curve over here, there's different energy systems that kick in. When you're talking about those really short rep ranges, one, two, three, four, five or so, we have primarily a system called the ATP Phosphocreatine System. This is where the benefits of creatine supplementation come in because it helps to recycle this. But this is for the high effort strength bouts that you're doing in your exercises. Very quickly, if your sets are surpassing five or six repetitions, you're going to start to move past the benefits of this system for feeding the effort that you're doing. So that means that as a strength system, once you're doing more than five or six or seven reps in a set of these, you're not really going to be tapping into this or benefiting from this. So as I told you before, only the real rank beginners who really don't even have an appreciable bench press where the 120 would be an improvement for them are going to see any strength benefits from the exercise early on. But then it starts to shift into this glycolytic energy system. And here it's about those anaerobic exercises that feed off of this. But this is where the sweet spot tends to be in that eight to 15 rep range or so, eight to 17 reps even, where you're fueling your body through this energy system. Keeping your repetitions in this range, not to exceed, let's say, 30 reps is where you're going to see benefits of hypertrophy. Okay. Okay. Whereas beyond that, when the oxidative system kicks in, these become more endurance type exercises, muscle endurance type exercises. Right. Not like I'm going to go run a marathon, but just muscle endurance type exercise where you're talking about 30 plus, 40, 50 plus repetitions. Well, here's what's really interesting just about this zone right here. The higher within this zone, the more you start to get towards 20, 25, 30 repetitions in a set, the more imperative it is that you actually train to failure. Okay. Not the sub max, you know, two in the tank, three in the tank, one in the tank, not that. Is that better in this system here? And here for strength benefits, you really want to stay sub maximal. Yeah. Right. To see your increases in strength, this should be your strength focused energy system. To do that, you want to actually stay sub maximal. Think about your, your, your heavy squatting. Right. Right. You're heavy deadlifting now. Like what do you use when you do that? You don't use a max. No, when I'm doing reps of five or six, I'm using like 405, 410. Right. But you're just like your eight rep max. Yeah. Right. So you're staying sub maximal here. That's the best way to program that. But in this range here, you want to make sure that if you're going to fail in those rep ranges, the higher it starts to go, the more you need to actually be able to fail. So what does that mean from this system here? Well, it means that as you start to get better at pushups and believe me, it's going to happen very quickly. That exercise is one that once you start to perform them, especially regularly each day, sub maximally, neurologically, you get better at doing the exercise. Right. You get more efficient at doing the exercise. You'll start to go from, I wouldn't be surprised, this is someone who can only do like say seven in a set in one week to be able to do 10 the next week in one set. Fresh. Right. And then to be able to do 14. And then again, that drop off will still be there, but it will start to get to that hundred rep total faster. Right. Because you're chipping away more quickly in each set. Right. Once that happens, you're starting to negate any benefit of this exercise for hypertrophy in a standard form as a regular pushup, because you're starting to get into that range where failure is necessary. Right. And if you're not going to failure, that set itself doesn't really provide any stimulus for muscle growth. It's a wasted set. And so let's say the alternative is, all right, well, then I will start going to failure. Jeff, I'll do 25 reps to failure each time. Well, guess what? You just did what I said not to do. Now you're back on that path where you're going failure, failure, failure, failure each day, and you're kind of screwed. Yeah. So you can see where this becomes a problem approach that is so short lived. It's not going to provide the type of benefit that people are looking for, especially for building a bigger chest for any duration of time. Right. But there's better things you can do. Like what? Well, I'm glad you asked. The thing you can do here is how could you keep that stimulus in that rep range that would be more tolerant of even a little bit of a sub max load? Because we know that if you took a lateral raise and you did a weight that you can only lift 12 times, you did it to 11 grinding reps or even 10 grinding reps, you're still going to get a benefit from that. Yeah. You need to bring that rep count down. Well, how do you do that if you can't weight your body any differently? Well, one, you could weight your body by throwing plates on your back. Which is interesting because most people don't do that. And by the way, if you took that 120 pound person, right, or no, the 160 pound person with 120 pound push up load. Yeah. And you were a 225 pound bench presser and you added 100 pounds of load to your back. It will feel, trust me, very similar to what that bench press feels like because you have actually equated the load on your body. Remember, your body's not like sitting there going, oh, I prefer, I know what weights feel like and then my body weight is different. No, your body just understands the tension it's applying to you. But when you look at a push up and a bench press combined or side by side, they're not the same tension. We equate that by throwing the extra 100 pounds on. And not just 60 pounds because your body weight was 160. We have to take away that percentage that was unweighted. You add the extra 100 pounds, it actually feels the same. Right. That would provide a similar overload, yes. But if you didn't have access to additional load, what could you do? What should you do? Different push up variations. Different push up variations. So what I always tell people is stop trying to continue just doing the push up like you've mastered it. At a certain point, you've mastered the count. And unless you're just practicing for, let's say, a military exam where you're trying to get to a competition that requires, we actually have our own competition that requires X amount of push ups being done in a certain amount of time. Right. They can be used as an objective test. Unless that's the case, then look for a harder version of the push up that causes the failure in a lower rep range that even if you stayed submaximal in that failure range could still provide that benefit for hypertrophy. Because you're getting an effective volume overload over that course of time. So you could go to do this because you're not going all the way to failure. You have a harder variation that causes failure. Let's say the 12 rep range that you're doing 10 of. And you do those and you still stay shy of failure and you amount your 100 repetitions of those. Well, then the 100 repetition idea would work. But it's more effective. It would be more effective. I will throw another element in here for the guys that are more experienced to say, yeah, but I just want to do more of these repetitions. Right. I just want to accumulate more of the repetitions. There is a limit. Your body has a limit. We all have a limit. How many miles can you get on a set of tires on a car? Oh, I know this one because I just had my tires rotated recently. Your tires last 40,000 to 60,000 miles. 40,000 to 60,000 miles. Okay, good. How many miles does somebody drive in a year maybe? What's a lease? Like 10,000 miles? I think it's 10 to 15. All right. So let's say for easy math for us, let's say that 10,000 miles a year would give you four to six years of life on your tires. Correct? Yes. The human body is also limited in some way. In terms of like, we do have a number of rotations on the tire in our joints, whether they be our wrists, whether they be our elbows, whether they be our shoulders. There is some limit. Thankfully, the human body can regenerate itself with a set of tires cannot. So we have a lot longer duration. But ideally, all of us would like to live to, let's say, 80 or 90 years old and not have to have anything replaced. Like my dad. We'll be replacing our joints if we don't have to. So I do think there should be a respect of how do I maximize the stimulus that I'm putting on the muscle without exceeding the capacity of the body to recuperate and regenerate at a pace where I start to wear those tires down too quickly and I need to replace them. Right. That's the goal. Like that is your long-term goal of training. So the only way to do that is to increase the stimulus. I mentioned one other thing before the whole Herschel Walker approach. This is a fact. At some point, when the volume starts to get so high, so excessive, but submaximal, has to be submaximal still, your body does tend to sort of say F you to you, but in a way where it tries to become resilient and build bigger, stronger muscles. Right. It's that super high, ridiculous volume approach that actually does tend to make the body almost scar itself over, create like a whole total body callous to that effort so that it can sort of be more resilient to it in the future and not allow it to break it down every single time. It basically says, you're an idiot. You keep doing the same damn thing to me every day. I have to do something out of desperation at this point to sort of maintain some level or wall of resistance up against what you're doing to me. Right. So if you've heard stories about Mike Tyson doing those thousand plus pushups a day, or if you've heard stories about Herschel Walker doing those 1500 pushups a day, which by the way, interesting story with Herschel Walker. He said he did only pushups all the way up till college. The first time they got tested in the weight room on his bench press, you know what he lifted? No. 345 pounds, 25 times. Oh my gosh. Okay. So he is clearly one of those one of one genetic freaks that was able to do some amazing things that probably also contributed him being one of the top level athletes that ever played the game at his position. So you can't consider yourself lucky enough to be Herschel Walker too. Yeah. You're probably likely just Jesse Laco or just Jeff Cavalier without those genetic gifts. So the whole idea here is that if you're going to do 100 pushups a day, it will likely be very short lived. I'm not trying to talk you down from it. If you're a ranked beginner and you just want to start like your father encouraged you to do, that might only work for a very small period of time. Yeah. If you're someone who has heard this and you're like, you know, I got to get myself back in shape. I have a history of lifting and I want to do something different. Let me try that. I urge you to take the alternative approach, find a more challenging variation of the pushup. And there's so many of them. There's so many of them. You could have feet elevated positioning. You could have an exercise where, again, you add weight to your back. Like you said, you could have exercises like an archer pushup where your hands are wider and you have to kind of push yourself laterally through space. There's other ways to do this. You could actually take a band and as you do the pushup, cross it over in front of your body as you go to get some adduction stress to the chest too. There's so many ways to make them more difficult. But here's one of the easiest ways to do it. If you don't have anything that you're aware of or you don't want to try anything different, then at least do this for me. Stop counting the reps that you're doing and make those reps count. That's the only thing you have to remember. And the best way to do that is to slow down your reps. Slow down your reps. Go all the way down to the ground slow. Release your hands from the ground. Ensure that you got all the way down there. Right? So you can release your hands. Press them back into the ground. As you're pushing up, don't just push up. Squeeze yourself up. Try to engage your chest. Almost feel like you're squeezing your hands towards each other while you're doing the pushup. You're going to say to me, Jeff, that was so damn uncomfortable after two reps or three reps. That was so uncomfortable. How do you want me to do them like that? Because they're more effective and they're giving you the stimulus that you're after. That alone will take a 40 pushup person and cut them right in half. Probably down to 20. It's funny that you say that also because I've noticed every time that Jeff brings in an athlete, he has him try that version of the pushup. That squeeze up. And every single time they say, holy crap, I've never felt that before. That's the type of thing that, again, can bring you to your knees and equate that intensity just by changing the tempo that you do the exercise at. So it's not always that you have to look for a different variation. Just the tempo alone and the intent alone of trying to really squeeze it can be enough to dramatically increase the intensity of that and take you into a hypertrophy zone. Right. But again, it all comes down to that one thing. I don't care about the numbers. So my problem is the 100 part of 100 pushups a day. That's the counting part. And my other part is the a day portion of the 100 pushups a day. And when you look at everything I just told you, for all of those reasons, scientifically, this falls apart. And so I'm not trying to shit on the idea for you or, what do they say, piss in your Cheerios. I'm not trying to get you upset about it. I'm trying to give you a reasoning of why it's not going to work and, more importantly, give you an alternative path that will work because, ultimately, I said, you said, and we all agree, they were trying to get a bigger chest from doing it. You can get one if you follow it that way. Ultimately, if you want that more strength in your chest, you're really going to have to start incorporating weights at some point, whether it be a barbell or dumbbells, to overload the chest to be able to do that. But hopefully, guys, you found this helpful. If you're looking for more videos, guys, make sure you click subscribe and turn on notifications. And also, we have complete programs where we put the thought and the science behind what we do and the selection of the types of exercises we use in all of our programs. You can find them at ATHLEANX.com. All right, guys. Good luck. See you soon.

=== FILE: Stop F＊cking Up The Arnold Press (PROPER FORM!) [ris9tKqMwgU].txt ===

 There's not the day that goes by that I don't see someone doing my favorite shoulder exercise, the Arnold press, the Arnold press, the Arnold press, the build big front delts, meaty metal delts, meaty metal delts, and explosive rear delts, the problem is, they're f***ing it up. What is my impression no good? You're just taking my lines. Let me show them how to do it please. And like Arnold, I actually love the Arnold press, one of my favorite ways to do a press. However, a lot of people get this wrong. You see Arnold knew what he was doing, but it really came naturally to him. There's a lot of nuance in when, in the timing of the timing of the timing of the dumbbells, and the timing of how you press these dumbbells overhead, that a lot of people are messing up, that are costing them not just gains on the exercise, but also a little bit of comfort in your shoulders and wrists. And it starts with the starting position. Because when we hold the dumbbells, I don't want to see you rest them on your shoulders. Most of all, you don't want to give the muscles a break at the bottom of the exercise, but more importantly, look at the angle that you create of the forearm. It's angled backwards. Whenever we press, we're better off trying to maintain a stacked joint situation, where we have the forearm, the dumbbells a little bit away from our body, so that our wrists can be stacked right above the elbow. So when I go to press up overhead, I have more support, and I take some of the strain and stress away from the elbow and wrist joint. So you always want to start with the dumbbells a little bit away from you. Now, when we go up and press, the rotation of the dumbbells is where people mess this up. And I've seen all kinds of variations. A lot of swinging of the arms like this, a lot of early rotation. Here's what you have to remember. The goal of the exercise, when Arnold designed it, was to hit the front delt and the middle delt. He wanted to make sure that as you pressed, you transitioned from front delt to middle delt up to the top. Now, he did mention rear delt on a press, though it only really gets about 11% of the contribution on the exercise. So I don't look at this as a great rear delt exercise. There's other things like a seated row that do a much better job of that. What you want to make sure of is that if you're looking for front delt, then the elbow has to be out in front. In other words, this arm has to be positioned in front of the body. And whether I'm doing a front raise or whether I'm doing a shoulder press, when the elbow is out in front of the body, I'm going to get more of the front delt. When the arm starts to get out towards the side, we shift that focus to the middle delt because the middle delt becomes more at an advantage to be able to pull. So whether I'm doing a lateral raise or whether I'm doing a press from this position, the position of the humerus is out here. So to do this right, you want to make sure that you're starting in the front and you press the dumbbells up straight up in front of you, here, until they get to the level of your forehead. Once the dumbbells are at the level of my forehead, now I start to rotate. And as I rotate, what's happening to the elbows? The elbows are rotating out too, to that position there. Now, as I press up overhead, I'm getting more abduction. I'm keeping the elbows further away from my body, which will shift the focus into the middle delt. As I come down, I just simply reverse the timing and the motion. Now, what are some of the mistakes people make? Again, they start in the front and they do the spin without any movement. So they go like this. Spin and then press. And down. Spin and press. That does nothing. If I spin from here, that's not really doing anything. I'm basically positioning myself from a front delt focused exercise to the middle delt and then pressing all the way through the mid delt on the entire exercise. That's not what the goal was. The next thing people do when they make a mistake is they stay here and they press and spin from the same spot. So if I'm here and I press and spin out front of me like that, it's still going to be a lot of front delt. Because I have my elbows way out in front of my body. I never left that position. And if you do it, you'll feel that. So you don't want to just be spinning and pressing from here. You've got to let the elbow slide. Now, the last thing is people slide so much that they put the elbow behind their body or way out to the side. So they go like this. Here and they press from there. And essentially, you turn this into an overhead press behind the neck like that. And we've talked about the risk of doing an exercise like this because once you take your shoulder out of the natural scapular plane, which is angled about 30 degrees forward here like this, you start to put some unnecessary stress on the rotator cuff and the joint itself. So what can we do? We just want to make sure that we limit it to a little bit in front of a completely horizontal here. So when I press out, I don't want the elbows to drift all the way out to the side. I want to make sure that they stay a little bit towards the front just like that so I can get the best of all worlds. Now, would you do this exercise seated or standing? The choice is really up to you. If I stand during any press, I'm going to have more core demands to be able to stabilize any time I try to press weight up over my head. There's also a tendency for me to start cheating with a little bit of lower body English to get myself going. I'm not saying it's a horrible thing. I'm just saying that you have to be aware of. I prefer whenever you do a press on your feet because it's more athletic. However, if you wanted to focus more on the delts, you take your legs out of it, you have to be aware of one potential pitfall here. And that is, are you pressing into the bench or not? Because it interrupts the normal biomechanics of the exercise anytime you try to press overhead. If you're pressing, particularly heavier weights, which people tend to do when they sit because they want to be able to get better leverage, you don't want to be pressing back into the bench and pushing backwards. This is what people do. They try to get heavier weights up. They push through their feet the same way you would in a bench press. Drive backward into the bench and then push up. The problem with that is you can interrupt the normal biomechanics of your shoulder blade. Whenever you raise your hand overhead, your shoulder blade has to rotate. Overhead motion. Some people have talked about a bench press. You do not need rotation during a bench press. Your shoulder is at the same height. It's staying right here. Rotation is not our concern. Overhead pressing is much different. You need to understand biomechanics. Overhead pressing is different. You need rotation of the shoulder blade to get my arm up overhead. As a matter of fact, it's a two to one ratio between the glenohumeral joint going up into abduction and the rotation of the scapula having to occur in order for your arm to go overhead. So if I pressed into the bench and I started to interrupt that very delicate balance of two to one ratio as I go up, I can just interfere with the normal press and cause issues where there doesn't need to be some. So what do you do? You just simply sit a little bit further ahead. Don't push into the bench. Just do your press from here. And again, now you're not getting the lower body involved. You're still able to get all the benefits of the exercise without the chance of disrupting the biomechanics at your shoulder joint. And again, if you want to be a little bit more athletic, you stand up on your feet and you do it that way. Bottom line, guys, Arnold, he had it right. It's a great exercise. Now hopefully you're getting it right because you know how to do it. If you want more tutorials, guys, make sure you click subscribe and turn on notifications so you never miss a video when we put one out. Also, full programs available over at AthleanX.com. Oh, Jeffrey, this was a wonderful tutorial on my favorite shoulder exercise. But if only you were as handsome as me. Could you get going, please? No, I'm not going. I'm coming. Oh, God almighty. I'm coming, Eddie. Okay.

=== FILE: Stop Screwing Up Incline Dumbbell Curls (PROPER FORM!) [DCe8f6vMe9A].txt ===

viaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviavia is to find an exercise that will put that long head on a greater stretch. Well, this exercise does that, but only if you do it right. Let me show you how to do it. Of course, it starts with the angle of the bench because this is pretty much where everyone gets it wrong before they even do a rep. And that's because they set the angle of the bench way too low. In other words, you don't need to get this far back in an attempt to get your arms back behind your body. It's pretty easy to do, but you can actually test yourself to see if you're going too far for your own body. You see, if in this position your arms are angled anything but straight down, then you probably don't have the passive flexibility in the long head of the biceps tendon to actually be able to perform the exercise without potential repercussions. So if in this bottom position your arms are somewhat angled forward here, then you know you don't have that flexibility. So what do you do? You see, with just one simple pin adjustment I'm now able to get that arm vertical to the ground without placing any excess strain on that bicep tendon. So now I'm actually able to make the gains without the pains. Now how do we start the lift? That's important too because we don't want to at all move these arms forward to initiate the lift. If you start the exercise by moving the arm forward at all, then you're going to activate the front delt through one of the harder parts of the exercise. Instead, I want you to just think about bending at the elbows. Now ideally you're not going to just lift them up and keep going because at this point you've taken away the effect of the exercise. Because gravity is just going straight down through your forearm and taking away the force being applied to the biceps. Instead you want to make sure the dumbbells maintain a little bit of a distance away from your body. At that point though you don't just stop here. You can lift a little bit with your elbows so you get a little bit of that front delt activation but at the right time. Because we know a fully flexed bicep is going to supinate, flex the elbow, and have a little bit of shoulder flexion. Here's a key point though. You don't want to just lift the dumbbells straight up and let them end in a position straight ahead like that. Instead I want you to bring them closer to your body and try to touch your chest with the inner portions of the dumbbells. Why? Because it activates that long head even more. As I bring the dumbbells up, bring them a little closer to your chest and up against your body just to this point here. What that does is it hits more effectively that outer long head of the biceps. What you see is what you train. If you're training and you see more of the inside of the biceps, that's more short head. If you're training and you see more of the outside of the bicep, that's more long head. This exercise is a long head exercise so you want to make sure that you're finishing with that arm turned in just a little bit more at the top. Now here's the key. As you go down, do you just let your elbows get down to the bottom, vertical again, and then go back up? Or can you enhance this? There's definitely a way to enhance it by taking advantage of the stretch reflex. So as I get down to the bottom, I know I can apply more of a stretch to the biceps by number one, pronating the forearms. By pronating, I'm getting the opposite of supination, which gives us more of a bicep stretch. And then by actively contracting the triceps, I can allow the biceps to reflexively relax, get a quick little stretch on them more, and then come out of that position pretty forcefully. Take advantage of that stretch reflex. Down, all the way down, pronate, contract, come up, lift right at the elbow here, pull in towards the chest like that, and come back down. Again, I want to see those triceps contract at the bottom, curl up, finish in tight. You can see the outside of that bicep really working hard. Come down, contract, and come up out of it. Slowly centric on every one of these reps because you want to take advantage of the elongation and the stretch that we know can be a driver of hypertrophy. One final note, what position do we place our heads? A lot of people think that it has to be plastered against the bench like this. This is actually uncomfortable. If you look at the exercise, whether my head is there or here, there's no excess strain. As a matter of fact, I think it's less strain to have my head completely vertical, and it makes for a more comfortable exercise. A more comfortable exercise makes for one that you're more likely to do more often. I hope this was helpful, guys. If you're looking for more tutorials, remember it's not just what exercises you do, but it's how you do them that matters. You can check out how to do the Bulgarian Split Squat. Also, how to do a face pull over here. Guys, complete programs available at AthleanX.com. Our supplement line all available on AthleanX.com. And now for you guys looking for it, available at Amazon. All right, guys, I hope you found this helpful. Make sure you subscribe and turn on your notifications so you don't miss a video when we put one out. See you soon.

=== FILE: THIS is How You'll Get Lean Once and For All (GUARANTEED!) [XR70Tq-jtdE].txt ===

 What's up, what's up, what's up, what's up, what's up, what's up? Cavaliere, ATHLEANX.com, and former junk food junkie. That's right, at 15 years old there was no teenager on the face of the planet that ate worse than I did. So how did I go from that to now being known for being lean and consistently lean for now over 30 years without fail? Because I followed the exact same steps I'm going to share with you in this video. Literally I'm going to break it down for you step by step. I don't care how much trouble you're having right now with eating, because I know it can be challenging for many. I want to show you the steps to finally unlock nutrition so that it almost becomes automatic. Where healthy eating can become the addiction, not the food itself. Guys, here's how you do it. It starts, number one, by making your why bigger than you're craving. You see this is something that starts up here, before you look for any food or diet plan to follow. Stop following diet plans. I'll tell you about that in a second. Why? Because when you know the why, the how becomes clearer. And the only way to get to the real why is to understand your real motivation for change. In other words, not just that you want to get a six pack. I'll share with you how I did this. Number one, that was my goal. I wanted to get a six pack. Why? Because I wanted to get girls. Well now we start to find out what's really going on. Because when you ask the why question five times, you actually set an emotional anchor and that will finally propel you to actually stick to this. The second question was why? Why do you want to get girls, Jeff? Because I want to feel desired by somebody, especially a girl. Well, why do you want to feel desired by somebody? That's the fourth question. Well, maybe it had to do with the fact that when I was five years old my mom left. The only female figure in my life. Making me feel maybe a little bit unloved. Right? We're getting deep here, but this is where it really starts to get triggered. Why does it feel important for you to be loved by somebody else, particularly a woman? Well, now we know why. Right? It becomes a real emotional anchor. I want to do this so that I can feel more confident in myself and what I bring to the table for somebody else. Now my motivation is different. And it can change. My motivation now is my two nine year old boys. I want to be a role model for them, a positive role model. And having had them later in life I want to be around for a long time to be able to do that for a long time. Find your why. Ask yourself that question five times. You'll find your why. The next thing you need to do is change your mindset. Another one up here. It starts up here. And that is you've got to stop thinking that fat loss equals starvation. The fat you want to get rid of is not going to come from starving yourself because that is not sustainable. More so than that. It actually is costing you. Because in the process of starving yourself you're probably losing muscle in addition to fat. We know that muscle is metabolically active and protective. You want to do everything you can to preserve the muscle that you have while burning the fat. And to do that you need to feed it. So you have to change your approach to how you're going to start to lose this weight. You have to stop looking for these massive deficits. Right? And limit yourself to just 500 calories of a deficit in a day from food alone. So if you're taking in 2500 calories right now don't go any lower than 2000 calories. Realize this will take some time. Be a little less aggressive. But in doing so preserve more muscle and metabolically you'll protect yourself more and increase the chance that you'll be able to stick to this for a lifetime. So what we want to do is again you want to get a little bit extra calorie burn. You could do that through increasing your activity or your output but not by going any lower than the food that you're taking in your body each day. Next you've got to start putting in your body the things that your body needs the most. And that's water. Everything in your body is triggered off of being hydrated. Every process in your body, especially metabolically, will struggle if you don't have enough water. I can't understate that enough. Dehydration actually also mimics hunger. Right? You get confused and you start to eat more. It can impair your training and also can slow down your metabolism, like I said, to make fat loss and muscle growth more difficult. In almost every case people have to increase the amount of water that they're drinking right now. Now I know there's been a lot more awareness about this so people are doing a better job. But if you actually determine how much you're taking in a day you still may not be getting enough because what I want you to do is get .75 ounces per pound of body weight. So if you're a 160 pound person you should be shooting for 120 ounces of water a day. Now I'm talking about pure water. Now, I like to start my day with a 12 to 16 ounce Poland spring bottle right near my bathroom sink just to get myself kick started and off on the right path. It's a really easy thing to do for a lot of us. It's habitual. It's easy to set up. You don't even need to buy the Poland spring. You just take a glass of water. But start your day that way to make sure you're on the right path. Next, if water's number one, number two right behind it is protein. And why is that? Because I just talked about not all calories are the same. The deficit that you're creating if you maintain higher portions of protein in your meals you're going to preserve more muscle mass flat out. More of that weight loss can come from body fat versus muscle loss if you prioritize protein. Not just that though, it increases satiety. So it makes you feel more full. It also helps you again to maintain that lean muscle mass. And it has a higher thermic effect. So that means is it takes more metabolic cost to break down the calories from protein than it does fats or carbohydrates. So even just digesting the foods that you're eating here creates more calorie burn, which is going to help you in your pursuit of weight loss or fat loss. What do I recommend? The goal here for you, one to 1.2 grams of protein per pound of body weight, particularly if you want to build muscle. Now there's a lot of different ranges. This just happens to be one of the easiest ones to remember and the one that sort of fits, especially if you're going to add training to the equation, which I highly recommend that you do. In order to build up that lean muscle tissue so you can have that more metabolic activity to help you in the pursuit of getting leaner. Build every meal around a lean protein. That's the easiest way to do this. Just start the meal with a protein. I'm going to show you how to do that specifically here in a second. Supplement with whey or casein. Every single day I have my Pro 30 G protein. It's 30 grams of protein. I have it with skim milk. That's another 15 grams. It's like 45 grams of protein on my way to getting my 1 to 1.2 grams per pound of body weight. It helps me to get there a lot quicker and it's going to be a lot easier for a lot of you to do it that way. You know, to contribute. And then think protein first in your snacks. Right? Beef jerky, nuts. Things that have protein in them in your in-between meals can help you to chip away at those protein goals. But you really need to make sure you're prioritizing it if you want to keep that proportion of weight lost to be mostly fat and not that lean muscle tissue you're trying to hold onto. Next thing you've got to do is you've got to learn how to grocery shop, guys. Master whole food focused grocery shopping. The easiest way to do that is to just shop the perimeter of the store. You've probably heard that before. Why? Because in that perimeter we have those whole single food ingredient foods. Right? Like protein, chicken, turkey, eggs, Greek yogurt. Right? In the freezer section, along the back. All the produce for vegetables and carbohydrates, your sweet potatoes, leafy greens, peppers, fruit, mushrooms. They're all on that perimeter. What this does though is by limiting that processed food intake is we're also increasing nutrient density. What that means is the quality of the foods that you're eating. Because a calorie is not a calorie. Right? When we look at creating a caloric deficit, yeah, calories are calories, but what makes up the calories you're consuming? Because sugar is not the same as let's say broccoli, which has a lot more micronutrients, vitamins and minerals that contribute additionally, metabolically to the equation of making a more favorable environment for you to actually lose weight. You don't want to just treat all foods the same. You want to increase that nutrient density of the foods that you have. So even if they're the same caloric amount, you're still getting higher quality that's more beneficial to your goals here. Again, your fats, olive oils, avocado, nuts, make sure you're getting those as well. We'll talk about how to break them all down here in a second. This is the only time I want you to go in between the aisles. Right? Here. For your seasoning and sauces, because these are the secrets to sustainability. There is no way that I or anyone else should expect you to stick to a meal plan if you hate it. If you cannot stand the taste of the foods you're eating, it will never last. Maybe for a month, maybe for a few, but never for the rest of time here. We need to find something that's going to last for a lifetime and you need to be able to like what you eat. Bland food is a compliance killer. You can't eat foods that you don't like. These flavors, these things that you can add, come at a really low caloric cost. They're almost negligible calories, but they add a lot to the enjoyment of the food that you're eating. So, herbs, spices, vinegar, mustard, salsa. I have citrus or mango salsa. Hot sauces. Things like that will make these foods taste much better to the point where you actually enjoy them. You can get creative. Right? You can stick with them and when you do it makes food enjoyable. Now, how are we going to do this? You have to establish your baseline. Where are we starting from? Because a lot of us don't know really how to start. So, I'm going to do this for you. Really really simple. I'm going to encourage you to start counting calories only early on here. Because what that does is two things. The counting of the calories increases awareness. So if you're looking at the foods you have right now, a lot of you don't know how many calories are even in the things that you eat. You eat chicken parmesan because you think you're eating chicken. It's a healthy food option. But you're not aware that chicken parmesan has a lot more calories than chicken breast because of the breading and also the cheese and the sauce. So you want to make sure that you're increasing your understanding of the foods that you're already eating. The second thing it does though is it starts to make you accountable. Just by counting calories and following along you start to become more aware of the process and start to care. And then you become invested in it. And that's a great thing. But only to start. Because I don't want you to become reliant on counting calories for the rest of time. Because you don't need to. But what it does is it gives you a nice easy starting point. And the way to do this is to keep it really, really freaking simple. 12, 15. That's it. What that means is you're going to multiply your body weight by either 12 or 15. And here's the simple rule to start. If you can see your abs right now then multiply by 15. If you lift your shirt in the mirror and you cannot see your abs go a little bit lower and multiply your body weight by 12. That will give you your target daily calorie range. And you're going to follow that for the next two weeks. And I encourage you to try to be pretty consistent with how you eat over the next two weeks because you want to make sure you have an accurate judgment here to make. Because if you go out and eat, let's say, steak at Applebee's, it's not the same as steak at home. Here it's pretty nice and clean. Here at Applebee's they have a lot of other things that they stuff on top of it. And you might think you're just eating steak and be thrown off calorically when you're doing your calculations and one is not the same as the other. If you eat consistently you'll be able to be very accurate in terms of determining whether or not you are at your maintenance or not. Because at the end of two weeks, if you stayed the same weight, you likely are at maintenance right now just by that one little math equation. If you find that you're still gaining weight, then you need to cut back even further. At that point all you do is make an additional 10% cut on the calories. So if you're at 2000 calories, an additional 200 calories comes off and now you look to see what happens if you're starting to go into a caloric deficit. And again, we never try to get more aggressive than the 500 calorie deficit per day coming from just the changes to the meals that we're eating. You want to do a few extra exercises or some additional running just to burn some additional calories? That's fine. But from a deficit standpoint only coming from the food that you're eating, try to limit it to that 500 calories and make sure here again that we see where we're at when we do this little calculation. If you're at maintenance you don't need to make a change. You can start from there. Or if you're seeing that you actually are losing too much weight you can actually adjust up if it's too aggressive. Next thing, use your plate because this is the segue away from calorie counting to becoming more of a visual assessor of how you eat. This plate over here will be your salvation. Right? We just simply divide the plate into compartments, three of them. Protein, fibrous carbohydrates and starchy carbohydrates. 40% of your plate started with protein like I said because of all the benefits we know that it brings in terms of maintaining lean muscle mass that's metabolically active. And have the same amount, 40% of your plate with fibrous carbohydrates. The green leafy vegetables, the broccoli, the carrots, the spinach. Down here and the remaining 20% that's where your starchy carbohydrates go. Now I'm not one to tell you to not have starchy carbohydrates. I believe they're an important part, particularly of athletes' plans to make sure that they not only fuel performance but also mentally can stay in the game. Because if you cut your starchy carbohydrates out, again, some have found success that way. And if you can do it long term then go ahead and stick with that. You can keep doing that. I don't believe that there's a lot of long term success by completely eliminating anything. And by eliminating some of the most rewarding foods are starchy carbohydrates. I think you're setting yourself up for failure. So try to have a way that you can partition them and control their portion sizes. And you can do that with the plate in this sort of 2 to 2 to 1 ratio. It's going to automate portion control for you. And also kind of figure out your macro distribution for you. And most of all it's going to help you become a visual assessor, not a calorie counter life long. And if you have to, you can adjust your carb quantity. Let's say if you're looking to kind of, again, add a little bit more muscle or you're trying to support performance a little bit more, you can add a little bit more of the starchy carbohydrates and dig into that fibrous carbohydrate percentage just a little bit, maybe by an additional 10%. The incidental fats, very important. They come sort of on top of the plate. How you prepare your foods, the oils that you cook with, or the oils and olive oils and vinegars that you add on top of your foods, right? They're very, very important, but because of the caloric impact they don't need to really occupy a portion of this. They wind up becoming a significant portion just because of cooking with them. And the incidental fats are very important as well. They usually come in the form of how you prepare these foods, how you cook them with olive oil, right? Or olive oil and vinegar on a salad. They're going to be part of this as well. They're important calories. You just don't want to over consume them because of their caloric density. Now we prepare your meals for the week. Do this for me, please. Create a go-to meal rotation. Don't worry about becoming Julia Child, for crying out loud, because we don't need to. You don't need to become a chef to be able to support a healthy eating lifestyle. All you need to do is create a rotation of those go-to meals that you really like. And you're likely doing this right now because you're likely only eating about four or five variants of breakfast every week. You're likely only eating four or five variants of dinner across a week or even a month. So find what those are and it will help you to reduce decision fatigue. You don't have to keep thinking about what you're going to prepare. It also saves you time and it keeps your meals consistent. Again, consistency here is the key with nutrition. You have to make meal prep simple, predictable, and repeatable if it's going to be sustainable. Now what do we do? Again, four to five options for breakfast, four to five options for lunch, and four to five options for dinner or snacks. And they all have to meet these criteria. They have to hit your protein target. Remember, we start each meal with your protein. They have to meet your protein target. Number two, they have to be easy to make, provided that time is sort of one of the things that you're fighting against. And also they have to taste good. If they don't taste good, throw them out. Because I or anybody else cannot expect you, as I said, to want to stick to a meal plan if you hate the foods you're eating. Throw out the foods that don't fit in terms of the ones that you like. They have to be something that you enjoy. Next thing in this meal prep side of it. Reframe meal prep and instead think more meal assembly. Because when you do this, everything becomes a lot more flexible, less rigid. Because preparing a meal in full can feel a lot more challenging and again, a lot more involved. A lot of us don't have the time to do that. But instead, if we think of it like that plate and components, we can become flexible with these interchangeable parts. And when we become more flexible, it becomes more customizable. However I feel that week, I can make the changes on the fly a lot more easily. And again, that keeps me more consistent because I actually enjoy it. So I'm talking about your action is to prepare or cook your protein and then freeze it if necessary. So I'll go to Stu Leonard's catering and I'll get a tray full of lemon chicken or mango chicken and then I'll put my plates together for the week and then I'll freeze the rest. So I'm not committed to have to have that for the next 28 days. I can take that back out again and thaw it out simply by making my plates and putting them in the refrigerator. They'll de-thaw on their own and I can have those like two or three weeks later. I don't have to have it all week after week after week. So it's more flexible. The same thing can happen with my vegetables. I can have my frozen vegetables. They freeze really nicely. Or I can take my sweet potato, even my carbs. I put them in little individual Tupperware containers and I take them out as I want them and I put them on my plates and they defrost on their own in the refrigerator. I don't have to leave them out. Just prepare them on a Sunday and they all defrost over the course of the week. They'll be ready when you need them. What's good about that again is there's an interchangeability about it. If I want sweet potatoes, I can actually put some other carb on my plate. Now when it comes to pasta, I wouldn't recommend freezing that. You just make it, you divide it up on your plate and it stays for the week. It's really easy. But become thoughtful and mindful of not just full plates, but interchangeable parts, following that plate division I just showed you before and it becomes a lot easier. Now something else I want you to do here, because it's really, really helpful. It controls one of the biggest problems people have with food and that is grazing. People become grazers. They walk by the kitchen at work and they're grabbing food mindlessly. All those little calories add up. You know they do. But if you start to eat when the clock tells you, that becomes a thing of the past. It's one of the most successful things that I did to get me on track. It's going to regulate your appetite by doing that. Because you're not really guessing when you're going to eat. You have defined times already available and known to you of when you're going to eat. So it controls those subjective cravings of when I just feel like I might be hungry. Right? And it reduces the mindless eating. So what do we do? Number one, don't skip your breakfast. Start the day with a timed breakfast at 7am or 6am or whatever time is convenient to you. Have a breakfast. Kickstart the day. Get your body fueled. And then realize that you'll get to space your meals throughout the rest of the day every two to three hours. And by spacing your meals so that a snack comes after breakfast every two to three hours, you're not going to have to go that long to get to your next meal. If you had an adequate breakfast, it's likely to keep you full for at least an hour and a half or two hours. So the next time you start to get hungry and you look at the clock and you realize you get to eat in a half hour or an hour, it actually lowers the need for willpower. Willpower is tough. If it was so easy, you wouldn't be in a situation where you're really watching a video in need of good nutritional advice. Plus, your willpower is going to be tested if you have to last for an hour or two hours or three hours or God knows how long because you have no planned time for when you're going to eat again. But if you have a time that you've set for how you're going to eat throughout the day and you know that you only have to go a short period of time to get there, your willpower demands will be easier and you'll be able to do this much more consistently. Next thing, try to attach your meals to anchors in your daily routine. There's got to be things that you're doing right now that are already part of your habitual day. Things that you automatically do. So if you can start to anchor nutritional habits around the things that you're already doing. For instance, if you go for a morning walk, it's actually a good way to start the day. But if you go for a morning walk and sometimes skip breakfast, make sure the breakfast immediately follows the walk. Right? So you're not a breakfast skipper anymore. If you do at work, you have little work blocks that you do. One leads up right until around noon or so. Well have your lunch immediately after that particular meeting you have every day or that work block that you set aside every day. Or even when you're going to wind down at the end of the night, your dinner can come in conjunction with the time that you start to do that. Like start to anchor your eating around particular things that you would never skip in the day. I've actually done this in an exercise standpoint by doing my ab training immediately before I eat dinner. Why? There's no magic to it. It's just that I know I'm never going to skip dinner. So if I actually just attach my ab training right before my dinner, then I never skip ab training either. It really helps to try to ingrain habits of food around habits that are already here and healthy habits at that. This is really, really important. If you want this to work, you've got to give yourself some grace. You've got to realize that there is no such thing as perfection. I myself, who've been as lean as consistently can be for all these years, I'm not perfect and I don't try to be. And it has nothing to do with my once a year carrot cake. That doesn't count. That's a little bit more on the perfect side. What it does have to do with is the fact that I have chocolate chip, black raspberry yogurt every single night. Every night. Without fail, 365 days a year if I can. If I don't have that flavor, it's something else. Because it helps me to maintain and sustain the way I eat because I really enjoy that and I look forward to it. And it gives me something to look forward to. Even though I like the foods I eat, it's the treat side that we all can use to give us a little bit of mental relief. Sustainability is going to come from that and it's much greater than perfection. You can be perfect for 100 days, I'll take the sustainable approach that lasts a lifetime. Perfection causes burnout or the pursuit of perfection for sure. And it does not create sustainability. This will help you to get a little bit of mental relief, as I said, some social flexibility so you feel like you can go out every now and then. And also reduce your rebound risk. So, what you're looking to do is allow yourself 20% of the time. Or if you want to be a little bit more rigid, 10% of the time. But at minimum 10% to deviate from your plan. Have those foods. Have those treats. If you think of it this way, you're eating five times a day, seven days a week. That's 35 meals in a week. Give yourself the grace. If you go for the 20 rule, the 80-20 of 20% of the time, seven of those meals don't have to be perfect. And even if they're not, you're going to look really damn good. If you want to get a little bit more chiseled, a little bit more dialed in, then limit it to 10%. So, three meals or so, three or four meals in the week where you deviate off plan. Not only will they probably actually be more received by your body because it tends to react better to actually not always being so rigid. But it also gives you the opportunity to plan ahead for events, right, to focus on better and not perfect like I said. It also gives you some of that relaxation and enjoyment added to the plan so that you stay consistent. Next thing. When you eat out, just eat out strategically, right? Because again, social flexibility is important here. You can't be expected to sit home all the time and eat and count every single calorie. That's not how we are as humans. We want to interact with people and live. So I want you to. I want you to be able to do it and you can. You can stay consistent without becoming anti-social. You've got to create a balance between your goals and your social life. So how do you do it? Preview the menus ahead of time. If you know you're going to a restaurant, almost every single one of them has the menu available online. Preview what it is. See what you're going to maybe eat so you don't feel uncomfortable having to make those decisions in front of others. And don't be afraid to ask for what you want. I just spent the whole weekend away. I ate out many times. Not once was I denied a request. They weren't crazy requests, but there were requests and there was never a weird look in return for what I was asking for. Every restaurant really wants to help accommodate you. Don't be afraid to ask. Gear that meal choice if you can around the protein. Make sure you're choosing a protein meal to sort of set the stage for a successful one. And again, ask for the sauces or dressings on the side. We're not talking about the same ones earlier that were calorically light. These are usually a little bit more calorie dense, but you can ask for them on the side so you can control how much you put on them. And if you have to, eat a little protein snack before you go out to further control your cravings, if you feel like you need that. The last two here are really, really important. You can't overlook them. You've got to build a supportive food environment if you want this to work long term. And what I'm talking about is you can't rely on willpower always. Because even those that are truly locked in are going to have their moments of weakness. So the best thing you can do is try to control your environment a little bit more. So keep your kitchen stocked with only those foods that are supportive of the plan. Or including those 10% foods or those 20% foods we talked about before. And if you have to, store them out of sight. Right? If you have to get them visually out of your sight to make sure that you're not overindulging in them, then so be it. But it's going to lower your temptation risk and offset the need to have really, really high amounts of willpower. Lastly, embrace the long game please. It did not take me one week to become the biggest junk food eater in the world. That was a process. It also did not take me one week to reverse it. It took me a series of small changes year after year after year. Modifications. Some success with each modification. A little bit more visible muscularity with each modification. Getting me inspired and excited about the change. Finding that why. Letting it sink in even more mentally. To where it actually became automatic. And the same exact thing is possible for you. The same exact thing. If you find a way that's enjoyable. And I mean it. Find a way that's enjoyable for you to eat because it's necessary. Then the rest of this stuff can become automatic. Right? The addiction to healthy eating could become almost as powerful as the addiction to unhealthy eating. If you trigger your mind the right way and set the stage for success. You'll stop looking for 30 day diets and instead you'll find a lifelong nutrition plan that teaches you the skills that you need to make this automatic. I promise you guys this will help you. Follow these steps. Please share it with somebody else that you know struggles with eating. If you're looking for a meal plan you can find it over at athleanx.com. The same supplements that I recommended before. The protein powder is also available over there. And if you haven't done so guys make sure you click subscribe and turn on notifications so you never miss a video we're putting out. I hope this helps you guys. Again, share it with somebody else that you think it can.

=== FILE: The 10 Best Exercises You DIDN’T Do Last Year! (BUT NEED TO) [gLz05PhtlPg].txt ===

 Many of the exercises I'm going to show you here in this video are ones you probably aren't doing right now or you didn't do them in the last year. But you should start doing them this year. But you should start doing them this year. And especially if you want to be training for many years to come, these exercises are going to pay big dividends. We start with a bar hang. Now I've talked about this exercise since probably 2014. What are you doing? Not much, but just hanging here on a bar for as long as you possibly can. The benefits are many. Number one, we get good core activation and strengthening from this position. Number two, number two, number two, number two, number two, number two, number two, number two, number two, number two, you're getting good shoulder mobility. You have to be able to get your arms up overhead to maintain normal, healthy shoulder function. This is a great way to do it. Number three, this is reinforcing thoracic extension. That's that area of the spine below the neck and right here up to the rib cage that we tend to see a loss of mobility in. It rounds out and creates very poor posture. This is going to give you really good thoracic extensions and allow you to do so with just this one simple hang done ideally every single day. Men, you should be targeting up to two minutes. It's a long time, but it's something you can build towards in the next 365 days. Two minutes of a hang. Women, if you can get to a minute and 30, you're doing great things. But whatever you do, don't miss out on the bar hang if you want to kick off your year the right way. And the second exercise you need to do is one down here on the ground, and it's the side plank. Now, it's different from a regular plank. It can be much more challenging and therefore much more beneficial, but you have to do it right. What a lot of us do is we keep this leg on the ground, we lift up into a side plank, and we work on what we've been told, the pillar strength. The lateral pillar strength, being able to hold your torso still as you lift up and, again, get challenged from gravity on the way down. But we don't want to necessarily focus from here to here because the big benefits come from the hip strengthening, namely the glute medius. That is what we can challenge if we progressively stop supporting ourselves with this top leg. So what that means is, can you lift your body up into a horizontal position, but then not have this leg supporting you? So, can you get up into this position here? Now, that bottom hip is having to do all that work to push down to the ground, to lift you up, give you that hip abduction that that glute medius is responsible for. And when you do, you don't only build stronger hips, but you're going to fortify your low back to prevent that back pain that you might be used to once a year or twice a year from maybe not coming back at all this year. If there's one exercise that my knees here at 50 wish I had discovered when I was in my teens, it'd be the lunge. But done a very specific way. Because if you do a reverse lunge rather than stepping forward, you're going to find that almost any knee pain that you get from traditional leg training is gone. However, when we start, we start with a regular reverse lunge with a step back. And again, the direction of your torso is going to determine what part of the leg you're feeling more. If I'm going to get an upright torso like this, I'm going to get more of the quads. If I lean forward a little bit when I do this, I'm going to get more of the glutes. Versatile that way. However, we can go one step further, literally, by changing the direction as well. Because I don't always like to work in that sagittal plane straight forward and back. We can take this and step to the side in a frontal plane and work different muscles and then step back into a quarter step where we now have a rotational step going on. So, we're working in all three planes of motion. So, again, a three-way lunge here. Back, and back. Side, and side. And then again, step back, quarter turn, lunge, push back, quarter turn, lunge, and push back. It's not just multi-dimensional, but it is a way that you can train your legs, progressively load with heavier and heavier dumbbells, and not have to worry about the knee pain that might be debilitating right now. So, exercise number four might surprise some people. Because what's happening is a lot of people, maybe TikTok, is telling them that they don't need to do direct arm training because all their compound lifts is going to do everything they need. That is not true. Coming from somebody that has some pretty decent arms, I know that when you want to get your best arms you need to directly train them. What do you want to do? A simple curl will do everything you need it to do for your biceps. However, I do want to focus on a couple things. Number one, if you do these together at the same time, it's going to be a little bit more difficult because you have to control the weight of two dumbbells combined with your core. If you were to separate them one at a time, you're going to have an easier time getting one contraction. You're also going to have an easier time handling more weight per arm. Please go to failure. Don't just go to failure in a very strict way, but allow yourself to start the workout or the exercise and set in a very strict way. But then realize that we have the opportunity with a curl to do some cheat reps at the end. What that means is getting a little bit of a lean back just to get the dumbbells going, and then eccentrically controlling that and slowing it down on the way down. Cheat it up, down, and slow it down. The nice thing about an eccentric rep on a curl is if you don't have control anymore, you can simply drop the weights in a safe way, but it still gives you a chance to overload those biceps, build them up with direct arm training in the next year. Now this next exercise is another one you've likely been doing in the last year. It's the dumbbell bench press. However, if shoulder pain has made it a lot more difficult for you to do, or maybe you had to stop altogether, then try this elevator press variation of it. Because this is going to do a few key things that will make the exercise possible again. And when you start to build your strength back up, your shoulder will feel better. We start in the bottom position and press one dumbbell up. As it comes down, the other one comes up. That one then stays in the down position. What's happening here is a couple things. Number one, to control the dumbbells in space, because we're doing one at a time, you're going to want to be a lot more deliberate and slow. The slowness of the movement is going to provide a lot of stability to your shoulder joint. So whether you have a structural issue, or whether you just have a lack of stability itself, the slowness is going to actually provide a lot of relief of discomfort just by doing that. But what it also does is it requires this down arm to stay in this position of tension, or higher tension, for a longer period of time. It's not resting down here. There's more stretch applied here. There's more tension because I'm holding the weight still. Not resting against my body. It's being held out here in space. So when we do that, it makes for a lot more difficult exercise. But again, at the essence of it, it's still a press and a bench press for your shoulders, or for your chest. But at the same time, it gives you that reprieve that your shoulders aren't getting right now. It's a nice way to build them up in the next year. For the next exercise, if shoulder pain was making bench pressing difficult, then overhead pressing probably isn't even a thing for you. But it still could be if you change how you do it. Again, I like to do a single dumbbell at a time for my overhead press. Because this does a few different things that you're going to feel the benefits of right away. Namely, a joint stack. So I can take this dumbbell, push it up overhead, and then make sure that my wrist is stacked over my elbow, it's stacked over my shoulder. Because when I do that, I've got a lot more stability and support of the dumbbell in space, which makes that shoulder feel a lot more stable and less likely to be a little bit more to feel pain when I press overhead. A lot of people who can't press overhead literally do this and they find they can instantly. Now, it also is going to work some of that lateral pillar strength that we talked about before and that core strength. But what it also does is it almost automatically puts this elbow in the right plane to press safely. Which is the scapular plane. Which is not directly out to the side from here. It's more in front of you at like 30 degrees or so, angled forward from the side. So when I get in this position here, it goes up a lot more smoothly. I don't feel any of that crunching that might be there if you have any type of degeneration in the joint. But again, just by dropping one dumbbell you're giving yourself an opportunity to still press, or maybe even start pressing again in a way that allows you to keep doing this and building your strength for many months and years to come. This next exercise is one that could actually make your conditioning work maybe a little bit more interesting. Because it can get pretty boring just walking on a treadmill. But I still want you to walk. Or more specifically, I want you to carry. And all I'm doing here is carrying a dumbbell in each hand, but there's a lot going on behind the scenes. Number one, my grip strength is being challenged. My forearm endurance is being challenged. My traps – the muscle endurance basically of my entire upper torso. My lower body is being challenged with every step that I take because each time I take one step and lift a leg up, this other hip is being challenged as well. So we're getting good stability. But more so, it's kind of a mental toughness exercise. How far can you go? How long can you go? And what I want you to do is take half of your body weight in each hand in terms of a dumbbell. So if you're 170 pounds, you take 85 pounds in each hand and you do what I'm doing here. You walk with good posture at a nice, slow pace. This is not meant to be rushed. You want to try to get 50 steps with that weight in your hand before having to drop it because of the burn in your traps or your forearms or the fact that you just can't hold the dumbbells anymore. There's a lot of variations that you can do as well that can keep this thing challenging you for more than just a year. One is the two down carry like this. Another one is one up, one down, which is going to really reinforce good posture in that thoracic extension. Another one is double hand overhead like that. That makes it even more challenging and more of a postural challenge. And then of course we have a gun carry where we hold it in this bent arm position, which adds a little bit more bicep and arm strengthening focus to the exercise. The idea is simply carrying a weight will increase the interest in basic walking, allow you to maybe get a few more steps and a few more productive steps with that each day. Now if you did any type of fitness work at all last year, at some point you likely did a pushup. I'm going to show you a pushup here today that's a lot more dynamic and has a lot more benefits than simply pushing your body up and down off the ground. However, you have to understand when it comes to the pushup there are some benefits that maybe even surpass the bench press if it's properly loaded because once you put your hands on the ground you've got this closed chain environment where your shoulder blades are actually getting feedback from your hands that they're not getting when your hands are just freely floating in space on a bench press with dumbbells. So there are some great benefits, but we can go further than that. When we shorten the legs in space rather than being back here, we put them right up underneath us in like a crawl position here. When you go down now you're going to handle a lot more of the weight in the upper body. So I don't necessarily need to start putting weights on my back. I can just change the way I perform it and now have a lot more overload from that. But there's one thing missing there too and that is we can make it a lot more dynamic and introduce some mobility into the exercise. That's where this Spiderman crawl comes in. So what I want you to start doing is build up to the point where when you do your pushups, you step in as you go down and then as I push up, I step and crawl and push down again. So what I'm doing is basically stepping and crawling and going down. Let me show you from the side what that looks like. I'm in here like this. I'm going to step and go down. The higher I can get this hip, the more of that mobility I'm going to work into that hip. Stretching out the adductors. Getting that external rotation to the hip, right? Driving that back as I go down. When I come out of it and step up, I advance the other side and come down. So I'm doing a basic pushup every time. But when I go down, again, because of that forward lean, like in that quadruped position, I'm getting more upper body work. One big key there too. I said quadruped. When we do this, there's only three points of contact on the ground. Two arms and one leg. So we're having even more of our body weight that we have to stabilize in space. It's just a different way to do a pushup that has a lot more benefits than just doing straight up and down work. People underestimate the value of just a simple band when it comes to building up both strength and actually mobility. And what we could do is one exercise here with this simple Athlean Elastics band that we can wrap around our feet like this. We step in and then you're going to cross the band over. All I did was just turn it and cross it so I have an X. We call this an express lateral walk. Express. You'll see the press here in a second. I get inside the band as wide as I can, get it up into this position here. Sort of a rack position up on my shoulders. Now, what's happening is my feet are locked in place. So every time I step, I'm resisting that abduction at the hip. So I start to feel that hip strength again, or the weakness more specifically, that's there that I can start to strengthen. But as I step laterally, I can press up overhead and come down. Press up and come down. What's nice about this is the press is actually not as difficult as it looks to get up, but it gives me really good extension. Again, we look at that thoracic extension that I get. I'm almost being assisted by the band into really good thoracic extension. So it will fatigue your shoulders a bit, but really what it does is it reinforces proper mechanics. At the same time, what's really burning here, and what I'm really developing is that lateral hip strength that so many people are lacking right now and can be achieved with this nice warmup with this band, or again, as a nice finisher to your leg workouts when all of your work is squat, sagittal, plane driven. We're nine exercises deep. You didn't think I'd go a whole year without recommending a face pull, did you? If you want to see how to do it right, make sure you click on the video at the end of this one. I'll show you a step-by-step tutorial to make sure you get it right every single time. And then we have the pullup. I know you probably hate me for recommending it for another year, but there's really no escaping it. It's a matter of fact, an institutional standard, including the military itself, who requires us to be able to do pullups. Because it's one of the most functional upper body exercises you could possibly do. If you ever had to pull yourself up on top of a wall, well, you better know how to do some pullups. That being said, how many are we talking about? Men, I really want you to be able to do 10 to 15 unbroken pullups. Women – I've got high standards there too – 5 to 7 unbroken pullups is a good place to start. We've got women who attend our ATHLEANX Live event who do up to 15 to 20 unbroken pullups. You can build up the strength there if you're looking for a tutorial on how to do it. This video right here is 22 days to double your max pullups, and the one I promised you over here on how to do face pulls properly. You can head to ATHLEANX.com, get our complete line of programs and supplements as well. Guys, if you haven't done so, click subscribe and turn on notifications so you never miss a video when we're putting out. Let's kick off this year right, guys? The next 365 days are going to be your best. See ya.

=== FILE: The 8 Worst Exercises Ever (PLEASE STOP!) [DUyMIsbhXXs].txt ===

 X 하나付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付 had one single injury. Ah, shit. Now, I'm not saying that your shoulder is about to detonate like a Claymore on Call of Duty on a single repetition, but the accumulation of those repetitions every time you do your shoulders or every time you do that exercise leads to a compounding risk that just doesn't need to be there, especially because you have a better option. And that's the case with all these exercises. This is a different exercise altogether in terms of how it feels and what it does to your shoulder joints. And this is a high pull. And the main difference between the high pull and the upright row is the position of the elbow and the wrist in relation to each other. During that upright row, as you can see here, Jesse's elbows are way higher than the wrist, which drives his shoulder into internal rotation under load, by the way, with that weight in his hands at the top of the movement when his arm is elevated above his shoulder, which can lead to increased risk of impingement and feelings of discomfort if you have any impingement already. However, on the high pull, you can see the elbow is now down lower than the wrist, creating external shoulder rotation, not internal rotation, even though you can still handle the same load. And you can still get that same impact and growth on the delts and on the traps. Now, a lot of people tell you, you can do the upright row. Stop listening to Jeff because you can stop it at your chest or you can let your elbows kind of hang back a little bit and don't go so high. Right. So, you're telling them to do the high pull. The essence is an upright row done like a classic upright row is not an exercise that you should do. And it's one that you can easily swap out for just as good gains with something like this, the high pull. The chest fly? Come on. If it's good enough for Arnold, it's good enough for me. How else am I going to build those tig old biddies? Just like my boy. Oh, God, get me to the medical chopper. I guess you could say hasta la vista to that shoulder, Jesse. Look, all kidding aside, guys, as a physical therapist, my issue here with the unsupported dumbbell bench fly is that itself, is that it's unsupported. Your shoulder is placed in a much more vulnerable position, particularly the anterior shoulder capsule because of the unsupported nature of those dumbbells out in its most vulnerable, most stretched position. Again, you're doing the exercise likely to get a greater stretch on the pecs, but in that position, you are most vulnerable, especially if you start to use heavier and heavier weights. I know the recommendation is just go light, but what if I told you you could stand up, do a cable crossover, actually use much more weight, provide more overload in that stress position, but do it much more safely? Well, that's exactly what the cable crossover does. Depending upon where you position your body in relation to the machine, you can set a safer safety net so that that bottom range of motion, all you have to do is slightly turn to one side or the other to place the weights back on the stack. Again, without any vulnerability to the anterior shoulder capsule. And again, we get a lot more opportunity to load the exercise more heavily. So you can combine that stretch tension with just the overall tension we get from using heavier weights to give you a better stimulus for growth. Not to mention, of course, we can get that adduction fully across our body that we're not getting on the fly because it pretty much stops at midline, making it a much better alternative. Again, it's safer than what we're showing here. So therefore, why not do it, especially if the gains could be better? As a world traveler, who am I to turn down an exercise with a foreign flare, like the Bulgarian split squat or a Russian twist? But there's no better exercise for my shoulders than a Cuban press, which I don't know what I like better, the Cuban press or Cuban cigars, which reminds me of a time when I was down in Cuba with my buddy Carlos smoking gotibas underneath the palm tree. Damn, Carlos, this is a good cigar. I don't know. It doesn't seem as smooth as that Cuban cigar there, Jesse, although it does light you up in very much the same way. I don't know who thought it was a good idea to combine a basic compound lift like an overhead press with a corrective exercise because it's just not necessary. As a matter of fact, you're better off doing just a regular shoulder press and then, of course, something like this, which is just a basic external rotation with a band. We can isolate one function from the other because when we're doing that Cuban press anyway, you're getting just a little bit of resistance or stimulation of the rotator cuff into external rotation just in the very, very beginning of the exercise. Whereas if we do something like my favorite exercise, a face pull, you can see that we get resisted external rotation, not just in the beginning, but all the way through the range of motion. We can actually add an overhead press component, but not for the sake of trying to build bigger shoulders because, again, you can handle that with heavier weight on its own. This overhead portion of this actually stimulates the lower traps, which further contributes to stabilizing your shoulders and making it a more corrective or protective exercise long-term. But you certainly don't need the Cuban press no matter how you feel when you smoke them, Jesse. Nothing gets you to rock hardcore like doing a properly performed military sit-up. As a matter of fact, my dad, an old Navy drill instructor, taught me a good trick. Keep your feet anchored underneath something to help you get those thousand reps real easy. 978, 978, 978. Oh, God, my back. Oh, what a f***ing idiot. And so, with all due respect to Jesse's dad, thank you for your service, just not for the advice you gave Jesse. Because anchoring your feet under something does two things you don't want to do in a sit-up. Number one, it takes away a lot of the work from the abs because you're getting a good isometric engagement of the hip flexor that your body can almost post up against and then make it easier, like Jesse said, for a thousand reps. The second thing it's doing is that when you do engage hip flexors like this, they have a tendency to become overactive and start to pull on the lumbar spine, yanking your back into positions that lead to low back pain. So, to get the exercise to do more work for your abs, number one, and save your low back in the process, you want to anchor your feet beyond something. In other words, you want to be pulling against something in order to pull your body up. This you'll start to feel in the hamstrings instead. And by engaging the hamstrings, you'll reciprocally start to take away some of the contribution or over-contribution of those hip flexors, which is going to allow you to have that core do more of the work. Yes, probably limiting the number of repetitions that you do, but in the end, making them a hell of a lot more effective. You know, nothing builds my traps, my deadlifts, or my Instagram followers like a nice heavy set of rack pulls. You know how much weight you can load up on this freaking thing? Oh, I can't feel my fingers. How am I going to click like on my own Instagram reel? Well, yeah, sure, the exercise allows for a lot more weight. However, at what risk? Because there is something that you should be concerned about when you do a rack pull, specifically at a height above the knee. Because what you're going to get is a lot of thoracic forward rounding. What that means is the shoulder blades of yours are going to come up and around your body. And what that does is places some stress on a structure called the thoracic outlet, which is a series of nerves and blood supply that runs underneath the clavicle here that can become compressed as that shoulder moves down and forward when the weight is so excessive. So what would you do instead? Just simply either lower the weight by lowering the bar, actually preferably performing a regular deadlift from the floor. Or if you're trying to use this as an accessory movement to improve your lockout on the deadlift, then just make sure you're lowering it down a little bit more, like below the knee. Because that's going to introduce a necessity of a hinge at your pelvis. And when you hinge, all of a sudden the mechanics up and down the spine will change, preventing all that excessive rounding and forward tilting of the shoulder blade, which will protect that thoracic outlet, take away some of that risk, and therefore give you a good loading option to get a lot of those followers on Instagram without necessarily the risk to your structures itself. Nothing cranks my wanker like a nice heavy one-arm dumbbell row. Nothing better for building the lats one side at a time. Plus, I'm nice and stable on the bench like this and no risks to my lower back. Oh, my balls. My balls. Oh. The issue with this exercise is the setup. It's the fact that you do have a lot of weight that you do the exercise with. When you drop one leg back and have one on the bench and pull the weight from this off leg, right? You're basically loading down into this area, putting pressure on an already weakened structure in the inguinal canal. Where we have a hole in the tissues down there to allow other structures to pass through, that hole can easily widen and create an inguinal hernia when you're in this asymmetric loading position from a one-arm row, especially, again, as you increase that weight. But the fix is simple. All you have to do is just simply raise the bench up to this position here and perform it with both feet on the floor in this tripod row position. So I can still do one arm at a time. I let it hang in front of me in a balanced position here and I allow myself to pull up in the same exact way, driving up and getting a good lat contraction one side at a time. But I don't have to put that asymmetrical loading and stress onto that inguinal canal to decrease any risk there is from a hernia on the exercise and instead get all the benefits in a much more comfortable way. Nothing gets me loosey-goosey before a run, like a nice stretch. And man, I'm really feeling in those hamstrings. And don't worry, Jeff, I'm not getting hurt doing this one. No, Jesse, you shouldn't get hurt doing that stretch. But at the same time, you probably shouldn't be doing it either. Because doing a static stretch before you go out for a run is not necessarily the best way to warm up for an activity. You've got to do something more active. And in that case, you would do something like a leg swing rather than a static hold. And a leg swing gives you the opportunity to not just get your dynamic flexibility through your hamstring, but you could also rotate your toe in space from out to in so that you're basically getting external and internal hip rotation at the same time, making it far more functional. As far as that static stretch, whether you do it standing here like this or down on the floor, you're probably doing it wrong anyway because you're not stretching your hamstring at all if you just allow yourself to slump. This is just working on your low bath and not really even engaging or preparing your hamstring at all. If you really want to do that, you have to get into anterior pelvic tilt where you shoot your pelvis back, get your leg up, and then get your chest straight out, not down. And just reaching out in this direction should light that hamstring up and maybe for the first time ever, help you actually feel the stretch. Again, giving you an option, but not one to be doing before you go out for a run. Save those static stretches for the right time. Do the dynamic ones like the leg swing when you actually want to warm up. I don't care what anyone says. I love side bends. And dare I say, they're almost fun. And what better way to carve out that midsection, burn those love handles, and get five to six minutes of just feeling like a million bucks. Oh. So if you're obsessed with the exercise and think it's fun, like Jesse, there's probably a reason for it because you're basically riding the seesaw at the playground by yourself because you don't need to have a dumbbell on each side. If you're going to do this variation, at least drop one dumbbell and work on one side at a time. So at least you're pulling back against the weight of that dumbbell and working the opposite side. But there's so many better things to do instead that don't aggravate your low back. Remember, the low back should be a stable joint, not necessarily an overly mobile one. So do something like this side plank or any variation of a side plank. Or if you have to, you want to work on more of the rotation capabilities of the obliques because that's what they do better anyway than do something like this Russian row. It's not just a Russian twist. You're actually rowing your arm back behind your body to ensure that you're rotating enough. But simply doing this silly exercise is not the way to build up your obliques and there's no way to just spot reduce your love handles. If you want to see a way to do that the right way, make sure you check out this video over here. If you're looking for how to do those Bulgarian split squats, you know, Jesse, the world traveler, you can find that video over here. All right, guys, if you haven't done so, make sure you click subscribe and turn on your notifications. Jeff, Jeff, my body's hurting bad. I need a recovery day. Do you mind if I'm not coming to work tomorrow? We all thank you, Jesse. See you.

=== FILE: The Best Way to Get Lean (FROM ANY BODY FAT LEVEL!) [Fz7wUtKh3gQ].txt ===

 If you have a hard time getting lean, then I'm going to help you to start making a transformation that looks even as dramatic as this because once you know what to do then the actual getting lean part becomes almost simple. Now this is coming from somebody that has been quite lean for a long period of time. So it's not just about getting lean but it's about staying lean. And we start by defining realistic expectations. Because though you may want to look like this guy right here, if you're starting out anything like this guy, then having this guy is going to likely set you up for failure or disappointment. Because what you really need to do is start looking more towards these guys. Because these are the guys that are within reach. And I can tell you right now, if you went from looking like this in let's say three months time to looking like that, you'd be quite happy. And you'd also be, most importantly, on the right track to permanent weight loss. To being able to get lean and stay lean. Because that's really what this is all about. I'm not looking to give you guys a temporary solution. And when you get here, something starts to happen. Right? The discipline kicks in. The habit kicks in. You start to actually enjoy what you see in the mirror and it becomes almost a self-propelling process where you are now making these gains and they're a lot easier to make than when you first started. Now where you are when you're starting your journey is going to require some slightly different steps and expectations. And that's why we can get from one step to the next more easily. Because I'm not looking for perfection when you're at this body weight and body fat right now. You don't need it. As a matter of fact, you can just make a few mild changes to your daily habits that are going to allow you to get to this next bracket quite easily. You see, if you just started to do a walk four to five times a week, 30 minutes at a time, you're going to find that you're going to start to drop weight. Calorically, calorically, if you take one pass through your diet, you're likely going to find certain things that you know don't belong. Like that chocolate cake that you like to have for dessert every day doesn't belong when you're trying to lose body fat. I'm not saying completely cut it out forever. That would be perfection again. I'm just saying maybe cut it out a few times a week. Or maybe the alcohol that you're drinking right now. Right? Liquid calories are so easy to overlook. What you need to do is start mindfully cutting back just a little bit. Again, not perfection. And when you make just these mild changes, these big results start to happen. In other words, visually, you start to see those types of changes that we're showing you right here. But what will happen is, as you start to drop down further and further, something is going to change. And this is number two. You have to, at some point, not just walk and not just rely on whatever small alterations you're making to your diet plan. You need now, at this point, to focus on lifting weights. Lifting weights is one of those non-negotiable parts of this process if you want to get to these ultimate levels of leanness. Right? To get down to something that looks like this, you're going to have to lift weights. Because it's not just the leanness that's sticking out to you here. It's the muscularity. And there's a world where you can lose weight and not wind up looking like this. But rather, like this. And this is likely not what you're looking for. And the main difference between these two is simply the act of lifting weights. So what do I need you to do? I need you to start lifting weights three times a week. That's it. Three total body workouts a week is enough to start getting you to start adding muscle. And again, it can be as simple as just picking the basic exercises and adding weight as able. And if that doesn't work for you and you don't like total body workouts, there's a lot of other options. You could do an upper-lower split. Two days in a row. Monday and Tuesday, upper-lower. Take a day off. And then two days in a row. Thursday and Friday, upper-lower. And it's really, really simple. But what's most important is what's happening that's making your process of getting lean much easier. And that is, you're increasing your body's tolerance to even the very foods that you're eating right now. And you're increasing the storage capacity of even the carbohydrates that you maybe don't want to give up. Because I realize it's not just about getting lean and giving up everything you like in the process. Not for me. I think you need to be able to continue to enjoy the foods that you eat if you want to make this sustainable. And carbohydrates tend to be the foods that are a little bit more difficult to completely eradicate from your diet and be able to stick to long-term. I'm not saying that some people haven't had success with approaches that do that. I'm saying for the majority of people who prefer to have some carbohydrates, it gives your body the chance to store more of them with the more muscle that you have. Now, think about muscle as like a storage shed. Right? You've got a storage shed on your property somewhere. You've got all the tools in there, the garden equipment. You've got all the shit that kids don't play with anymore. Well, what happens when you build more muscle is essentially you add sheds to your property. Or you just start looking for other places where you can store things. Like your basement, and your attic, and closets. You've got more room now. When we look at our bodies physiologically, the difference between those people that are much leaner and those that are not is the amount of muscle they carry that's providing this extra storage space. Because the liver glycogen that we have is pretty much the same from individual to individual. It varies from, let's say, 80 to 120 grams of storage. But the capacity for storage when we look at different types of physiques in terms of the muscle that they carry can range anywhere from 300 grams to 600 grams of carbohydrates that can be stored. And not stored as body fat, but as potential energy. Now think about that. If you were an electric car, one that drives 600 miles before needing a charge versus one that drives, let's say, 100 miles before needing a charge, that car that can go a lot further is going to be a lot more easy to drive without having to worry about where you're going to need to fuel up next. The building of muscle provides that extra storage that controls that spillover that ultimately leads to the body fat that you're trying to get rid of right now. And it's the very reason why you probably know people who eat things that you're eating that seem to be able to tolerate them. It's that added muscle that's the difference maker. And you need to start making sure that your exercise focuses on shifting just from that cardio, kind of calorie burning focus, to a real muscle building focus. Now, in the process of doing that, you need to support your training. And the area that I don't think people support their training enough leads to number three. Number three is going to be your protein intake. You need to focus on increasing your protein intake. Again, largely because if you haven't been weight training and you haven't been trying to build muscle, you're going to need to do more and eat more simply to support that process. But again, most of us aren't eating enough of it. And you'll hear all different kinds of numbers. There's actually a lot of controversy about how much is actually enough or how much is actually needed. Some will try to say that you can get away with having as little as 0.7 grams per pound of body weight. But I don't believe that your goal should be trying to get away with anything. And again, they're not talking about building the type of muscle that you see here. They're talking about building a physique that's lean. But again, this isn't going to cut it for me. I think to be capable and strong, you're going to need to be able to have a lot more muscle. And that's where you're going to need to support your efforts with something as high as, let's say, 1 gram per pound of body weight. Somebody would even suggest having 1.2 grams per pound of body weight. But what's interesting about protein is when we digest protein, 30% of the calories you took in are needed just to break it down. When we look at carbohydrates, 10% of the calories that we intake into form of carbohydrates are needed to break them down and metabolize them. For fats, just 3% of the calories you take in are needed to actually process them or break them down and ultimately store them. So what does that mean? That means that protein actually works for you when you eat it. And again, don't forget the fact that fat grams are much more calorie dense. Every gram of fat comes at a cost of 9 calories, whereas every gram of carbohydrates or protein is just 4. So a lot of times people will veer towards healthy fats, which is a good food source, but they overlook the fact that it's contributing to them getting heavier. The other thing that protein does, it actually acts as your body's own natural hunger control hormones. It helps to stimulate those GLP-1s. The same drugs like Magolvian ozempic that people are reaching for in abundance right now to help control their appetites. Protein will do that. It has a satiation effect when you eat it. It will also help to control ghrelin, which is that hunger-promoting hormone. So just by nature of eating more proteins, we're actually having this hormonal control aspect that helps us to lose weight too. Thirdly, it has a muscle preservation effect. So when you are dropping weight, because you're going to have to be in a hypocaloric state, meaning taking in fewer calories than you're burning in a day, in that state there's often the situation where your body starts to burn muscle or consume muscle for energy too. So in the process of losing fat, you lose muscle. But when you're increasing your protein intake, you're going to see a muscle sparing effect. You're going to lose less of that weight in the form of muscle. And what does that do? It maintains those reserves. It keeps that battery high, the capacity high. We just talked about that storage space high. So holding on to muscle with all you've got is going to be a major, major driver of what you do. And supporting those hard workouts now with higher protein intake is going to be important. The fourth thing. People just don't know enough about what makes up a good nutrition plan. From a food choice standpoint, chicken parmesan is not grilled chicken. They're very different calorically. And just because you heard the word chicken doesn't make it a clean eating option. And that's another thing. People who always talk about eating clean are usually the first people that when you actually dive down and look at everything that they eat, it's not very clean at all. There's a few cleaner food options sprinkled in. And as far as the volume, take something as simple as olive oil. One of those healthy fats I just talked about. A good source of nutrition. However, how much are you using? I saw this on Instagram and I wanted to make sure that I shared it here with you. You can use cooking spray at 10 calories. Or a teaspoon at 40 calories. Or a tablespoon of olive oil at maybe 120 calories. Or a glug. And this is honestly the first time I've ever heard of the term glug. But you probably recognize it because it's likely what you and many of us use when we're putting it on our salad. A lot more than just a tablespoon. But look at the calorie increase. 250 plus calories. Maybe 300 or 400 by the time you're done. And you don't even realize it. It's not filling you up. It's part of the process of making your salad. So that clean salad just became calorically heavy. Simply by not being aware of the portion sizes. The last thing I want to comment on here is let's say you get down here. You get to this point. You get down here. Some will try to deter you from wanting to be here because they'll say it's unhealthy. You can't sustain that. Now again, I mentioned in the beginning of the video I've been at this level of body fat for a long period of time. There are some that will say that you'll experience decreased levels of energy. That you'll experience low testosterone. That you'll have no libido. That's not going to happen by getting lean the right way. And by maintaining your leanness the right way. It's a very sustainable thing that does not come at any of those costs. As a matter of fact, if you looked at the research, what leads to a decrease in testosterone is not being lean, but being fat. Carrying around excessive, especially abdominal fat, is going to lead almost always with multiple clinical trials showing a decrease in testosterone. Now, getting lean does the opposite. It actually increases your testosterone level. The confusion often comes from the things that you're doing in the process of trying to get lean too quickly. Again, go back to the beginning here. Temper those expectations. When you have temperate expectations and realistic expectations, you don't try to do this too aggressively. To the point where you cut out those dietary fats, that can actually cause testosterone to drop. Or where you start to excessively train or stress over how often you should be training, that could cause an increase in cortisol that can cause a decrease in testosterone. These are the things that you avoid. You do this the right way, I promise you. You'll be able to make a similar transformation. It will take time. But you'll do it the right way and you'll wind up being leaner. And not this lean, but this lean. And this is the one that actually is the sustainable version because of all those benefits we talked about before. In terms of what this does with this type of physique metabolically to assist you in maintaining and staying on that path forever. If you're looking for a step-by-step program that includes a Mia Plan, we have supplements, we have protein powders. Again, you don't have to buy mine if you don't want, but you need to start taking protein. You can find it all over at ATHLEANX.com, guys. I hope this video is helpful to you. Again, step-by-step, this is the stuff you have to focus on and when you do, it works. If you haven't done so, guys, make sure you click subscribe, turn on your notifications, so you don't even miss a video when we're putting one out. All right, guys. Good luck. See you soon.

=== FILE: The Best and Worst Stretches For Your Chest [LB4CxC7Ckbw].txt ===

 d converter converter converter, converter converter, converter converter, converter converter, important parts of the equation when they're done. Stretching. Even then, of those that do save some extra time for a stretch, if what they do looks like this, they're getting it wrong. That's why I made this video. What's up, guys? Jeff Cavaliere, ATHLEANX.com, physical therapist and pro athlete trainer. Look, when it comes to the pecs, it's sort of a paradoxical muscle because you have two different pec muscles that you want to make sure you're taking care of. Number one, you've got the vanity side, the pec major, which is what everyone is in the gym trying to build bigger and stronger. But you still have to learn how to stretch it, and what I showed you before is not how you do it. But then there's this other one over here. This is the pec minor. This is the one that actually sets you up to do all of your chest training and to keep your shoulders safe in the process. This is the one that gets no attention. So the first thing you need to know before you talk about gains is, how do I stretch them properly? Well, we're going to focus on that pec minor first. The one thing I want you guys to see really quickly here is that on this muscle, it inserts on this area right here called the corakori process. And why that's important is, look what it's attached to. Not just a tiny little bone, but it's actually part of the shoulder blade. So if you've got something that's tight that's yanking on this, the whole shoulder blade and shoulder posture is going to get thrown off. And so what happens when we have a tight pec minor is three different things. Number one, when it's pulling on the shoulder blade, the first thing it does is pull down this way. So if I were to make that tight, it's going to round the shoulder forward. And I'm sure you probably recognize this posture if you haven't really been stretching out this muscle. The next thing that it does is it actually rounds the shoulder blade around the corner. We call it protraction. Okay? So it's pulling down and in this direction. The third thing that it actually does is pull the shoulder down. Downward rotation of the scapula. So whenever you want to stretch a muscle, your job is to simply unwind what it does. So you want to do the opposite of all three. The first thing you want to do is get the shoulder back instead of forward, back. How do we do it? You've got to use something. In the gym, the corner of a squat rack, or at home, the corner of a doorway. And all you want to do is just push yourself into that corner of the doorway, pushing the head of your humerus right here, that big rounded portion of your front delt, up into that doorway or side of the rack. From here I'm positioning it back. The next thing I want to do is get that retraction of the scapula. So while I'm here, retract the shoulder blades, pull them back together. You're basically doing this actively to really squeeze your shoulder blades together. With that in place, head of the humerus up here, shoulder blades retracted. Now we have to get upward rotation of the scapula instead of that downward rotation. And that's really easy to do because all you have to do is raise your arm up, overhead. As you raise your arm up, your shoulder blade will rotate up in this direction. And if you do this properly, you're going to feel that stretch right in this muscle. You can literally see it lengthen with the muscle markers. We have a length that's established right about here. When we get set up in this position and we raise it up, you can see the elongation that's happening here. And your goal is to do this 30 to 60 seconds twice in a session. And then what I want to see you do this for best effect is on the day that you're training chest, do it at night. And then also because we heal a little bit shorter overnight, I want to see you do it the next day too. If you're training chest twice a week, that means you're going to do this four times. Both on the days that you train chest, and also at nighttime, and also the next morning. Now we have this other muscle here. And we're talking about the pec major. Now there are three different heads to the pec major. We have the upper clavicular head, right? That's the area that a lot of us don't have good chest growth in, that upper shelf. Then we have the major sternal head here in black. And then we've got that little abdominal head that sort of frames the bottom or lower pec line. You can stretch all of them with a slight tweak to how you do it. But you're not going to do that. Because what happens when you do that is a couple things. Number one, you're disrupting normal shoulder biomechanics and actually setting yourself up for an injury. Because when I do this, what it does is it tends to shift the head of the humerus or throw it forward into that anterior shoulder capsule. And one thing you don't want to do is continually weaken or overstretch the anterior shoulder capsule. The posterior capsule is a different story, but here it creates more shoulder instability. And by doing this stretch, you might feel it, but you don't need to do that. Because the pec actually inserts right here on the upper arm, the humerus. Right about at mid-sternal level. And if we can stretch it by moving the arm in this position here, it doesn't matter what's happening at the elbow. It has no effect if we open the elbow or close it on the position or the insertion of the pecs here. So, instead of getting extra long and creating a lot of torque on the shoulder, what I want you to do is the same type of idea. You keep your arms slightly bent. You stabilize the head of the humerus here up against the inside of the frame. And then all you're going to do is rotate away. Because all you're trying to do at this point is separate this point from the sternum. From this big heavy bone in your chest. If I can get the sternum further away from my arm here, then I'm going to get that stretch on the chest without having to create all that extra torque by lengthening my arm out. Now again, I'm looking at a 30-60 second hold. But how do we stretch to different areas? If I want to get more of that lower chest, then all I've got to do is raise the arm a little bit higher. But nothing changed. That head of the humerus is stabilized up against the inside of the door or rack. And I'm just rotating again. And I can feel that intense stretch downward. If I want to get more of the upper chest, all I have to do is position or line up the lower portion of my forearm and do the same thing. Rotate out. But keeping that shoulder pulled backwards. You can see that now I'm getting that stretch more on those upper fibers. No matter what area you're doing here, you're going to aim for that 30-60 seconds. Now, how does this affect muscle growth? Well, some studies will show that you can actually stretch your way to bigger muscles. And to do that, you just keep stretching statically. That being said, it does take a really long time. And I don't think it's the most effective or efficient way to get chest growth. But the other way to do it is by incorporating stretch into the exercises that you're doing. And that's where you get exercise recommendations like a chest fly. And here's the reason why I don't like this. Because a chest fly to me, or sort of the typical Arnold fly, is basically putting us in the same position at the bottom. That was what I didn't like about that other stretch. That vulnerability to the anterior shoulder capsule. Especially because we're unsupported here. There's nothing to give me any kind of safety net in this position. And a lot of times people will tear a peck in this exercise because of the unsupported nature of the exercise on your shoulder joint. So you don't have to do that. You don't have to have the dumbbell so far out. You can simply do something like a crossover. Even just one arm at a time, that puts you in that safer position where the arm can be closer to your body. Because look it, if I'm in this position here and I'm rotated away and I have my arm close to my body there, I've got that maximum stretch going on between the insertion here and the origin here. Okay? We have our arm back behind our body with a good loaded stretch. And of course from here you're going to go and perform a regular fly. But you don't have to be way out here to do that. And with the machine we do have that safety net. If I do go a little bit far I can simply rack it and I don't put myself in that vulnerable position. So if I did it two arms at a time here, again you can see I have a really good safe position. I'm not overexposed by having my arms out too far. I can get all the benefits of training the chest, even in the different ranges of motion, to go from high to low to get more of the lower portion, or to go from low to high to get more of the upper portion. But either way it's the combination of eccentric load, some stretching, with the tension of the weight itself that does provide a good stimulus for growth. So incorporating it is a good idea. Now if you're looking to see how to stretch other muscles – we actually have a video I did a long time ago on how to stretch the triceps properly – you're going to want to watch that video here. If you're looking for how to put the science back in strength, guys, we do it in all of our programs over at athleanx.com as well as our supplements. Make sure you share it with someone else so they know how to stretch the chest properly. All right guys, see you soon. Cool!

=== FILE: The Chest & Back Workout That SLAYS You in Just 30 Minutes! [ILlTcna0hpE].txt ===

 There's a loth, right? There's a common misconception that in order for a workout to be effective it has to be long, but that's actually not true. Today I'm going to show you an exact workout to train not just one, but two muscle groups and we're going to use my express training program, right? We're going to use it as the template for how to do this. If you want to train hard, you can train a lot shorter, right? We have the express chest and back workout. Here's what it's going to be consisting of. A way to warm up that gets you ready to actually perform what you're going to do without wasting a whole hell of a lot of time. I'll show you what the fast 50 looks like. So, you're going to have a systems check because it's a systems check because it's a very important next step before you start to handle heavier weights and you're not going to not handle heavy weights here. We're not compromising the workout just because we're making it shorter. Then we're going to go into high tension exercises and mod to low tension exercises. And the way that we're going to combine them is going to keep them efficient, it's going to keep the workout moving, but again, never compromising the type of results that you can see. And again, we're hitting two muscle groups here. Actually, not me. Jesse, you're up. Ah, shit on the single. I did this, didn't you? I still have to show you how to do it. So, keep watching. And so, it starts here with the fast 50 warmup. And this consists of two exercises. One is this kneeling banded incline press. And then he's going to stand up and go right into the second exercise, which is a banded squeeze row. So, what you're looking to do is perform 14 reps in this first exercise. Go ahead. Yep. Now, you're ready. So, 14 repetitions. Now, what this is doing, again, because the band is being used, it allows your muscles to actually warm up as they warm up. In other words, there's flexibility built into a band that allows for more stretch as your range of motion increases, as your force output increases. So, I love using bands for warmups because you can kind of push a little further, a little harder as your body starts to warm up. Stand right up now. Turn it around. Now, it's a squeeze row. So, now what you do is in that position there, get to a good low back position. Good. A squeeze row is where you want to pull and get that extra little pull at the back. Squeeze your scapula together. Right? We're trying to warm up the joints that are going to be affected here. And that is your shoulder girdle. Right? So, not just your glenohumeral joint, but your scapula also, your elbows, your wrists, between these two. If we can do that, we can work into the muscles, as I just explained before. All the way up here, 14. Where do we go from here? 12. 12 and 12. 10, 10, 8, 8, 6, 6. Guess what that equals when you add it up, Jesse? 50. 50. Performing 100 repetitions of the two exercises throughout the entire warmup here. Again, how much time do you have to do this? A fixed three minutes. So, here's where Express is different. Everything is time-centric. I want to be sure, not like guess or estimate that you might be able to finish this in 30 minutes or less. This is exact. There's three minutes. You start the clock when you start your first rep, and then you keep going. And as long as you have time left in that time, that's the remaining time that you would rest. You use the final 40 seconds to rest. Let's pretend we got there. Now, we head over to the bench for our systems check. So, the fast 50 down, and when we come over here, we're going to perform something called a systems check. Okay, Jesse, though, so far? Ah, dude, I feel great. Chests, back, even a little pump. Little pump. Little pump. And the joints are good. Yes. All right, so most of you are going to feel that, but we still want to be sure, because the first exercise here is going to be a high-tension exercise, so I want to do one warmup set for that, too. So, you take your 12 rep max, and you're going to perform 10 repetitions. But the pacing here is going to be slower, because unlike the last exercise, and Jesse could have even picked up the pace a little faster there as he felt more loose, here you want to try to go slow. And what you're trying to do here is give yourself a set 1 minute and 30 seconds to do your 10 reps. Obviously, it's not going to take you that whole time, but you're feeling for anything that still feels a little kinky, right? Is that the right word? That's the wrong word, maybe. A little kinked up here. You've got to get through those kinks. Get the wrists and the elbows and the shoulders feeling good. All right? One more. One more. So, you take sub max, not all the way to failure, take it, and you put them back. Now, what I want you to do is in the time that you're resting in the 130, whatever's remaining here, that's yours. You get to do what you want. But what I would suggest is go get your dumbbells, because you're going to need a dumbbell here, which is an 8 rep max for the incline dumbbell bench press. You're also going to need a weight for your 8 rep max for a chest-supported row. A lot of people will find that that weight is the same. In this case, it's the same for you, Jesse. All right, for some, if you needed two pairs of dumbbells, you just go grab both pairs of dumbbells. Now, with your minute and 30 up, it's time to start the actual high-tensity set. You're going to do these three times. Okay? But what you do is you can have an option here. In the first set, you can take this exercise all the way to his 8 rep max failure. Or you have the option to leave one or two in the tank on the first set. That is because I know by the time you're doing the second or third set, it's going to catch up to you. From here now, you go right around into the second part, which is the chest-supported row. Every one of these is a three-minute block. Okay? So, you start the timer at three minutes, counting down for this entire block. Eight reps. One, two. Good. Good squeeze here. And remember, you've got three minutes to do the entire combo and then rest. So, if you go through this a little quicker, you've got a little bit more rest. If you do a little bit more deliberate here, you've got a little bit less rest. Is that eight and eight? That's eight and eight. Okay. So, now, again, what you do is you're resting the balance of the three minutes. Fixed workout times here, guys. There's no guesswork. You had three minutes on the warm-up. You had a minute and a half on the systems check on the first double-unclined bench press. You started your first round here of this exercise with the chest-supported row incline bench press. You had three minutes to go through that. By the time that three-minute timer is over, you should be in position to start the next round of this. Okay. The second and third round, though, there's no more option to stop just shy of failure. You've got to take it to failure. If you can't get all of your repetitions in round two or three, it doesn't matter because you're taking it to failure. Objectively, I know that you're increasing your workout intensity. And I said before, you can train long and you can train hard, but you can't do both. As long as I know objectively you're training hard, we're good to go. So, you get back in here one more time. Let's just see what the result is. You grab those dumbbells. Again, this would be the second three-minute block of this workout. Push as hard as you can. Good. Drive them up. Keep going. There you go. Get it up there. That's it. There you go. Come on. Get up there. Get up. Cool. Down. And then you go right back into that chest-supported row. Same thing. Get in position. Again, you can take a little bit of a breather here, but know that the three minutes is fixed. So, by the time it's up, you're going to need to start that third set again. So, in here. And then pull up. There you go. Two. How's it feel? Sucks, but it's great. He said awesome. I didn't hear that part. Awesome. Awesome. Awesome. Awesome. Awesome. Awesome. Awesome. Plus, I fast-tracked you on that rest. So, you probably took about a minute and 15. I wasn't counting there, but about a minute and 15. So, you actually would have gotten a full minute 45 here before you had to go back to that third round. All right. So, I might be moving at a little bit faster than what we need pace here, but you get the idea. So, this would be done again three times, and then we're not done. But this time of the workout, though, you've already done 13 minutes and 30 seconds. So, we're on track, but we still have 16 minutes and 30 seconds left. And that brings you to the final portion of the workout here. This is where we combine the moderate and light tension exercises, right? The ones that are not as heavily loaded as those bigger compound exercises. Right. And we're going to change the rep scheme here. Moderate is usually around 10 to 12. The lighter is more like 12 to 15. The four exercises you're doing here starts off with a cable crossover. So, what you do is you set that timer now. Five minutes and 30 seconds is what is allotted to you to complete this four exercise giant set. The first two are devoted to the chest. The first one is the high to low crossover. So, again, a 12 rep max weight here. You do have that same option to go all the way to failure on the first one or save one or two reps in the tank on that first set. Second and third set, you're not going to have that option. You've got to take them all the way to failure. So, Jesse does these all the way through. Once he gets to failure here, the second exercise for you and for him is to drop down to the ground. Okay. Down to the ground and do your push-ups. So, here you take a basic push-up. Obviously, right after a cable crossover, you're not going to get so many push-ups. But you take it all the way to failure. This one, you always go to failure all three sets. Why can't you even do any push-ups at all? And why does it work here in this workout well? Because mechanically, no matter how much you lift here or how hard you push yourself here to failure, you're always going to be able to get some repetitions out because mechanically, this is an easier exercise than that. So, we use mechanical failure to our advantage. Now, two down, two to go. The next one up is the one-arm high cable row. So, here now, we're working our back. Yep, make it a little heavier. We're going to train our back. This one, you're going to have to do both sides. All right. So, you're going to have to go right arm, then left arm, taking it all the way through. Again, five minutes and 30 seconds is your total countdown. You feeling the effect of that density, Jesse? Yes. So, this is what we call density training. But because we're manipulating tension also, it's tensity, right? That's what we're calling it. But the idea is that you're taking tension, using that, changing it up when needed, and the density of combining exercises. And because we have these antagonistic muscle groups like chest and back, we can get more done. Because while he's resting his chest, he's still working in the workout. That's one of the biggest advantages to using those antagonistic muscle groups. Get your 11 to 12. Get one more. Come on. Go. Show everybody how to be done. Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go. All right. Good. Now, come in. Whatever the weight would be for your straight arm pushdown. There's a little bit of a cheat here. You can actually use the two hands on one if you're using that D-handle. So, straight arm pushdown. Really trying to squeeze your elbows into your sides, right? Get that armpit closed up. Put no room for your armpits in here. Squeeze down. Try not to bend your elbow because you don't want to have your triceps take over here. You want to make this your back. Almost done. Again, remember, this is 12 to 15. This would be a little bit of a lighter load here, and you have that option to go, you know, 13, 14, 15 reps. But in the second and third round, you don't have that option. They're dying to know, Jesse. They can't wait to hear how you feel. Oh, I'm pumped. So, for real. Now, how's everything feel? A lot of work done in gas, too. So, you also get that additional conditioning benefit that comes when you keep moving. So, 30 minutes. Is it possible? It's entirely possible, guys. If you want to try this, it's in the new Express program from AthleanX. You can find it over at AthleanX.com. If you're looking for more of these workouts, you want to see a few more of how they play out, you can do that, too. I'll just drop them in the comments, and I'll try to do those for you, also. All right, guys. If you haven't done so, click subscribe. Turn on your notifications so you don't miss the video when we're pulling out. See you soon. Good job. Thank you.

=== FILE: The Most EFFECTIVE Total Body Workout (HIT EVERY MUSCLE) [Ag7Dui9Plys].txt ===

 If you're looking for a full body workout that doesn't take a full day to do it, well you've come to the right video because I'm going to give you not just one, but two full body workouts that you can put together over the course of an entire 30 day period that's going to be the most effective full body workout you've ever done for a variety of reasons. First of all, it's going to be based around something I call effective reps which is very different than what you might be doing right now. For instance, if you were to do a regular set to your 12 rep max, the first few reps, the first few reps, those repetitions here are really not just repetitions here are really not just repetitions here are really not any challenge at all, and you're familiar with how that feels. It's just really no effort just trying to get you to the point where the repetitions start to become more difficult, indicated here by the yellowish, reddish, all the way to the end, your red rep, your last final rep to failure. If you were to rest two to three minutes like you typically would, and come back to do that set again, it's going to look pretty much like that same first set, with that same level of fatigue building up, with a lot of those repetitions wasted in the beginning of the workout, of the set. But when we do effective reps, something is different. We take that same 12 rep max, we perform that first set, it looks exactly like that last example that we looked at. However, with a shortened rest period of 15 to 30 seconds that acts almost like a rest pause, something drastically different happens. Right away from that very first repetition that you do after that brief rest, you're already into those grinders again. You're into those high intensity repetitions. You're able to get the most effective growth producing reps out of those sets without having to waste some of that volume here that essentially becomes junk volume, building up to the reps that count. So what do we do? We build the whole entire workout around that principle. This is workout A. Again, there's two workouts here. You do A on Monday, B on Wednesday, A on Friday. Come back around, B, A, B in the second week. You just flip it around. You keep going in that order. Workout A starts with the incline dumbbell bench press. You can see here it says it starts with an ignition set. The point of the ignition set is simply to put you into that state of failure. It's to basically do that first set so that when we start, all we're counting are those effective reps. Because this workout isn't done for a specific amount of sets. It's done for a specific amount of effective reps. What that means is it might be different for every single person who does it. With the incline dumbbell bench press, you perform that first set. You rest that brief period. You come back in. Now you start to perform the reps that count towards 20. You might find that in that very first set because of that abbreviated rest, you're certainly not getting 12 again. You might get six or seven. You rest your 10 to 15 seconds again. You go to the next set. You might get four. You'll grind out until you reach your 20 effective reps. However many sets that takes you in rest pause fashion is how many sets you're going to do. Again, that can be different. You get your 20 effective reps and you move on to the next exercise. This is the underhand barbell row. Now the reason why we're using the underhand variation, very much the same reason why we chose the incline dumbbell press versus a flat press, is because in these total body workouts you want to try to get as many muscle groups contributing to the lift as possible. We are. The underhand barbell row will get your biceps more involved than they would be in a traditional overhand row without sacrificing the effect that we're trying to get on your lats, your mid back, your upper back, even your low back here stabilizing against the row. Every exercise can be separated by a three minute rest. We don't need to rest very long or exceedingly long between these because we're going to vary the focus. We went from a push to a pull. Now back to a pull, but a vertical pull working more of the shoulders. This is the dumbbell high pull. The dumbbell high pull allows for delts to be hit because you're getting that abduction of the elbows away from your body as you would in a side lateral raise. But because the elbows are bent and you're pulling more upright rather than straight out to the sides, you're also going to get your traps, your upper back muscles. Again, multiple muscle groups contributing, making this a much more effective and certainly efficient way to train your total body. 20 effective reps there. Again, when you do the high pull, remember the elbows stay down, the hands go high. This is not an upright row. That is literally the direct opposite and it's a shoulder killer as far as I'm concerned. The elbows in that position would be high and the wrist would stay low. You go the opposite here. Wrists are above the elbows. Pull up, let the delts do a lot of the pulling and let the traps contribute here. This is not where we're trying to isolate muscles. The fourth exercise up here in workout A is the PJR pullover. It's a variation of a pullover. You're going to use your lats to assist your triceps or vice versa. It depends on how you're looking at this. You're basically setting up in a pullover, but you're letting your elbows bend at the bottom of the repetition. You initiate the return using the triceps by extending your elbows to get some momentum going on that dumbbell. But then you pull with your elbows to finish off the exercise. Again, to shift the focus to the lats once those triceps have fully extended the elbow. And again, because we get that good deep stretch on the lats and again, the arms up overhead, you get a really good deep stretch on the long head of the triceps. This combination is one of the most effective ways I know to build up both those triceps and lats in the same exercise. Again, becoming much more efficient and smart in terms of the exercises that we're picking here for an effective full body workout. Now we go to the legs. We have the goblet squat. Now we have a couple options here for you. Number one, for the goblet squat, if you're going to do that, you're going to have to increase the number of effective reps that you do. It's not going to be 20 anymore because we have to lighten up that weight a little bit, or at least realize that we're not going to be able to really adequately load up a 12 rep max on a goblet squat without maybe the limiting factor becoming either our ability to stay upright or our thoracic extension in our back. Something's going to drive that weight down. So if we can go a little bit lighter on the weight and accept the fact that we're going to do that, we use a 20 rep max. So whatever you could do a goblet squat for 20 reps for, that's the weight that you would use. But because we do that first set to failure, and then we get into those effective rep sets, we're going to raise the number of the effective reps now up to 40. You have an option, if you so choose, to do a leg extension here. Now you guys know how I feel about the leg extension. I'm not a big giant fan of it, especially if anybody has any ongoing knee issues or tendonitis, patellar tendonitis. However, if you have healthy knees, if the exercise doesn't bother you, it's sort of tailor-made for effective rep training. You do your 20 effective reps here because once again, you're going to lower that first set down to that 12 rep max load, perform the ignition set, and then chip away at your 20 effective reps. It's brutal. Whichever way you go here, I prefer, as always, when you can get on your feet, become more athletic, train in a closed chain environment, use the goblet squat. However, if you want to try this because you're looking for straight hypertrophy, that would be a good option there too. And then of course we wrap up with the posterior chain. My exercise of choice here is going to be the barbell RDL. And the thing I like about the RDL is it's essentially teaching the hinge. You're letting the bar stay in contact with your thighs as it simply rides the elevator up and down. And the only thing that's really moving here is your glutes. Back and forth. Think of it as a movement that goes like this, rather than one that goes like this. Even though the bar is going up and down, your movement is thinking hinging the hips backwards, driving the hips forward, hinging the hips backwards, driving them forward. You do your 20 effective reps. And at that point you're probably only about 45 minutes into this workout and you've completed your entire full body workout. Not many full body workouts can say that. You're either doing a lot more exercises, a lot more volume, a lot of wasted repetitions. Here you're hitting all the muscles that you need to in a much more effective way. That is workout A. We still have workout B. And we didn't just choose exercises once again that are able to hit multiple muscle groups at once, making them very efficient, smart choices. But we're also trying to complement and fill in the gaps of whatever we didn't do in workout A. So when we put them together over the course of the week, the two week cycle, or the entire month, we know that we're not missing anything important. It starts off with the weighted dip or just regular bodyweight dips, depending upon your strength. If you're able to do a 12 rep set to failure with weight, then that's what you should use. You should choose the weighted dip. If you don't, you can't do that. You need bodyweight only. Well, then you just do a regular dip. The target is still the same. The idea here with the dip is to make sure that you set up properly. Drive those shoulders down to protect your shoulders themselves when they get into that lower position. Make sure you're keeping your chest out in front. And then when you get to the bottom there, take on that good stretch. Make sure you're feeling good and safe before you drive up and out of there. This is not a momentum-based exercise. 20 effective reps in rest, pause, fashion. You move on to the next. Obviously, that exercise is hitting shoulders, triceps, chest – all three of them in a very effective way. The one-arm high cable row. This is one of my favorite ways to train the back. What it does is it gives me the option of pulling and involving the biceps a little bit more as I supinate on the grip and pull. I can also get the rear delt in a very effective way. I've talked about before the number one driver of rear delt growth is extension of the elbow back behind the body. We're getting really good, focused extension one arm at a time. And because we're getting one arm at a time here, we can really, really drive that good lat stretch at the top of the rep. And again, pull down really good, tight contractions. Finish all the 20 effective reps on one side. Then you switch over to the other side and you work on that side. The third exercise up here is the lateral raise. So even though we've got some abduction because of the high pull, we can get a little bit more focused shoulder abduction, which is going to help to build that middle delt most effectively. But with the cable lateral raise, because I'm getting pulled across my body, I'm actually getting a good assisted stretch of the middle delt and of the rear delt. We're going to be able to drive a little bit better growth here than maybe a regular dumbbell lateral raise. Because at the bottom there, you're not getting any of that. The fourth exercise, a barbell curl. I talk about all the time, even though we're indirectly involved in the biceps, in the underhand barbell row from workout A, we still need to target arms directly. We still need to go at them directly, especially the biceps. If you want to build the biggest biceps that you can, and most people do, even when we're training total body, you're going to want to work that in somehow directly, there's nothing better than a classic barbell curl. And it allows you to do the exercise really, really safely, especially as you approach fatigue. Training close to failure with a barbell and a curl can easily allow you to put the barbell back down on the ground. 20 effective reps here, rest pause style again after that initial ignition set. The dumbbell reverse lunge. One of my favorite lower body exercises, and anybody that has any knee discomfort is going to find that this exercise feels amazing. Again, don't discredit leg training altogether because it hurts to squat, or because it hurts to do leg press, or it hurts to do leg extensions. You're always going to have an option, I believe, if you choose the right ones. This one is going to fit 90% of people that already have knee pain and still allow them to do it. The last exercise here is one that maybe not everybody has access to when it comes to where you're training. But if you have a gym that you're training in, then look for the seated hamstring curl machine, rather than the prone lying down hamstring curl. I have a lot of issues with the lying down hamstring curl in terms of it contributing to low back issues because of the driving of the knees as you're trying to pull the weight up into that bench. It's just not the best option. Whereas I don't have those issues with the seated hamstring curl variation. Here what you do is lock yourself in, get that pad down nice and tight, drive your heels down, try to get to at least 90 degrees if you can on that bend even a little bit further. Even a little bit of a slight hold at the bottom there is going to intensify every single repetition that you do, making it more effective. Again, the idea here is can we not just choose the right exercises and hit all these areas, but can we do them in a complimentary way across the two workouts? So when you want to go and try this, guys, you feel it. You can come back here and say, yes, it was incredibly effective and because we're using the effective reps we're not wasting a whole hell of a lot of time. We can get a lot of work done with a limited selection of exercises in a reasonable amount of time. Guys, I want you to try this out. Tell me how it works for you. If you haven't done so already, guys, we have full programs. Total Beast is a complete total body workout. It uses different techniques here. If you're looking for supplements, guys, to help you to recover from your workouts, we have them all high quality, NSF certified for sport over at ATHLEANX.com. If you haven't done so, guys, make sure you click subscribe, turn on notifications, and make sure you let me know how you like this workout. All right, guys, good luck. See you.

=== FILE: The Most EFFECTIVE Way to Get Abs in 2026 [4hHtTUop5JU].txt ===

 So see if you can spot what Jesse is doing wrong with these crunches. Maybe even one of the crunches all together because you feel like they're kind of a waste of time. Let's change that mindset today. Let's fix it. Let's fix it. Let's get a lot more out of it and make these ab workouts much more effective, especially in the year ahead. So what Jesse is doing wrong here is he's not focusing on the contraction of every single repetition. He's focusing more on doing the exercise. There's a big difference here and I have to explain to you how to do this. I'm going to use four of the most popular exercises out there to showcase so that you can do it, maybe even one of the reasons why you stopped doing ab workouts altogether because you feel like they're kind of a waste of time. Let's change that mindset today. Let's fix it. Let's fix it.! Let's fix it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. This exercise in particular, Basic Crunch, is think about painting his spine one vertebrae at a time off of the ground while he pulls in here. You're already puffing. He can't even talk. So, he's already working. You paint up, you paint down. What I mean is, one vertebrae at a time comes off of the ground. And one vertebrae at a time gets painted back down on the ground. Don't think about just lifting the shoulder blades as a unit off. When you start to focus on deliberate contractions, then it completely nullifies the number of repetitions that you need. Trust me on that. I say, stop counting reps and make your reps count. If you want more out of your ab training, then forget about the repetitions and make every one count. I want you to feel as if this contraction starts to get so tight, you're feeling it right where you're trying to, rather than go through some of those fast reps again, just simply going through the repetition. Because, yes, you're still using the muscles to do this, but when you struggle to develop your abs it's because you're not focusing enough on that. Go to a side crunch now. On a side crunch this is even more of an issue. What you want to focus on is getting this area to initiate right there, and then lift and dial it in and squeeze it even harder. So, focus your mind in this area. Before you even lift, the first thing is contract here, squeeze, then you dial it in. What I mean by dialing it in, let me show you something really cool. If I were to take just this little prop right here. This is the bottom of the attachment plate for a tripod. This kind of looseness that you have, this is the act of actually trying to find the right way to initiate the contraction. So, I'm going to find that obliques. Here it is. Okay, good. Once I have it, then I lean in. It's that exact same feeling of tightening something that I want you to feel every time you do a rep. Obviously come back down again, dial it in, and then tighten, squeeze, squeeze, squeeze. That's what you should feel every time you do this. So, what that looks like in practice again is you identify that area, which is the obliques right here, contracted just like Jesse did. Then and only then lift and try to intensify that. That's the screwing in of that. Okay? And we're not going fast. It has nothing to do with the number of these repetitions you do. It's all about the quality. Now turn to your back. Lower abs. Lower abs are probably more difficult than anything you do because usually it involves the weight of your legs. What you do first and foremost is don't turn this into a test of your low back strength if you're trying to get good quality contractions of your lower abs. Instead, put your hands down. Give yourself the stability on the ground. Some people who have weak low backs might want to put their hands just in the small of their back. So they're protecting that low back and preventing it from arching. With that out of the equation, get your legs up in the air and start bent. Because all the legs are doing is adding weight to the exercise. I'll show you something in a second. For this, if you want to get your lower abs, then the first thing you should think about is how do I drop my stomach down, pull in and contract until they're flat, and then curl my butt up off the ground just to get that pelvis completely lifted off the ground. Down slow. It's another painting exercise. I'm painting the pelvis and the sacrum off, lift, paint it back down one piece at a time. You feel it? Like a lot, right? Yes. Again, it's not contrasted with what people usually do. They swing their legs up. This is just moving your legs through space. And again, if you're trying to get good results, you have to at least work the muscles you're trying to work. This is working more of the hip flexors. Here, small movement. Tighten it down. Down, and then just a lift. Think about dialing it in. Once I get the pelvis in place to be lifted, dialing it is the lifting. Let me show you something with the legs here. I don't care so much. The only difference between, let's say, the straight leg – that's like a heavyweight. That's a 10-pound plate. Versus a slightly bent leg. That's like a 5-pound weight. Versus even more of a bent leg. That's like a 2.5-pound weight. You're changing, due to the moment arm of the legs and what is felt by the abs themselves, you're changing the weight of the exercise. But the intention of the exercise never changes. The intention is to make the lower abs initiate the work. The bottom-up movement should come from the abs contracting and then pulling the pelvis up nice and controlled. Turn over onto your stomach now. The fourth exercise that we do this on. Planks. Now, you know how I feel about planks in general. They're not challenging enough. But there is a plank variation called the RKC plank. The RKC plank is a completely engaged plank. Meaning all the muscles that we're trying to train here actually get engaged. So rather than just hanging out here, I want you to do something different. I want you to actually, Jesse, and you out there, act like you're going to drag your toes up to your elbows. They're not going to go anywhere because they're stuck on the ground, but you're going to pull on the toes towards your elbows. You're going to pull your elbows back towards your toes like you're trying to row. You feel that? All right, he can't even talk. Now with that, I want you to get a little bit of a posterior tilt. So just engaging the abs like that, pulling up and under. Get into a little bit of a tilt where the butt curls under. This pulls up. This is pulling back. This is pulling forward. That is an engaged plank. That is one that you're not going to be able to hold for three minutes, five minutes, ten minutes or whatever. Or 45 seconds in this case. That is a more engaged plank. How many of those can you do? How long can you hold it? That really is determined by what your ultimate level of ab strength is. And we're challenging the abs. And when we finally challenge the abs, then we actually start to get the abs to respond. Now, nutrition is a whole other part of this. If you want to see your abs, then you're going to want to make sure that you have your nutrition in place. I actually made a video for you on how to do that step by step. You can check that out here. If you're looking for more guys, you can find more ab workouts. Here's a good one for you here. And also if you haven't done so, click subscribe. Turn on notifications. Looking for meal plans and workouts that will help you step by step. So, you never screw this up. You can find them over at athleanx.com. All right, guys. Good luck. Try these out. I promise you they're going to make a huge difference. See ya.

=== FILE: The Most Effective Biceps Workout (SIZE AND DEFINITION) [hmeTQHsBwv8].txt ===

 d converter converter converter converter, converter converter, converter converter, converter converter, Not just one, but two. And it starts here with our first exercise. And with that, guys, I will caution you that it's never just what you do, but how you do it. So stick with me here because I'm going to break down exactly how to do what we're doing so that you can walk away with a plan for those perfect biceps. And we start with the barbell strict curl into a cheat curl. Now this must be the most classic barbell combination that I ever did that is highly responsible for the biceps that I built. And I started this at about 13 or 14 years old and I used it for the rest of my life. And the reason why is because it works. And what we're basically doing is you can see with my back up against the wall, removing any of the momentum and forcing the biceps to do the work. It's the first rule of getting a muscle to grow is to make it actually do the work. And I take it to failure using a 6 to 8 rep max weight. As soon as I reach failure I'm not done. And that's one of the main concepts I don't want you to ever overlook. You can not just train to failure, but through failure. And when you do it in a way that over exaggerates the eccentric portion of the lift that you're doing, you can get even greater gains. And that's where we go into the cheat curl. And with the cheat curl, yes, I am using some momentum to get the weight up to the top after doing those strict repetitions. But only to put me in position to do another eccentric lowering. And what that does is it puts more strain and stress in a good way on your biceps. And it's probably the thing that was most responsible for getting me to grow. 2 to 3 sets, 6 to 8 rep max for this first exercise. Then we move on to the dumbbell cross body hammer curl. So now if you want to develop an upper arm that's impressive, then you want to make sure that you're working on the brachialis also. And my favorite way to do it is not just with a typical hammer curl done in this neutral position, but to actually flip them completely over into a fully pronated position, which happens with the cross body hammer curl variation that now kind of maximally turns down the activation of the biceps because we're not supinated. We're in their opposite position. And what that will do is force more of that other arm flexor, the brachialis, to do more of the work. And what's key here is that as this muscle develops, it gives you that noticeable width in the biceps. So when people look at you from the front, they feel the shirt sleeves and they look like there's some upper arm thickness and a lot of people complain about not being able to see that. Probably because you're not doing enough dedicated brachialis work and the dumbbell cross body hammer curls, my favorite way to do that. Two to three sets of 10 to 12 rep max failure here. Again, we say form failure each arm, which is what FF stands for. Then we go into our third exercise. Now you've probably heard about the importance of the stretch position for making a muscle grow. You may have heard too much about the importance of the stretch position in terms of making the muscle grow, so much so that people give you really ridiculous looking bicep exercises that don't really merit the position that you're putting your body in to do them. You don't really need to do that much. What you need to do though is get your elbow back behind your body and get it into a position where when you extend your elbow you're going to get more of a stretch on the biceps. And we do that with something called the Cable Stretch Drag Curl. Now Vince Garanda was popular for creating the drag curl done with his dumbbells or barbell in space, but I think you're a little bit limited there in terms of the stretch capacity because you're not getting the arm back behind your body when that barbell hits up against your thighs. But when we do it this way, again the how, not just the what, when you do it this way you're getting the benefit of that stretch. And what's really nice about this is when you do your two to three sets, taking them all the way to failure, you don't have to stop at just failure. Again, you can continue to rep out in this case some partial repetitions so that you get to and through failure where again I believe the true growth lies. And again, some will disagree with the importance of that. I believe it's highly important if you want to see your best growth. And then we end this workout with one set of something called the Menser Pull Down. Now if you're not familiar with Mike Menser I would suggest that you go look up some of his older work because he was one of the first guys to really push the concept of high intensity training. And in an offset to that you didn't have to do a lot of work but you did have to be willing to work hard. This was the exercise he claimed was the most effective bicep building exercise you could possibly do. There's a variation as you can see here of the Close Grip Underhand Pull Down. What I would caution you here is not to try to use your lats on the exercise and he didn't want that either. I want you to actually feel as if you're pulling the bar down or curling the bar down. So you can achieve this by leaning back a little bit and leading with the hands. Not with the elbows but lead with the hands. Try to pull the bar back down towards you. And we perform this as something called a trap set. And what's key about this is it increases the amount of tension in the time that you're under tension which leads to a much greater growth stimulus. We do it with one set of ten reps. Now how am I doing this? You can see there's a weird cadence going on. You basically do the first rep at a cadence of down to one, up to one. Then the second rep is down two seconds through the concentric and up for two. And as you can see here down for three, up for three, down for four, up for four, down for five, up for five. Now when you reach the top of this pinnacle here at five seconds down and five seconds up. Now you have to do another one of those repetitions. This is where we get the trap set from because it kind of goes in this trapezoidal fashion here. Up to five, one more to five and then you work your way back down for four, three, three, two, two, one, one. That one set is all you're going to need here. Use a weight of 12 to 15 rep max to get the job done. It's brutal but it's a great way to end this workout. And that again is the first of two bicep workouts which leads us obviously to workout number two. Now I know for some of you might be thinking there's no way I'm going to be able to remember this. That's why you're going to watch this video 44 times which would help me out. No, actually what I'm going to do is I'm going to actually hook you up. I'm going to give you a way to get these workouts so you can take them with you to the gym. All right. I'm also going to give you a specific breakdown of how you can schedule them no matter how you're training right now. But that's after we go through this specific workout. And this second one here starts off with one of my favorite exercises of all time. And this is the first one I ever did. So I said from 13 I was doing the strict curl, cheat curl thing. From about eight years old I was doing the chin up. And I was doing this on field day with the flexed arm hang. And I won every single time. And you should start to learn how to do this too because this is where you will start to build some pretty massive biceps controlling your own body weight in space. And you're going to use a weight that causes failure in the six to eight rep range. And sometimes I think people don't look at it that way. You want to do this right? Add weight if you're capable of doing higher repetitions. Use whatever weight is required to bring you down into the six to eight rep range. And when you're done, again you're not done. Because I want you to strip away that weight. Or in this case if you never had to use weight to go in the six to eight rep range, you're just going to jump back up onto the bar or put a box in front of the bar and walk yourself up to get yourself into the next position at the top. And then eccentrically lower. It's the same concept that we use in the cheat curl, strict curl combination we used before. Here you're going to walk yourself up to the bar. Lower slowly. Step up again. Lower slowly. To the point where you really can't control the speed of that negative repetition, then you'll know you've fatigued that eccentric component of the biceps and that set is over. Right? Two to three sets here of this combination. Again, back to my roots. This is the most effective thing I ever did. And it started with this combination and it paid off really, really well for me. The next exercise that you're going to do is the dumbbell spider curl. So there is a difference, as we talked about before, the stretch position of the biceps. There's always a difference between the peak contracted state of the muscle and the stretch position of the muscle. And I think there's benefits to both. Despite what some might say, there are definitely benefits to the peak contracted position of a muscle. The dumbbell spider curl does that. It puts you in that peak contraction of the muscle because it gets your shoulders flexed at the same time that your elbows are flexed and your forearms are supinated. And when you get to the top there you can actually see they're in the position of most resistance because they're most perpendicular to gravity. Well that's going to provide a great growth stimulus because you have high resistance at a point of peak contraction. It's a unique stimulus. It feels good. And again, most of all it works. Two to three sets using a weight that causes failure in the 10 to 12 rep range. Again we're putting that FF that's form failure. Meaning when you can't, if you can't recognize the exercise anymore then it's time to stop that set. You should still recognize it as a spider curl. The next exercise up is going to go back to that other side of the equation now. Back to the stretch position. And here we do a classic dumbbell incline curl. Now there's a few things that you can do here to accentuate the effectiveness of this. Number one, why is it a stretch based exercise? Because once again the arms are back behind our body. How can we accentuate that stretch a little bit more? By contracting the triceps at the bottom of every repetition. You can see I'll actually definitively try to contract my triceps which we know will get the biceps into a greater stretch from which I can then rebound out of that. And we'll actually save with even more forceful contraction because of that stretch to get a better repetition done in every one of these. And again here the rep range is still 10 to 12 reps but we can do some additional work here. Just like we did in the last workout. We can crank out some additional partial repetitions. This time they're occurring more in that stretch range of motion which again leads to higher levels of tension. But you take that two failure, crank out a few additional partials at the end of that for more of that two and through failure phenomenon which can actually lead to again better gains. And then we go and we wrap up the second workout with the standing dumbbell curl done once again as a trap set. Now again the concept of the trap set is that it's a time under tension technique that intensifies the effect of the exercise. Again one set is all you need here, up to 10 using that same cadence of 1, 1, 2, 2, 3, 3, all the way up to 5 and back down with a weight that's 12 to 15 rep max overall. So now how do you do both of these workouts where they actually will make sense? Well I provided you with a full breakdown of the science and rationale for having two workouts in a week in our perfect chest workout which actually kicked off the entire series. You're going to want to check that out over here once this video is done. I actually put a link at the end of the video. But when we talk about the two workouts you want to spread them apart by about almost three or four days. So the first one could be on a Tuesday and the second one would be over here on a Saturday. And again the specific days don't really matter as long as you're spreading them out so you have the chance for recovery. Now if you are following the perfect workout series and you've been following along right along then this would actually allow you to pair them up with something else. In this case I would suggest that you pair them up with the back. And this entire schedule and the breakdown of all these workouts is available right here on this channel. Make sure you subscribe and make sure you follow each one of these so you can get the benefit if you're going to do this as a complete workout series. If you want to do them as a one off workout then by all means you can do them that way too. Now when it comes to the workouts guys I didn't expect you to actually memorize them. I was actually joking. That's why I'm giving you these screenshots so you can print them out and take them with you to the gym. Both workout number one and here workout number two ending once again with that last exercise here the standing dumbbell curl as a trap set. By the way if you're looking for an amazing 10 minute bicep workout that utilizes these trap sets you're going to have to try that guys. I actually put myself through the pain. It's right here. Go check that out right now. Remember subscribe and full programs available over at Athleanx.com. See you soon.

=== FILE: The ONLY 2 Dumbbell Chest Exercises You Need (NO, SERIOUSLY!) [XgwXopZadqs].txt ===

 If I told you, you could build your entire chest with just two dumbbell exercises, no cables, no machines, you'd probably think I was oversimplifying. But I'm not. Because the truth is, when you understand how the chest works, you don't need ten moves, but just two done right. And it starts by choosing the right dumbbells. And you're actually going to need two pairs to do these two different exercises. One heavier and one lighter. And this lighter pair is going to serve a very important purpose. You're going to want to use about 30 to 50% of the weight that you're going to use for the weight that you're going to use for the weight. You're going to get the heavier and the heavier set of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight the bar. But when doing them with a dumbbell, you can tuck your elbows more. You can actually obtain a little bit more external shoulder rotation and make the exercise a lot more comfortable. The other benefit you get from dumbbells is a more natural resistance throughout more of the range of motion. When your arms are fixed in place on a bar, you don't get as much resisted adduction of the arm across the chest because the arm is basically just fixed in one place. But the dumbbell can move freely towards the midline, ultimately losing its force at the top, but you still get more resistance and it makes the exercise more effective for a lot of people. Now, here's where those lighter dumbbells come in. Anybody that still finds that it's just too uncomfortable to bench press, before you bail, try this variation instead. It's called the close grip neutral squeeze press. And what you're going to do is press the dumbbells against each other, which is going to naturally drop the elbows a little bit closer to your sides. More than that, the neutral grip is going to take your shoulders out of that internally rotated position and instantly make the exercise feel more comfortable. Now, I get it. The more your elbows are tucked, the more your triceps become involved in the exercise. However, you're sort of offsetting that because of the active squeeze of the dumbbells against each other throughout the range of motion. You're getting isometric adduction. So, your chest should start to feel the engagement from the very beginning of the lift. And for a lot of people that struggle with the exercise, that engagement is what is needed to just start the exercise off on the right path and letting your chest actually take over instead of your shoulders throughout the rest of the range of motion. The next exercise is actually you utilize those lighter dumbbells or the ones that you actually used if you took that orthopedic alternative on the first exercise. And this one is going to be the dumbbell floor fly. Now, you guys know my issues with flies. When you perform them on a bench, your shoulders are in a more vulnerable position because the dumbbells are unsupported. The anterior shoulder capsule is placed in a very vulnerable position, especially if you reach fatigue and you don't have control of the dumbbells on those few final reps. And that's why we do the floor fly, because it removes the risk by having the floor act as the support that's missing on the bench. And more importantly, we're getting an eccentric overload opportunity because eccentrically we are stronger and the pecs can handle more if you just allow them to handle more weight during the exercise. This exercise will allow you to get a great stretch overload. Again, with that safety built in from the floor and not compromised. And what most people will find when they switch to this version is better gains for that very reason. More eccentric overload, higher tension being handled. Now, where do those light dumbbells come in? Well, they actually provide a great opportunity, even for those that have no issues with their shoulders, to do a drop set. So when you go all the weight to failure on the floor fly, you can simply use the same exact weight and drop right into that close grip neutral press. Once again, you're going to have a little bit of extra ability to do the exercise because yes, that tricep contribution will kick in right at the right time here to continue to push the chest to and through fatigue. That's usually the exact stimulus that you need to finally create change. Now go back to that original exercise because here you could do the same exact thing. I mentioned a little bit of a twist. You can do the dumbbell incline bench press with the weight that you would use for eight to ten reps all the way to failure and then grab that second pair of dumbbells that you already set aside. That's about 30 to 50% lighter and go immediately into a drop set of that same neutral grip squeeze press. And if you really want to make this video useful, guys, there's one more thing you can do. You can program this simply as one straight drop set. So you can go from using your heavy weight on the dumbbell incline press done at 30 degrees, go right into that dumbbell squeeze press from that neutral position, take it down to the floor, do your floor flies, and if you have anything left over, of course, you could try a couple more reps at the very end in one big giant set. But the beauty about this is that just two exercises are needed and they're going to hit all the major functions of the chest and help you to grow yours. If you're looking for more in this series, guys, when we're making them, you're going to find them linked over here. If you haven't done so, make sure you subscribe, turn on your notifications so you never miss a video when we put one out. Guys, the full, complete programs based around the science of training and with a mind towards health and longevity, you can find them over at ATHLEANX.com. All right, guys, see you soon.

=== FILE: The ONLY 2 Dumbbell Lat Exercises You Need (NO, SERIOUSLY!) [CzJti9nFmoc].txt ===

 If I told you you could build that classic V-taper back with just two dumbbell exercises, no cables, no cables, no machines, you might think I was oversimplifying, but I'm not. Because the truth is, when you understand how the lats work, you don't need 10 moves, but just two done right. But it starts by choosing the right dumbbells, and you're going to need two of them, one lighter and one heavier. And the lighter one is going to be 20% less than the heavier dumbbell and serve a very important purpose. The heavier dumbbell, well that's used on the first exercise. And that first exercise is the dumbbell one-to-end, but not with your knee, but not with your knee up on the bench like this, or your hand in this position, out of this asymmetrical stance. Because I've talked about before, you're just increasing the risk of the exercise, especially on the weakened tissues of the inguinal canal, which increases your risk of hernia when you put a heavy weight in your hand and pull from this offset position. Instead, you can still use this bench, but use it to your advantage by simply propping it up to an incline, and then resting yourself behind it with your hand, your feet squarely on the floor in this tripod position. And the benefit of this position is not only that we have our weight now evenly distributed between these two feet, but I could also position the dumbbell between my feet, so that when I pull, I still keep the load pretty symmetrical. And pulling from here, I still use the elbow as my driver of the weight. I'm not thinking about pulling with my hands, but rather driving the elbow back behind my body and as close to my side as I can to make sure that I'm targeting the lat. Again, an opportunity here to do the exercise more safely without losing any of the benefits that we know the exercise can give us. And that brings us to the second exercise, and that is the dumbbell pullover. Now, this has to be one of the most misunderstood and therefore avoided exercises that has the potential to bring a lot of gains if you do it right. And for most of you, that means doing it safely. Because a lot of us avoid this exercise because we feel discomfort in the shoulder. And that's because of how we're holding the dumbbell. If you're going to do the exercise the right way, you want to allow your elbows to flare out. What that does is it opens up the shoulders, puts them into shoulder external rotation, and makes the exercise a hell of a lot more comfortable. The second thing is I mentioned using the light weight somewhere. This is the place you want to use it because it's not about using super heavy weight, but more so taking advantage of the stretch that this exercise gives you in that bottom position. So with that lighter dumbbell and with those elbows flared, you want to make sure that you're sinking your hips down before you think about anything else. Because the attachment of the lats is the pelvis. And if you can drop the hips, then you're going to create a larger stretch on the lats, even without having to drop the dumbbell too far behind your head or even explore some of those positions of the shoulder that make you uncomfortable. So by dropping the hips and then lowering the arms as far as it's comfortable for you, you're able to take advantage of that good deep stretch. You want to hold it for a short period of time at the bottom of this stretch to make sure that you're getting into it. And then you bring the dumbbells back up, making sure not to go too far up where you take the tension off the lats. This is and always will be one of the two best dumbbell exercises you could possibly do for building a thicker, wider back. If you're wondering what those two options are for chest, you're going to want to check out this video over here. And also, as we add to this series, you check out the whole playlist over here. Guys, if you haven't done so, make sure you click subscribe, turn on notifications. If you're looking for a complete program from AthleanX, you can find it at athleanx.com along with our supplements. All right, guys, be back here soon. All right.

=== FILE: The ONLY 2 Quad Exercises You Need (NO, SERIOUSLY!) [-7TPSr0-yo4].txt ===

 And if you would think it would be impossible for me to pick just two for you to get the gains that you're looking for. But it's not. As a matter of fact, I can do it with just four things. This drawing, physics, my muscle marker, and the squat. Let me show you. When it comes to developing the quads, it's not just the exercise, but most importantly how you position your body during the exercise. So if you take a traditional squat in this low bar position, you can see that the bar is behind your midfoot. If you want to maintain your balance and support, during the exercise, during the exercise, during the exercise, during the exercise, during the exercise, during the exercise, you're going to have to lean your torso forward, in order to put that bar directly over the center of your foot. That being said, if you were to perform a front squat, with the bar positioned in front of your body, this lean forward ain't going to cut it. You're going to fall forward. So what you want to do is position your torso upright. The position makes a huge difference. And that's where the physics come in, because the position of that bar in relation to the two moving joints in this lift, the hips and the knees, is going to determine what muscles are actually doing the work. In the bottom of that low bar back squat, you can see that the distance between that vertical line from the bar going straight down through your midfoot and the hips is pretty far. The increased length here is actually going to make the glutes and the hamstrings do the majority of the work. If you go back to the front squat and you put that bar in front of you, what happens here because of the more upright torso, that distance between the hips and the bar is shortened and now the distance between the knee here and the bar is increased. So what that does is now make the the squads do more of the work. Now I know what you're saying, but I can't get into position to do a front squat comfortably. And a lot of that has to do with the extreme amount of mobility that's required at the wrist in order to do this exercise properly and maintain that high elbow position throughout. But we don't have to do that because there's an alternative setup. You can do the cross arm grip like this and a lot of people will prefer this. But I will tell you, if you have any type of shoulder discomfort, raising your arms up into this internally rotated position could cause some of that discomfort to come back during an exercise you don't need it on. Also, because the bar is held one arm higher than the other, you might get a little bit of unevenness to the bar out of this position. So we can do something different. We can go back to that rack position, but we can actually include some straps. And what these straps do is just by hanging them from the bar and wrapping them around your wrist here, you're allowed to get up into this position there now with a neutral wrist position. All that extreme extension that was required before is not going to be needed here, so you can focus on doing the exercise properly. If you don't have straps and you're looking for one last way to do this and make it feel really, really good, then what you want to do is take your thumbs, put them right towards your throat with your hands facing each other. From this position, your thumbs are acting like support hooks. You drive your chest up nice and high to dig the bar in comfortably. And from here now you can do the exercise without having to think. So this exercise, the front squat, is absolutely one you're going to want to focus on, but there's still one more. And that second exercise is one that you probably don't do. You forgot. Intentionally, because it sucks. But it is one of the most important and it belongs in your only two exercises if you really want to hammer your quads. And we're talking about a Bulgarian split squat done with dumbbells and a bench, but not just any Bulgarian split squat. As always, the position of your body determines what's doing the work. So if you wanted to hammer those quads, just like in the front squat, that torso has to be extremely upright. And what happens is the knee, when the torso goes upright, goes more forward. That forward displacement of the knee is going to make those quads work even harder. So when you grab the dumbbells out of this position here, you go straight up. Your only focus should be on keeping your chest as high as possible. Up and down, the chest stays out. And even as you start to fatigue, the dumbbell weight might want to cause you to round out. Every little bit that you round forward is going to take away the work that the quads are doing and shift it to the posterior chain. To the point where, if I was already leaned this way, what has it done? It's taken away so much of the knee flexion angle. If I were to then reestablish that vertical position here, that knee now becomes much more flexed. And again, the quad does all the work. If you want to make this even harder now, you can prolong your time in the bottom position. We call this the one and a half Bulgarian split squat. So you go all the way down, up halfway, down again, and up. All the way down, up halfway. Don't go too fast, Jesse. He's doing it automatically. You want to slow this bitch down if you want to really, really get the benefits of the exercise. Up, halfway down, come back up again, and all the way up. If you want to know how to set your foot up on the bench the proper way, because most people screw that up, watch this video that I have here on how to do a Bulgarian split squat. And also, if you want more on The Only Two Series, you can find it right here, The Only Two Ab Exercises. All right, guys. Click subscribe and follow. And if you haven't done so, head over to ATHLEANX.com and check out our full programs, meal plans, and supplements. All right, guys. See you soon.

=== FILE: The ONLY Exercises You Need (MEN OVER 40) [JA3Ys9v4NyI].txt ===

 What's up, what's up guys, Jeff Cavaliere, Athleanx.com. Jeff Cavaliere, Athleanx.com. Jeff Cavaliere, Athleanx.com. So if you could do just 10 exercises for the rest of your life, what 10 are those going to be? What 10 are those going to be? Now keep in mind, you cannot do any other exercises, so your selections are important. Well, I put together my list of 10 and I'm sure I probably left out a few, but I'm going to and you can see how they compare with yours.! Now the reason that we do this is to ensure that we have the confidence of knowing that there's something there to catch us should we not be able to make the rep. Now see, this is a big deal because a lot of times, especially at the age of 50, as I get older here, I want to have the confidence of knowing that when I go down to perform a squat, I'm not going to get pinned under the bar. Now I can ensure myself some more safety by making sure that I have the safety pin set at the proper height. You're going to always want to do that, but the box does something very special. The box gives you that target point. So initially, just as you start the rep, if you're not performing the exercise properly by having some available hinge in your hips, this is going to force you to do that because you have the hinge to actually start to align your butt with the box you're about to sit on. A lot of people just tend to squat from the knees, especially when they're lacking the confidence and the strength of their legs as they go down into that rep. And it works at all different weights. If you're approaching very heavy weights, you can still squat to a box. Then the box does not have to be at a high height. Ultimately, you want the box to actually be below parallel, just below parallel. So you're performing a proper depth squat. And it actually, in that point, will just serve as reassurance that you've made the rep at the proper depth. But just including that box is a huge difference between performing a regular freestanding squat and having just that reassurance that oftentimes fixes any of the biomechanical errors that wind up with you feeling sore in your back, in your hips, or anything after performing a squat. Now, that will likely take away all those issues and in doing so, make that exercise even better. Next up, I'm going to stick with the legs and it's the reverse lunge. Now, there's a big difference between the reverse lunge and a regular forward stepping lunge. And that has to do with how it feels on your knees. And I can tell you as somebody that's dealt with a lot of knee pain, this is going to be a game changer if you find yourself in the same boat. Because stepping backwards takes away almost all of it. And it also does something really, really important. It challenges your frontal plane stability and strength too. And it's weird because it's just another sagittal plane exercise with you stepping backwards in this plane. But when you're on one leg, unlike when you're performing a squat, your hips are going to want to shift. They're going to want to drop in one direction or the other. And when they do, you have to use the glute medius on that side to hold your hips level and prevent that. And that's a big deal because a lot of us will tend to get really, really weak in those muscles, which leads to a lot of low back pain, which leads to a lot of these escalating problems down the line. The key here is to make sure you have a wide enough base of support so that when you're stepping back, you're not stepping with your feet in line, but you're stepping back and out. That will widen your base of support and make you feel like balance is not the challenge here, but you're able to build this strength up without balance being your limiting factor. And the other thing is, as you go down, you want to twist your torso just a little bit over that forward knee to screw yourself into place. And again, give yourself good hip stability on that forward leg so you can drive back off of it and come back up to standing. This exercise is a no brainer for me. It should be in every single program. It's a perfect complement to that bilateral squat. Now, I don't care what age you are. You're always going to likely want to bench press. And the thing about bench pressing is it's actually quite functional because at some point you might find yourself on the floor and need to get up off of it. And the only way you're going to be able to do that is to have the strength to be able to push your body at least up to a kneeling position where your leg strength can take over. Now, I'm not saying that that's the bar that you want to set, that you want to be as low as just having the function to get off of the floor. I'm saying we want to maximize our strength as we get older. And the best way to do it is going to be with some variation of a bench press. Now, I like to say a dumbbell bench press over a barbell variation every single day of the week because I feel like it's a lot easier on your joints, particularly your shoulders. And with a dumbbell bench press, you can still weight this exercise adequately to get that overload needed to provide the change that you're looking for. What I would recommend, however, is to set the angle of the bench to what you're seeing here and that's 30 degrees. The 30 degree inclined bench press seems to be the best angle for balancing out your ability to use heavy enough weights to continue to get strong, but at the same time being protective enough on your shoulders. I would also tell you to make sure that you're pulling those shoulders down throughout the entire exercise and targeting that lower outer portion of your chest with the dumbbells to ensure that you're getting a good stretch, full range of motion, and making sure you go slow enough through every single rep so you don't apply any unneeded stress to your shoulders. It's a game changer and one that will stay in your plan no matter how old you are. Now, as we work our way into our fourth exercise, keep in mind that this is not a geriatric list of exercises. This is one that I actually wish if I could go back into my 20s, I could replace a lot of the things I was doing with because these exercises would have set the stage for a healthier version of me today. But they certainly set the stage for people who are in their 40s or 50s for a lot of pain-free ability to be maintained long into your next two decades of life or more. So now, what is the fourth exercise here? It's going to target the shoulders, target more of those middle deltoids. It's going to be the high pull. And it's not just the middle delts, but also importantly the rear delts. This pull occurs from bottom to top and it's not an upright row. I know a lot of you are looking at this and saying, I can't believe Jeff has finally flipped his lid. After all this time, he put the upright row in his favorite 10 exercises that he's going to do for the rest of his life. That will never be the case. I'm not doing the upright row because the elbow and wrist positioning is vastly different in the high pull. You want to make sure that your wrists are higher than your elbows. Because what that does is it creates external rotation at your shoulders rather than internal rotation that you would get from an upright row. And that's a big difference maker when we're talking about maintaining shoulder health for the long haul. When we do the high pull, we get that abduction that you would normally get on a lateral raise, except with the dumbbells held a little closer to our body. So by decreasing that moment arm and not having the dumbbells out wide here, you can actually handle heavier weight. As long as you remember to do that. If you do the heavier weight and keep those elbows down, you will find a great stimulus into shoulder abduction for building up those middle deltoids. And again, importantly, getting those rear delts stimulated too, because they oftentimes don't get enough. You're going to see a common theme here of why we want to stress these pulling exercises. As we get older, because gravity is going to want to pull us down. We have to do everything we can to strengthen the muscles to keep us up. My high pull is my selection here, very importantly. Now the next one here might be a little controversial, or at least argued a little bit. And I think people should do pull-ups from now until the day they die. And I know that seems rather lofty, especially if you're, let's say, only in your 20s or 30s right now and struggling to do even one. That just gives you an idea of how much work you have to do. Because I believe that the pull-up provides us with another one of those pulling exercises, this time pulling from the top down, that importantly works all those muscles that we were trying to stress just a minute ago. As a matter of fact, I'm not saying you're going to find yourself in a life or death situation where you're hanging from the side of a cliff, but imagine if you were. Who would be able to pull themselves back up to get up to the top of the mountain? Only the person who knows how to do a pull-up. And the pull-up is that ultimate measuring stick. It's not easy, but it doesn't mean that it should be forgotten. So what would you do if you couldn't do any? You just use assisted variations of the exercise. I'm not against you throwing a band on the bar, stepping into it, on weighting about 60% or 70% of your body, and learning how to gradually pull up the weight of your entire body up against that bar. There's nothing wrong with doing that. What's wrong is skipping the exercise entirely and not trying to get better at them. It works all the muscles in your arms, your forearms, your grip, into your back. Like we said, it's all connected. And if you learn how to pull in synchrony and get those muscles to work together, it becomes a really, really effective dynamic exercise that's going to build up that important pulling strength I just said we're all losing with every passing decade. So don't skip the pull-up. Moving on now to number six, but we haven't yet moved on from those pull exercises. Because I'm going to hit you now with my third. And I'm talking about the seated cable row. Now first of all, when you do this variation of a row versus, let's say, a standing barbell row, I can accommodate anybody out there that has low back issues or pain. Because by doing this variation, I'm not going to have to deal with that, or I'm not going to have that low back weakness become the limiting factor in being able to do this row. The next thing I can do though is vary my elbow position depending upon what area of my back I want to develop. If I want to develop more of those lats, then I'm going to do this narrow grip, elbows tucked variation of the exercise. You can see I'm literally trying to tuck them into my sides and pull them back behind my body to get those lats fully contracted. Again, I have the versatility here. If I want to work a little bit more on those rear delts, this might be one of the best rear delt exercises you can possibly do. Because you can increase the weights that you would normally apply to your rear delt exercises. And again, all I have to do for this is just let my elbows drift out and up high and still try to pull them back behind my body into shoulder extension. So there's a lot of ways to row and a lot of machines to let you do it. This happens to be my favorite way and the one I'm going to continue to do for years to come. Now if you allowed me to be vain for a minute, one exercise of these 10 has to be something that I just enjoy doing. But there's actually a very specific variation of the exercise that I want you to do. And we're talking about curls and I'm talking about specifically doing barbell curls from now until the end of time. Why the barbell curl? Especially if we're talking about a longevity focused approach here. Something that you should be able to do forever. The barbell curl does require some wrist mobility, but it's no wrist mobility that you shouldn't already have. And if you don't have that wrist mobility, then you should figure out a way to regain that. Because we're not looking for anything that's really excessive. This is the anatomical position. You should be able to have your hands fully supinated here, facing upward in this position. If you're finding that you're unable to get them flat and that your wrists are bending in, the first thing I would actually tell you is maybe it's not your wrist mobility you're lacking. Maybe you're lacking shoulder mobility because you're internally rotating at the shoulders, which is actually internally rotating those hands of yours. If that's the case, you still have to address that too. As a matter of fact, I'm going to give you a video at the end of this one that will allow you to do exactly that, but we don't want to settle for having to go use an easy curl bar for the rest of our lives. That's just an adaptation or a compensation and not really addressing the problem. So the barbell curl gives me this chance to build up the biceps, but it does so in a way that still maintains that neutral wrist position that we all should strive not to lose no matter what decade we're in. And when you do that, guys, you get great gains from the exercise and it's one that you should never forego. So you hit your biceps, now you want to hit your triceps, but this one actually has some additional benefits to your joint mobility that maybe the barbell curl didn't. And we're talking about the lying tricep extension. Now again, you can do exercises that just focus on extending your elbow, or you can do ones that extend your elbow, but also place that arm up overhead that gives you some additional tricep stretch and more effectively targets that third head, the biggest one of the triceps, and that's the long head. This exercise does exactly that, but it does something else. Just by having to assume this overhead position, you're getting a good lat stretch. And do you know what one of the biggest internal rotators of the shoulder is? It's your lats. And people do get tight lats because of this chronic sitting posture that we assume all day. And that is just going to continue to make those situations worse, actually make those barbell curls harder to get into. So what we do is use this exercise to establish a progressively deeper stretch. You don't have to start by having great shoulder mobility, but as you continue to do this exercise for years to come, you'll improve your overhead shoulder mobility and at the same time apply that necessary stimulus to the triceps that will allow you to get the most out of this tricep exercise than any others you could have done. Now, this is not one of the most popular exercises in the gym, but hopefully after watching this video, it becomes a lot more popular. And we're talking about the pull through. And what this exercise does is it reinforces or even teaches what I said earlier in this video, when we talked about the box squat. And that is the all important hinge. The hip hinge is going to be your ticket to a pain-free low back for the rest of your life. Because if you can allow the glutes to drive hip extension, then your low back won't be trying to do it all the time and do the job that the glutes aren't doing for you right now. So this is a great glute strengthener. But the rope itself is actually pulling you naturally into a hinge. So for those that aren't sure of how to do the mechanics of the hinge properly, you don't have to worry about that. By simply stepping far enough away from the machine to have the rope pull you backwards, you've established the right hinge position. Just making sure to keep that low back slightly arched. Now when you come out of the position, the only thing you should be thinking about is not pulling with your hands, but driving forward with your glutes. Now some people might say, what if I did an RDL, isn't that doing the same thing? And I love the RDL. The RDL could be loaded up quite heavy. However, it doesn't ensure that I'm doing it the right way. I could easily just round my back out and lower the bar to the floor and cause a lot of pain and stress to the low back. I don't have to think about that and because of that, I'm going to include the cable pull through and for no other reason then it automates what we all should be doing naturally. Now this exercise is not being included because of some favoritism I have towards it for being identified as sort of Jeff's exercise. I include it because it should be your exercise also and everyone's exercise. We're talking about the face pull. And the reason why I stress the face pull being so important is because it hits so many muscles that tend to get almost zero attention in any comprehensive even training program. When we look at the face pull, it replaces a lot of those sort of pink dumbbell exercises. And a lot of people avoid the pink dumbbell exercises because they are either embarrassed to do them in a gym or they don't find them to be rewarding enough or important enough simply because they're being discounted by the amount of weight that you're using. And what I'm talking about are those T's and those Y's and those I's and those W's. All of those letters of the alphabet that we perform with those really light weights. Well, the face pull will actually do it in a more acceptable way. If people saw you doing a face pull in the gym, they're not going to question you, especially if they watch an athlete next video. But what this will do is train all those same muscles by pulling those cables back and then adding this extra raise at the top. What the extra raise does is it ensures that we're hitting those lower traps in addition to hitting the middle traps, rear delts, rhomboids, all those important muscles that, again, really don't effectively get hit when you're doing those heavy lat exercises or the more popular versions of back exercises that you're doing right now. The face pull represents that perfect blend between mobility and strength and helps you to feel not only stronger, but better for many years to come. And speaking of mobility, if you're looking for ways to maximize that with a minimal morning time investment, you can find it in this video over here. Guys, I have a full program right now, limited edition. It is the Muscle Beach Methods with a lot of these exercises that we just covered here and techniques and strategies used by some of the greats from Venice Beach and Muscle Beach era. You can find that over at athleanx.com. But again, only for a limited time, probably only just days after this video is released. All right, guys. Talk to you again soon.

=== FILE: The PERFECT Shoulder Workout (2025 EDITION) [zEf4pKoKc70].txt ===

 d converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter two. Put them all together and you're not just going to have the perfect shoulders, but you're going to do it with the perfect shoulder workout. But when I say the perfect shoulder workout, what I actually mean is not just one workout, but really two. We do tend to disagree a lot when it comes to the science of training, but one thing we do tend to agree on is two workouts a week for a muscle group seems to be better than one. And that's because we have the opportunity to re-stimulate that muscle a second time in the week. That being said, you wouldn't take the same workout you used to do in one workout and do it twice. You'd want to cut the volume and equate it over the two workouts, meaning shorter workouts. And the nice thing about the perfect workout series is you can actually train another muscle group on the same day that you train the shoulders. In this case, it would be legs. Now, if you're following the perfect workout series in its entirety here, then you're going to want to split it up this way. If you want to do these as standalone shoulder workouts, though, you have that option too, without compromise. What do the workouts look like, though? Let's start breaking them down. And so now the first perfect workout looks like this. Just three exercises that you can see. And it starts with a dumbbell single arm overhead press or as an alternative, a barbell overhead press. So the key concept here is that you're going to press. And I understand that people that have orthopedic issues, and I'm one of them, this can be somewhat challenging, but I don't believe that the solution is to avoid overhead pressing. The solution is finding a version that you can actually still do. And for me, it's going to be the single arm overhead press because, as you can see here, it allows me to focus on one arm at a time. But most importantly, orthopedically, as I press up, I can focus more on stacking those joints, the wrist over the elbow over the shoulder, which immediately helps you to feel better if you have any type of impingement issue in your shoulder or concerns that make overhead pressing difficult. The other thing that it does, though, is when we take the two dumbbells out of our hands, we're able to actually lift more one at a time because our core doesn't have to stabilize two dumbbells going up at once. You just do one, you'll find that you can increase the weight. When you increase the weight, we're getting that tension overload that we're looking for in this heavier rep range, six to eight to form failure, two to three sets. Now, again, if you don't have dumbbells and the opportunity to do that, don't stop overhead pressing. Just do a barbell overhead press and work on progressively overloading. The next one, though, we have to focus where? On that middle delt. Because we know that the middle delt just needs more work. And what we're going to do is actually raise the set volume on this to three to four. Okay, so a little bit more work directed at middle delt. And you don't have to get all that complicated because we know that the lateral raise is really effective for building out that middle delt. And I've talked about all the different variations we can do, like a cable lateral raise. But honestly, if you just want to keep it simple and still get really good results, the lateral raise done with dumbbells is great. But do this for me. Go from a straight arm to the bent arm. So you do a mechanical drop set. And again, when we do this typical lateral raise, lean the torso forward a little bit more. Keep the thumbs higher than the pinkies. We don't want those pouring of the pitchers because that could lead to the shoulder problems we just talked about. And you'll feel it really effectively in the middle delt. But you take it all the way to failure in this 10 to 12 rep range and you don't stop. Instead, from there, what you do is just bend the elbows, right? Shorten the moment arm, bring the weight closer to your body. And you'll find that you can continue to go because you've effectively decreased the feel of the weight in your hands, even though you actually didn't change the weight out. Get to the end of that. We still have the option as we have in the other perfect workouts to keep going a little bit more with some partial repetitions until you really can't move the weight anymore. In this case, again, you go in three to four sets, starting with that 10 to 12 rep weight. And then we have, of course, something targeted at the rear delts. And for me, it's the dumbbell rear delt row. Now, keep in mind, we've already hit the rear delts. If you're following the entire perfect workout series on back day with that heavy, wide elbow and seated cable row. But here what we're focusing on is two sets, but done with an exercise that more effectively targets the rear delt. You see, a lot of us will do the traditional reverse dumbbell fly. And I don't like the exercise because I don't feel like it effectively hits the rear delts as much as it can be. With the rear delt row, you can see here the focus is getting the elbow back behind the body with a bent arm because the real driver of the rear delt activity is going to be the extension of the elbow back behind the body like we did on that seated cable row. If you haven't tried this exercise, guys, it's going to be your new favorite, mostly because it's actually going to finally give you the gains you're looking for in the rear delts. Two sets of 10 to 12. When you look at the total volume here, you total it up. On the low end, you're talking about seven sets and then the high end, you're talking about nine sets. But do remember, we're going to hit this with another workout, which we can cover right now. And of course, not to make you wait, let's go right through that second shoulder workout. This one is going to start this time with the middle delt and focus, but we can still have that main focus of overloaded tension. My favorite way always to do this is the dumbbell cheat lateral. And what we're doing here is actually cheating the repetition. You can see loading up the weight much heavier than I typically would. And the idea is to get the lateral raise as clean as you possibly can, but understanding you're going to use a little momentum. But where you don't want to have momentum is on the way down. So, eccentrically trying to control the weight, trying to slow it down, utilizing that other driver of eccentric overload to help to continue to grow those middle delts. The idea is you're doing, again, those higher set totals here, three to four for each arm with, again, that heavier weight, six to eight reps form failure. So, what I like there is the compliment of this with that strict lateral that we did in the first workout. It's really a good way for a good one, two punch to sort of get those middle delts growing. Next exercise, though, is the front raise. Okay? We're doing a stretch front raise, though, done on an incline bench. And a lot of people don't think you need to target your front delts. I am not one of those people. I think if you want to build the biggest shoulder possible, you, of course, still want to target the front delts. And they're very responsible for rounding out the shoulder. The best way to do this is to incorporate a setup that provides for some stretch on the front delts. So, if you don't have a cable machine to do a stretch front raise, doing dumbbell front raises is really a good way to do it. Two to three sets of 10 to 12 reps using your 10 to 12 rep max. But we're going to do what I'm doing here. Again, positioning myself so that when the dumbbells are down at my side, I have a stretch on the front delts that allows for a stronger contraction, better motor unit recruitment on every rep. But again, ultimately a good place to finish up with some partial repetitions, as you can see me doing. Right? When I burn out and I can't get full range reps anymore, I can still get some additional partials. And because we're doing them here with that additional stretch, it's another good driver of gains. Then we have, of course, you knew I wasn't going to make it through the two workouts without having the face pull as our real depth exercise. Now, you know that I believe the face pull is much more multidimensional. It rounds out the entire upper back development. But if you do this the way I show you and you do it with your elbows in this position, again, driving back behind my body, but maintaining that 90 degree angle of the elbows, you're getting the rear delts really effectively on top of it, incorporating some rotator cuff too. So I think when we talk about any shoulder workout, you're trying to keep your shoulders healthy while trying to grow them at the same time. And a lot of us ignore the healthy part of it. We try to get big shoulders, but if you're not focusing on how you can fortify the entire shoulder at the same time, then you're usually winding up with some injuries in the process. And believe me, again, as someone that has had their share of shoulder injuries, it doesn't feel good and you can't really train that effectively. If you look at the total set count, again, it's just two sets on that last exercise. But once again, seven on the low end, nine on the high end, totaling out to about 14 to 18 sets or so for the entire week, split across those two workouts. And remember, I gave you the option of doing this either as a standalone, which by the way, here's the screenshots of these two, because I know you guys like to take the pictures so you can bring them with you to the gym. That being said, if you did do it on the back end of the leg workout, well, you're going to want to check that out too. That's here as well as the entire playlist now of the Perfect Workout Series. You don't want to miss them, guys. Put them all together and I promise you're going to like it. All right, guys, looking for full programs? They're at athleanx.com. If you haven't done so already, make sure you subscribe and leave a comment to let me know what you want me to cover next. All right, guys, see you soon.

=== FILE: The PERFECT Tricep Workout (2025 EDITION) [8Nkfuhxsl-0].txt ===

 What's up, what's up guys, what's up guys, what's up guys, Jeff Cavaliere, what's up guys, Jeff Cavaliere, at the next dot com. Do you remember the perfect workouts? They became the most popular workout series ever here on YouTube and I have you to thank for that. And to show my thanks, guess what? I'm bringing them back. By popular demand, the perfect tricep workout continues our series here today for 2025 and beyond. Now when it comes to a perfect workout or in this case a perfect science based workout I think it's important to understand that there is no perfect science. So any workout that is actually recommended to you based on the latest in science, alone is not really going to cut it. See here, as we've always done, we rely on the sciences of anatomy and physiology and kinesiology, and we put it all together in a workout that actually makes sense. And we're going to do the same thing for you here. And we're going to sprinkle in what we know now to be the most effective techniques to employ when we're trying to build bigger triceps, but not just for today, but for the long haul, right? Longevity and joint health is also going to be a big concern of mine as a physical therapist. And it's not just because I'm an anatomy nerd that this stuff matters to me. It's because I know when you're trying to build a muscle, this stuff will matter to everyone. And when we're talking about the triceps, we're talking about a three-headed muscle. The first two of which, the lateral and medial head, are responsible for getting those elbows extended out in front of our body. So, we need exercises that do that. The same token, the third head here, the long head, is probably most responsible for the overall size of your arm, accounting for two-thirds of the size of the triceps itself. Now, how do we do that? Well, a lot of times people don't do all the exercises needed because you can't just focus on those that get those elbows up in that tricep long head in a stretch position, but ones that also put it in its fully contracted position. But of course, we're going to cover all those in our workout. Now, while I say the perfect tricep workout, what I actually mean is not just one tricep workout, but really two. And the reason for that is, while there's a lot that we disagree on when it comes to the science of training, the one thing we can pretty much all agree on is that it seems to be that training a muscle group twice a week is more beneficial than training it just once. And that's because we know that there's a possibility to re-stimulate a muscle every 72 hours or so that gives us another growth opportunity if we take it. That being said, a lot of that goes hand in hand with the amount of effort and intensity that you're willing to train with. If you're going to train really, really, really hard, think like Mike Mentzer, then you're not going to be able to train that muscle twice a week. And in that case, if you're looking for a workout like that, I have it. It's called the 100 arm workout that you're going to want to check out. But if you're like most of us that want to put in a good, solid effort and want to see the best results for it, then you're going to be able to split the workouts up into two separate ones. But again, you're going to equate the volume that you normally would do in just that one workout and split it up over two. The good news there is the workouts will become shorter. And because of that, as I mentioned before, you're going to be able to train another muscle on that day, allowing us to hit all the muscle groups in this perfect workout twice a week. Now, this is the first time that we're covering a muscle that actually gets to be on the back end of one of your training days. In this case, every time we train chest. Now, the number of sets that you're going to perform in either of these two tricep workouts will be heavily dependent upon whether you're treating it like a standalone or whether you're going to pair it up with one of these up here. But in order to figure out what that's going to be like or look like for you, we should actually start looking at the workouts. And tricep workout number one looks like this. Just four simple exercises and it starts off with a basic movement. It's the tricep pushdown. And I think one of the big things that we don't do here is take advantage of the fact that we can load this exercise up quite heavily here in the six to eight rep range and then push it to failure. Again, without bastardizing the exercise or turning it into what I call a jackhammer pushdown. You still want to target the triceps. And most importantly here, you're hitting that medial lateral head by getting your arms out in front of your body. Now, ironically here, another good exercise would be or could be a close grip bench press in this spot. But if we are doing this, as I mentioned before, along with the perfect chest workout, I don't really need to have you bench pressing again. Okay, we could do this exercise, treat it the way I just said, and get good results for it. Again, two to three sets, six to eight reps using your six to eight rep max. Next, we have a lion dumbbell extension. Now, I mentioned before about the importance of the long head, in terms of the allocation of size of the arm when it comes to that long head of the triceps. It's really important. But how you train it matters. Are you training it through that stretch position or are you training it in that contracted position? And as I mentioned before, you're going to have to do both. However, we're going to take it even a step further. We're not just going to do two to three sets of eight to 10 using our eight to 10 rep max, but we're going to do this in a way that allows us to cheat beyond, go to and through failure so we can perform some eccentric only repetitions where we can drive even more growth. And that's where we actually want to make sure that we're using the dumbbells here rather than easy curl bar. Because I love doing this exercise with an easy curl bar, but you're not going to be able to do the cheat to put yourself into the eccentric only reps as easily if you don't use dumbbells. Well, as you see here, when I reach concentric failure, I want to still perform these eccentric only repetitions. Well, that's where you're just going to drag them across your shoulders low to put you in a position to press them back up to the top, basically a close grip bench press. But this time it's going to be a weight that you can easily handle. And like I said, again, this would be very challenging if you had an easy bar that kept banging against the back of your head. The dumbbells allow you to do this much easier without that risk of concussion. Now we're looking again at two to three sets of eight to 10 repetitions, again, allowing for those eccentric only repetitions at the end. Now, the third exercise up here is going to complement what we just did. Remember last time we focused on that stretch position of the long head to get that long head in its fully contracted state. You want to get that elbow back behind your body with the elbow extended as well. Well, that's where we do something like the dumbbell or cable tricep kickback. And I know this exercise takes a lot of shit because people say it's not worthwhile to do. I disagree completely. As a matter of fact, it's one of the only exercises, one of only a very few select that allow us to get into this fully contracted position. And that's why you need to start making sure you do it. Now, while the cable might provide a more balanced resistance curve throughout the range of motion, I certainly don't think that the dumbbell is a bad option or one to be avoided. Remember, it's one of those only opportunities to get fully back behind your body and extended to really get that good triceps contraction. And therefore, it's one that I want to make sure that you're doing. When you reach failure here, you can continue to kind of rep out even a little bit more and push those boundaries of growth even further by doing a few partial repetitions on the exercise. Again, 10 to 12 repetitions here to max on two to three sets. The last exercise is really one that we do with all of our workouts. And as we try to end with some form of a bodyweight exercise, I like to say, command your body in space, especially when you're training athletes, you want to make sure that there's something involved that allows you to move your body around. Here, we're looking at targeting the triceps and we take a pushup as our focus, but we actually change the exercise up a little bit to put more of the focus on the triceps. And rather than doing just a diamond pushup, the cobra pushup allows us to get those arms back again, a little bit closer towards extending behind the body so we can further hit this tricep long head in this fully contracted position. So you're looking at one set, two failure of this bodyweight burnout. Now, in terms of the recommended set volume that's best for you, it goes back to my original question of whether you intended to do this alongside the perfect chest workout or do it as a standalone workout. If you decide to do it on the same day with your perfect chest workout, then I would veer to the left side here of the set totals so that your total volume is only two, four, six, seven total sets. And that's, again, based on the fact that we're already using our triceps in the chest portion of the workout. If you're going to do this as a standalone, then you certainly can go on the higher end. We're looking at three, six, nine, 10 total sets. Again, the option is up to you. It depends upon what your overall plan is. And that brings us to tricep workout number two. And here we start off with another compound exercise that's probably not done that often, but should be. We call it the PJR pullover. Now it looks like a pullover to some, but it's not. And believe me, the range of motion needs to be cut short. You don't want to be pulling the dumbbell all the way up over your chest like you would with, let's say, a regular lat pullover. But your lats will help you here to handle much heavier loads than you might be accustomed to. And this is where the tricep growth capacity comes in. Because you're going to use a weight that causes six to eight rep form failure. And you allow for that deep stretch behind the head. And as you come up, stop the dumbbell about halfway and really focus on extending the rest of the way with the elbows. This should be an elbow focused exercise. Don't think about moving your elbows through space as much as you would on a pullover. Think about extending the elbows and allowing them to bend and flex to make sure the triceps are doing the work. The next exercise up here is the cable tricep push away. Now, I talked about those exercises that do a good job, like the first one, of putting that long head on stretch to help to recruit and stimulate that muscle for growth. Well, here the tricep push away is one that's another great option. It's another one that gets that stretch. But what a lot of people do wrong here is they anchor it too low. They end in a position where the push away is out in front of their body from here. What that does is basically cause the cable to be parallel to the arm in its contracted position where you sort of lose some of the effect of that contraction. Instead, I want you to do it like this, where we have our arms high up over our head. You can see there's much more perpendicularity between that cable and your forearms in the contracted position, meaning there'll be a lot more work being done. But again, if we do this exercise with a decent enough amount of weight here, 10 to 12 rep range, and we take it not just to failure, but again, utilize partial repetitions to go past failure, we're not just getting a good stretch exercise, but we're getting one that allows us to up the intensity level to a degree that maybe you haven't been experiencing right now that allows for more tricep overall growth. The next exercise up here is going to do the opposite once again. Let's work on getting those triceps into that fully contracted position. Here we have something called the X pushdown. And I have to admit, I love this exercise. And whether or not you have access to a cable machine or not, you can hook a couple of bands up to a pull up bar and do this at home that way too. So don't avoid this exercise, especially given what it provides that's unique among the other exercises. And that is that fully contracted triceps. And in order to get there again, you can see you want those arms back behind your body. The way to do this is to take that cross-handed grip with the right grabbing the left and the left grabbing the right, and then driving those elbows back behind the body, and then extending them. And you'll feel this one. Trust me, you feel an intense contraction, almost balled up if you do it properly. You want to make sure that you don't just get in there and get out. Revel in that contraction, revel in that balled up, kind of cramped up discomfort, and you know you're doing the right thing. And again, we don't have to just stop at 10 to 12 rep max, right? We're going to use that weight, but we can continue to go through failure by just cranking out a few extra partials in that until we know that we've reached failure and reached our limit. And then lastly, we did as we did the last time, we're going to finish up with a bodyweight exercise, this time the bench dip. And yet again, it's another exercise that I think gives us that great opportunity to get in that fully contracted state of the triceps by getting the elbows back behind the body and pushing those elbows all the way down until they're straightened out. Now, what are we looking for here? To do these right. Because this exercise can be a shoulder killer if you do them incorrectly. And the worst way to do it is with your hands pointed forward and your shoulders rounding out as you dip down to the bottom of every rep. Instead, what you want to do is open up the chest by opening up the palms. Turn your hands out on the bench and as you go down, work on keeping the chest up high and you'll see that you get all the benefits that you're looking for in the triceps without all those detrimental side effects to the shoulder joint. Here again, we're just doing one set, one set to all out failure as a bodyweight burnout. Now, as I mentioned before, it depends on whether or not you're following the perfect workout schedule where you're doing this on your second chest workout day. If that's the case here, veer towards the left side of the volume with two, four, six, seven total sets as the target. If you're going to do this as a standalone, you just want to do a regular tricep workout, then feel free to kind of go to the other side here and do 10 sets total. Whichever way you decide to do these tricep workouts, whether with chest or on its own, it will work for you, I promise. And now I'm going to make your job even easier because I'm going to allow you these screenshots that you can take so you can print them, bring them to the gym with you and make sure that you don't miss a beat. Guys, if you want to follow the entire series here, we actually have the chest workout that you're going to want to do alongside this one. Or here's the whole playlist so you can watch all the workouts in the perfect series. If you're looking for full workouts, guys, meal plans and supplements, we have them at ATHLEANX.com. If you haven't already done so, make sure you click subscribe, turn on your notifications so you never miss a video, not just in this perfect series, but any others we do on this channel. All right, guys, good luck. See you soon.

=== FILE: The REAL Fake Natty Problem [gvSku8LmMXI].txt ===

 What's up, what's up guys? Jeff Cavaliere, Athenex.com. Jeff Cavaliere, Athenex.com. So I'm bringing you into the coach's corner here today because I'm going to address the controversy. Something I don't ever do. Something I don't ever do. Something I don't ever do. Something I don't ever do. And there's a reason why I don't do this. And there's a reason why I don't do this. I don't talk about other fitness YouTubers or videos that they've made or controversies because I don't believe that it aligns with what I've tried to do here for 15 years. And that is to deliver content rather than controversy. At the end of this video though, you're going to leave with something much more positive. What's up guys, Jeff Cavaliere, I believe as my job has always been, and it will be today, it is to deliver useful content to you. And these types of controversies, though interesting, I don't believe necessarily leave you with something that is actionable, that you can do something with to better your physique, to get rid of a pain you're having right now. All the reasons you may have tuned into my channel for all these years. So in this particular controversy we're talking about one that involves Jeff Nippard and somebody by the name of Hussein. He clearly has a ridiculous physique and to me would clearly seem to be not natural. But at some point I guess, to bring you up to speed, you can watch all the videos others have made on this with a lot more detail. Jeff apparently thought that he was natural or said he was natural or defended the possibility that he might be natural. And that's caught a lot of heat for Jeff in terms of his ability to credibly assess somebody's natural status and then brings into question what else he might have said. Okay, that's where people go with these types of things. Now, I think we need to stop for a second and assess what the benefit is of these types of videos. Is it benefiting you in any way? Particularly because we're talking about health and fitness videos. This is a self-improvement genre. This is where you're here for. Maybe you like the controversy. It's interesting, but is it benefiting you? So, I believe some of the responsibility then shifts to the viewer. When you come to my videos and you have high expectations for what you're going to receive from me, then I have some expectations of the viewers. That is, you have to be able to discern first and foremost whether or not the information you're being given is just total BS. Because if it is, you can just skip past that video and move on and maybe even move on to another content creator. Because this one's not for you. The second thing is if it passes that filter, that first filter is whether it's applicable to you or not. Because not every bit of advice is applicable. For instance, if I gave you a machine workout to do and you don't have access to machines because you just work out at home, then that particular video wouldn't be applicable to you. But it doesn't mean that it's not beneficial to a lot of people. The third thing though, and this is the key, this is my highest expectation, is that if it passes the first two filters for you, you need to be willing to implement the information in a meaningful way to then go see if it actually works for you. And when I say for you, I mean for you. Works for you. Because at the end of the day, the only thing that matters is whether or not that information, that when implemented, works for you. Who gives a fuck whether it works for Hussein or Jeff Knippert? Or who cares whether they're using whatever they're using and therefore it's changing how that thing is working for them? Because at the end of the day, what matters is how it works for you. Now stay with me here. Because I think the big issue that we're having nowadays is we're not looking to ourselves. And we're looking at the others around us for somehow the validation to determine whether or not this information is useful to you. So when you go back to the natty or not discussion, and whether or not this particular person is natty or not, how does that benefit you? And I've heard the arguments before. I've heard the arguments. Well, if I know that he's natural, then the things he's telling me and doing will then have a better chance of working for me. But if he's using steroids, then I know that they're not going to be able to work for me. That would have basically undercut the entire magazine industry that I grew up with if that was true. Because I only had as a resource the bodybuilding magazines to go by or Arnold's Encyclopedia. And every one of the guys in those magazines were using steroids. Every single one of them. But if I said, well, shit, they're on steroids, so therefore their advice means nothing for me because it's not going to work. Then I never even would have started lifting. There would have been no reason to. But by following advice and learning from that advice that, hey, I can't do 48 sets like Arnold's doing, and paring it down, I got results. And this is the part that I think is really important. This is where this video becomes important for people and becomes helpful. And it's not just another self-serving review on the controversy. Because I don't think that helps anybody. When I was younger, the person that I had to answer to was the person in the mirror. I had a mirror set up right next to my squat rack. I had that mirror there and even though most of the time when I looked in it I didn't like what I saw back. I didn't. He was too skinny. He wasn't muscular enough. He wasn't strong enough. That was who I answered to. But what would happen is as I put the work in, as I implemented the advice I was given, even if it wasn't the best advice. Because as we've learned over the years that some of that bodybuilding advice was really excessive and built around people who had done large amounts of steroids, it was still successful for me because I implemented it at the level that I could as a 125 pound skinny little kid who was starting out. When I did that I started to see changes. I started to see a little bit of a six pack. A little bit. I started to see a little bit of a bicep. I started to see a little bit of delts. All these things got me excited to continue to pursue more. And that mirror, though my enemy at times, became my biggest inspiration. Fast forward now. Here's why I feel bad for you guys. Because this, this phone right here, is the death of motivation. If you go on Instagram right now and you start scrolling through Instagram, you will see people that will look better than you for the rest of your life. You will have no chance to ever look as good as they do. And if you're measuring yourself against them, you will be defeated. And you're not going to be encouraged to keep pressing forward. Because you're going to think, I'll never look like that person. And then when you know, when you find out that that person's on steroids, then you decide, instead of saying, Hey, maybe I need to follow somebody else. Or, maybe I just need to kind of redefine my own goals based around myself. You decide to quit. Or stop. Entirely. And I'm not targeting this at just the youth. I'm not. There are people my age, younger and older, who always want to know about the people that they see on social media. Or what my opinions are of the people they see on social media. Because they want to know whether or not it's obtainable. And I laugh because it's like, it has nothing to do with that person. It has everything to do with you. And how you process the information that you're being given. How you process that information. Because we're all being bombarded by that information. The information must become implementation at some point. And when it does, something really significant will happen. Once you implement, the first thing that's going to happen is, you're going to actually possibly find the things that actually work for you. When they work for you, you will start to focus on yourself once again and less on the influence of the influencers. Because when you see the results that you get, like I said, you'll become motivated that you're capable of things that you never knew you were capable of. Of making gains you never thought you were capable of. And that should motivate you to continue your pursuit. Because you'll try some things that don't work. I promise you, we all have. You're going to try some things that don't work. Your filters are going to get better too. Those front end filters are going to become refined. So that when you start to hear some pieces of advice, you're going to say, that doesn't sound good. Even if it's based around science. Because not all science is good science. You'll start to hear things that say, that just doesn't sound right. And you'll be able to filter past that and maybe even look for other sources of information. Hopefully you'll come to the AthleanX channel for real science. But you'll get to the right place. And you'll get the information that you can use and implement that actually does something for you. Guys, after all of that though, if the advice you're being given is not implementable, then you have to question whether or not you even really should be watching the video. And I get that the controversy is probably interesting. Or I get that some of those topics are a little bit interesting. They're good diversions. But if they're not aligned with helping you to be able to implement something. And again, a natty or not video doesn't help you implement anything. There's nothing that you can implement. Then it may not be serving you. And as a matter of fact, it's serving a bad purpose in the fact that it's discouraging you. And I hate that. The last thing I'm going to point out guys, is no matter what you decide to implement. And the stuff that you find works for you. The number one thing that you can do to benefit yourself from any of the information you're getting. Is be able to do it consistently. And an overindulgence in the types of videos that aren't conducive to you wanting to stay focused on yourself, rather than others, is likely going to interrupt that consistency at some point. And consistency really is the key factor that trumps everything. Regardless of what split you're following or whatever type of workout you're doing. If you can stay consistent with it and consistent with your nutrition, you can see results. And I'll even bring it home with this. Our own Jesse, who's made a transformation in front of your eyes, that's taken multiple years to do. He could have been easily distracted by the temptations, by the influences of the influencers who looked better than him, or the commenters who said, He should have been doing this much faster, he could be much more muscular, he could have much better gains. If he stayed focused on them, rather than himself, then he never would have been able to achieve what he has. Even in my case, I wanted to do something as a kid. I was skinny. But back in my day, the steroid users were few and far between. Everyone could point to the one or two in the gym. It's not like today, where a large contingency in the gym are on steroids. Back in that time, there was a pride in being natural. These days, there's no nobility for being natural. As a matter of fact, it's just not even a thing. I, however, continue to carry that through my career and my life. I do take pride in being natural. I do want to set the example now for my kids. I do want to be an example for you guys, now at 50 years old, of what is possible, if you stay consistent. You've never seen me get fat for 8 months out of the year. You've never seen me change. Some people say, that's a bad thing. I don't change. You should be way bigger by now. You've been doing this for 15 years. You don't see that happening. Everything's pretty consistent with me. Because I live a very consistent life. And I apply the knowledge I get to my training and I'm constantly trying to evolve that. I'm constantly trying to get to a better place. Even though life would say, it's going to get harder and harder for me to do as I get older. The point is guys, if you have a clear goal in mind, if you keep yourself in focus rather than others, maybe these types of videos become a little entertainment every once in a while. But don't let them become the guideline for how you conduct yourselves in the gym and outside the gym. In terms of pursuing your goals. This is about self-improvement. This is not all about entertainment. And for that guys, stay focused on yourself because when you do you can. If you're looking for programs guys, I have full programs. I have meal plans. We have all the tools that you'll need over at ATHLEANX.com. We have supplements as well. The point is, stay focused on you and let these controversies sort of sit where they belong. And that's not really that important. All right guys, see you soon. Make sure you subscribe, turn on notifications, turn on the video when we're putting one out. See you soon.

=== FILE: The WORST Fitness and Nutrition Lies People STILL Believe! [MCfaMfPKWK8].txt ===

 What you see behind me is a collection of the most common beliefs in fitness and nutrition. And the problem is some of these are just total BS. Some are actually half true and others are actually totally legit. But the key is knowing which is which because that changes everything. And we can start with one that's near and dear to me, and that is the belief that you can't build muscle and burn fat at the same time. Well, I did it. I have actually heard this quite a few times. If you are willing to take just a little bit more time to do it this way, you absolutely can build muscle and burn fat at the same time. Now, this is compared to, let's say a bulk. Now, this is compared to a dirty bulk. Now, this is compared to let's say a bulk or a dirty bulk where they claim that you could add muscle at a faster rate because you're providing a lot more calories. Who wants to go through those periods of being fat if you don't have to? The best thing you could do to make this work is make sure you don't get too aggressive with your caloric deficit. You're going to need one to burn fat but more than, let's say, 300 calories a day is going to be a little bit too aggressive where you may not get in enough calories to support muscle growth. Make sure you keep your protein levels high even when you're cutting back on your calories and you'll be able to make a lot of muscle. stay in a positive nitrogen balance, add new muscle and accomplish this very much so. So Jesse, can you do the honors? This one is a lie. This one better not be true. As an Italian, I love my pasta. I can assure you that carbs are not specifically making you fat. A surplus of calories can make you fat. The issue with carbs is that we tend to enjoy our carbohydrates. In other words, portion control in carbohydrate rich foods becomes more challenging than let's say having five or six steaks. That being said, there is a little bit of confusion and scapegoating on with carbohydrates. You see, when you digest your carbohydrates, you store them as glycogen in your muscles and liver. For every one gram of carbs that you're storing, you're also storing along three grams of water. So when you go on a carb restricted diet and you see a lot of success because you see a lot of weight loss in the first week, you immediately blame the carbs. But really what you're losing is a lot of water weight. When it comes for fueling performance and lifting in the gym, I think carbs are a crucial part of a reasonable meal plan, knowing that eliminating them is never going to be a logical long-term solution for me. So will the carbs make you fat? Well, I guess I'm going to have to give it the half truth and give you some good advice. And that is, don't fear the carbs, just respect them. Wait, you can build an amazing body with just six exercises? The truth of the matter is exercise variety is not a necessary requirement for building a muscular body, though it does keep your interest level up. When you have the right six exercises, you can actually build a lot of muscle. For instance, Arnold's Golden Six, rows, squats, deadlift, bench press, curls. Remember the last one? Was it dips or overhead press? I believe it was dips, but actually either one, dips or overhead press. The key to all of those is that you can easily continue to perform those for many, many years to come because there's a great opportunity to progressively overload on them, build your strength, and therefore continue to build muscle. Though the variety might keep your brain and head more in the game and more interested in your workouts, I also think that just continuing to make gains and see results would also keep you interested. So six exercises can do it. So for me, this is definitely a truth. Fasted cardio burns more fat than fed cardio. Well, it's actually based on research that shows that while we are in a fasted state, yes, we do burn a higher percentage of fat. We oxidize fat more readily to fuel our performance than we do when we're in a fed state. However, how we get our fuel and where we get it from does not determine what level of body fat we carry around. The only way we lose body fat is by being in a caloric deficit like we talked about before. The other thing that gets effectively lost in this belief though, is that our body is good at energy balancing throughout the rest of the day. So if you burn more fat during your fasted workout, you're going to burn more carbs during the rest of your day. If you burn more carbs during your workout, a fed workout, you're going to burn more fat throughout the day. So it's like a credit card versus a debit card. At some time, you're paying, whether you're paying now or you're paying later. I will say this, some people find it more convenient to not be doing the workouts on a full stomach and therefore they increase their adherence to doing the workouts and their consistency goes up. So if that's the reason why you're doing it, then by all means, okay. But I will give it the mixed bag here because again, there are some benefits for certain people, but it's not a magic elixir that's going to magically melt away belly fat. There are no bad exercises. Well, let me jump to the punchline here first. And that is there are bad exercises. And the reason for this is not because of bad form and it's not because you're not properly load managing. There are just some exercises that suck. And when you talk about an exercise like the upright row, we're considering an exercise that places your shoulders in an internally rotated position with extreme amounts of weight, usually in your hands, further driving your shoulders into that position, increasing the risk for impingement. And yes, there is such a thing as impingement without the need to do it, because I can give you an exercise that just simply changes the position of the elbows, the high pull that does the same exact thing for the shoulders and helps you get all the positives, but it eliminates or almost completely eliminates the negatives or the risks involved with the upright row. The same thing can be said for a one arm dumbbell row performed with one knee up on the bench. I've talked about the inherent risk to destabilizing the groin and the pelvic area by doing that exercise that way. Where's the compromise? If we simply put both feet on the ground and do it from a more stable position and a more balanced position, the lats will still grow. So we can eliminate some of the risk and unnecessary risk by getting rid of some of the bad exercises and simply just choosing smarter exercises that would give us everything we're looking for in the first place. Next up, the belief that you can fix bad posture. You can because you fixed my bad posture. That's right. Although the researchers tend to think sometimes you cannot. However, that's because there's a misunderstanding of what posture even is. Posture is not some sort of genetic trait. It can have some inherited elements like increased joint laxity or maybe even a curvature of the spine. But for the most part, posture is a dynamic habit that changes over time and is most often a learned behavior because of the things that we do day in and day out. But the good thing is if we can learn it, we can also unlearn it. But remember, you're not correcting your posture by simply standing up straighter for five seconds. You do it by moving better, training smarter, and building the habits that position your body where it needs to be automatically. So how do we do that? By strengthening what's weak, by stretching what's tight, by learning to reprogram motor patterns that, again, we have learned through habit that need to be reversed. But the fact is, through the right approach, which we actually have a couple of videos on this channel that will help you do it, you can fix bad posture. And for me, this one is based soundly in truth. So we've all heard probably at some point about the post-workout anabolic window. I literally grew up on it, racing home from the gym, risking speeding tickets and my life to make sure I can get back in time to have my protein shake within 30 minutes of finishing my workout. Irresponsible. Now we hear that it's a myth. So where are we? Well, it's actually kind of a half truth, because here's a few things that we do know. After a workout, muscle protein synthesis is actually increased and can be influenced, of course, by nutrition. The second thing is eating protein after a workout can be a good thing, especially if you haven't eaten within hours of your training. The third thing is we can replenish glycogen after a workout. And again, if you've been training hard, that would be something that would be really appropriate. Here's what we know also. The window is not really a 30-minute window. It's more like a four to six-hour garage door. In other words, it doesn't have to be so specific. And the better thing and the more important thing is your total daily protein for the day. Alan Aragon, a good friend of ours, talks all about the importance of prioritizing how much protein you take in a day. The timing becomes a secondary factor, provided you have as much protein as possible. So you can kind of cram your protein in into different parts of the day and still have a very good environment for building muscle. You don't have to think so much in terms of the anabolic window. So the fact is, while some of the conditions that led to the creation of the belief in the anabolic window are true, the urgency of that window are not. And again, you do not have to risk life or speeding tickets in order to get your protein. So for me, let's call this one a half truth. Women will get bulky if they lift weights. Now listen, this is a myth. You need to lift weights. If you want to be strong and healthy, you need to lift weights. And also you need to worry about your nutrition. Because at the same time that you are increasing muscle mass, you really should be prioritizing at the same amount a loss of body fat if you are carrying it, because that will keep you feeling lean and toned. Women have far less testosterone in their bodies than men do and are far less susceptible to getting big. It's not an accidental thing that you're going to start to look big and bulky like the women in your gym. The bodybuilders. Being lean, strong, and capable is something that all women, I'm sure, aspire to. And following a sound training plan and nutrition plan is what's going to get you there. But again, as far as this goes, I think it's complete garbage. And for me, it's getting the lie. All right, Jeff, this is a good one for me to chime in on, because I've always heard the more you sweat, the better the workout. I don't sweat a lot. Does that mean my workouts suck? Sweating is not a measurement or a scorecard for the effectiveness of a workout. As a matter of fact, it's just simply your body's cooling mechanism. There's a sweat culture out there that tends to think that we see people do hard things, and as a result, they sweat. And we think that it's a reflection in that pool on the floor that's collected of all burned calories and lost fat. That is not true. It simply could be the ambient temperature in the room, your hydration levels for the day, right? The clothes that you're wearing is not a reflection of effort. As a matter of fact, you can have an incredibly effective strength training session and not sweat at all. Like me. Right. Or you can go into a sauna and sweat a lot, but really not put forth a lot of effort. The key is performance dictates the quality of what you just did, not perspiration. So, if you're looking for a measurement of the amount of sweat that you've dropped on the floor to be something that's indicative of a high level of success, please don't look here, guys. Remember, sweating is not a scorecard. Instead, it's a big fat myth that deserves the Big Red X. So, the next belief here actually comes with a story. You see, I had a contractor at my house. He had been working with me for a long time. He knew what we did with ATHLEANX. So, I figured he's pretty familiar with our videos and he's watched a lot of them. Except he came up to me one day and said, Jeff, I don't have a lot of time. So, what exercise can I do for this? What's the one thing I can do for this? And he patted on his big beer belly. The fact is, you can't spot reduce belly fat with ab training, but the belief is there. And I will say this. There was one study done back in 2013 by Ramirez and Campillo. I remember it because it's been sent to me a million times that showed a small, and I mean small, small increase in fat loss locally when people trained with high reps, one leg versus the other. Guys, when you're someone who's going like this and you can actually hear it echo, believe me, that study is not going to support your pursuit of doing one single exercise or one ab exercise to lose that belly fat. We're talking minimal, minimal effect there. You need to focus, as always, on nutrition. This is not going to get you where you need to be. So, please stop doing ab exercises for the desire of getting the six pack. Do them to make sure you have that muscle available to see once you fix that problem through nutrition. So, for me, this is by far a truth. You cannot spot reduce belly fat with ab exercises. This one's gained a lot of popularity over the last few years, and that is knees over toes when squatting is bad. Well, knees over toes guy would like to have a word with you, Jeff. I've actually had quite a few words with knees over toes guy, Ben Patrick Jesse, probably because we agree with each other. And that is, I believe that squatting requires that your knees go past your toes, or at least out in that direction. Why? Because we know that in order to do a squat properly, it starts from the ground up, and that is your foot on the floor. In order to get a proper squat, you need to have enough dorsiflexion at the ankle, right? Being able to pull your ankle up. Well, if it's on the floor, how do we get dorsiflexion? By driving the tibia further over the toe, right? And by doing that, we actually allow the foot to absorb the forces better on the ground itself, rather than having the force be propagated up to places that shouldn't be handling it in the first place. Like the hips and the low back. Like the hips and the low back. So for me to do a proper squat biomechanically, and to avoid undue stress on the hips and low back, you need to be able to drive that tibia over the toe. And that for me means that knees over toes squatting is bad. Not so. I think knees over toes squatting is good. So this is going to get a big lie here, and you really should be trying to do more of this. Supplements aren't necessary if you have a good diet. Well, since you sell supplements, you're going to say supplements are necessary. Listen, don't buy my supplements then. Let me at least explain the truth here. The truth of the matter is supplements are incredibly helpful. And as a matter of fact, in most cases needed, if you want to optimize the results of your training. Let's look at protein powder, one of the most popular supplements you can put in your body. Most people these days don't get enough protein in their diet. Why? Well, I would say a lot of it has to do with the cost of protein these days. It's just risen over the last few years to amounts that people can't support through a daily whole food diet. They need to reach for things like a protein powder that allows them to more easily get there in a more economical way. But if you look at something more specifically like creatine monohydrate, you are not getting enough creatine monohydrate in your body consistently. And again, at an economical cost, because to do so you'd have to eat a lot of meat. You're not doing that in an economical way that you can repeat with the frequency that's needed to see the benefits of creatine. Again, if you want to experience the benefits of creatine, and there are many and many new ones coming out each and every day, then the only way to get there is through supplementation. That being said, if it's not that important to you to see those benefits, you can still live a very healthy life with a good diet without the need for additional supplementation. But if you're looking to train hard and get the most out of your training, I believe supplements are a necessary part, whether they be mine or someone else's. But for me, it depends on the person's goals. And for that reason, I'm going to have to give this a conditional half truth. Was the bro science standard of one gram of protein per pound of body weight to build muscle a real requirement? I've heard that a million times. It's sort of based on the fact that one gram was really easy to remember. It also erred on the side of making sure you had enough, making sure that you weren't underfeeding like I talked about before when it came to protein. That being said, research has shown that you can actually build muscle with a little bit less, like 0.7 to one gram per pound of lean body mass. So when we go round up to just total body weight, we're sort of assuring the fact that we're getting enough protein. However, newer research has shown that if you are somebody who's training in a deficit, trying to lose weight at the same time, like we talked about in the beginning, the protein becomes even more important. And having higher levels of protein has been shown to become more beneficial. Also, if you're training very hard or if you're very experienced and you really put out higher levels of output in your workouts, then even the higher protein levels can be helpful there. So we've gone as high as to say one gram to even 1.2 grams per pound of body weight. I suggest starting every meal and focusing on how much protein you're getting. About 40% of each meal would be a good place. And then building your meal around that. In this case, like I said, something like a protein powder could be that very economical way for you to make sure you're meeting your daily protein needs. As a matter of fact, I mentioned you didn't have to buy my supplements, but if you wanted to, Pro 30G has a full 30 grams of protein per serving to make sure that you do. I'm just saying, but as far as the necessity of one gram per pound of body weight, well, let's just say again, we can get away with a little bit less for some. So let's call this one and a half truth and move on. Training to failure isn't even necessary after all. Well, I thought it is now. Yeah, but it wasn't then. When was that? Like two months ago. Yeah, but now is now. Yeah, but it was the same guys. So when is it necessary? Now. On the first set? The third set, maybe. What about the second set? I don't know. I'm confused. I think everybody else is too. Fact is, I've actually been pretty consistent myself in recommending training to failure. Now there's different context here. If you're training for strength like you, Jesse, training to failure really isn't the avenue to go down. Nope, because I don't want to get pinned under the bar. Right. We're not actually, we're just trying to build a separate skill set here. If you're trying to build muscle though, as I just pointed out, training to failure becomes almost a requirement if you're training in higher and higher rep ranges in order to even get the stimulus for new muscle growth. So is it necessary? I actually think it is necessary, particularly so for people who are just starting out, who have no concept of what their true capacity for lifting is. How many times have you seen it? Somebody will do a set and they'll stop five or six reps short. You know, I used to do it, right? It looks so damn easy when you're an observer from outside, you know, they didn't even come close. So if they're following recommendations that say, hey, leave one or two reps in the tank and it's just as good as training to failure. No, they're not. They're leaving like five or six reps in the tank because they're taking that advice. So to objectively ensure that you've gone far enough, trained to failure in good form. Now from there, if you want to back off a rep or so in subsequent sets, you at least know what true failure was and you're ensuring that you're still within a muscle building range because research will show that it is almost just as good to perform a set with one or two reps at most in the tank, as opposed to going all the way to failure because it helps with overall recovery. But again, that's if you understand what true failure really is. We'll say sort of in the middle here, conditionally, we have both training to failure and maybe leaving one or two reps in reserve, but it requires you to understand what true failure and what your true capacity really is. Next up, recovery is the most important part of building muscle. Wait, Jeff, I thought steroids was the most important part of building muscle. Well, steroids promote recovery, which is the most important part of building muscle. Remember, you stimulate in the gym, you build muscle when you're recovering away from the gym. And for that, it gets the big green check mark for truth. And there's not much more to say. Is it true you get enough core training from compound movements? I certainly hear this a lot. I will say this as a physical therapist, this doesn't align with my understanding of core training because we know that one of the biggest factors when it comes to core training is the core muscles are much more than just the rectus abdominis, much more than the six pack. We're talking about the obliques, the hips, the glutes, the muscles of the low back. But all these muscles in conjunction want to be able to produce and control rotation. Rotation is key when it comes to core training. When you look at the big compound lifts like the squat, the bench, the row, the deadlift, these are just sagittal plane movements. There is not a lot of rotational torque demands going on here. There is a lot of bracing requirements to be had here. And that's where a strong core is beneficial. And being able to get better at bracing against heavy loads is going to certainly help you to build a more resilient core, but not completely. Because if you're not training these elements of rotation and anti-rotation in a controlled, direct way through specific ab exercises or specific core exercises, then you're not really fully training your core. So for me, I'm going to give this one a big red X because it's just a myth. I take a little bit of offense here to discrediting specific arm training because you don't need it apparently because compound movements once again, save the day. You need to do arm exercises. Case in point, if you looked at the triceps itself, one of the biggest areas of your triceps is the long head, two thirds of the size of your triceps. Now, which compound exercise are you doing? Which bench press variation are you doing that puts your arms back over your head so you get that stretch needed to more effectively target that head? There is none. There is none. Now you could do other exercises like a heavy lying tricep extension, but it is a direct tricep exercise. So for me, when you're trying to build the biggest arms possible and also the most aesthetic arms possible, the compound movements, the big basic compound movements are simply not enough to do that. So for me, once again, we're getting the big red X here in terms of another myth busted. Sleep is the most important part of recovery. Not steroids. I think it's time I traded my natty card. You know, I think I should eat clean, trend hard, and a bar give up. You shut the f*** up, Jesse. All right. So sleep as part of recovery, we also know nutrition as part of recovery. Supplementation that we talked about can enhance recovery. But if I had to put my eggs all in one basket, I would have to agree that sleep is the most important part of recovery. And the reason is twofold. Number one, it is the time when our body is actually mechanically repairing itself. So the damage that you do in the gym, the stimulation that happens there is actually being repaired while you sleep, coming back bigger, stronger, and allowing for that new muscle to be built. But the other part of this is the neurological regeneration that happens during sleep. If you are continually sleep deprived, you're never going to allow yourself to recover enough mentally so that the next day when you have to go back and exert another effort, usually higher than the last time in order to keep your body growing, you're not going to be able to bring it because you just haven't allowed yourself to recover enough neurologically. So for me, sleep is going to hit both aspects of that. Make sure you get enough. Six to eight hours is generally best for most people. Some will claim they can get away with a little bit less, but I wouldn't go much lower than that. But for me, sleep is definitely important and therefore it gets the big green checkmark for a solid truth. Next up, deadlifting is bad for your back. Is that myth or not? Let me take this one. It's a load of bullshit. Bad deadlifting is bad for your back. Well, he's got a good point, right? Now, this is not one of those cases where it's a bad exercise. You see, this is actually a good exercise that's oftentimes misperformed. Now, if you do a deadlift, you train all the muscles of your posterior chain, your glutes, your hamstrings, your spinal erectors, your lats, your traps, right? It's a great builder of strength. However, you do have to do it right, like you said. I think the biggest issue with deadlifts is people bend at the waist rather than hinge back to perform the exercise. If you have proper hinge mechanics, then you actually are not lowering the weight while leaning forward too much or over flexing at the spine. Matter of fact, with good bracing, right, good spinal positioning, this is one of the best exercises you can do. There was a 2015 study where they actually used it in a rehab setting to strengthen people's low backs, and it did an amazing job at doing that. So, with proper progression, programming, and technique, the deadlift is not a back breaker, but it's actually a back maker. And so, for me, this is, Jesse, a load of bullshit, and it gets the big red X. Are abs made in the kitchen, Jesse? Yes. You cannot out-train a bad diet. Oh, I've heard that before. No matter how much weight training you do, no matter how much conditioning you do, you're never going to be able to have an impact calorically in a way that you can by simply eating less or being more mindful of the foods you're eating right now. In other words, more sets of pushing yourself away from the table versus sets of, let's say, burpees. Even a high intensity exercise like a burpee can burn like 15 calories per minute, but you will not be able to sustain it for long enough to get a high total calorie burn at the end of that workout. Even if you did long duration cardio, you're going to have to go for an extremely long time to make a significant impact calorically in terms of the number that you burn in a day that can all be undone so quickly with just one poor food choice. So, for me, abs are made in the kitchen, and they deserve the green check mark of truth. Next up, proper form is everything. As a physical therapist, you might actually be a little surprised by my answer. Well, let's hear it. Well, you see, proper form is critical if you're a beginner like you were. Yes. We started everything out learning proper form and building upon that proper form because you cannot establish a foundation of strength if you're building upon a cracked foundation. So, to do this, guys, you need to start out learning all your lifts with proper form through full range of motion. Once you have that, then you can actually be able to benefit from something we call control cheating. Like a barbell cheat curl gives you another weapon in your arsenal for adding more size to your arms, but only because you first trained yourself through proper form and built up that strong foundation because you can actually overload the eccentric but do so in a controlled way because that foundation is in place. So, for me, it's a bit conditional here. I do think a good cheat at the right time is the right way to go, but it's got to be a conditional because building your foundation has to start with proper form. Wait, Jeff, you said full range of motion, but I thought partial range of motion was better than full range of motion. Well, Jesse, it depends on what research you've been reading lately and also how you want to define the benefits of training because for me, it's not just about building muscle. You see, the person you're training needs to become not just bigger, but also stronger and hopefully more injury proof and to focus on just building muscle isn't necessarily the best way to go. That being said, if you're going to do that to then exaggerate the benefits of partial range of motion in terms of creating, let's say, upwards of a 10% gain in muscle, you have to make sure that you're including the absolute levels of gain. So, if you and I were training and we're trying to build bigger arms and I gained an inch, but you gained 10% more than me, how many inches additionally would you be getting? 1.1. No, just the 0.1 part because we both gained one. You're only gaining 0.1 additional. So, the difference between my arms and yours is 0.1. I don't think that's really perceptible. However, if I needed to compete against Chris Bumstead, maybe in that world of competitive bodybuilding, those extra 0.1 inches might actually be the difference between first and second place. Maybe. But most of us watching here are not competitive bodybuilders. We're just trying to get stronger, look better, and actually be able to do things for a lot longer. So, for me, partial range of motion does not provide all of the additional benefits that we get through full range of motion training. And so, I'm going to have to give this one a big red X for a big fat myth. If you want to talk about myths, check out these myths about creatine, the most popular supplement on the market right now. You can find them here. And also, if you want to see me rank more exercises, you can check out our gym exercises ranked video here. I hope you found this video helpful. Make sure you click subscribe, turn on notifications. If you're looking for those supplements, like I mentioned before, guys, high quality creatine and protein powder available at athleanx.com. All right, guys, see you soon.

=== FILE: These Pushups Will Change Your ENTIRE Body (GUARANTEED!) [Ac6WhCsMArE].txt ===

 X 하나付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付 quarters of the way down and guessing how far down you should go. Go all the way down to the ground like this and perform a simple lift of the hands that we call a hand release. And what that will do is take away the momentum that you might be using to your advantage at this point, but more importantly, give you a chance to engage muscles that never get engaged. And that's the rotator cuff along the back of your shoulders. The pushup itself is actually going to internally rotate your shoulders if that's all you ever do. But if you engage those rotator cuff muscles with the simple hand release at the bottom, then you actually can start to balance out the musculature of the shoulder to make sure that you're not developing bad posture in an attempt to actually work on your pushups. The next one we're doing is actually going to extend beyond just the rotator cuff to work your entire back. And again, most importantly, your low back and that area of your spine that we never work is the thoracic spine. Really important for good mobility and posture. All you have to do is extend the exercise a little bit further. So you get in position once again, you come down to the ground and here you perform your hand release. But from there, you shoot your hands out in front of you and then lift up as high as you can go with your arms and lift your legs and quads off the ground. It's going to strengthen your low back, your mid back and your upper back. Come down to the ground, slide your hands back under your shoulders, press up like you normally would on the pushup. So down, lift the hands up, build off of that benefit of the first exercise. Out in front of you, come back, down, lower. Again, this hand release version in the Superman position builds off of the first exercise and gives you another option for getting more benefits than just the upper body work. One of the earliest signs of a degenerated hip is a loss of hip flexion or the ability to get into this sort of deep squat position. We can actually build that right into a pushup with something actually popularized by the boxer Mike Tyson called the Mike Tyson pushup. And all you do here is you get into this position where you're as deep into a squat as you can possibly be, whatever your hip joints will allow you to be. And then what you do is you shoot your body out, straighten your legs out and come down. Now there's no hand release portion here, but just into this bottom position of the pushup. From here, you're going to push yourself back into this hip flex position. And what you're getting at the same time, if you focus on the arms is a flexed shoulder, right? In this position here with extension through that thoracic spine again, which is that really important area for mobility. So you get shoulder stability, shoulder mobility and flexibility at the same time that you're working into those deep joints of the, of the hip, get into that flexion of the hip in the bottom position. So down deep into this position here, come in and down, sit back as far as you can deep into the hips and come down. Now you don't want to rock too much. If you rock forward too much, you're going to start to feel this exercise become a lot more difficult because the front delts will take on a lot more of the work as the arm starts to travel behind your body. Instead, try to keep it about the level of your face as you get down, just past your face here, clear your hands and come down. Not way out here like that, because you'll make the exercise too difficult unnecessarily. Remember it's the hip flexion portion of this that really should be your focus. Not all pushups have to be done face down. As a matter of fact, if you're willing to change up the position, you can start to tap into some muscles that are sorely in need of more attention. And how to do that is with an exercise I call the back widow. So for this, we're going to do our pushup this way, facing up. And all you want to do is bend your knees and get your elbows just about 45 degrees away from horizontal, right? So tuck it right down to about here. And what you're going to do is you're going to push up with your elbows to try to engage all the muscles of your mid and upper back. Okay. A little bit into the low back too. And at the top here, you're essentially doing a supported crunch. So you're going to certainly engage your core too. But with your elbows in this position, I want you to feel as if you're almost going to rock your hands forward like that to help engage those muscles and lift and squeeze your body off the ground. Now this is what I don't want you to speed through. I don't want you to be doing your reps like this. I want you to purposely slowly engage the muscles on the backside, right along the spine and into the scapula. And I want you to hold them there for about three seconds and then lower slowly. Up, engage, come down and lower slowly. And again, the longer you're up in this position, the more you have to engage your core to sort of hold you there isometrically. Now, if you want to see what that looks like straight ahead, you'll look at those muscles start to light up. When I get here, press up and squeeze. You can see how much work they're doing. Come down, it's nice and slow. Up and squeeze. Again, sometimes what people will do here in error is they'll push too much with their feet, trying to get themselves up. And they turn this into a bridge where you're basically fighting against yourself. You're trying to come up with your bridging up at the same time. You're not able to get the range of motion. If you can quiet this down and not really push through the feet, but think about pushing through the elbows, you can let your hands rock a little bit. You're going to drive the movement through the upper back muscles, which is exactly where you want to feel it. And again, get more of that thoracic extension that we're also sorely lacking. Now this next one might be a little bit more on the difficult side. However, I will tell you this, the benefits will match that difficulty level. In other words, if you put in the effort to build up to these, you're going to start to see a lot of benefits in terms of building up your entire upper body because it hits your triceps, your shoulders, and your chest equally well, in addition to actually helping to contribute more to that thoracic extension and shoulder mobility that we're lacking, that we've already been working on. So this is called the dive bomber pushup. What you do is you start in this downward dog position, which is going to require good hamstring flexibility, calf flexibility, in order to keep your knees straight and get to this initial starting position. And what I want you to do is swoop yourself down to the ground and then pretend that there's a fence right here. Okay, just about this high. Your goal is to get your head under the fence, peek at what's going on on the other side, and then try to sneak out without touching that fence. Okay, imagine it's a barbed wire fence and get yourself all the way back to the starting position. So if you were to do that, it would look like this. I'm going to slide down really low, get underneath the fence, and then lift up and take a look. Now this position here happens to be incredibly good for those who have disc-related low back pain, right? Getting into that low back lumbar extension. Really, really good position. To be able to support yourself with your upper body is a real good benefit here because it really focuses on the triceps being able to do a lot of the work. Now from this position, I'm going to lower myself back down on that side of the fence and sneak my way back under. And as I press, you can see that the shoulders are really starting to do the work to push me back up to the top. But it's not just now getting into that extension of the thoracic spine and the flexion of the shoulders, but now we're doing it against gravity, really pushing up. So you're strengthening that movement too. So if you can get to the point where you're able to do that exercise, you're really getting not just a more flexible shoulder, but a stronger, more flexible shoulder complex. So that's really, really important. So again, what it looks like in full is you start here, heels down, hamstrings stretch by straightening out your knees, dive down underneath, go nice and slow, peek up on the other side, come up, get your chest spread out, get your low back there extended, come back down, push under the fence and come up. Everything should be done nice and slow and deliberate because I want you to focus on each part of the movement, but you're moving the focus of the exercise right here for chest, triceps, back down again, chest, shoulders, and with all those benefits in the joints surrounding. If that variation is still a little too challenging, that's okay because you can try this instead. And this is a rocking downward dog. So what this will do is it will take away some of the difficulty of the pushup itself, but it'll still give you a lot of the benefits we were just looking at. So you come down to your pushup. As you go up from the pushup, you don't push straight up. On this variation, you're actually going to push back. Okay. Rock all the way down on your toes. Try to get your heels in contact with the ground to get a real good stretch of your calves and your hamstrings. And if you're doing this right, you should feel it back through here and through the hamstrings. Okay. From here, you're still getting that same end position. All those benefits we talked about for the shoulder flexibility and mobility, also in that thoracic spine. But I come back down to the ground, come down, press, rock, and push back. Now the nice thing here, it's a modified pike pushup. What's nice about this too is for those that actually do the bench press, you know that the natural arc on a bench press is not just straight up and down. It's actually up and back as you press. And when you do this rock, you're actually getting the natural arc to a bench press, or in this case, a pushup, which is a bodyweight version of a bench press, to get more of the chest engagement, especially towards the upper chest. So again, looking at that one more time, if I'm down here like this, pushing straight up and down is not mimicking the natural arc of a barbell. What you want to do is go up higher on your chest where your hands will finish up here, as opposed to just out in front of your chest here to get more of that carryover. Again, more chest development, but more importantly, all those other benefits that we talked about. One of the most mobile joints in your entire body is your shoulder because it's one of those ball and socket joints that has three-dimensional freedom of movement. That being said, with mobility comes the need for stability. And this exercise will help you to do that. It's a T-stand pushup. It's also going to help to get more rotation through that thoracic spine, not just extension. So what we do is we get in this position like this. We're going to come down and do our regular pushup. Again, the option to do a hand release at the bottom is there. As we come up, we rotate to the top and try to point our fingers up to the sky. Okay. Now we're not letting this sag. First thing you want to do is make sure you keep this lifted. So that will keep the lower side here. We call this pillar strength of your core through your obliques, right here through your hips, into your glute medius, also into the quadratus lumborum. We have all these muscles that are firing to keep us here, but this is actually building stability through the shoulder and we're doing it in a loaded way. I've got my body weight that I have to be able to support. And again, we're not allowing this to shrug up. We got to keep this in the same position it was when we rotated. Once we're up in the position at the top here, we reach down and through just to get a little bit more core rotational strength and come back up to the top, hold it for one or two seconds, and come back down to the ground. Come down. Same thing. You can see that the foot on the opposite side is going to come over to help support me and catch me in that position. Up here, good extended shoulder, not collapsing on that side, all the way up to the top over here. Reach down and through as far as I can, lifting up nice and strong through that left side, back to the top, rotate, look at the hand, come back down, uncross the feet. So looking like this, up, down and through, and then back up to the top and down. And again, this is never about the quantity. It's always about the quality. If you're looking for other exercises that are actually going to help to improve 95% of the problems that you have posturally, you're going to want to check out this video over here. Also, if you're looking for exercises that you're going to regret not doing in 10 years, just like some of these push-up variations, I want you to check out this over here. Guys, as a physical therapist, it's not just how you look, but how you feel that matters to me. You can get my program over at athleanx.com. You can find more videos by subscribing and making sure you turn on your notifications. All right, guys. Hope you found this helpful. Share it with someone you know who can help as well. See you.

=== FILE: This Workout Will Completely Change Your Body [Yms9gHkXQf8].txt ===

 I'm going to give you three different workouts, one each for beginners, intermediate, intermediate, and advanced, that's going to take you through five separate exercises. Each one is designed to hit the different areas of the chest and also the different functions of the chest and also the different functions of the chest. If you ever wonder whether it's possible to build a bigger chest with just push-ups, then this is the video for you. It starts with your upper chest exercise because you're going to need the most amount of energy to perform it. For the beginners, you're going to perform this from your knees and we call this a push-away. Now, what I want you to do, now what I want you to do, now what I want you to do is you're going to be a push-up workout. Now, what I want you to notice is that you're not going to be moving just straight up and down but rather up and back and what this does is it puts those arms in a relative position above your shoulders at the end of every repetition. This is how you target those upper pec fibers more effectively because they're moving from that low to high position that actually follows the functions of those upper pec fibers. Now, how many repetitions are you going to do here? All of them. See, any rep-based push-up workout is likely to leave you with a push-up workout. a little bit frustrated with the results that you see because it's not taking you to a point of change or challenge. You need to take each set of this workout all the way to failure no matter what number that might be for you. Now, again, the exercise has to match your capabilities. So, if you're more at an intermediate level, then I want you to do this exercise instead. This is the prowler push-away. It's the same movement but this time you're doing it from your toes rather than from your knees which is going to make the exercise more difficult because you're moving more body weight. Now, if you're doing this from the more advanced level, then you do this. This is a decline push-up and again using the same mechanics of up and back but when you put yourself up against the wall here, the challenge becomes even greater if you can't get at least four or five of these repetitions that would drop back down to the intermediate level and build yourself up. Remember, no matter what level you decide to follow this workout at, you have to take this set all the way to failure. Now, here's something that is a bit of a departure from normal push-up workouts. I don't want you to just rest in between exercises because you're going to need a little bit of reprieve before moving on to the next push-up but what can we do instead? A little bit of ab work. I mean, you're literally on the floor in perfect position to move into one of three different ab exercises. So, for the beginners, you would do something here called the V-Sit Hold. Again, transition right out of that exercise, hold in this position here for as long as you can and then get into your next push-up exercise. If you're at the intermediate level, it's not just the V-Sit Hold but it's a scissor V-Sit. So, we're not just increasing the difficulty of the push-up but we're increasing the difficulty of the ab exercise you do in between push-up sets. As soon as you're done, you move right now back into the next exercise. And this time, we lower down the focus to that big, broad area of the chest. We're talking about those sternal fibers. And here, the exercise is going to do it best for beginners. is going to be that standard knee push-up. Make sure you're fully extending your elbows. You're not shortchanging any repetition. You lower yourself down with good push-up mechanics all the way to the floor and back up. For the intermediate level here, you're going to have to pick those knees up once again and perform a standard push-up. And again, not sacrifice. You're going to have to make a progress in form along the way, making sure that every repetition is a good one. Just make sure that you perform all of them that you can until you can perform no more and you reach actual failure. And finally, for the advanced, you're going to perform this variation, which is the archer push-up. And we're making it a little bit more complex, but we're also increasing the challenge on the chest. And again, regardless of which variation you're following here, you're still going to take it all the way to the point of failure or really, like I said, to the point where the challenge actually creates a change. Once again, here, you don't just rest after the completion of the second exercise, but you go back to your assigned ab exercise. So again, beginners go back to that V-sit hold, the intermediates go to that V-sit scissor, and then the advanced go into that scissor V-up. You do that for as long as you can until we hit the third exercise here, this time targeting the lower chest. And the beginners are going to do the incline pushup to do this best. All you're going to need here is either a box or a bench or even your own staircase at home. The main thing that's going on here is that you're changing the angle of your body and most of all, the orientation of your arms relative to your body. Remember I said, if you wanted to hit the lower pec fibers, you want those arms to be angled more downward as if they would be in, let's say, a traditional dip. Well, here we can do that. And again, by just performing the regular pushup motion with the angle of the body now changed, you're going to do exactly that. You're going to target those lower pecs better. Now, if you're at the intermediate level, the exercise becomes the pseudo plans pushup. Now here, your focus should be on just shifting your body weight a little bit forward off of your toes and more in the direction of your shoulders to create a little bit of that forward lean and sort of backward angling of the arms. This is enough, again, small, but important to shift the focus more to those lower pecs and to give you the result that you're looking for may be missing with the pushup variations you're doing right now. And then for the advanced, we have the modified Hindu pushup. And the difference between this and the intermediate exercise is just a little bit more range of motion, a little bit more travel in that forward direction to put a little bit more of that stress and focus on the lower pecs. It differs from the traditional Hindu pushup because we're not allowing ourselves to swoop back at all. Once we reach the level of the ground, we come right back up again and push ourselves forward again, all the way to failure. And before you move on to the fourth exercise, of course, you have to take your ab break by doing the respective exercise that corresponds to the level of difficulty that you're following. Now, this is where a good pushup workout that targeted all three areas of the chest might end and therefore not be a good enough pushup workout, or in this case, a perfect pushup workout, because we're still missing one of the main functions of the chest. And that is the movement of the arm across the chest like we would in a fly. How do we do that when our hands are fixed in place during a pushup? Well, beginners are going to do it with an exercise called the twisting knee push away. And what this does is it allows us to get some relative adduction of the arm. In other words, again, we can't lift it and cross it across the body. In this case, but what we can do is twist the torso closer to the arm to create that relative adduction of the arm to engage the chest in a way that's not typical for a standard pushup where our hands are fixed in place. You want to alternate twisting to the left and right sides, making sure to push off of that hand all the way up onto your fingers if you can to really gain as much range of motion into adduction as possible. For the intermediates, the exercise is the same. The challenge becomes more difficult because once again, you're getting off the knees here. Once again, you're alternating between the right and left sides, still trying to do the same thing in terms of reaching through, almost pushing through up onto your fingers if you can to increase the range of motion that's possible with this relative adduction. For the advanced out there, if you have access to a single resistance band, then you now have access to one of my favorite pushup variations. And it's called the crossover pushup. You anchor the band out to the side, onto something stable. And as you push up, you cross your arm against the resistance of the band into actual adduction of the shoulder, which is going to light up your pecs even more. You follow it right into another pushup and again, up and across your body. Now you want to make sure you're performing repetitions with both arms, but I'll tell you how to do that for now. Focus all on one arm for one set. We'll talk about how to do the other arm later. Again, follow up any one of these variations of the exercises by doing your designated ab exercise until failure. And you come back now for the fifth and final exercise of your workout and is based around the concept of speeding up when you slow down. You may not feel like an athlete, but you can be training like one if you follow this principle and the beginners are going to be able to do something more explosive with this exercise. It's called the lateral knee plyo pushup. And again, you get to do these from your knees to allow you to do these more explosive exercises, especially if you haven't tried them to date because you tried something too hard. Intermediates are going to perform something called the double hand release plyo pushup. And the hand release is actually removing momentum, forcing you to become more explosive from a dead stop. And then the plyo portion of this is actually ensuring that you're becoming explosive enough. And again, taking these all the way till failure, no, maybe not a lot of repetitions, but make them high quality explosive ones if you want to see the benefits of this particular exercise. And again, you're going to follow that up this one last time with the ab exercise designated for your ability level. Now I know sometimes it's hard to concentrate and the good news is you don't really have to because here's all the workouts that I just discussed laid out for you step by step, rep by rep, exercise by exercise and level by level. Now at the end of one completed level, you want to rest three to five minutes and perform a second if possible. And it's during this second round that if you performed the right over left version of that bandit crossover, then you would switch it up and perform the left over right. Pushups can build a bigger chest if you know the right variations to do and the right way to sequence them. If you're looking for a complete program, you can find a body weight only program over at athleanx.com called Xero. And if you want to know all about chest exercises and where they rank amongst each other, including pushups, you can find that in my chest exercises ranked video here. Guys, make sure you click subscribe, turn on your notifications so you never miss a video when we put one out. All right, guys, see you soon.

=== FILE: Why Most ＂Over 40＂ Workouts FAIL (And What Actually Works) [HflN05RrzGY].txt ===

! mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage up. This is the Big 5-0 and this is me enjoying my carrot cake. Yes, once a year I have my carrot cake. You can be damn sure I'm going to be doing it again. Now, when we talk about getting stronger, you have to understand that you want to get as absolutely strong as possible. Right, Jesse? Absolutely. Now, I'm talking about absolutely strong. Do you know what that means? That means being as strong as absolutely possible. Well, that means that there's two different types of strength. There's relative strength and there's absolute strength. Absolute strength is your ability to simply move things in a better way than other people. You can move heavier objects more effectively than other people. You're pretty absolutely strong. Yeah, I would like to think so. Relative strength brings into play a lot of things like this, like a hundred humans versus one gorilla. I'm taking the gorilla, that situation. For me, I'm not saying who I think is going to win, but I'm going to tell you who I would rather win because I think humans pretty much suck a lot. And you're an animal lover. Now, when we talk about my world of sports, these are the kind of things that the relative strength arguments start to come into play. In other words, is Jon Jones the best pound for pound fighter or is someone like Max Holloway at just 145 pounds? There's a hundred pound difference between these two. However, in the world of nature, we have someone that's much stronger. This is the dung beetle. Smelly. Yeah. They can pull 1,141 times their body weight. That's pretty strong. Okay. Now, I've got a question for you and for you. Okay. You're trapped under a car. Okay. Would you rather the dung beetle come and save you or Thor Bjornsson? Thor Bjornsson, absolutely. Just make a choice here, guys. Now, again, really, really, really relatively strong for their body weight. Yeah. But again, the only thing that's going to save me or you in this situation is someone that's absolutely strong. Now, these represent the most basic of absolute strength numbers. Okay. I want you to look at these and say, Damn. I can't do that. I can't do that. I can't do that. And the good thing is you wouldn't be alone. There would be a lot of people who have the same inability to reach these numbers, but there's something really fascinating. Stick with me here for a second. We're talking about a 100-pound chin-up, a 200-pound overhead press, a 300-pound bench press, a 400-pound squat, and a 500-pound deadlift. That's squat and deadlift. My specialty is… Right. And you have both the squat and the deadlift. But what these represent are just a set of absolute strength standards that, guess what? Even someone the size of Max Holloway has been able to achieve. There are Olympians out there who can do these things at those low bodyweights of 160 pounds. Yeah. So it's not that they're impossible. I would never show you something here that's impossible. Are they probable for most of you? No. But again, let's talk about it. If you wanted to instead talk about more of the relative terms of strength – this is what we're talking about here – have you ever heard of the different ranges for an exercise? Right? So for a bench press they'll say, if you can bench 1.25 to 1.75 times your bodyweight, you're doing good. Yep. Okay? If you can squat 2 to 2.5 times your bodyweight, you're doing good. How much are you weighing? 165. So 165 times 2 is 330 pounds, right? Yep. 330 on the low end to another half of that on the high end. Deadlift. Deadlift. Yeah. Deadlift. 2.55 to 3 times your bodyweight. You actually surpassed that too. Yeah, it did. Up to 560, right? 560. But look what happens. Whether we're talking about relative or absolute strength standards, there's still an urging of progression. If you're not at those 100, 200, 300, 400, 500 numbers, can you push yourself further up towards them? Or if you are at the bottom end of this range, can you push yourself up towards the high end of this range? There's nothing saying, like in your case, that you can't exceed the top end of the range. But it's still always urging progression. This is Jesse. Right here, what is that? 560. What is this here? 430. 430. So really good numbers. 165 pounds, bodyweight. We talk about people being incredibly strong. Now stay tuned because again, how did somebody like Jesse, who isn't the biggest man on the face of the earth – let's face it – get to be as strong as he did because he knew how to train strength with an eye towards longevity? Even if he was only in his late 20s and early 30s when he did it. I want to share the same thing with you guys. Now, I have a pushup question for you. If you do a pushup and you weigh 160 pounds, you're actually lifting 120 pounds of bodyweight. So that means you're lifting 75% of your body because your feet are in contact with the ground when you do that pushup. If you started out being able to do only six pushups, and then you could do 12, and then you could do 15, and then you could do 20, are you getting stronger? Yeah. The answer is yes. You are getting stronger. But are you building strength? I wouldn't say so. See, there's a difference. You might be getting stronger at an exercise, or you might even be getting a little better at the exercise. But are you building strength? Your goal, no matter how old you are, is that you need to be able to build and maintain strength because every decade that you live, you're going to lose strength. You actually lose more strength, and you lose muscle size. But once you start hitting your 40s, 50s, and 60s, you're losing about 5% to 8% or 9% of your strength every decade. That's a lot. Yeah, it sucks. Because I can actually tell you that it's happening with me, and it also happens with muscles as well. You lose some of your muscle mass. So your goal is to be as strong as possible, and the only way to do that is to continue to lift heavier weights. Because if I told you 120 pound pushup – and we equate it to a bench press – 120 time bench press – is that that impressive? Not really. But if you told me, well, I could do it 12 times. Okay. I could do it 20 times. Okay. I could do it 40 times. It's fine, but it's not that impressive because, again, the strength load – the amount that you're actually lifting – is not impressive. So whether you lift more and more reps doesn't really represent absolute strength. Would you say that's muscle endurance more than muscle endurance? It becomes more muscle endurance. Yeah. Yeah. So I'd rather see you learn how to get stronger. One to eight. This is where the tension is strong enough to apply that stimulus to keep you gaining strength even as your body wants to lose strength. Okay? You've got to be in this range. But for longevity, watch what happens. As you train in this range, there's always going to be something we call the zone of risk and then the safety net. So when we're talking about one to eight, when Jesse was just starting out in his 20s, this safety net was pretty wide and the zone of risk was really sort of reserved for just the single rep efforts here. Yeah. Why is that? Because whenever you're near your max effort, anything can happen. We just had Swede Burns speak at our event. He dropped a 550-pound bench press on his chest, broke his back. Like there's risk when you're lifting anything that heavy, that close to your max. So no matter how old you are, you're always going to have that risk. But for the most part, those doubles, triples, four, five, six, seven, all those rep counts are going to be pretty safe for you to do. But as you get older, this is what happens. That zone of risk starts to broaden. Creep up. It creeps up. The safety net is still here though. There's plenty of opportunity for you to lift five, six, seven, eight reps, which is really good for stimulating that tension overload that creates strength and muscle size, by the way. But that zone of risk becomes a little bit broader. So the singles, doubles, and triples start to become a little bit more difficult for you to handle. Especially in your 40s, 50s, and 60s. Mostly because the amount of stress that that can put on your joints to handle that type of weight becomes a little bit sometimes hard to recover from. Now, I'm not saying that there's not people out here who did what we're going to talk about to prepare themselves for those weights. They can handle those a lot better than others can. There's certainly people out there that can handle these rep ranges for a lot longer period of time. But in general, if we're talking in generality, this becomes a little bit more problematic. That being said, while strength is everything, it's not the only thing. This is the difference when we're talking about training for longevity. In keeping your strength, in building your strength, there's only one way to do it. I want you guys to pay close attention here because this is something that we use a lot in athletics. It's called the strength pyramid. Here's how it goes. At the bottom of everything we do is strength. It's the bottom of the pyramid. It's the base of support. How do we keep and build as much strength as possible? Because everything above that improves. If you're looking at what's next, we talk about hypertrophy. That's the building of muscle. We just talked about how important both of those are in terms of longevity. Especially as you're aging. Especially as you age because you're going to lose both of them. As we hit our 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s, it starts to really rapidly decline. Well, the good thing about hypertrophy and strength is that they feed back and forth to each other. If you build muscle, you generally can build more force producing capabilities so you increase your strength. Usually, as you increase your strength, there's some carryover to an increase in hypertrophy. So, they feed back and forth to each other. Next up the chain is something called power. Power, by definition, requires your ability to exert force, but over a faster period of time. In other words, you can more quickly, explosively exert your power and demonstrate your force capabilities. Well, obviously, if you increase your strength, you're feeding directly into that equation, so you're increasing your power. So, we know that focusing on strength will have an increase on power as long as you're training for that. You should. Your SAQ – you know what that is? Strength, agility, and quickness. Speed, agility, and quickness. Almost. But it does benefit from strength. That strength feeds right into this because if we're talking about being fast, running speed. I can run faster if I can exert more force into the ground to propel myself into that next stride. And that comes from strength, getting stronger legs. Yes. I could actually maybe produce more force to increase my stride length to make me appear faster also, again, through strength. Agility and quickness. If I want to plant and go into this direction, if I'm weak, right? If I go and I plant my foot and my leg and my quads are not that strong. As I start to move my momentum in this direction, it takes too long for me to absorb that because I can't quickly turn around and explosively push back in the other direction. Or in that case, with momentum, you'll actually move too far. Too far and then my body has lost control and I can't get back there. So, speed, agility, and quickness all improve when I'm strong because I can get in there, have all the strength in my leg to quickly push back in the opposite direction. Yeah. Skill work. Now when we talk about the highest level of the pyramid. For me, let's talk about baseball. I don't care if you have the greatest skill and have great hand-eye contact, be able to make contact with every pitch that's thrown your way. Batting 100. Well, you'd be batting 1,000. 1,000, right. You're off on your percentages here. The fact is though, if you only roll the ball at the second base because you have no strength to get it into the outfield or, God forbid, over the wall, no one's ever going to put you on their team. Right. You need to have strength to be able to hit the ball far and hard. However, all this is a lie. If this is how you've been training, and if you're looking at an eye towards longevity, I'm going to hammer away at strength, and I'm going to do some hypertrophy work, and I might even be training like an athlete, like Jeff says, and looking at these other things too and trying to improve. It's all a lie. Because we're not talking about a pyramid. We're talking about a tree. The only thing that maintains the strength of the tree is the root system that sits under the surface that no one ever sees. I don't care how big that tree is, if the roots are damaged and dried out and rotted out, at some point that tree is going to fall over. And oftentimes, the biggest tree is the one that makes the most damage. Yeah. Right? Because it was built on a shaky foundation. That tree got huge, but it had no strength and foundation. And therefore, when it got injured, it was pretty bad. Yeah. So, the only way to build real strength with an eye towards longevity is to make sure that you're focusing on this. Because your flexibility, your mobility, and your stability are the true foundation of where you want to focus if you want to build lasting strength. How do you test that? If you take a 400lb squatter and you put them on a BOSU and tell them to do it again, the likelihood that they could do that exercise safely is likely very, very low. Why? Because I've taken your stability away. If I can take away your strength by manipulating one thing that's not based on just your strength, then I haven't really gotten to the foundation of what I need to focus on. Your foundation is in these things because as long as I can cut out some degree of flexibility or mobility or stability and your strength suffers, then you aren't really truly that strong. Here's another example. If your thoracic mobility sucks because your posture is like this, how do you overhead press? How do you get to the 200lb overhead press? You probably can't. You're never going to be able to. Because if I can't extend through the thoracic spine to give myself the leverage to realize that full strength, then I'm not going to be able to get to those numbers that maybe my body is capable of, but I'm undermining it because I don't have this. So when we talk about what your real strength is, that realized strength, the thing that you see every time you go to the gym, it is your absolute strength minus the weak roots. How much mobility do you lack? How much stability do you lack? How much of that flexibility are you lacking that's taking away from your absolute strength and leaving you with a realized strength that's less than it is? If you go back to these numbers – the 100, 200, 300, 400, 500 – I bet you that 98% of you can't hit these five numbers. Maybe even 99%. But if you focused on those three elements of flexibility, mobility, and stability, you could get way closer to these numbers than you are right now. In other words, that strength is in you. It just necessarily isn't being realized because you're having an inattention to the stability, flexibility, and mobility. Now, people ask again, how did Jesse get to those numbers? Go ahead. Well, first thing that we did was we worked on flexibility, mobility, and stability to build a strong base to where – But specifically, your posture sucked. Oh, that was terrible. Right. So Jesse came in, you saw his posture was horrible. We worked on posture, even when it was skinny Jesse. Like weak, skinny Jesse. When people are like, he needs to get stronger. He needs to put on size. I understand that. But he needs to put it on the right way. The same thing for you. You can't just rush to push heavier and heavier loads if you don't pay attention to the cracks in the foundation. What else did you do? Mobility-wise? All ability. We worked on my shoulders and we worked on my hips. Those were the two biggest areas that I was lacking. And then stability-wise, your core training. He wasn't just doing crunches. No, we were doing anti-extension, anti-rotation. So the ability to prevent your body from moving in space. So if you were to hold a band and step out, it wants to pull you back in that direction. We worked on allowing Jesse to maintain stability and control without letting his core be controlled for him. All these things came together to produce a stronger version inside because no one was seeing anything that impressive at that point, which allowed for a straight, linear path up, pretty much, in terms of your strength gains. Yes. And those strength gains happen over a pretty brief period of time when we look at the big picture. And now when you look at his levels of strength, they really rival people that are much bigger than him. Again, exceeding a 3.5x bodyweight deadlift at his bodyweight of 165 pounds. Yeah. So the point here, guys, is if you do this, these numbers might be a lot more realistic than you think. If you want to see some exercises and mobility drills that can go a long way towards correcting some of these stability, flexibility, and mobility losses, you're going to want to make sure you check out this video over here. I also have another one that does that, that you can do just with a series of exercises in your own home that you can watch over here. And also we have full programs and supplements available over at ATHLEANX.com. All right, guys. See you soon.

=== FILE: Will Tennyson’s Bodybuilding Plan (GOOD, BAD & UGLY!) [3hC8q7mAUtw].txt ===

 So today I actually get to do something that I don't often get a chance to do, and that is review a YouTuber. But the good thing is, I like this YouTuber a lot, I actually included him in my list of my favorite YouTubers, and it's a time to celebrate an achievement. We're talking about Will Tennyson. Oh man, I love Will Tennyson. How can you not love Will Tennyson? Well, we're gonna review what he's up to, and also stop along the way as we watch his video, because there's a lot of things I think we can learn from his journey. 200 days ago, I looked like this. I was skipping workouts, eating out way too much, staying up late working and traveling, which definitely had a massive impact on my health and fitness. So what did this do? Well, it inspired me to take on the hardest challenge in the bodybuilding world that many don't even dare to attempt. Enter a bodybuilding show. Would you ever do a bodybuilding show? No, that's not my style. Those trunks are not for me. People have asked me all these years, because I was lean, why did you not do a bodybuilding competition? I literally would be so self-conscious about getting up on stage, and it's not because I'm embarrassed of my endowment. I just can't get myself up there. I think maybe I'm too endowed to want to flaunt it up on stage. I don't know what it is, but I wouldn't do it. I face my frenemy, the scale. This number is going to dictate if I'm going to enjoy my day or if I want to feed my last. 177.2 pounds. That is a new low weigh-in, my friends. To think I also started this journey at 205 pounds means I'm almost down 30 pounds. That's a lot of weight that is lost here. What's interesting, I think people are going to be very stunned. When they saw the scale and it said 177, were you shocked? Yeah. The amount of muscle, and you'll see as it plays out in these training clips, the amount of muscle that Will is carrying at 177, it's a lot. But it does indicate once again that when you are lean, you look a lot bigger than you are. 177 pounds of body weight is by no means small, but you might think he weighed over 200 pounds now, given how he looks, but he doesn't. So it's a bit of an illusion, but it's one that you want to use in your favor. I'm going to talk more about this as we go on, about why you want to be able to master this, not just for a short-term bodybuilding competition, but how to master and lean this forever. And of that I'm convinced I've lost a few brain cells. I've lost half an inch off my height. I've lost a lot, blah, blah, blah, blah. I've lost my ability to speak English. I've lost my entire wardrobe. If only losing weight was as easy as losing everything else in my life. It's real. These are definitely things that happen as you start to go into a caloric deficit and really in a more aggressive way. I want to really underscore as we play this out, the aggressiveness of preparing and getting yourself to a leaner level of body fat is really the determining factor with a lot of these negative side effects that you feel. If you can do this at a much more gradual pace that oftentimes preparing for a bodybuilding competition does not afford you, you're not going to have as many of these side effects. And I can attest to this personally and also through others that I've worked with over the long haul of trying to get lean. Now what I do is I start to send some pictures in my little thong, my bodybuilding thong that I just got custom ordered. I have 40% glute coverage on this one here. And then we've got 60% glute coverage on this one here. I got to tell you, I never thought there was different levels of coverage for your glutes with a bodybuilding bikini. Not being in the bodybuilding community, like I said, I honestly had no idea. I definitely think that progress has been made since yesterday. I'm very happy in the photos with my quads. They're really starting to come in, starting to feather right here. He's got huge legs. Yeah, I wish I had legs like that. Huge legs. I mean, honestly. And again, at 177, a lot of the body weight's right there in his legs. He looks great. Right now, I am so flat. Like it's ridiculous. Like I'm so flat that I actually feel like I look like I'm higher body fat than I actually am. Because I just feel so stringy and like crap. But it's all in the name of the game. And we just keep on depleting, keep on looking like crap. And then when show day comes, hopefully all the carbs that we carb up with makes us morph into a frickin' monster. I mean, so let's start talking about some of the psychological that goes along with trying to get this lean. Or even getting into bodybuilding. Again, I'm not disparaging bodybuilding. I think it's a pursuit that a lot of people use as a great motivator. But it starts to settle in here where this body dysmorphia is real. I mean, I honestly think he looks amazing at that level right there. And he feels flat. And he feels depleted. And he feels like he looks like shit. And he feels like nothing looks good. Yeah. That's not reality. I can't even imagine feeling that specifically negative about myself looking that great. Yeah. I mean, but as we'll see here, the grass is always greener. You always think there's more. So even when you get down to these levels, it's not enough. Yeah. And I think that's the danger sometimes of pursuing these types of things. 19 days out, chest, back, and biceps workout. If I'm being honest, I don't like coming to the gym anymore. It's not fun whatsoever. Which is very sad because it used to be the highlight of my day. But now it just feels like I'm surviving an anabolic zombie apocalypse at this point. So, first thing I would remark on is chest, back, and biceps. Mm-hmm. I think when you start to get to these levels of depletion and your energy just isn't where it should be, that's a lot to ask to do a chest, back, and bicep type training day. And there's even an opportunity here for a smarter bro split so that you can go in there focused on one muscle group and you can kind of trash it but still conserve the energy to come back to the other muscle groups with more energy. Do you think also limiting the sets is important in that instance because you are so fatigued? The one benefit of this type of split is you're going to likely limit your total volume because you have to get through those three different muscle groups. Mm-hmm. You've got some carry over between back and biceps so you can actually shorten the workout a little bit. Maybe the biceps only get a couple exercises. That actually plays in your favor. But again, if it's mostly the energy that's the limiting factor here, then you might be better off again conserving the focus to just one or at best two muscle groups. And the lack of desire, by the way, for the workout itself could be a telltale indicator of decreased testosterone. Oh, really? Right. Because of the caloric deficit, because of the leanness he's getting to, your testosterone levels can drop. And it's usually when you start to miss the things that you used to like or you lack the drive to do the things that you actually like to do, that's a good indicator that your testosterone might be dropping. Got you. First exercise, incline dumbbell, three sets, eight to ten. Generally, I like to go heavy on the first exercise and try to maintain the same weight, same reps as I did back when I was 205 pounds. Surprisingly, I've done a pretty good job at it. So hopefully we can work up to like 115 pounds for three sets of ten and I'd be super happy. This is pretty interesting. So when you lose weight, especially if you've lost almost 30 pounds, you can definitely expect to see a significant strength loss in that process. So usually at a 30 pound loss of weight, you're looking at a 10 to 15 percent loss in strength. There are a few things that will mitigate this though. The first thing is your experience level. So the more experienced you are, you're not going to have as big of a strength loss as others. The second thing is the type of exercise that you're doing. Generally, lower body exercises are going to see a bigger strength drop off than upper body exercises. The third thing is the fiber composition of the muscles that you're trying to train here. And typically these type two fibers of the chest that are handling this heavier exercise are the ones that are more susceptible. But again, given Will's experience, he might be offsetting that a little bit. But the idea that he wants to try to do 115 pounds when he usually does 120, that's a very small drop off. You would be expecting like a 12 to 15 pound drop off. So down to maybe the 105s. If he can maintain the 115s, that would actually be pretty damn good. With these workouts, you can't really take your time because the longer that you take, the shittier you start to feel. So you really have to kind of get through it just so you kind of feel good the entire time. And that's what we were talking about. Like there's a cap on the amount of energy you have here. So trying to do too many muscle groups in one workout might just naturally leave the ones that are at the end to suffer more than they should. And I really believe and agree with him that those early exercises should be good key foundational movements because you are going to start to drop off from there. Yeah. Your best effort will come early. You want to start with the compounds and then move to the isolations after that. Yeah. Yeah. And you can see here, I mean, here he's grabbing those 115s, right? So as he does these heavy sets early, he looks good, right? He looks good. I don't think he's going to be able to sustain this from many, many sets. But the fact that he's doing the 115s and only a five pound drop off, it's pretty damn impressive. Yeah. You know, he's good for him too. And look at the incline. I like the incline there, 30 degrees. I always talk about a low incline. Whew. I'm happy with that. Oh my God. I think like my peak, I get the 120s for three sets of 10. So the fact that I'm like nearly 30 pounds down, 115s. I can't complain with that. And he shouldn't. No, absolutely not. That's impressive. That's really, really, really good. Another thing that I've really noticed is that you can't grind reps at all. It gets frustrating at times. You kind of just hit this wall that you can't control and you just, you kind of just have to give it up. Nope. Now I'm pissed. So that is true too. Like the, the ability to grind in this more acute deficit, it's gonna be really, really difficult. But as you get leaner over time, you can still grind out. Cause I've seen you grind some serious reps. I can grind pretty good. I can grind pretty good. And again, I've been very lean for a long period of time. I may have gone through a transition period where I had to sort of get my body used to it and then sort of work my way back up to it. I don't even know. Cause that would have happened a long time ago for me. But if you do this more gradually again, over a period that's longer than even six months, you're going to find the fact that even if you lose the ability to grind early, you're going to bounce back and find your ability to grind later. Yeah. So it is a transition point that you're going to have to get yourself through, but this acute bodybuilding prep is going to definitely cause it to be much more challenging to grind through those very difficult reps. But this is where I think you need to sort of push yourself and be able to get to those repetitions to increase the intensity, to decrease the overall length of those workouts to allow your body to recover. By the way, I just wanted to point out here, you see this incline press, great angle. And I love Will. So I'm being constructive here. When you lift your butt so far off the bench like that, you're flat. He's flat. Basically, he turned into a flat bench press, right? Cause when you get your hips now, everything's in line between the hips and the chest. So it's a flat bench. So his early sets, he actually was doing that where he had the ass down into the crook of the bench and he was actually doing a proper incline bench press for the upper chest. But just as you start to want to cheat, your body will always find a way around the cheat and find a way to do it. Especially as you're more fatigued. Definitely. So flattening it out is going to be the cheat that allows you to get those dumbbells a little higher. Since we know that flat bench press is slightly stronger than your incline. Next thing, going to be a machine press because at this point, no more free weight. It would just not be a good idea. I just need to be more stabilized because I fatigue super quick. I actually like the point. I think it's an interesting point. Like given how fatigued he is, would you rather then go do a bunch of additional free weight exercises? Like let's say we're doing back training. Would you want to then go barbell row after doing like a heavy deadlift? The fatigue is too great to allow him to maintain proper posture on that row without necessarily potentially getting hurt. Especially when you're this close to competition, the thing that can take you out quicker than anything is an injury. Man, it really sucks coming to the gym and it's not about progressing and getting better. It's about maintaining best case scenario. As you get older and you start to lose muscle and size and strength, isn't it important to try to progress in order to maintain where you're at? So that's a very interesting point. Like when you get older, this is the, this is a microscopic look into the, the, the concept of what Will's talking about here. But if you look at a macro level, which I'm urging you guys to do, it's actually a great thing to maintain because as we age from decade to decade to decade, we're going to naturally lose strength and size. So if you're able to maintain size and strength as you age, you're actually gaining. Yeah. You're making progress by holding on to what nature is trying to rob from you very successfully, by the way, genetically, by the way, from decade to decade to decade. So again, in the micro picture here of a few weeks or months, sure that what he's saying is right. But in a big picture, you really want to, you know, you, you can benefit from actually staying the same in terms of not losing what you would normally lose. If you don't believe in yourself, pretend to. When I first started this, the main reason I wanted to do it was because the idea of doing a show scared me. I didn't think that I had it in me. I think I thought I would, you know, give in. It's just nice to, to make it to this point and prove my, prove to myself that this can be done and just staying out of my head, constantly giving myself positive reinforcement. But still the shit is hard, man. There it is. Get comfortable being uncomfortable. Yeah. I, I, this is why I like Will, by the way, just because he's being very transparent, you know, and he's putting himself through something that he normally would not want to do. And I think all too often, and I am included in this, we don't step out. There's a good analogy of whether we ever let the parachute out, right? We just stand on the edge of the cliff and we never jump because we don't even know if the parachute's in there. We're doubting that there's a parachute in there. And if you jump and there's no parachute, you're done. But a lot of times, all it takes is that, just that push, that step to get yourself off the cliff, pull that ripcord, you find the parachute and all of a sudden you land softly. If you just go on and just go on and just go on and just go on and just go on and just go on and just go on and just go on and just go on and just go on and just go on and just go on and just go on and just go on and just go on and just go on and just go on. Come on. I actually get goosebumps when I see that because that is what this is all about. Whenever you're going to put yourself out there and do something risky, like he said, you've got to dig deep. And the only person you're ever going to really have to truly face is yourself. Did you give everything you had? And if you can actually talk yourself into doing yet another rep and another rep, when you least want to do it, that is truly where the real gains lie. And I just love that sort of self-talk and that drive to keep going. That's human capacity on display. What you're truly capable of is usually more than what you think you are. I really haven't changed anything from how I would train normally to now, nor should you. I think a lot of people go through these drastic measures to completely transform their training. But again, like I said earlier, it's the same objective as always. You want to train to build. You want to train to maintain and keep everything. So why would you change anything? Right. So you still train for strength. You'd focus on that early on so you're not getting weak. One of the things we did in baseball, by the way, we would still have guys train in season. But we have 162 games to play over 180 days. So we had to be very selective with what we prioritized. Yeah. In the training, we would prioritize strength. We wanted to maintain and hold on to their strength. We didn't want to drop off across the long season. So you do the things that matter most. But then again, he's still doing other exercises where he's working on that mind-muscle connection. He's still trying to build muscle even towards the end here. You can still do all of that. I just think that you have to be very selective in terms of making sure the exercises are not overlapping too much. So you're just wasting effort doing the same thing that could have been done with one. You're being very economical with your energy resources. And again, that's the main focus here. He's not changing that approach. But as you see here, it starts to become more and more difficult. By far, my worst pose is the front standing relax, unfortunately, because that's kind of like the first impression pose. The lats are weak. So we're going to try to build them. Two weeks out, I mean, can't, but we'll try. So, right, probably can't really build them in this last final two weeks. But I would give him a tip. One of the things he was doing here was, you can see he's kind of even on this low cable row, the elbows are tucked, right? They're tucked tight. So if you want to focus more lats, you stay low. If you want to focus more upper back, you go high with the elbows and you let them drift. You could actually train the Terry's major a little bit more with a wider lat pull-down grip and a wider cable row grip. If you're going to make any differences in terms of the final two weeks, when you haven't trained a muscle very much, you can start to see, even if it's like the post-pump benefits that you get in those muscles, you can start to see that there. I would have focused, I would tell him there, focus a little bit more on that wide grip to get the Terry's major popping, which would give you that little extra width up at the upper, upper top portion of your lats. Well, I noticed that on you. It's a lat helper, you know. I noticed even on my back, my lats aren't that big, but they look wider than they do because my Terry's major is pretty well developed, if I do say so myself. Yeah, and it's the muscle that's situated right up at that upper portion of the lat, so it gives you that real extra little bit of width to the back. I think when I started the cut, my arms were like close to 18, maybe 18. Now I've lost like probably pretty close to two inches off my arms, and they look like quadruple the size. Body fat is such an illusion, man. People get so fixated on scale weight, but you'd be surprised. All the people that you want to look like probably weigh way less than you think. Well, that's like what we said before. Yeah, so AthleanX is about creating a muscular but lean physique, one that's still capable of doing things functionally. I don't want to throw that out in pursuit of the aesthetics. However, if you want to look better at any body weight, get leaner. Right? Get leaner. If you can cut your body fat levels down, your muscularity will improve. The visual muscularity will improve. I'm not a heavy guy myself, but I have a better visual because of the levels of leanness that I carry. And I do it without PEDs or looking bloated like a lot of others do where it sort of almost starts to look grotesque. I do it in a way that's sensible, but at the same time realizing that the leanness will always play in your favor to make you look better no matter what the body weight is. Yeah, it's an optical illusion that works in your favor. By the way, his arm size, what did he say, 18 inches down to 16? Yeah. His arms still look huge. Yeah, that's about the same arm size that I'm at when I flex, and I think his arms look better than mine, honestly. Why does bicep curls feel like deadlifts, man? There again, it's like, at this point in the workout, if biceps is last for him, it's really become a grind. His curls are literally deadlifts at this point. Right? So that's the part that I was talking about economically, the energy that you have going into a workout. If you try to bite off too much, you might wind up not having enough energy to put in a real high effort. Yeah. This is by far the most critical I've ever been with my body in my entire life. Like, my body dysmorphia is at an all-time high. Looking the best I've ever looked, all I see is like negatives. I actually see myself fatter now than when I started. I complain 90% of the time. So it kind of just shows you that, like, no matter what your goal is, when you achieve it, it's not going to make you happy. The grass is not always greener. You know what I mean? Like, I thought I was going to be happy like this, but every time I just look in the mirror, I'm like, I look fat. I have more to do, which is, like, super unhealthy. Horrible mindset. Body dysmorphia is real. It is a horrible mindset. Like, to have to feel that way is a horrible mindset. There are times when, you know, in the last couple years where I think as my collagen has thinned out and I'll get, like, a little bit looser around my midsection where I'm sitting there actually saying to myself, and I catch myself going, you're being ridiculous. But I'll say, like, my God, I don't like this. I don't like the way this looks. That is body dysmorphia. And it does set in. But it's not a guarantee of just being lean. Yeah. Right? It's not that. It's the fact that we become very critical. We become more hypercritical as we get leaner because there's more to see. Yeah. Right? When we're overweight or just fat, we go, oh, I'm fat. There's not a lot to analyze. But as you start to reveal more, I think you become more hypercritical because you can start to see muscles and muscle shapes that you maybe didn't see prior to losing the body fat. One of the really bad things that has probably been the worst of this entire prep has been the brain fog. In, like, long conversations, I start slurring my words. I get kind of, like, more anxious. Like, my brain signals are, like, trying to connect, like, the Wi-Fi on a Delta flight. It's just nothing. Nothing is operating at full capacity. I get irritated way easier. And even if I, like, understand it's kind of, what's the word, unreasonable, I still can't control it. Again, I think that's sort of going along hand in hand with that drop in testosterone. Like, because this transition to leanness has been so quick. Drastic. And again, six months is quick, you know, to achieve that level of drop. I think that's where you're seeing some of the side effects of testosterone lowering because you're getting that brain fog. You're getting, like, that unreasonable nature. You can't accept things. Like, that sounds like that to me, honestly. But usually, even just in a sleep-deprived state or just being overall CNS fatigued, you will find it much harder to gather your words and articulate sentences. Yeah. It just happens. Or if you have a lot of brain trauma like I've had. Right. Then it's a whole other case. You really have no life when you do this. It is so all-consuming. I feel like dandelions have more exciting lives than me. Every single day, my life feels like one of those nature documentaries. About some, like, sad animal that's, like, the last of their species. Yep. That's me. There's no sustainability to this. Yes, it's sustainable enough to get to this competition. But I'm talking about making this sustainable long-term because it really, really is. But it has to be, it has to occur over a more gradual pace. I started this process in October. So it's, like, six months of doing this. And I'm definitely a different person. I feel like I don't get excited for the same things that I normally would. I feel like I don't show as much emotion. I don't react to things in a certain way. So although I have learned so much about myself through this process, there are things that I'm really excited to get back to. That's one day of suffering. Tomorrow, we'll wake up and do the exact same thing. And have a good rest of your day. Bye-bye. And there's the consistency, right? Being able to do this day after day after day. However, again, when it's based off of a real deprivation approach, you cannot do this day after day. He can't wait for this to be over and get back to his donuts. I watch you, Will. I know what you're doing. The fact here, though, is if you do this at a more sustainable rate, not acutely like this, you do not have the feelings of wanting it to be over, hating life, losing track of who you are. You can still very much stay the person you are, enjoy what you're doing, enjoy the process, and reap all the benefits of being lean and muscular. Again, you don't have to have lower testosterone. Even at my very low levels of body fat, I don't have decreased levels of testosterone. Yeah. They're still very normal, and that's because I've done this over the long haul. If you're looking, guys, for a way to do this at a more sustainable pace, that's what AthleanX is all about. You can find all of our workout programs and meal plans that kind of guide you step-by-step through this so you don't have these crashes up and down and still can obtain really good levels of leanness. You can find them over at AthleanX.com. If you found the video helpful, make sure you leave your comments below. Also, congratulations, Will Tennyson. You deserve it. You put in the work. And again, I've always watched you. I've always liked you. So, special congratulations from me to you. All right, guys. See you back here soon. Click subscribe, turn on notifications so you never miss the video when we put one out. See you.

=== FILE: Women Wish You'd Do THESE Exercises More! [dgcKUYjDCX0].txt ===

 When people are asked to draw the ideal male physique, something interesting happens, no matter who's doing the drawing or what their style is, whether it's detailed and artistic, or simple and straightforward, the results always point to the same thing, eight key muscle groups that stand out every time, the face barely matters, it's these muscles that create the look of size, and if you want to look more muscular fast, these are the areas you need to start training smarter. If, as an extension So, you set up a cable machine like this. You take that underhanded, thumbs up grip on the rope. Not the overhanded grip that I don't like when we do a face pull. Then what we're going to do is, we're going to shrug up there. You can get it right into your traps there, and then continue the shrug as we row back. So as you're rowing, you're going to squeeze your traps up on top of it. You feel that? Yeah. Oh yeah. So it's a row and a shrug. It starts with the shrug, then it rows up. And again, the point here is to go heavy. You've got the ability to go heavy here because you can row the weight up even further. But you want to feel that squeeze. If you're not doing the first initial pull, you're not going to feel it best. This exercise is amazing, but like I said, it's only one of two. The second exercise is a variation of something we call a Meadows Row. So John Meadows, a great colleague of mine who passed away, he had an exercise named after him. That's how well it worked. But we knew with the Meadows Row, if we let our elbow drift to the side out wide, we would get more of the upper back development. But you can actually turn this into that upper back, mid upper back, and upper trap by doing a couple things. The first thing is, you actually keep your arms straight and just shrug the weight up at the same time. So it's part row, and then part shrug. You're actually, in this first portion of it, shrugging and rowing at the same time. Straight arm first. That's the shrug, and then go right into the row. It's very similar to what we just did there with the cable, but it's got a different effect. You get a really good stretch down here in the bottom, as long as you keep the plates off the floor. So one of the things that John Meadows actually did a lot of times when he did his row was he only used a 25 pound plate. Why? Because it made the bar go lower to the floor rather than the 45 pound that we have here. Right. If you can handle the stretch, then go for the stretch. But that's how you want to start building up those big upper traps on your way to a much bigger looking body. Okay, continuing on down, now we can't go any further without first stopping at the delts. Each of the people that drew those pictures in the beginning did a big capped delt. Why? Because the wider your shoulders are, the more width you have in that ratio from your shoulders to your waist that we know is actually incredibly important. Did you know, Jesse, that people who have a wider shoulder to waist ratio have sex in an earlier age and have more partners? I did not know that. You probably should have started doing these a lot sooner. Wow. Now here's the first exercise. We call it a hip hugger. Okay, so you're going to take a heavier than normal weight. What's nice is it actually sets up the second exercise I'm going to show you here. With this weight, all you're going to look to do is basically put yourself in the bottom of a dip. What would you look like in the bottom? Just like that, right? What that's doing is driving your elbows back behind your body into extension. What that does is it works the rear delts. So if you want to get bigger, wider delts, you better work on your rear delts too because that provides the depth. Not so much the front delts. A lot of people have development there. If you don't, you do need to work those, contrary to what some people will say. But we don't always have good development either in the middle or rear delts. So you drive your elbows back. The second thing it does by trying to get yourself to the bottom of a dip is it opens up some width. Just turn a little bit at the top of the rep to this side so they can see what I'm talking about. Up here, you see the width out here? That's basically creating the abduction of the arm that we are familiar with when we're trying to do a lateral raise. Do you feel that? Oh yeah. So all you're trying to do here is drag the dumbbells up. That's where the name hip hugger comes from. Drag them up close to the sides and you're good to go. That brings us to the next exercise. Hold on one sec. It's good because it basically uses the same weight, roughly, that you would use on that exercise. So heavier than normal for a lateral raise. What do you typically use for a lateral raise? About 20. Okay, so you're about 45 here, right? We're going to get to a strict lateral raise, but we do a cheat lateral first. How do you do it? You grab a heavier weight. Now I don't care if you get a little bit of momentum here. You brace yourself, you cheat that weight up, there you go, and you try to slow it down, just like that. The eccentric is where we're really driving the gains here. Drive it up and then slow it down on the way down. Almost try to freeze the dumbbell in space, even though it's not going to do that. Doing it this way does not compromise the health of your shoulder. It's not easy if you're keeping that elbow down a little bit and the arm trying to go back, the hand trying to go back behind your body. But what it does is it gives you that heavier eccentric load that we know can drive gains. Now as soon as you're done and you go to failure there, I wouldn't necessarily stop. Here's where I like to take a much lighter weight. Here Jesse has 10 pounds. Yep. And immediately go into a drop set of a strict lateral raise. But I can make it even more strict by having you go halfway down and go back up again. That's a 1.5 rep. So you're re-initiating the repetition once the momentum would seem like it's out of the lift. No, now you've got to stop it and go back in the opposite direction. So it forces that middle delt to do all the work. And again, done in a drop set fashion here, it's a really good, effective combination for widening out those delts. And of course, creating that visual look that's so important to looking bigger. As we continue to work ourselves down the physique, we have to stop, of course, at the chest. But not just the chest. We're talking about the upper chest. Because if there's one area that is lagging on most men, it's the upper chest, which is that shelf. When viewed from the side, that actually gives you some depth to your chest. Also if you're wearing a V-cut t-shirt, you actually see that upper chest development, which is kind of a telltale sign they actually train your chest. So what do we want to do to do this? The first thing is what we call a thumbs up double incline bench press. Notable things to see here. First of all, the incline is not that high. It's only about 30 degrees. You don't want to start to tilt this thing too high, 45 or 60 degrees, because you start to focus too much on the front delt. So now what we do is we get the dumbbells in place and we work on our target point first. Too often, people go ahead and press up, they press too far out in front of them. So you're almost catching the dumbbells as they roll down a hill and the only way to catch them is with your front delts. Take that away from your front delts. Instead, go over your eyes with the dumbbells at the very least. If anything more, you can actually go even a little past your eyes. Just like that. Once you get there, you'll automatically feel that upper chest contracting. Now what's the thumbs up portion of it? Go ahead and do a rep, Jesse. Turn them a little bit more into this position here. As you come up, you tilt the thumbs upward. You tilt them up to allow the inner portion of your hands to get closer to each other. Because the adduction gets a little bit limited when you have dumbbells that face each other. Go ahead with a neutral grip with the dumbbells facing each other. Go to the top. Limit the space and the adduction you can get because the dumbbells bang into each other. But if you turn them just slightly and then tilt up, now you actually can get them closer to each other. When you do that, you get more – one more rep – more adduction. Again, target up over your eyes. Finish high. Even a little higher than that. One more. Go down. Target up here. Over your eyes. There you go. Feel that? Yep. And again, with that little tilt, you're definitely going to have something to work with. So, to hit that upper chest, we've got another option here. And interestingly, there's a new book called In Your Face – The New Science of Human Attraction. Guess what women said, Jesse, when they talk about a development of a chest? What's that? They're not looking for big muscular man boobs or even just kind of fat man boobs. They're looking for a more squared off muscular chiseled chest. Okay? So, you want to focus on chiseling out the chest. This is where we're going to do it. If you take an exercise like this – this actually is a modification of something I call the UCV raise – that some people have a problem stabilizing. If you do it down here on a bench, it's very easy to make sure you're staying in the right position. You sort of side lie onto the bench. So, you're leaning onto this side that you're going to train. If you're going to train your right upper pec, then this is the side you're going to lean onto. Your foot goes up on the bench over there for stability. Do you feel pretty stable? Yeah. Your elbow is just simply holding onto this at about a 90 degree angle, just allowing it to drive straight down to the floor. Okay, now what you're going to do is you're just going to reach your arm up overhead towards the ceiling. You feel that, right? Oh, I'm lighting up. So, you get that upper chest. Why? Because we're getting that low to high positioning that we need to engage those upper chest fibers that run in this direction. Any time you can mimic the direction of the fibers, or follow the fibers like I say, you're going to hit that muscle more effectively. The upper chest fibers run exactly in this direction. You don't have to weight this very heavy. You're nice and stable here. You just think about driving the hands straight up to the ceiling and the rest will take care of itself. Again, another option if you want to start to square out those pecs as opposed to just making those big, big saggy man boobs you might have right now, or even worse, just sort of that big boulder chest with no definition. I've got an interesting one here for you, Jesse. All right. Let's hear it. All right. So, we're talking about back, right? Okay. So, we're talking about back, right? That's a good thing. And the National Academy of Sciences, that back broadness, or that V taper, actually mattered more to 79% of the women polled than either their height or endowment. All right. Let's fix things that we can fix, not things that can't fix. I know that. That's why I'm giving you an opportunity here. All right. So, to widen out your lost cause in other areas, let's make sure we widen out the back. To widen out the back, guys, we're talking about two exercises we can do right here from a high cable. And the first one is a straight arm pushdown, but we're doing it from a kneeling position. The reason why is because we want to get a better stretch and we have more range of motion because we're not in that standing position limited to something like this height. We can go way above our head here to get more of that lat stretch. So you sit back onto your heels, you get a good arch in your low back, and then you bring your arms down in a big, arcing motion on the way down until you finish with your elbows tight to your side. You feel that, right? Oh, yeah. The big problem here is people don't want to do a straight arm pushdown. They want to cheat the straight arm pushdown, and in doing so they take away the whole function of the exercise in targeting of the lats. Because what they start to do is, as they come down, they pull the elbows in and they bend them. Don't bend the elbows ever. Because what will happen then is now you're going to try to straight arm pushdown that through about the next 30 degrees and then you'll pick up again in a straight arm. But you put yourself in a cheap position and you're taking away the effectiveness. So what I want you to do is handle the weight that you can handle, go in that big, arcing motion, make sure you keep them straight, try to paint the wall in front of you. And then when you get down to the bottom, drive the elbows into your sides until you feel that good squeeze in the lats because your arms are abducted tightly to your sides. Feel it? Yo! All right, next one. So, you just attach a different handle. Here now, all we have to do is put a straight arm handle in, or a regular D handle like this. And now we're going to do a variation of a pulldown. But there's a difference here in what you're trying to feel. The one arm variation of the pulldown, you start with one knee up in front of you like this. Cool. And you get into even more of a lunge that way. Left leg back further. I want to create a big stretch in through here because if I can separate the pelvis from the upper arm here, then I can get a really good stretch on the lats. From here, what I do is I drive down and I follow it with my head. I watch it, which allows me to tuck it down into my pocket. Tuck the elbow down into the pocket, which is really just adducting the arm tight to your side. You feel that? Oh. Literally, my favorite exercise is the standing one arm variation of this, when I want to be a little bit more athletic and get my lower body involved. But when I'm just looking for straight hypertrophy or lat width, I want to do one here where I can take away all the lower body contribution and force the lats to do the job. Again, big, huge stretch at the top. Follow it down with your head. Get down into that tight position down next to your waist. Come back up to the top. You can then open up the body that way. And then come back down one more time. Drive it. Again, this combination here, done in a simple high pulley station, gives you two really effective exercises, if you do them right, for widening out those lats and then overcoming your shortcomings, Jesse. Oh, man. Next stop, we work ourselves down and we have to stop here at the arms. And guess what? It doesn't even matter if you're in short sleeves or not. Women actually say that they can see the arms through the shirt, so you're not escaping poor arm development. Now, the good thing is women actually find comfort in the fact that a man can pick them up. Right? Is that like a safety thing? Or other things. But safety is a good starting point. So why not figure out a way that you can actually train your arms in a more efficient way? There's a lot of things you can do. Curls, close grip bench press, a lot of things we cover, chin ups, right? But if there's a good, efficient way that we can do it with a pair of dumbbells, it's this right here. So we've set up an incline bench and usually the exercises that you do here in this superset can actually handle the same amount of weight proportionally between the biceps and the triceps. But we do an incline curl. Most importantly you've got to do these right. So we see a lot of extreme variations of this that are completely unnecessary. Once your arm is in this position here, it's back behind the body by about 30 degrees. That is plenty of stretch to get on the biceps in this position if you're looking to get a stretch to create a stronger contraction. If you want to increase this a little bit more, all you have to do at the bottom, Jesse, is turn your wrist over into that pronation all the way. Then you get more of a stretch in the biceps simply by doing that. Then you try to contract the tricep just like that. It's active contraction to really get a stretch on the biceps. Then you can come straight up out of that position and you curl it up. Go down a couple more reps. So there you go. You get that good contraction on the way down. Come back out. You get that pronation on the bottom to enhance the stretch. You don't want to hang out in that stretch for too long at the bottom if you're looking to get that stretch reflex to get a better contraction on the rep. Good. Now let's say you go all the way to failure there. All you have to do is reposition yourself on the bench. Now you stand, anchor your feet down low against the bottom of the bench. Now your head and upper body are off the edge of the bench. Now you simply perform this tricep extension. And what's nice here is you get that really good stretch. We always talk about it on the long head of the tricep which is the thickest, meatiest part of the tricep and the area that's most capable of being built. And again, what's nice about the weight here is usually what you can handle for a 10 to 12 reps on the incline curl is going to be the same weight that you can handle here on this extension. Now if you really want to be a psycho, what you could do is when you get to failure there, drop one of them, go grab the other dumbbell with two hands, let the elbows flare out a little bit to the side, and now sort of rep out in the same way with half the weight. So you have the opportunity to go to and through failure with one simple superset that hits both the biceps and the triceps. And it makes whoever in your life is looking for those bigger arms happy. So whether you wear no sleeves or short sleeves, there's one area of your arms that aren't really getting hidden. Often. You've got long sleeves on. We're talking about your forearms. As a matter of fact, Sylvester Stallone said he always trains his neck and his forearms because they're always visible no matter what he's wearing. So if you want to start to have a more appealing physique or a stronger looking physique, you've got to start training your forearms. One of my favorite ways to do it is actually here with this cable machine. It gives a really good contraction and feel to a curl, a wrist curl, that a lot of times people don't feel that much when they're just doing the standard version on a bench. So all you do here is you just set up a simple D handle here or a little single arm handle. And then all you're going to do is carry it in your distal fingers. So let it roll up to the top of your fingers, keeping your elbows stationary. And now what you do is you just curl down with the fingers first and then down into the forearm. You feel that? So you're getting all of the flexors of the fingers because that's actually part of the muscles of the forearm. And then you're getting into that wrist flexion which finishes off that. So you're getting both elements there. If you just do wrist flexion you're limiting the amount of muscles that you train in your forearm on this underside here because we're ignoring the finger flexors too. So you let it go into the distal part of your fingers, you curl down and you do this exercise really slowly. Because I want you to feel each piece go down really slow right there through the finger flexors. Then it gets into the fist and then it goes down into that contraction. You can feel that right there. Looks good. It's basically hard as a rock. All right, so now that's only one half though of the forearms. We've got the side of the back here too that we need to develop. For that we simply disconnect a different bar, just a straight bar that you use for a straight arm push down or tricep push down. Now here we're going to perform a variation of a cable curl. But this is a reverse cable curl with a focus on the backside of the forearms. And to do that do a regular reverse curl. You do that you keep it in a neutral forearm the whole time or a neutral wrist the entire time. Instead for this exercise what I want you to do is lead first with wrist extension just like that. So curl back to get those extensors on the backside of your forearm. Then you continue to finish that up just to about there to hit that muscle here in your forearm, the brachioradialis. Right? And including some of the smaller extensors that run in a distant portion of your wrist and forearm. So you go back and down. So you're basically lifting up and extending at the salient just like that. Lead with extension and then keep it going and try to extend even more as you get to the top. You feel it lightening up here? Lightweight, baby. Yeah, that's right. It is. Lightweight is all that's needed here if you do this right. Again, a lot of times when you're trying to create hypertrophy of a muscle it's not about all the time how much weight you can use but can you direct a lot of force into the muscles you're trying to build. And miraculously when you actually do, maybe sometimes even for the first time, you're driving force into the muscles that actually provides a stimulus for them to grow and then good things start to happen. So it should come as no surprise that the abs are on the list when it comes to what you want to develop if you want to look better. Right? Makes sense. However, there was actually a study done at Western Illinois University – shout out to the Leathernecks. Don't ask me how I know that, Jesse. Years of betting on college basketball taught me a lot of the mascots of who's who. But anyway, that's an aside. We talk about the abs being a focal point because they are. They're literally right here in your midsection. On top of that, there's actually a book by Gordon Patzer, Looks They Matter More Than You Ever Imagine. And guess what they found? What's that? That women actually find themselves more attracted to men with abs because not only do they look good, but because they're a scientific indicator of fertility. Those that carry higher levels of body fat actually usually have lower levels of testosterone. So it's sort of a subconscious trigger that people might be responding to. But we just have to make sure that we train them. One of my favorite ways to do it is here, first with the Crunch Pull Down. Why? Because I do believe that if you want your abs to pop, you can train them with weights. But you have to do the right exercise and you have to do them the right way. Too many people screw this up. Watch how to do this properly and I promise you you'll never get it wrong again. You want to make sure that once you've set up in this position that your hips never change position. They don't sit back, Jesse, sit back as they go down. Because all you're doing is using your own body weight to pull the weight down. You're not letting your abs actually do the work. The focus and the role of the abs is to be able to flex the spine under a load. So if I can take this and really round out and flex, but without letting my hips drop backwards, well then I'm doing things properly. If I go back here behind Jesse and I put my leg over here and I give him sort of a target point – I don't want you to touch my leg. Okay? So come straight up from here. You get a good stretch on the abs from there. So straight down, don't let that ass come backwards. There you go. Perfect. You don't ever want to have that backward travel of the hips if you want to do the exercise right. The fact is you can load up on this exercise and again the overload because you're finally adding weight to ab exercises that you really usually do without weight gives you good stimulus to start to develop them. As you drop those body fat levels down then things start to really look good. But that's not quite it because there's a second exercise that you can do for your abs that more effectively targets the lower abs. That is a thing that's possible because the fibers there can be preferentially favored by focusing on exercises that move the bottom up towards the top rather than what we just did the top down towards the bottom. We do it with some variation if possible of a hanging leg raise. Now, I know it might be difficult for some. If you have the ability to hang from a bar for even 30 seconds then you have the ability to do an ab exercise like this. What dictates what's tough about this or not is whether you keep your legs straight, which is more weight to lift, or whether you keep your legs bent, which is going to be an easier variation. I would suggest that you start bent. The focus though, the main thing you need to do to get this right is try to think about what your butt's doing. All I care about is not really what the legs are doing other than setting up the exercise, but really what the butt's doing. I want the butt to curl. I want you to be able to see your ass if you had a mirror in front of you, or somebody standing here or you guys watching. You need to be able to see Jesse's backside, as tough as it might be for some, to see that each and every repetition if you want to know that you're doing it right. So one more, bend it, curl under. Get that there. Why is that important? Because you're getting to a posterior tilt. You're actually getting that flexion of the spine that we talked about was so important there. If you do it every time you do this you're going to have a lot of success. The other thing you can do is always use the captain's chair where you simply sit in there with the arms supported. So if you don't have the strength to hold on you can do it in that position. However, everything else stays the same. You still want to get the mechanics of getting your butt curled under even though you're not necessarily hanging from a bar. And so no tour around the body is going to be complete without taking at least one little turn around the corner and making sure that the posterior chain is actually done too. And we've paid some attention to the glutes. And guys, there really is a couple of effective exercises here that really do a really good job of hitting the area. The first one is a barbell hip thrust. So now I have a couple tips though that make this exercise more doable for people. Because a lot of people don't like the exercise. They feel like it's uncomfortable. It's uncomfortable because you're either crushing your junk with the bar, right? Or you're simply just letting the bar drive down to your bony hips and it doesn't feel good. So what you want to do is push down your hands into your thighs. So that upper area of your thighs, just past the junk, is where you want to push your hands forward. It's going to drive the bar into your thighs and give you some stability. That's the first thing. The second thing is you've got to get through full hip extension. So not just kind of close or two to three inches shy, but all the way up as high as you possibly can get until your body is straight as a board from your chest to your abdomen down to your thighs. So that's what you're doing, Jesse. Of course, you have experience with another exercise that actually built a really good juicy booty. For my booty cheeks, I love the deadlift. So the deadlift, of course, guys, you can see Jesse doing it here. We actually just talked about this exercise and all the benefits of it. It's a great hinge exercise that drives superior gains to the backside because of all the extreme load that you're able to handle on the exercise. So no matter which way you draw it up, guys, or how you slice it, there are certain areas that are non-negotiable when it comes to developing a more attractive looking physique. And again, when you do it, you can look bigger even at lower body weights. I'll tell you something else. Looking leaner is also going to make you look a hell of a lot bigger. It's one of the big secrets here at ATHLEANX. The leaner you are, the bigger you look. You can actually get a complete meal plan and workout plan that makes sure that you check both of those boxes off over at ATHLEANX.com. I hope you found the video helpful, guys. Make sure you leave your comments. And also, click subscribe, turn on your notifications so you never miss a video when we put one out. All right, guys. See you soon. Good luck building up that body of yours. Jesse, you're a lost cause. Aww. Bye.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:57.004093Z ===
