 d converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter masturbation and its effects on muscle building and strength. I showed them to my coach and he doesn't buy it. Can you help me to convince him that masturbation won't have any negative effects on my efforts in the gym or even my performance on game day and that it might actually be beneficial? Begging that you'll side with me here. You wrote this. I wrote this. I'm not going to talk to you about masturbation habits. All right. So now let's dial it back a little bit. So there was a long standing belief that partaking in masturbation prior to competition would leave you weak in the legs. Weak in the knees. Weak in the knees. Right. And it would kill your aggression. A lot of it started with boxers and they thought that they shouldn't do this before a fight. Right. All right. Because it became too calm or too, too satisfied. Let's put it. Did Mickey say something about that? I think so. I think so. But that actually was replaced with more recent fears or concerns around its effect on testosterone. Because studies were done that showed that testosterone, both total and free, would drop after climax through masturbation. Now, the difference of that was that two things. Number one, it was a transient drop. So like a few minutes to a few hours? Yes. Like it was very short lived. Unless you're doing this chronically multiple times a day. Am I talking to you? Why are you talking to me? Why are you talking to me? Why are you talking to me? To maintain a low level of testosterone, it really wouldn't have any effect. Okay. But what's also interesting is, because I love the science of this, I always love the science of endocrinology, there's a series of checks and balances in the body. What they didn't say there was that there also was an increased androgen receptor sensitivity to testosterone. So if the testosterone levels dropped, but the androgen receptor sensitivity went up, then maybe it would even net out to no effect at all. So it basically offsets itself. Yeah. So now what was actually one of the conclusions of one of our earlier videos was that perhaps instead of looking for the negatives of masturbation, there actually existed some more positives that would come from this activity. But it would have to do with the timing of it. For instance, if you were to use this as, let's say, your favorite pre-workout, this might be my new favorite pre-workout, then you could potentially have an impact on the training you're about to do. Because we know that there's an increase of an endocannabinoid that's released that binds to something called the CB2 receptor, that actually has an ability to almost blunt discomfort. Really? Yeah. Now, what that would mean is if you were training, let's say, not for strength, but if you were training for hypertrophy or even like a metabolic hypertrophy, if you could blunt the sensation of that burn and discomfort, perhaps you could actually, I'm going to say it, but like last longer in those sets. However, as I always talked about before, because of those checks and balances, the interesting thing about that is it also, we know, has the ability to relax you and kind of make you feel calm. And chill. Right. Now, is that really going to line up well with you attacking your workout? So even if you had the capacity to train longer, could you actually even want to do it because you're not even having the desire to do that? Well, that goes back to what the coach was referring to, that killer instinct. Yeah. But then I also pointed out that the most beneficial time seems to be prior to bed or later at night because of the other effect that we get. And that is a release of oxytocin. You know what oxytocin is? That's the, oh, I learned this one. That's the love hormone. The cuddle hormone, right? Cuddle hormone. So after reaching climax, it's what makes you want to cuddle, right? It's what makes you feel less stressed, more relaxed, closer to your partner, right? It's actually a very important thing, I think, for men. It's a very important hormone that exists. Yeah. It keeps relationships intact. But what it does is it also, in new sort of evidence, starts to show something even more exciting. What's that? It specifically seems to speed up the time it takes us to get to phase three sleep or slow wave sleep. I only know REM sleep. Okay. So it's this phase right before REM. Okay. And in this slow wave sleep, when we're talking about wanting to build muscle, this is the most important wave of sleep that we have. Really? Because it promotes muscle protein synthesis. Okay. Right? It helps to restore glycogen into the muscles that we trained. It actually is the part where we get tissue remodeling and repair. It's the place in our sleep where we get growth hormone release. Okay. And it's basically where we actually kind of boost overall immunity. So it's very, very important. Sounds like all the good stuff happens there. It does. So not only are we going to speed up the pathway to get there, but we also can stay in that phase longer due to the surge in oxytocin. Okay. And we know that masturbation can create a surge in this oxytocin. That's pretty significant. So the timing then becomes a big question. So if someone were to partake in this activity, such as myself, when is the best time to do it? So it's based upon the evidence we have about the release of this oxytocin. So again, just like the testosterone decrease, this is a transient increase. So it's not going to be forever. But what we see is 10 minutes after climax, you get a two times amount of oxytocin in your body than you had prior to. Wow. 20 minutes after, it's three times the amount. Really? Here's the catch though. By 30 minutes after release, it's back to normal again. Oh man. So what would I suggest? If you're going to try to do this, the closer you are to sleep, the more likely you are to see this benefit. Okay. Okay. However, what's not clear is we do know that the oxytocin released during climax actually allows for that prolonged phase three sleep. And that phase three doesn't really get to you within 30 minutes. So it is possible that just the surge itself is what's responsible for setting the stage to have this happen. But again, timing it up so you can benefit from that faster entry or, you know, approach to phase three would actually be pretty useful. So honestly, I mean, I'd say here that more research is needed, right? So if you... How does one go about getting involved in this research? Do we get paid for our efforts? That's what I want to know. Are you interested? Are you asking for a friend or potentially for yourself? Research purposes. So all I would say is this. Anybody who's concerned about improving performance or they are a natural lifter, the number one thing you can do as a natural lifter is promote recovery, right? The number one benefit from anabolic steroids is faster recovery. They pretty much make recovery a non-issue. If you can find methods and mechanisms to try to speed up muscle recovery, I would say you're on the road to actually something that could be pretty beneficial. Now again, it's going to have to be consistent. It's going to have to be something, again, that's timed properly. And maybe there are going to be some new studies coming down the pipe here that could actually, you know... Coming down the pipe. I literally didn't mean to do that. I did not mean to do that. But anyway, more research is approaching or coming. Coming! Anyway, if you can, you know, experiment yourself, you can. But I'm not going to answer... Yeah, Jeff, you like to experiment yourself too? It's all about me and doing it myself. To answer the question, I don't see any detriment here. If anything, maybe possibly it's a benefit. So no worries in doing what you got to do. Oh, yeah? It's a benefit and there's no worries in doing what I got to do? Oh, at least I'm going to go have some fun. Guys, if you're looking for ways to actually promote recovery, first of all, you need a good workout program to stimulate the muscle. You can find it at athelenex.com. Actually, Reconstruction, our best recovery promoting supplement we have, also available over there. I got to get the hell out of here. Oh, come on, Jeff. See you. You don't want to talk about this any further? You don't want to talk about this any further?