 What's up, what's up guys Jeff Cavaliere, Athleanx.com. So do you know who this is? Well, by now, if you read the title, you know this is Superman. But you may not know this is David Corrensweat. He's the new Superman. The next one in line to make the transformation that everyone wants to start talking about and let's face it, question because no one believes that this person put on 40 pounds in just nine months because that is what is being claimed. Well, today I'm going to break down his workout, his nutrition, and we're going to address the questions here today. So I'm going to see what really, to see what really might have caused this transformation. And you know what? And you know what? My answer might not be exactly what you thought it would be. In addition to that, I'm going to tell you about what you can do if you want to actually make your own Superman transformation, right? So stick with me because I've got a lot to cover here. So let's talk about this transformation because certainly other people have been. As a matter of fact, if you go on Instagram, you can see that on FilmBuzzer, David Corrensweat said he built his Superman physique naturally and without using PEDs. He followed a tough but sustainable training routine that pushed the edge of his physical capabilities. His physical capabilities, the 40 pound gain included muscle, water weight, and some body fat. He says, what are your thoughts on this? And of course, this is the internet. So everyone wants to comment and people start jumping in right away, right? And they say, well, I totally believe him just like The Rock and Chris Hemsworth. Or I'm going to get hate, but he looks a hundred times more natural than Cavill, which I think I'm going to agree with that. And then we have Robert Oberst who actually says, famous power lifter, why lie? Right? And it's interesting, right? I mean, people have a lot of opinions here. And then of course the I ate brown rice and chicken breasts, right? Because that's what everyone says, especially when they have to eat like 10 times a day to do it. So what do I think? All right. Well, we have to start by looking at the training, right? You can't discredit no matter what transformation any Hollywood actor makes. There is training that goes into this. And I want you guys to understand what was being done. But to do that, I think we should really kind of start at the source because Corn Sweat said he hadn't discussed what James Gunn, which is the director of the movie, wanted him to look like physically. He said, when he called me to tell me I got in the role, he said, you're in good shape, David, but I want you to get a trainer. He said, I want you to work on your shoulders and your vulnerability. So when we went on strike, I was all ready to start going to the gym and I just decided that I would get as big as I could within reason and healthfully. That was something that I had always wanted to do was put on size. I think that's really important. Okay. Another important piece here. Then he says, I've been a skinny guy. As Christopher Reeve said of himself, a string bean most of my life. So I was excited to have a reason to put on a ton of weight and see what that feels like. Most of the training was to put on weight. You eat a lot. You lift heavy weights as intensely as you can, basically. So most of what I did was think about what to eat, eat it, digest it, go to the gym, lift for two and a half hours a day, go home, sleep, and then sort of repeat that cycle. It was definitely a level of intensity. Another thing I think that's important to point out here, a level of intensity that I'd never pushed myself to before. Now, in this one little paragraph, I think there's a few flags that we're going to want to focus on. We'll kind of come back to them. But the fact that he hadn't trained at this level of intensity, that his goal was to put on a ton of weight, that the director wanted him to focus on building shoulders and lifting as heavy as he possibly could. All right, good. So what did it look like? So the trainer here was Paloma City. Okay. He had him training five to six days a week pre-production. And then when the shooting started, three to four sessions per week, each of them lasting two hours, right? At least two hours or approximately two hours. Now, interestingly, the split was push-pull legs. And the push-pull leg was a choice here because it gave him the ability to train push-pull legs, push-pull legs six times a week. And again, not tap too much into your recovery capabilities because you're training those kind of common functions of the muscles. So legs twice a week, pushing muscles twice a week, and pulling twice a week. Progressive overload was the main goal here. And they were aiming for a heavier side of things, six to 12 reps per set. Now, core training wasn't really a huge factor in what he was doing here, at least aesthetically, because he was given the instruction to have a farm boy body, right? Not a ripped, chiseled Superman, but more of a country-strong Superman. And the abdominal core work he was doing was more to prepare him for stunt readiness that you can see here. However, this is interesting because apparently he didn't read the research, right? Or the research that he should not be doing full-range motion because apparently all he had to do was just partials. I'm joking. He emphasized full-range motion, slow negatives, and stretching, right? Just key components of a good, sound training plan. And then it says here his weak spot was walking lunges, but he did them anyway, which is always a good thing when, you know, when you're still willing to do the things you hate to do because those are usually the things that make you grow the most. But it goes even further because he said in his own words here, we focus on movements like the presses, pull-ups, pull-downs, rows, all the big ones. We switched a little bit after a while, but we kept the focus on progressive overload to encourage muscle growth, keeping track of reps and weight and trying to advance each week. So again, the classic definition of progressive overload, trying to build strength to hopefully bring on some hypertrophy as well. Then he said it's just what works. The trainer said this. A lot of trainers online are looking for the next best thing, but it's not about showy moves. It's about mastering the exercise and focusing on things like, you said, full-range motion, mastering the negative, what I believe is a huge driver of growth, stretching and trying to progress in weights and reps. Now, if we look at the exercises, check it out. Shoulders. Shoulder press. Shoulders. Reverse fly. Shoulders. Push down. Got to get those arms. Superman arms too. Shoulders with a really lot of effort right there too. Tough failure. Triceps. Pull-ups from the back. Triceps. Kind of triceps and shoulders here. Shoulders. Get those pinkies down. Just pour in the pictures there. Shoulders. Actually, one of my favorite rear delt exercises, the seated row, hits the rear delts amazingly well, but we can call this a back exercise too. Now he's got the legs. He's doing the high bar squat here. Amazing form. The pad is fine. Actually, in a high bar, it's fine. Low bar, you would never use that pad on the neck. It just wouldn't stay. But great form. And again, you must have been watching the athlete next video. This is the master tip. Kind of meeting the bar with your chest. But he's got straps on his wrist here. He's going heavy. You can see the whole stack in the background there. He's lifting heavy. And he's doing all these sets with a high level of effort and training to failure. And of course, doing one of my exercises that I can't stand. All right. The seated or the lying hamstring curl. It's okay. You can't go perfect here. The fact is, it's a good builder of the hamstrings. It's just not, I think, sometimes at the expense of the low back. So what does all that mean? So I think from a training perspective, he's doing all the things that he needs to do in order to build muscle. If you were to follow a similar plan like that, you don't have to train that many hours. You'd be able to put on muscle. You'd be able to build strength and put on muscle. If you trained to this level of intensity where he's training all the way to failure and pushing himself like he's never done before. If you were to do that for the first time, you also would find new gains to be had quite easily. Now, again, if he hasn't really ever done this in his life to make some of these newbie gains would be pretty unremarkable too, because it's going to be expected for someone who's rather new to the gym. So from a training perspective, I really can't argue about anything that I see, but I'm going to tell you that this transformation had a lot more to do with nutrition. Because I believe that it's what led to a lot of the change in physique that we're talking about here. Let me explain. So when I look at the nutrition plan here, you can see, this is pretty crazy, that his goal was to take in either 4,500 calories up to 6,000 calories a day during his peak bulk. And make no mistake about this. This is a bulk. This is a big bulk, right? Again, he just wanted to get as big as he possibly could. I'm going to prove to you how big of a bulk it actually was here in a second. He tapered down to 3,500 calories a day before filming to cut some of that fat off. Because of the 240 pounds that he got up to, he actually backed off to 228 when he started filming. So he lost 12 pounds of that right off the bat. Now, when you look at the macro breakdown here, it's 50% carbs, 30% protein, and 20% fat. And again, this is all related to these articles, which sometimes we never know completely how accurate these things are. But it's what they say. And then again, the protein goal here was 0.75 to one gram per pound of body weight from whole foods and whey protein shakes. And whey protein shakes are a good, convenient way to get the protein because it's easier to drink the calories sometimes than it is to consume all of it. Now, one thing though, like I said, the accuracy sometimes where you got to be willing to dive a little bit deeper or question things. Just because it jumps out to me. If he had one gram of protein per pound of body weight at 240 pounds, that's 240 grams of protein per day, right? At four calories per gram, that's 960 calories from protein. At 6,000 calories, 960 is not 30% protein. It's probably only like 15%. So again, sometimes these are a little bit off. I would imagine he probably took an even more protein than the one gram per pound of body weight. And I always say, if you're really trying to build muscle, you can go up as high as 1.2 grams per pound of body weight. If you're training hard, you really want to put on muscle. Now, the next thing though, is a sample meal just so you can kind of see what it looks like. Probably not very surprising because everyone seems to claim these same type of meals, but six egg whites for breakfast plus two whole eggs, 1.5 to two cups of oats, Greek yogurt, berries, almonds, protein shake, right? There's a lot of food there as you would expect. And then other meals, again, here's where we get to the rice and chicken, right? The beef, fish, all the protein sources, veggies, and again, protein smoothies and yogurt snacks. Now, I do think you have to make sure you pay attention to this too. There were cheat items, right? And again, to get to the calorie levels I'm about to show you, I think there's more often, there's cheats in there more than maybe you are right now. But he had French toast, waffles, and his kryptonite was cereal. Which, by the way, I have a bit of a kryptonite for cereal too. Ever since I was a kid, now my son keeps a lot of cereals in the cupboard there, cinnamon toast crunch, apple jacks. It's hard not to just at least, you know, take a few handfuls or a bowl. Now, what does this all mean? If you want to determine how much of a bulk this really was, and maybe why we see the transformation that we did, then you have to calculate two numbers. The first is the basal metabolic rate. What the BMR is, is the number of calories that a person would need to be able to survive. Just at rest. Just laying there in bed to sustain the mass of that individual. This person happens to be 6'4", 240 pounds. Okay? That's a big boy. Now, how do you get to sustain that? Well, you're going to have to do all this math in here, which we don't have to bore you with. But you come out with a number of 2,150 calories per day just to exist. But that's not the number that we really care about. Because what we really need to know is what is TDEE is. That is your total daily energy expenditure. Because you know he's active. He just said he's been working out for two hours a day, which would put him in the highly active category. The highly active category you can see here requires a multiplier of 1.725 times that daily calorie BMR. That then gives you this number down here, which is his TDEE. That's his 3,711 calories. That's the number of calories he needs to sustain the activity that he does to film this movie and to prepare himself to do it. And also account for the fact that the food he's eating in these high quantities has a thermic effect too that requires that it be broken down and you burn calories just in digesting the food. So that number is 3,711 calories. Now, watch what happens. When we go back and we look at this number, let's focus on the big boy version of him. This is the one that was what we just quoted. At 240 pounds with the 2,150 BMR and the 3,600 calorie TDEE or in that range, look at what happens when you take in 4,500 to 6,000 calories per day. Again, like I said, that is no small bulk. That's a big bulk. In other words, if he was taking in 6,000 calories, that's 2,500 extra calories per day above maintenance. You're going to put on size. You're going to put on fat, but you're going to put on size. Mostly fat, but you're going to put on some size too because you clearly have enough calories to do it. And even if you go down here to the low end, you can see at 200 pounds at 3,300 calorie TDEE. Again, even if he was doing 4,500 calories at this point, you're still at a 1,200 calorie surplus every day. That's not the small 300, 400, 500 calorie surplus that we talk about, even when we're talking about bulking at a pretty decent pace. This is a pretty aggressive bulk. All right. And again, we know that it didn't all come in the form of those rice and chicken meals, that there are some of these cheap meals that are contributing to some of these higher calorie amounts. All you got to do is, again, go back to the source. Look what he said. To play Superman and bulk up to 230 pounds, I didn't fit into any of my pants. Now, let me ask you a question. When you just put on all muscle, for the most part, your pant size is not getting to the point where you can't fit in pants anymore. The fact of the matter is, when you can't fit in pants, this is almost always abdominal fat that you've deposited there because you're taking in too many calories. So, it's another indicator that we know he put on a pretty good amount of fat to do this. And he said, I didn't feel great when I underwent the transformation initially because my body hadn't yet adjusted to all the extra weight he had gained. Again, we don't say that when we're just building muscle. Like, it feels good. Here, just to have all the extra weight in the form of fat probably caused him to not feel so comfortable. He even joked that he'd become a 2XL when he donned his champion sweatshirt during a table read for the film. And he said, that was the peak of my bulk. And then I slowly lost weight before we started shooting. I started shooting at about 228, like I told you. I know I wanted this to be my excuse to see what it would feel like to gain essentially as much weight as I could. All right, so let's talk about this transformation because this is where I think people want to focus on whether or not it was natural or not. And they always want to look at the after photo. They'll point to his traps and they'll point to his delts. And they'll say, this is where the androgen receptors are. And this is where all the steroids went because this is how you get big traps. Well, I mean, look at the traps here. They're literally identical. I'm not saying that he didn't make any gains, but like his traps are literally the same. And in terms of his delts here, they're a little bit kind of pulled back with his posture right here. Not saying that he didn't add size here. He did. But he also added a lot of fat around his body. You can see his abs a little bit here. There's a reason why this shirt is conveniently hung around his neck to cover his chest and to cover his abs. There's a reason. Trust me. And if you look back where he had gotten to, I mean, you can see here that this guy versus this guy, I mean, he put on a good amount of fat in his face and his neck covered here by the beard. But like he put on a lot of weight. There's precedent for this, right? If you look at Chris Pratt kind of going the opposite direction, this is a 60 pound difference between this Chris Pratt and this Chris Pratt who's got his abs showing here. In other words, it's not uncommon when you basically drastically change your nutrition plan to put on a lot of body fat. It's not. The only way to really drop body fat successfully is to dial in specifically at what you're eating. I don't care what type of training you're doing or what type of cardio you're doing. And what has the biggest impact on how much body fat you have is going to be what you put in your mouth. And then, of course, core and sweat going back in the other direction if he's drastically changing his diet by adding a lot more food. So when we go back to this transformation, again, I ask you, is this really that crazy? And I'm just going to throw it out there. Is it that crazy? Because if you look at this, I want to talk to you about what this is. This is 6'4", 240 or 235. What we're looking at, I'm going to guess, is right about here. Somewhere in this range. This is the low to high 20s in terms of body fat. Let me go back here to show you. That physique versus this one down here. I would imagine this is kind of like 21, right, or so. I'm going to guess he's around 22% body fat. Right around that range. Right? That's great. I mean, that's great. You can clearly see your abs when you're at like 15% body fat or so. He looks great and he looks super strong. There's no doubt about it. But if he was, let's say, 13% body fat in this photo here, right, and 22% here, guess what? At his lean down version of 228, when he got down to 228, he would only have to put on to make this change in body fat from 13 to 22. A 9% gain in body fat would only require 7 pounds of muscle. 21 pounds of that 28 pound gain would be body fat. 21 pounds to go from 13 to 22%. And he would have 7 pounds of muscle gain. Now, I ask you, is it impossible for him in 9 months to have gained 7 pounds of muscle? Again, training hard for the very first time. Training very intensely. Training for strength. Training with good, solid, progressive overload and exercise choices. Right, under the guidance of a trainer. Six days a week. Having access to supplementation, whatever he needed. Rest and recovery. That's his job. So he gets to be able to do that. I'm just saying, I can see a case where I just hate when everyone always jumps to the conclusion that this guy is, you know, completely not natty. Right, and I think that's just the nature of the business, but that's what happens. But I also want to show you this. This guy over here is also around the same height. He's 6 foot 2. He's also around the same weight. That's 235 pounds. And Arnold in this photo was a known anabolic steroid user. I do not see a comparison between these two bodies. I don't. Is it possible? It's always possible, guys. But is it probable? I don't think so. But it does bring us sort of back to these online comments. And someone said, he has to say that, sadly. The studios can't have their franchise superstars saying that they're on anything. He's playing the game, and I hope he makes a great Superman. And I have to say that myself is that, again, if he was someone that was doing what others before him have done, and they just don't want to talk about it, then are you really going to sit here and criticize him, or are you just going to go watch the movie like you have all the others in the past? You're probably just going to go watch the movie. The fact of the matter is, whether they disclose it or whether they don't, I will tell you that behind the scenes here, it looks like there's some pretty sound training principles. As far as the meal plan, guys, I would never bulk that much. I don't think you need to do that at all. As a matter of fact, you can build muscle and burn fat at the same time if you're following a training program and a smart nutrition plan. I've got all of those. As a matter of fact, I also have brand new a Man of Steel workout program for you. Limited time, how to create a Superman-like body over at Athleanx.com. It's actually free for a very short period of time. By the time this video comes out, probably only one or two more days. You're going to want to head over there. Guys, if you haven't done so, make sure you click subscribe, turn on notifications. And also, if you're looking for a good PPL program, our Beast PPL program does what this does. But again, in a way, I believe, gives you the rest and recovery you need and allows everyone, natural or not, to get amazing results. All right, guys, we'll be back here again soon with another video. Stay tuned.