 So I did not have this one on my 2025 bingo card. Neither did I. Okay, so you guys know Sacha Baron Cohen or Borat. Borat. Borat. Borat. Borat. Borat. Ben and Nas, a lot. Okay, so this is Borat, right? And I know this is probably your favorite fashion, Jesse, but uh. Well, listen, if anyone's got the best beachside or poolside attire, it's me. Oh, gosh. Oh, no. Oh, Jesse. Oh, come on. This is great. Is this one of these ones from the intros that you do too? If it's not in an intro already, it will be. Listen, if you guys want another intro, please leave a comment below. No, no, no, no, no, no. No, that's enough. That's enough. That's enough. All right, so, back to the subject of the video, Sacha Baron Cohen. This is what he looked like, and it caused a whole bunch of talk last week on the internet because this is what he now looks like. Ah. Gracing the cover of Men's Fitness Magazine UK Edition. Looking great. Does look great. It's also here too. Ooh. Look at that. And here. Look at those guns. It looks serious too. Yeah. Not looking so funny anymore. And this. Oh, wow. So, we're here today, obviously, to talk about this transformation. Okay? Diet, nutrition, everything that goes into it. Break it all down. And by the way, there's a lot of talk that there's no way that this is natural. Right? Yet another Hollywood faker who's doing what everyone in Hollywood does and basically faking a transformation. Okay? But we'll talk about that too. Here's what we do know though because there's some things we know and what we don't know. Number one, he did this because he's playing a character, I guess, a villain, Mephisto. Mephisto. In a Marvel Comics thing that's on Disney+. Ironheart. I'm not the nerd here. I am. So, he would know everything about this. Number two, he had three weeks to get in shape. That's it? That's it. Three weeks. Now, supposedly, this transformation was made in three weeks. They don't tell you the details. We'll talk about it. Number three, he hired trainer Alfonso Moretti who was someone that Matthew McConaughey was using. Okay. That's known for getting people in shape quickly. He called him to help him get in shape to do this. Three weeks. Number four, he followed a very specific diet plan that we'll cover. Okay. Number five, the workouts consisted of just 25 minute HIIT style workouts. That's it? 25 minutes. That's Moretti's style. That's what he likes to use. That's his go-to method for trying to get people in shape when he needs to do it quickly. Okay? The only video, though, that we have of this transformation or of the training that went into this transformation is the one that's been circulating, which is this one here. Okay? Look at those curls. Now, there's going to be something very important about this video. Okay. Pay very close attention here. Okay. The last thing that we know is that according to Sacha Baron Cohen, there was three things that really were mostly responsible for this transformation. Number one, the help of his trainer. Number two, the help of a chef. And number three, ozempic. So, now, we'll get to that, too, because you have to remember, he's a comedian. But some people actually got very offended by that. They took that to heart. So, if we're going to talk about how we did this, let's start by talking about the workouts. Because a lot of times people think there's got to be some specific workout. And, again, is the HIIT style workout something that can create this type of transformation? Do you know about Tabata workouts? I know a little bit. Some of the things that you've had me do in the past were Tabata-based. So, Azumi Tabata is the person who is responsible for designing this protocol. And he did it back in 1996. And they basically took highly trained individuals and they subjected them to extremely high bouts of intense exercise. 20 seconds on. Okay. Followed by 10 seconds of rest. Yeah. Now, importantly, they did this for just four minutes. Eight rounds of 20 on, 10 off, 20 on, 10 off, 20 on, 10 off. To do these repeated bouts at high levels of intensity can knock you on your ass very, very quickly. They did this, though, on a cycle ergometer. What is that? Is that like a stationary bike? So, it's funny because it looks like a stationary bike. But the difference between a cycle ergometer and a stationary bike is that the stationary bike, you sort of have to step your way up or ramp your way up to your higher speed or your higher intensity level. And then you kind of cool yourself down. So, what's lost in there is the transition periods up and down, which takes away from the 20 seconds of all out effort that you can control with a cycle ergometer. Because you could actually program the wattage at a very specific wattage that will kick in immediately and allow you to instantly be subjected to that very high level intensity. And then remove that intensity so that for your 10 seconds of rest, you're actually getting a full 10 seconds of rest. Okay. So, it's very controlled. It's different. The second thing is, again, these guys were training at 170% of their VO2 max. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. How do you go 170% of your max? Good question. So, your VO2 max, do you know what that is? That's your heart rate? No. So, your VO2 max is the effort level that your body can still provide oxygen to the muscles so they can still function. That's exactly what I was going to say. So, in other words, your ability to continue to deliver oxygen to the working tissues, if that is at your max level, can you train above your max? You can. Really? But what that means is you ain't doing it for very long. Okay. Because when you're exceeding your maximum effort, that VO2 max is the maximum amount that still allows you to provide the oxygen to those working muscles to continue. Okay. But when you go above that, 70% in this case, you can't keep it going for long. In other words, these 20 second duration intervals are really forced intervals. They're forced to be short because you can't go for any longer than that because you've lost the ability to deliver any type of oxygen to those muscles to keep them going. So, that's the premise here. It's a very important premise that you know because when we start to look into these workouts, you have to understand how is it that they can be effective. What we don't have, though, is we don't have Borat doing these exercises. We don't have footage of him doing these workouts. We haven't yet had the magazine come and say, hey, let's go do our makeshift video shoot where it looks like you're doing what you've been doing for the last six months, but we're putting it all in one workout and also choosing the fanciest exercises to make sure it looks really cool when you do it. We don't have that photo shoot or video shoot yet. But what we do have is a lot of footage from Alfonso Moretti's own YouTube channel about these exact style of workouts. And we're going to take apart one of them now just sort of as a representation and then we'll talk about the possibilities of this being able to create the look that we're talking about before. So, the first one here is actually called the Figure 8 workout and we're going way back. We're going back in the annals of history here to find a YouTube video from the Angry Trainer. Look at that intro. Hey, that reminds me of your old intros. No, no, no, no, no. See who can remember this one. That's my old videos. Do you remember that song? Cool Young Reese. It used to play for about 45 seconds as an intro way before we even got into me talking about what was going to happen. So, the intro to the intro. Exactly. So, thank you for bearing with me for all those years. So, in this workout here by Alfonso Moretti, it's called the Figure 8 workout. Let's see how it breaks down. I have put together the Figure 8 workout. It's going to be 8 exercises, 30 second intervals with 15 seconds rest. 30 second interval, 15 second rest. Not the true 2010 Tabata. But again, an interval based workout that's intense in terms of having to do something for 30 seconds. Quick little rest and then back into it again. Alright, so the exercises here that we're looking at starts with a wood chopper. Now, I will say the level of intensity here that's demonstrated is not, I'm sure, what his clients do or what he does even to do these. You have to dial it back when you're doing these workouts for YouTube if you want to talk as he is. Well, I've noticed you have to dial it back. Lots of experience. Lots of experience here. But a total body exercise, cross body patterning, upper body, lower body together. Okay? Next exercise. After 15 seconds rest is a burpee. Again, I know he attacks these with a lot more intensity. I've seen him do it, actually. By the way, it squats. But also, with a burpee, you can't really sustain that for too long, can you? No, so this is a 15 calorie per minute burner. It's a high intensity exercise. But no, you can't sustain this for very long. It's a good exercise if you really attack it and do it really intensely. But you can't do it for very long. But that's the beauty of these workouts. You're not doing them for long. Next one. Alternating reverse lunge into a curl. Okay. So, again, this is sort of reflective of the era where there was these combination movements. Doing a curl, doing a lunge. Now people would say, not an effective curl, not an effective lunge. Right? Because you're compromising one versus the other. Again, that's not the goal of this type of training. The goal of this type of training is to move as many muscles as possible in as short a period of time, as intensely as possible, to get an overall metabolic effect. Okay. Okay? Not necessarily straight hypertrophy. And we'll talk about that. Next exercise here. Looks like he's doing like a push-up. Again, another combination with a fizzy ball ab curl. Yeah. First core. Next exercise. He's doing like a squat banded press. Now here, I'm seeing like push-push. Right? There's a push from the push-up. There's a push from the overhead press. A lot of times when you perform these circuit-style workouts, or in this case the Tabata programming, you don't want to really put two pushes back-to-back. Because again, with such short rest in between, it gets hard to recover enough in between the exercises to get a good effort back-to-back. Right. So I'd like to see a pull. It's not any commentary at all on Alfonso as a trainer. I've said this before. I don't critique trainers. Trainers, especially Alfonso, who continues to get hired to this day, they obviously must know what they're doing because they continue to get hired. Right? But I mean, I'm just saying as an educational standpoint here, if I were to program this, I'd try to put maybe a push or a leg exercise in between. Then we have jump rope. And then he's got sort of this, now another cheat-to-ground push-up. See, there's a lot of pushing here. But again, it's a combination movement. And if it was my specific workout, I probably would, again, try to do some type of pull exercise here. Yeah. And then last we have this T-stand rotation, which I'm not really a big fan of this selection. Good exercise, but not for a high-intensity interval training workout. Right. Because this is not really a high-intensity exercise. It's more of a rest. And critical to the understanding of the effectiveness of this type of training is that you do have to bring that intensity. You have to bring it. Again, we're basing this off of the Tabata protocol that does show benefits, but that 170% VO2 max effort level is definitely not being displayed on an exercise like that. Right. And here's the big thing. It's questionable if you'll ever be able to duplicate that level of effort in any type of workout where you're just stringing together some bodyweight exercises. Are they ineffective? No. They are still effective. We use these workouts ourselves a lot. They're great. They're designed to do exactly that. Improve your anaerobic endurance. Even working towards a better VO2 max, but just not maybe to the maximum levels that you could if you're doing it on a cycle or in that controlled environment. Improving insulin sensitivity. Right. Having metabolic benefits. So all these things are good. To prove that this is still sort of what's going on here, this is a more recent video from what? Two years ago, Jesse? Two years ago, I think. First exercise, push-ups. Second exercise, V-ups. Third exercise, bodyweight squats. And go. Six regular push-ups. One. Two. Three. Keep your abs tight. Glutes are flexed. Six. Awesome. Okay, now we're going to turn over. This is going to seem easy at first. So we're here. Six V-ups. Push core. One. And then we go into… Up to our feet. Proper foot positioning. Shoulder width apart. And squats. One. So there's an example there of upper, lower core. Yeah. Right? Or upper, core, lower. Splitting them all up. One of the things that these types of workouts, though, don't do very well. They don't really build muscle. Hypertrophy. And you can build muscle by getting metabolically stressed. But what we know about metabolic stress as a hypertrophy signal is that it has to go to a high degree of effort to the point of failure. And the thing about these types of workouts is you're never really going to a point of failure. And especially you can't if you start to put exercises back to back that do the same thing. So the push exercise, the push exercise, the push exercise. If you take it to a point of actual failure, then you're not going to be able to do the next push exercise. Right. So it becomes even more important to actually sequence the exercises, push, pull, legs, to move that focus around the body and maybe allow yourself to reach a point of actual momentary muscular failure. Now I think you can actually start to get some more benefits of these types of workouts for building muscle. But again, they can still do a really good job at helping you to lose weight, which forces us to sort of go back, I think, and look at this transformation. Because here's where I have to laugh. Even though we know what Borat looks like here, when we look at the after photo here, I'm not seeing a whole ton of muscle. I mean, correct me, Jesse, if I'm wrong. No, I don't see a ton of muscle. I mean, he looks cut for sure, but I wouldn't say that he's Chris Bumstead. He's got some delts. His arms are not huge by any means. No. He's a tall man. He's 6'3", I think. He's 6'3", I think. He's incredibly fit. He looks amazing. His body fat levels are down, like so much so from that Harry Borat photo from before. Right? Here he is here. He looks amazing. But when I see this, do you know what kind of vibes I get? What? Right here. Oh, Michael Phelps. Michael Phelps. I get like the same type of vibe. If you look here and here. It's like, I'm not saying it's the same guy, but it's sort of that same swimmer's body. Same shape. Same shape and physique. And again, I'm sorry, but nobody can convince me that there were any steroids or performance enhancing drugs that were utilized here. And when we talk about ozempic, this three week rush to get in shape, he was joking. He actually had to come out and clarify that yesterday. You have to remember, guys, he is a comedian. And if you're still trying to hold on to muscle mass at all, ozempic is not really the drug for you. You just want to lose some weight, okay, but not to hold on to muscle mass at the same time that you're trying to lose that weight. So now we have to start to look at that three week transformation and say, what did he really have to do? And that's where we go back to this other video. Remember I told you guys to pay close attention to the video? Were you paying close attention, Jesse? I was paying very close attention. What did you notice here in this video? Do you see anything about Borat here? It's not about Borat. It's about when this video was taken. So you did notice. Yeah. So if you zoom in down here, you can see that here, this was done in 2019. Yeah. So the only training clip I have that's actually been surfaced in these articles about this transformation is this right here. This is 2019. He looks pretty freaking good in 2019. Yeah. See, he wasn't the Harry Borat and the Mankini anymore. That was 2006. So 13 years later, he looked like this already. So maybe he called up Alfonso because he allowed himself to get a little bit out of shape or he needed to tighten up a little bit. And so over the course of the next three weeks, he wanted to dial it in. That's where I think he was able to sort of make these rapid changes. But it wasn't coming from that original Borat picture. Yeah. So when people put these magazine articles out and they have that versus this, it wasn't that versus this. It was actually more like this picture here of him doing the curls versus the one that's on the magazine cover. Right. And I'll tell you how I think he achieved that. But I do want to talk about one other thing. His history is not one that's not based around good genetics and athletics. People would be shocked to understand. I'm going to read right from the article here. My dad played a lot of rugby in Cardiff growing up and my mom was a champion swimmer. My grandmother taught exercise classes until the age of 99 and swam in the sea every day. Her husband was a shot put champion of Saxony, Germany, jogged and lifted weights right up until the end. For the past 14 years, Sasha himself, I've been kickboxing with my incredible trainer, Ed Chow. He's a remarkable fighter who I'm sure could easily kill someone who pissed him off. So I always made sure to pay him on time. During the pandemic, while living in Sydney and Perth, I took up daily sea swimming. There's nothing like the extra adrenaline rush that comes from knowing you might meet a shark with a penchant for kosher cuisine. Now, I don't care who you are. If you're fit enough to swim in the sea outside of Australia and Perth, you're pretty fit. And again, that's the guy that we're seeing in that 2019 curl video. So I believe that this transformation could have happened, but not from the mankini, Borat, to the one we see on the magazine cover. But a guy who looked like this in 2019, trained for an additional six years. It's been six years since 2019. So six more years of training, right? Maybe he can even make some better results than you have, Jesse, in six years. Because lots of our people here think you've made no progress at all. None. But let's imagine he made some additional gains in six years. Well, then we take that guy, we put him in the ocean, swimming around the sharks, and we realize it's probably pretty damn fit. And getting in this type of shape wasn't that difficult. I will say, I don't think it was the workouts, though. What was it? I think it was the nutrition. Nutrition? Always. Because once again, once again, when we're talking about quicker changes and trying to dial it in, that's where I think you need to look at how somebody can eat. Because you can make a pretty significant impact on how somebody looks by changing the way they eat. Here's what we know about how he ate. He followed a high protein diet. He cut back on the starchy carbohydrates. He increased his intake of fiber and fibrous carbohydrates. Between the protein and the fibrous carbohydrates, he has a much more filling diet. You can actually consume fewer calories because you're more full based on the food choices that you made. He also increased his water intake and he decreased both his sugar and fat intake. What happens when you decrease your fat intake? You dramatically decrease your calories. Fats contain nine calories per gram, which is double the amount of calories per gram, more than double, of carbohydrates or proteins. So when you start to limit your fats, you can quickly start to cut calories down. When you're looking to go and lose weight at a faster pace, if you focus in on fat, especially if you have a lot of fat in your diet right now, you're going to be able to make a significant impact calorically. When you start to take in less sugars, you have less cravings than most people have. The more of those starchy carbohydrates and even direct sugars that they eat, the harder it is to sort of control your ability to refrain from them when it's time. So when you do that, your body doesn't even have the temptation even present, so it's a lot easier to stay on track. Got it. So when you make changes like that, and then, let's go back to this photo here, you shave your chest, you oil up a little bit, you do some curls ahead of time, or you pump yourself up a little bit, Get a tan. Get a tan. Turn at the right angle. Get the perfect lighting. You can have an amazing transformation just like this. So where do I sit on this? Guys, by no means do I think that this is just a no effort transformation. I think that there's a lot of effort that went in here. I think that his choice of trainer was a good one. I think that this guy has a track record of helping people get in shape. And I believe that their dedication to nutrition, that I'm sort of taking for granted here as what was responsible for what we see, is oftentimes very challenging for people even though they know how simple it is. They can't stick to it. And being able to stick to it is easier when you know you have a goal, or something that you're targeting and trying to get in shape for. And because he had a specific thing he needed to get in shape for, it probably gave him that extra incentive to make sure that he did not fall off track. I do not believe that this is assisted in any way. Every single person who follows a good nutrition plan, and follows a dedicated training plan, regardless of what split you follow, even if it's not following a Tabata split here, I believe you can get results just like this, and be very, very happy with how you look, without the use of drugs or steroids. If you're looking for a program and a meal plan that will actually take you through your own transformation step by step, you can find them over at athleanx.com. If you want me to review somebody else here, make sure you leave them in the comments below, just so you'll check it out, and we'll do our thing. Alright guys, I hope you found the video helpful. Make sure you click subscribe, turn on notifications, so you never miss a video when we put one out. See you soon.