 I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said I said, I said I said, I Plus, one jacked dude at the age of 55. Point is, a lot of people talk about Shannon Sharp not just because of his podcasting skills, but because of how he looks. And anytime you're over the age of 55 and you look like that, they don't want to just know about what you do and how you train and what you eat, but they also start to ask other questions. So I figured, let's just get that out of the way right away. And as a matter of fact, let's pick up where Shannon left off and let him answer for himself. I was always a guy that looked a certain way, so people automatically thought I was on something anyway. And Skip, it used to annoy the hell out of me because I worked so hard. Everybody knows that everybody will tell you that's been around me, Shannon Sharp is the most disciplined person that I've ever met. The way he eats, the way he does things. And so I used to get upset that you would question me. And then my trainer said, Shannon, you ought to take that as a compliment. He said, the way you look, you look like you should be taking PED, but I know you don't. And so for me, Skip, and I used to ask a Greek all the time, the athletic trainer in Denver. I was like, how the hell I get tested seven, eight times a month, and the punter get tested once, and the kicker get tested once. I was like, I thought it was random. So how am I randomly in 16 weeks getting tested seven times, and they randomly get tested one time a year? Something ain't random about this. But I'm cool with it, I'm like, I'm cool with it because I know I ain't on nothing. I ain't taking nothing. Now, depending upon where you sit on issues like this, I might have the unpopular opinion here, but here it goes. I actually side with Shannon. I think there's a distinct possibility that he's not taking anything. Now, I don't know him personally, so I can't say definitively, but I think there's a distinct possibility. But I can tell you this, whenever you're in a position where you have something that others desire, you're going to get questioned for how you got it. But let's look back just a little bit. In college, Shannon Sharp was a 470-pound bencher, a 500-pound squatter. In this picture right here, you can see he was a big kid. This is no small kid, six foot two. I'm not an apologist for athletes, but I'll tell you this. Having worked with them my entire life, they are outliers. I know a lot about them. Genetically, we weren't all handed out the same gifts. When we look at Shannon Sharp, let's just talk about the pool that he's in. In the pool of all men walking around the face of the earth, not all of them are six foot two, 230 pounds. Certainly, I'm not. That pool gets smaller, though, when you get to the NFL because there's only 30,000 players in the NFL. It gets even smaller when you realize that only 371 of them were good enough to get to the Hall of Fame. And actually, of the Hall of Fame players, only nine of them were tight ends. So, to have that genetic capability to be able to perform the way he does on the field doesn't make it all that impossible that someone could have this physique at the age that he does. Now, let's talk about that. His level of leanness is going to be attributed almost entirely to his nutrition. And I'm going to prove that to you very shortly here. But the point is, I believe that Shannon Sharp actually has a good chance he's not taking anything. He's just one of those guys that ain't you or I. Now, can I tell you a quick story? When I was at the New York Mets at all of 170 pounds looking like this, I actually got tested four times in one season, which I believe is the record for a physical therapist on staff. At the same time, one of our players, Andy Chavez, only got tested one time. By the way, I'm not mad at you, Andy. After all, how could I be mad at the person who gave me and every other Met fan this memory? All right, so now let's start digging into specifically what Shannon's doing for his training and nutrition. We'll hold off a second on that nutrition because though it's largely responsible for how he looks in terms of his level of leanness, I will say there's things that he's doing in his training that are also contributing to it. So now, what is he doing? He's doing two sessions in a day on some days. He follows a bro split when it comes to his traditional weight training. Right? We got just a chest workout here in the morning and then he's got CrossFit at night. You guys know I'm not a huge fan of CrossFit as programmed by sometimes not so great coaches, but there's an element of cross training to this circuit style that's going to help him in terms of overall calorie burn for the day. The workout itself, you cannot look at this through the myopic lens of hypertrophy because if you are, you're not going to find anything that you like here. But I look at this as an athlete trainer. I say, I like what I see here because as we get older, conditioning becomes very important. Right? Training our VO2 max, getting our heart rate up. It's a bigger picture as we get older than just looking muscular. This type of workout will do exactly that. And if you look at actually the calories burned over here in 3,500 meters in a row and that's going to burn about 125 to 150 calories. And he said he does this like three or four times through. So there's good caloric burn accumulation here that's going to help to keep him leaner. But it also doesn't interfere with his priority of hypertrophy because he does that hypertrophy work first in the day. This is taking place later at night. But I really don't have a lot of problem with this workout as constructed. The only thing I would probably advise is I'd like to see a little bit more rotational work. Right? So he could do the explosive work but it doesn't have to be an overhead ball slam because everything else is being done in the sagittal plane here. If he did something where he did some rotational throws instead, I'd be happier. But again, I've got no problems with this. And honestly, none of us should do. All right. But now let's head to the gym with Shannon and let's start where we all start on Monday with International Chest Day. So first of all, let me get this out of the way. For anybody that thinks that Shannon Sharp doesn't lift heavy anymore, this is a recent clip of him on Instagram. He's benching 365 here for I believe six reps. Looking good. And I think two weeks after this, he got it back up over 405 again. Her up to 405. So Shannon lifts heavy. But now, a representation of a given workout will start here. This is him in the gym. And also, take note, those are not pounds. Those are kilos. I know he's throwing them around like they look like pounds, like they're just 50 pounds, but that's actually 110 pounds right there, like it's nothing. The next set, he's got 60 kilos. Okay, so I would like to see him go a little bit lower there. He's kind of eliminating that stretch position at the bottom of every repetition, which is good, we know. So I'd like to see him touch it. We talked about the touch point right on the outside of your lower chest line. That'd be a good touch point for him. His incline bench press, same thing, a little bit short arm. Still pushing a hell of a lot of weight, but no real complaints there. Again, a little bit heavier here. And he talks about pyramiding his weight. Sometimes he pyramids the weights up, so he'll increase the weight and then decrease the repetitions. Or sometimes, he'll start with the heaviest weights and he'll decrease the weight and increase the repetitions as he goes. But he's always doing some form of pyramiding. He also talks about taking his sets to failure, to have that objective end point, to ensure that you've reached that proper stimulus for growth. Rather than guessing and thinking that you're close enough, when oftentimes, you're not even nearly close enough. Now, interestingly, he's got a couple machine options here. And I like this one. This is an incline machine press. And again, those are 45 pound plates on the end there. But it gets a nice, good stretch here. One thing he does a little bit, and you'll see a little bit more in the back workouts, there could be a little bit more focus on the eccentric. It kind of like, you know, pushes up, but he doesn't control the eccentric as much. Here, however, though he does, on the last exercise, on the machine press, he does. But he's doing one thing that I always advise people not to do. And that is, as he comes back, he's shrugging his shoulders up. And you can see it. Every time he goes back, the shoulders come up. Whereas, we talk about the master tip for chest engagement is to really drive those shoulders down, get your elbows into your sides, and press. That will get better chest engagement. It will also protect your shoulders a little bit. We don't want that elevation while we're pressing. But again, this machine is great because he gets a really good stretch you can see here at the bottom of every single repetition. So, what he didn't get in some of the heavier bench presses, he got here. And again, if it's because his shoulders are bothering him, I would only advise just go slower on the eccentric on all those because it won't only engage the chest more, but it will also protect his shoulders more. He doesn't have to just reserve it here for the machine press. All right, so now let's take a look at Shannon's back training. So, first he's doing this close grip pull down. I don't mind machines, first of all, you know, in any workout. I think that they, especially for back training, serve a really good purpose because you can anchor yourself. But look at one thing he's doing here that, again, I mentioned in the last training bit. There's really no focus on the eccentric. He does hold the contraction, which, by the way, is still a valuable part of every single lift that you do despite what some will tell you. Contractions matter. But, he doesn't really focus on the eccentric slowness. He just lets it kind of go back up to the top. And you'll see it here even as he goes into the next exercise here, this hammer row. Right? There's not a lot of slowing down on the eccentric. It's mostly focused on a good contraction at the top. So, I'd like it a little bit more if you could focus on slowing that down, getting that good lengthening tension on the lats. I like this variation, though, for training your back. Because you guys know, number one, I definitely favor getting your knee off of the bench on a one-arm dumbbell row and putting both feet on the floor. And I do it in the form of a tripod row. But when you have access to a machine here, you actually get a little bit less stress on the low back because you can stay at a more of an upright angle. Then he's doing this lat pull-down machine. I'm not really a huge fan of this machine because I think it takes you a little bit too wide and too low. It's almost like the beginning of a muscle-up. But this will focus more of the effort on the Terry's major in the back than the lats. But it's not like something you don't want to develop. It's a good back-width muscle. So, it's worth doing. It's just that it's not my favorite machine for doing it. I'd rather just take a wider grip on a lat pull-down. But you can see the same thing going on here. Contracting, holding the squeeze but not really focusing on that eccentric. If he did, he'd be an even bigger man than he already is right now. I'm not saying he's not huge. He'd just be bigger because he'd have more hypertrophy that he's tapping into the stimulus for. And then finally here, this seated hammer row. Once again, the same issue going on with that eccentric. And it's really easy to do that eccentric, by the way, on these pulling exercises because it's safely taking the weight away from you. It's not like it's coming down on top of you with a bench press or some kind of a pushing exercise. The weight's going away from you so it's easy to do. You just have to be cognizant of doing it. You guys know one thing. I actually just talked about it on Instagram myself. I love the standing cable one-arm pull-down because, A, it gets me back on my feet again. And it still gives me all the benefits that this machine is giving him done unilaterally. Shannon's not playing anymore. So the fact that, you know, to train on his feet isn't as imperative as it would be for me if I was training an athlete that's still playing where I want to get them on their feet a little bit more often. Especially if I know I can do the exercise without compromise. But again, nothing that I don't like here about what he's doing. Just a few tweaks to make it maybe a little bit better. Moving now back into pressing and this time for our shoulders. I don't really have a lot to look at here. Again, what Shannon posted on his Instagram was this clip here. Again, remember guys, those are kgs, not pounds. So that's 88 pounds. And you might be talking about or having a gripe about his range of motion here. I really don't. I've mentioned before that the additional range of motion that comes from here to here on a shoulder press is not so much that you're going to take advantage of this great stretch reflex because you're not getting a whole hell of a lot of stretch in that bottom position. There are other shoulder exercises, namely that crossover lateral raise or the cable that's going to give you a lot more stretch to build off of, but not really on the press. But there's a couple of things I would point out. When you press, I like to see you once again on your feet. Especially because two things can happen when you're pressing from a bench like this. Number one, you can lean back a little bit. So as you're leaning back, you're just creating more of an incline press than you are a vertical press for your shoulders. So you start to shift some of the load away from the delts into the upper pecs and that could take away a little bit from what you're trying to do. The second thing is by leaning into the bench, you can disrupt normal shoulder biomechanics with the scapula rotating upwards as you press because they get pressed into the bench. So I always say if you're going to press, do it standing. And if it compromises how much weight you can use, just do one arm at a time. A unilateral overhead press gives you a good chance to actually stack the weight too. But again, I'm being very critical for the small little details here. You apply a few of these details, it adds up. And now we get to my favorite here, the leg training. Because this is where the bullshit starts to fly. And oh no, not from Shannon, but from the people that like to watch his workouts and comment about how they would lift a lot more weight than he's lifting. Not understanding the fact that Shannon Sharp has had not one, but two total hip replacements. Oh, and not to mention ankle injuries that were so bad that he actually had to have nerves severed so he wouldn't have to worry about feeling the pain so he could actually go out and play. That being said, with the hip replacements, guys, anybody that's had one out there can tell you it's a game changer. There are some things you maybe can't do as well, but as far as Shannon goes, there's a life changer. The only thing that I hate is that I waited so long to get it done because here I am thinking I'm stretching and I'm doing all these exercises and it's going to make it better. And nothing made it better until I put that fresh titanium in there. Once I got that fresh titanium, now all of a sudden I'm living. I ain't just getting by. I'm not just surviving. I'm living. I have life again. I can squat. I can leg press, leg extension, leg curl. I can do all that. Wait, you can still do all that? Man, Ocho. Wait, you said squat. You can still squat? I don't. I don't. I'm not handy. I don't do. I use the machines to squat. I don't. I don't use. But I was. I was doing box squats with weight on my back, but I ain't really like that. So I do. I do pendulum squats and things of that nature, leg press. I had the surgery on a Saturday. Yeah. Five days. So that following Thursday, I was squatting, doing lunges and everything. And that's the great thing about hip replacements because you're just getting rid of that old beaten down, broken down joint of yours and putting, like you said, some fresh titanium in there, a brand new joint. But there are some things you have to be concerned about or at least wary about. And that is not loading it up too much, not necessarily because your joint can't handle those loads, but more so what happens in that one sort of unscripted repetition when you go down and your knee caves in. You're awkwardly kind of come out out of the bottom of the squat and you can't finish a rep and you sink down. That could cause havoc for a newly minted joint in your hip. That being said, machines come in really handy here because they control those extreme ranges of motion. And along with it, again, some of the loads. So if we look at one of Shannon's recent workouts here, here he's doing one of my favorite machines, the bear squat. And what this does is it distributes the load across the shoulders this way, right? As opposed to across the neck. It's going to feel better for him. But more importantly, biomechanically, is getting him to sit back posteriorly into his hips. Which is not only a great thing for him, it's something I pointed out when I did my video on The Rock, right? It's a good way to load up the hips. And especially if you have two replaced hips here and you're talking about longevity of training, making sure that the hips stay strong is going to be your number one priority as we get older. Because the glutes and the hips and the hamstrings are all going to get very, very weak very quickly unless you're making sure that some of your focus training is directed at them. Then he goes to the hack squat. And here now the focus is a little bit more towards the quad. So he can maintain that upright posture because of the use of the machine. So a machine helping him here. Not hurting him but helping him. And again, people are going to point to the number of plates that he has on here and say this is a useless exercise because of that. Not understanding the multiple purposes that this is actually serving for him. And all he has to do by the way with the lighter load to make it even more difficult is just simply slow down the pace. I talked about that also with the rock. The slower that you go the more tension is delivered to those muscles and you can equate and offset some of that lighter load to still drive a high effect and impact into the working muscles. So people, again, want to focus on just the plate count not understanding that there's a lot of benefits going on here. Now he goes into a leg extension. Not my favorite exercise especially somebody that has had past knee problems. Not my favorite exercise. But if you can tolerate it and you don't have knee tendonitis issues then this is fine. He does hold that contracted position. And again, yes, there's value in the contracted position. It's not all about you don't see him just doing silly little parcels at the bottom of this exercise. Okay? Because he's trying to actually be strong throughout the range of motion not just focus on solely hypertrophy in the quads which I'm not buying anyway. Truth be told. Then he goes into this last exercise here. Again, don't get on him for the weight but I will get on him for the exercise choice of the lying hamstring curl. I'd rather see him sit in the machine and do the seated version of the exercise because this one right here tends to over time aggravate the low back because you're driving your knees into those pads which actually activates the hip flexors and that can again tug on your back in this position. So that's been my grip with that exercise forever. Not that there's anything necessarily wrong with it but there's better alternatives so why not do the better alternative if your machine has the option of the seated hamstring curl. I still eat pretty much the same. You know, it's chicken, fish, every once in a while I throw some lamb chops in there, broccoli, I do sweet potatoes, asparagus occasionally and that's it. People ask me like don't you get bored? I said, you know, people say insanity is doing the same thing over and over and hoping for a different result. I do the same thing over and over hoping for the same result. And now we get to talk about my favorite part of this and that's nutrition because I said before and I'll say it again the level of leanness that you see on Shannon Sharp is almost entirely coming from how he eats and it's not the specifics of what he ate there. It's the fact that he zeroed in on a way of eating that works for him and most of all he remains consistent with it. And yeah, this is the part that you may not like to hear but I'm telling you it's the part that you need to hear if you want to know the truth when it comes to being lean and how much in control of that you are if you're in command of your nutrition. If you look at this quote from Shannon and he says it again I don't diet because they have a start and an end. I have a lifestyle and my lifestyle is I watch what I eat. And I've gone so far as to say that the word diet needs to be removed from your vocabulary because it has an inherent start and stop date to it. I'm on a diet or I'm off of a diet. You don't have to do what he thinks might be boring chicken, fish it can expand much greater than that. Your options can be much greater and you don't have to be at the lowest level of body fat like Shannon Sharp to be able to pull that off. As a matter of fact you can be much more moderate than that and still find yourself at 11, 12, 13% body fat and be incredibly happy. You just have to understand that where you get locked in on how you eat is important so you can maintain that and it has to be stuff that you like or you'll never be able to do that. I don't really do all the crazy stuff that bodybuilders do for a photo shoot or get ready for a show. For the most part within 5 or 6 pounds this is how I walk around year round. And this is something I could totally relate to here because for the last decade plus I've made videos and presented myself to you on my channel in very much the same way. There's no shooting of videos at a certain time of the year so I can cover up for the rest of the year. That's not how it works. You see if you are always in shape then you never have to get ready to be ready. If I go out of town anything 3 days or less I take my food with me. I know what's in mine. I know how many calories. I know how much protein. How much carbohydrate. So I don't really have to worry about anything. And that's what I'm talking about. In other words he's preparing ahead of time. But I will tell you this I don't take it to these extreme degrees. I just went to Las Vegas I'm not bringing my meals with me. I'm fully confident that wherever I go I can find what I need to eat. However it does take a little bit of preparation. So what I'll do is I'll look at the restaurants that are around me or around my hotel ahead of time before I go. Or before we go out to eat at night all I gotta do is just Google the menu because we know that every one of them is available online just so I have a sense of what I might want to order before I go. And trust me no matter where you go there is something you can get a couple modifications to the meals that are on the menu already is gonna likely get you what you want. I find that the people that struggle the most with nutrition are always playing from behind are always playing catch up. Those people that are ahead of the game who have a game plan for how they're gonna fuel their body are always gonna wind up likely being the leanest and also the leanest for the longest. It's hard to overeat good food. But when you start eating cheeseburgers I mean you know I don't really see people sitting down wanting to eat 20 ounces of chicken breast. It is hard to overeat on good foods. Sure if you're gonna eat pizza all day it's likely a lot harder to stop eating pizza. But when you have chicken you do have a limit to how much you desire to eat. So by choosing more wisely the foods that you put in your body you tend to solve a lot of the other downstream problems that hold you back in achieving the body that you like. Now that doesn't mean that Shannon never cheats. Right? He says it right here on the weekends I'll have French toast and pancakes but that's not five days a week. I have cheat meals. Not a cheat day. I don't wake up and eat pancakes French toast and sausages and turn around and have fried chicken hamburgers and pizza. I'll have a couple cheat meals a week. And that's something I think that's really important too. Working in your cheat meals if you find that you still desire them is really important to keeping your mind on track to staying on track with your nutrition approach. So limit your cheat choices to once or twice a meal throughout the course of the 35 or 40 meals you're eating a week. You'll have no problems and you'll stay on track. Guys, I hope you enjoyed this breakdown of Shannon Sharp if you're looking for more like this. I mentioned The Rock. We actually had The Rock's training breakdown over here and also Jake Gyllenhaal's training for his Roadhouse workout. Alright guys, be back here again soon. Make sure you subscribe. Click on notifications so you never miss a video when we put one out. Alright, see you soon.