 pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas pessoas but that doesn't let you off the hook. You see, just because you're not to blame for this, it doesn't mean that you're not responsible for understanding the difference so that you could take the right approach in the long run. And we're talking about genetics. The shape of your sternum and the attachments to it makes a big difference in how your inner chest will ultimately look. And it starts with the finger test. Take that finger and place it right here on the top of your sternum. Drive your elbows down to your sides to activate your chest just a little bit, and then start to drag your finger down the middle of your chest line. And what you should feel is two sides of the pec muscles inserting almost right directly next to each other. In other words, if you rolled your finger just a little bit to the left, it would start to go up a hill. If you rolled your finger just a little bit to the right, it would go up a hill as well. If you have a really tight separation here, well, that means you are blessed with good pec and sternum genetics, where the insertions of the muscles actually lie really tight and close to each other, and they don't leave a lot of exposed space on the sternum. Well, what happens if you actually have an area where you just feel flat bone along the way? Nothing. Because there's nothing you're going to be able to do about that. Those are your genetics. Any jagged lines or weird asymmetries where one peck might turn off to the side faster than the other is just something you're going to have to deal with. But it doesn't doom you to having a bad looking chest. It's just something you need to come to grips with. Now, as this gap becomes wider, the appearance of the chest may become a little less desirable. But again, you can still develop a good looking chest. Now, it can get even worse than that with a condition that the internet named Steinerism based off of Scott Steiner's dramatically different looking chest than he had years ago. But this is most likely secondary to nerve damage from the pec from a chronically overstretched position, maybe through a clothesline or some other wrestling move that these guys have to deal with. But that's likely not what you're dealing with. But you can see that the tighter the gap, the better looking the chest. Now, there are two bony reasons why your chest may not look exactly the way you want it to. And the first is a sternal deformity called pec excavatum, where the sternum itself is actually kind of caved in. I made a whole video about this using some physical therapy techniques and some strategies to help to slightly improve this condition, depending upon how severe it is. Surgery might be the most successful option for you, but you'll want to watch that video to determine for yourself. The second would be the shape of your sternum. Because let's face it, guys, they're not all straight. Some do look like this, but others look like this. And once again, that asymmetrical chest that you might be battling may not have a real solution because of the underlying structure of the bones. If you ever walked into a house and saw a crooked wall, your inclination might be to blame the sheet rocker and say you did a bad job. But what if the framer built the wall crooked underneath and he just followed what was done? You see, it's not always the thing that you're seeing, but the underlying structure that's the real problem here. But that's okay because we can do things still that can dramatically change the appearance of your chest. But we do have to take ownership of the next thing, and that is your nutrition. Because in any situation with any aesthetic goal, having more body fat covering what you're trying to show off is never going to reveal the best of what you've got. Because even a bigger chest covered with more body fat is never going to look as aesthetically good as even a smaller chest that is much more defined. And that comes from having low body fat levels. I've made different videos covering how you can nail this nutrition aspect every single time, and I make it quite simple. I'm going to link one of them, this one right here, for you at the end of this video. You're going to want to check it out. It's going to help you to bring out more muscularity at any level of muscle growth that you're displaying right now. But now we come to the fun part. Why? Because it's the most impactful for how your chest is going to look and the one that you're most in control of when we're talking about your training. Now, let's get this off our chest right away. There's no way to isolate the middle chest line. There's no independent head there. There's no one exercise that will isolate that middle chest of yours. However, when you learn how to train the rest of your chest, your middle chest can be directly influenced by the growth of the other heads. So, what do we do? We start by choosing the right exercises. I'll tell you right now, stop focusing solely on strength, but start there. And what I mean by that is do your bench presses, do your heavy dumbbell presses, do your weighted dips, do your weighted pushups, do all those exercises. Because those are the ones that are going to allow you to overload them quickly and give you the opportunity to grow as much muscle as fast as possible. Especially if you're a newbie just starting out, you want to take advantage of those gains that are yet to be achieved. That said, understand this, continuing to focus on only those exercises will leave you without the middle chest development that you're looking for every single time. And that's for three distinct reasons. Number one, these exercises don't incorporate adduction. And adduction is moving your arm from a position along your side towards midline, in this case across midline to get full chest contraction. Why full chest contraction? I'll get back to that in one second. But suffice it to say that those exercises, the big ones, they aren't doing that. Sure, they're adducting a bit. They're adducting from position over here to right about just outside of midline. But I need you to take it across midline, right across the center of your body by getting your hand on the other side of your shoulder. How do we do that? Well, obviously we're going to do that with exercises like these. All of these exercises give us a chance to drive that arm across midline more effectively. And when we do this, we reach a complete chest contraction, which again, you'll see will be necessary to completely develop the chest. But the second thing is how you perform the exercises because that matters just as much. Don't always rush through the movements. Take your time and celebrate the pain. Because the reality is the chest is the laziest muscle in your body. Think of it as the YouTube fitness influencer who just does review videos of everybody else's work. Lazy. Instead, you need to make the chest do all of the work on your chest exercises and relegate those shoulders and triceps to the back seat. How easy is that to do? Not very easy if you're moving fast. But if you move slow, the job becomes infinitely easier. So no matter what exercise you do, by slowing down the pace and making sure that posturally the chest and ribcage is held high will force the chest muscles to be the prominent contributor to every one of those exercises. It's far too easy to let momentum take over or the front delts contribute that relegates that chest to the back seat, almost hollowing out its contribution and making it far less effective in an exercise. The third and most interesting part of these full range of motion adduction based exercise choices revolves around some science that we've been able to uncover in recent years. And that is about the existence of something called a non spanning muscle fiber, meaning that it doesn't have attachments at the origin and insertion of the chest muscle. It kind of lays somewhere in the middle or only attached at one end. So what does that mean? How do they even contract if they're not attached to both ends? Well, that's where the science gets interesting. They have sticky filaments on them that actually get dragged along as the muscle changes shape. So the actual shortening of the muscle that creates the balling up of the appearance actually helps to grab onto some of these muscle fibers that then allow them to contribute to the activity. What does it lead to? Stronger chest contractions, more complete chest development. When we're talking about getting a complete development along that middle line, you want to maximize the contractile capability of that muscle. And by doing your adduction exercises through a full range of motion and not just stopping here, we're able to do that. So what does all this mean? Well, actually really good news for you because that middle chest line of yours will become more prominent without even having to address it specifically. By just taking a more well-rounded approach to your chest training, as I showed you here, you're going to have a more well-rounded and more developed looking chest. As the pecs themselves grow bigger and larger and more prominently off your chest, it's going to leave behind that more prominent, more recognizable middle line to your chest, even if there are some slight deviations along the way. Guys, you have a game plan for doing it. Now you just got to put in the work. If you're looking for a step-by-step plan, you can find it over at athleanx.com. If you're looking for a review of my favorite chest exercises broken down one by one, you can find that here in my chest exercises ranked video. All right, guys, be back here soon with another video. Make sure you click subscribe, turn your notifications on and never miss a video when we put one out. All right, guys, see you soon.