 represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented represented If you want to work more of the lower chest, then you want to set this thing up at the height of your head, just above the top of your head. So when you bring the arm down, you're coming from this high to low angle, which is going to work more preferentially on these fibers of the lower chest that align themselves more in this direction. If instead you want to work the upper chest, then what you want to do is drop this anchor point down just to hip height. So now when we come up, it's going to come from this low to high position. Now what's important about this is you don't want to go too low, because if you do that, you're recruiting more of that front delt. Instead, by having it at this hip height, it's the perfect amount of chest activation, minimizing the front delt, and letting the muscles that you actually want to grow do the work. So how much weight do you use on the exercise? Well, honestly, probably a lot more than you're using right now. Because people too often treat this exercise as a light chest exercise that you do for high reps, and you're missing a great opportunity to overload through eccentric and also in that good stretch position. But here's the problem. People don't know how to get on the exercise in the first place. They don't know how to mount the machine. Because they take these heavier weights, they go to get in position, and either their shoulder hurts or they just can't move the weights because there's no leverage here. So instead, you do this. You grab one of these, and you put it right up against your chest, and you walk yourself over to the other side. Grab it nice and close, put it towards your chest, then get yourself in position. Because at this point, you're able to set yourself up. But that is only if you're standing the right way. And so if you're paying close attention, you notice that I stepped out when I set up to do the exercise. Instead of keeping my feet square and trying to do the exercise this way. Because I talked about using heavier weights. And there's no way that you're going to be able to counterbalance these heavy weights, especially as they get to the starting position without going backwards or having an incredibly strong core. So taking that step out, I set myself up to be not only in a more athletic position, but a more stable, grounded position so I can manage these heavier weights. But how far away from the machine should I be? Because it actually matters a lot. You see, if you imagine the cables here as forming a doorway, where you stand in relation to that door really matters in terms of what muscles you're going to prioritize. See, if I stayed within the doorway, then all I'm doing is biasing the biceps. Because even though the idea is to cross my arms across my chest in adduction, I'm still pulling the weight, or the tendency is to pull the weight a little bit closer towards my body, which is going to engage the biceps too much. On the other hand, if I got way out in front of the machine, I'm outside the doorway completely, but now I put not only a lot of extra stress in the anterior shoulder capsule, which can be uncomfortable for some, but I'm actually going to turn this exercise more into a press at the end. Because that's the angle of the cables that I've established. It's not as much about adduction as it's about getting my arms out in front of me, which we don't want. So instead, what you want to do is get set up in that starting position, like I told you, with your hands up here against the chest. Leave one foot in the door and just take one stride out. This will set you up in the perfect amount of adduction to target the chest, minimize the biceps, and also minimize those front delts. However, how much elbow bend should you have when you start doing the exercise? Because that matters too. Well, enough to be kind of those shoulders of yours. Because keeping your arms straight might feel like a really good stretch on your chest, but having just a little bit of bend in the elbow like that is enough to take off some of that extra stress from, once again, that anterior shoulder capsule. And guess what? It doesn't change the amount of stretch that you're getting on the chest. Because whether or not my arms are extended straight or there's a slight bend doesn't change the relationship of the chest in terms of its shoulder alignment to the sternum. So what we want to do is give ourselves that brief reprieve by having that slight bend. The next thing you want to do though is set your body up for success. This is where most people screw up. They don't lean forward to start. That's going to, number one, intensify the stretch on the chest to start, but more importantly, set you up to execute every rep the right way. Because just like on the bench press, you want to be able to push your body back into this imaginary bench as you press the weight out in front of you. Because it not only gives you leverage, but once again, it gives you the chance to push those heavier weights. But it also does something very important. As I'm leaning forward to start, it sets me up to naturally want to pull back and lean back as I come across. And what that does is it prioritizes the chest. It makes sure that the shoulders don't dominate the exercise. Because what most people do incorrectly, as many of those I showed you in the beginning of the video, is they start by leaning forward and they lean even more forward as they go. And as soon as that shoulder crosses out in front of the chest and leaves the chest behind, it's going to do the majority of the work. Which is not what you're trying to do here. You're trying to train your chest. So let the chest do the work by letting it be out in front of the shoulder. And if you do this by starting lean forward, again, you get a better pre-stretch, but it sets you up perfectly to drive back into that imaginary bench, get the chest doing all the work, feel a better contraction, and ultimately grow a bigger chest. And when growing a bigger chest is what you're after, there's still one more thing we can do to squeeze more gains out of every repetition. And it's literally squeezing the right way. So when we talk about the finished position of the crossover, a lot of times we start, sort of end here, right in front of our chest. That's not enough. If you want to turn this into a true adduction exercise, which is one of the main functions of the chest, you've got to adduct that arm across the chest. And notice I said arm, not hand. Because some people just think if they cross their hands, they've done enough. And you're not far enough. You need to think about your bicep in relation to the chest. Your bicep should touch your chest if possible by getting across your midline. If you can get all the way across your midline, you can make contact up here with your chest and ensure that you're getting full amounts of adduction. But that's not it. Because not only are you, again, leaning back and pushing out, but you also want to do one more thing at the end of the repetition. You want to squeeze your shoulders down. Adduct your elbows down towards your sides to really light up the chest. To get the full contractive capability of the chest and to stabilize your shoulders to keep them feeling good on every repetition. So again, leaning forward, back, squeeze down, and also get those hands across the chest by getting those biceps close to your chest. By the way, if you're looking at how to make a one arm row more effective, make sure you watch this video over here. It's one that people also screw up and it balances out nicely with your chest on the backside. All right, guys. I'll be back with another video in a couple of days. Put programs and supplements at Athleanx.com. Click subscribe so you never miss a video when we put one out. All right, guys.