 d converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter two. Put them all together and you're not just going to have the perfect shoulders, but you're going to do it with the perfect shoulder workout. But when I say the perfect shoulder workout, what I actually mean is not just one workout, but really two. We do tend to disagree a lot when it comes to the science of training, but one thing we do tend to agree on is two workouts a week for a muscle group seems to be better than one. And that's because we have the opportunity to re-stimulate that muscle a second time in the week. That being said, you wouldn't take the same workout you used to do in one workout and do it twice. You'd want to cut the volume and equate it over the two workouts, meaning shorter workouts. And the nice thing about the perfect workout series is you can actually train another muscle group on the same day that you train the shoulders. In this case, it would be legs. Now, if you're following the perfect workout series in its entirety here, then you're going to want to split it up this way. If you want to do these as standalone shoulder workouts, though, you have that option too, without compromise. What do the workouts look like, though? Let's start breaking them down. And so now the first perfect workout looks like this. Just three exercises that you can see. And it starts with a dumbbell single arm overhead press or as an alternative, a barbell overhead press. So the key concept here is that you're going to press. And I understand that people that have orthopedic issues, and I'm one of them, this can be somewhat challenging, but I don't believe that the solution is to avoid overhead pressing. The solution is finding a version that you can actually still do. And for me, it's going to be the single arm overhead press because, as you can see here, it allows me to focus on one arm at a time. But most importantly, orthopedically, as I press up, I can focus more on stacking those joints, the wrist over the elbow over the shoulder, which immediately helps you to feel better if you have any type of impingement issue in your shoulder or concerns that make overhead pressing difficult. The other thing that it does, though, is when we take the two dumbbells out of our hands, we're able to actually lift more one at a time because our core doesn't have to stabilize two dumbbells going up at once. You just do one, you'll find that you can increase the weight. When you increase the weight, we're getting that tension overload that we're looking for in this heavier rep range, six to eight to form failure, two to three sets. Now, again, if you don't have dumbbells and the opportunity to do that, don't stop overhead pressing. Just do a barbell overhead press and work on progressively overloading. The next one, though, we have to focus where? On that middle delt. Because we know that the middle delt just needs more work. And what we're going to do is actually raise the set volume on this to three to four. Okay, so a little bit more work directed at middle delt. And you don't have to get all that complicated because we know that the lateral raise is really effective for building out that middle delt. And I've talked about all the different variations we can do, like a cable lateral raise. But honestly, if you just want to keep it simple and still get really good results, the lateral raise done with dumbbells is great. But do this for me. Go from a straight arm to the bent arm. So you do a mechanical drop set. And again, when we do this typical lateral raise, lean the torso forward a little bit more. Keep the thumbs higher than the pinkies. We don't want those pouring of the pitchers because that could lead to the shoulder problems we just talked about. And you'll feel it really effectively in the middle delt. But you take it all the way to failure in this 10 to 12 rep range and you don't stop. Instead, from there, what you do is just bend the elbows, right? Shorten the moment arm, bring the weight closer to your body. And you'll find that you can continue to go because you've effectively decreased the feel of the weight in your hands, even though you actually didn't change the weight out. Get to the end of that. We still have the option as we have in the other perfect workouts to keep going a little bit more with some partial repetitions until you really can't move the weight anymore. In this case, again, you go in three to four sets, starting with that 10 to 12 rep weight. And then we have, of course, something targeted at the rear delts. And for me, it's the dumbbell rear delt row. Now, keep in mind, we've already hit the rear delts. If you're following the entire perfect workout series on back day with that heavy, wide elbow and seated cable row. But here what we're focusing on is two sets, but done with an exercise that more effectively targets the rear delt. You see, a lot of us will do the traditional reverse dumbbell fly. And I don't like the exercise because I don't feel like it effectively hits the rear delts as much as it can be. With the rear delt row, you can see here the focus is getting the elbow back behind the body with a bent arm because the real driver of the rear delt activity is going to be the extension of the elbow back behind the body like we did on that seated cable row. If you haven't tried this exercise, guys, it's going to be your new favorite, mostly because it's actually going to finally give you the gains you're looking for in the rear delts. Two sets of 10 to 12. When you look at the total volume here, you total it up. On the low end, you're talking about seven sets and then the high end, you're talking about nine sets. But do remember, we're going to hit this with another workout, which we can cover right now. And of course, not to make you wait, let's go right through that second shoulder workout. This one is going to start this time with the middle delt and focus, but we can still have that main focus of overloaded tension. My favorite way always to do this is the dumbbell cheat lateral. And what we're doing here is actually cheating the repetition. You can see loading up the weight much heavier than I typically would. And the idea is to get the lateral raise as clean as you possibly can, but understanding you're going to use a little momentum. But where you don't want to have momentum is on the way down. So, eccentrically trying to control the weight, trying to slow it down, utilizing that other driver of eccentric overload to help to continue to grow those middle delts. The idea is you're doing, again, those higher set totals here, three to four for each arm with, again, that heavier weight, six to eight reps form failure. So, what I like there is the compliment of this with that strict lateral that we did in the first workout. It's really a good way for a good one, two punch to sort of get those middle delts growing. Next exercise, though, is the front raise. Okay? We're doing a stretch front raise, though, done on an incline bench. And a lot of people don't think you need to target your front delts. I am not one of those people. I think if you want to build the biggest shoulder possible, you, of course, still want to target the front delts. And they're very responsible for rounding out the shoulder. The best way to do this is to incorporate a setup that provides for some stretch on the front delts. So, if you don't have a cable machine to do a stretch front raise, doing dumbbell front raises is really a good way to do it. Two to three sets of 10 to 12 reps using your 10 to 12 rep max. But we're going to do what I'm doing here. Again, positioning myself so that when the dumbbells are down at my side, I have a stretch on the front delts that allows for a stronger contraction, better motor unit recruitment on every rep. But again, ultimately a good place to finish up with some partial repetitions, as you can see me doing. Right? When I burn out and I can't get full range reps anymore, I can still get some additional partials. And because we're doing them here with that additional stretch, it's another good driver of gains. Then we have, of course, you knew I wasn't going to make it through the two workouts without having the face pull as our real depth exercise. Now, you know that I believe the face pull is much more multidimensional. It rounds out the entire upper back development. But if you do this the way I show you and you do it with your elbows in this position, again, driving back behind my body, but maintaining that 90 degree angle of the elbows, you're getting the rear delts really effectively on top of it, incorporating some rotator cuff too. So I think when we talk about any shoulder workout, you're trying to keep your shoulders healthy while trying to grow them at the same time. And a lot of us ignore the healthy part of it. We try to get big shoulders, but if you're not focusing on how you can fortify the entire shoulder at the same time, then you're usually winding up with some injuries in the process. And believe me, again, as someone that has had their share of shoulder injuries, it doesn't feel good and you can't really train that effectively. If you look at the total set count, again, it's just two sets on that last exercise. But once again, seven on the low end, nine on the high end, totaling out to about 14 to 18 sets or so for the entire week, split across those two workouts. And remember, I gave you the option of doing this either as a standalone, which by the way, here's the screenshots of these two, because I know you guys like to take the pictures so you can bring them with you to the gym. That being said, if you did do it on the back end of the leg workout, well, you're going to want to check that out too. That's here as well as the entire playlist now of the Perfect Workout Series. You don't want to miss them, guys. Put them all together and I promise you're going to like it. All right, guys, looking for full programs? They're at athleanx.com. If you haven't done so already, make sure you subscribe and leave a comment to let me know what you want me to cover next. All right, guys, see you soon.