 So see if you can spot what Jesse is doing wrong with these crunches. Maybe even one of the crunches all together because you feel like they're kind of a waste of time. Let's change that mindset today. Let's fix it. Let's fix it. Let's get a lot more out of it and make these ab workouts much more effective, especially in the year ahead. So what Jesse is doing wrong here is he's not focusing on the contraction of every single repetition. He's focusing more on doing the exercise. There's a big difference here and I have to explain to you how to do this. I'm going to use four of the most popular exercises out there to showcase so that you can do it, maybe even one of the reasons why you stopped doing ab workouts altogether because you feel like they're kind of a waste of time. Let's change that mindset today. Let's fix it. Let's fix it.! Let's fix it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. This exercise in particular, Basic Crunch, is think about painting his spine one vertebrae at a time off of the ground while he pulls in here. You're already puffing. He can't even talk. So, he's already working. You paint up, you paint down. What I mean is, one vertebrae at a time comes off of the ground. And one vertebrae at a time gets painted back down on the ground. Don't think about just lifting the shoulder blades as a unit off. When you start to focus on deliberate contractions, then it completely nullifies the number of repetitions that you need. Trust me on that. I say, stop counting reps and make your reps count. If you want more out of your ab training, then forget about the repetitions and make every one count. I want you to feel as if this contraction starts to get so tight, you're feeling it right where you're trying to, rather than go through some of those fast reps again, just simply going through the repetition. Because, yes, you're still using the muscles to do this, but when you struggle to develop your abs it's because you're not focusing enough on that. Go to a side crunch now. On a side crunch this is even more of an issue. What you want to focus on is getting this area to initiate right there, and then lift and dial it in and squeeze it even harder. So, focus your mind in this area. Before you even lift, the first thing is contract here, squeeze, then you dial it in. What I mean by dialing it in, let me show you something really cool. If I were to take just this little prop right here. This is the bottom of the attachment plate for a tripod. This kind of looseness that you have, this is the act of actually trying to find the right way to initiate the contraction. So, I'm going to find that obliques. Here it is. Okay, good. Once I have it, then I lean in. It's that exact same feeling of tightening something that I want you to feel every time you do a rep. Obviously come back down again, dial it in, and then tighten, squeeze, squeeze, squeeze. That's what you should feel every time you do this. So, what that looks like in practice again is you identify that area, which is the obliques right here, contracted just like Jesse did. Then and only then lift and try to intensify that. That's the screwing in of that. Okay? And we're not going fast. It has nothing to do with the number of these repetitions you do. It's all about the quality. Now turn to your back. Lower abs. Lower abs are probably more difficult than anything you do because usually it involves the weight of your legs. What you do first and foremost is don't turn this into a test of your low back strength if you're trying to get good quality contractions of your lower abs. Instead, put your hands down. Give yourself the stability on the ground. Some people who have weak low backs might want to put their hands just in the small of their back. So they're protecting that low back and preventing it from arching. With that out of the equation, get your legs up in the air and start bent. Because all the legs are doing is adding weight to the exercise. I'll show you something in a second. For this, if you want to get your lower abs, then the first thing you should think about is how do I drop my stomach down, pull in and contract until they're flat, and then curl my butt up off the ground just to get that pelvis completely lifted off the ground. Down slow. It's another painting exercise. I'm painting the pelvis and the sacrum off, lift, paint it back down one piece at a time. You feel it? Like a lot, right? Yes. Again, it's not contrasted with what people usually do. They swing their legs up. This is just moving your legs through space. And again, if you're trying to get good results, you have to at least work the muscles you're trying to work. This is working more of the hip flexors. Here, small movement. Tighten it down. Down, and then just a lift. Think about dialing it in. Once I get the pelvis in place to be lifted, dialing it is the lifting. Let me show you something with the legs here. I don't care so much. The only difference between, let's say, the straight leg – that's like a heavyweight. That's a 10-pound plate. Versus a slightly bent leg. That's like a 5-pound weight. Versus even more of a bent leg. That's like a 2.5-pound weight. You're changing, due to the moment arm of the legs and what is felt by the abs themselves, you're changing the weight of the exercise. But the intention of the exercise never changes. The intention is to make the lower abs initiate the work. The bottom-up movement should come from the abs contracting and then pulling the pelvis up nice and controlled. Turn over onto your stomach now. The fourth exercise that we do this on. Planks. Now, you know how I feel about planks in general. They're not challenging enough. But there is a plank variation called the RKC plank. The RKC plank is a completely engaged plank. Meaning all the muscles that we're trying to train here actually get engaged. So rather than just hanging out here, I want you to do something different. I want you to actually, Jesse, and you out there, act like you're going to drag your toes up to your elbows. They're not going to go anywhere because they're stuck on the ground, but you're going to pull on the toes towards your elbows. You're going to pull your elbows back towards your toes like you're trying to row. You feel that? All right, he can't even talk. Now with that, I want you to get a little bit of a posterior tilt. So just engaging the abs like that, pulling up and under. Get into a little bit of a tilt where the butt curls under. This pulls up. This is pulling back. This is pulling forward. That is an engaged plank. That is one that you're not going to be able to hold for three minutes, five minutes, ten minutes or whatever. Or 45 seconds in this case. That is a more engaged plank. How many of those can you do? How long can you hold it? That really is determined by what your ultimate level of ab strength is. And we're challenging the abs. And when we finally challenge the abs, then we actually start to get the abs to respond. Now, nutrition is a whole other part of this. If you want to see your abs, then you're going to want to make sure that you have your nutrition in place. I actually made a video for you on how to do that step by step. You can check that out here. If you're looking for more guys, you can find more ab workouts. Here's a good one for you here. And also if you haven't done so, click subscribe. Turn on notifications. Looking for meal plans and workouts that will help you step by step. So, you never screw this up. You can find them over at athleanx.com. All right, guys. Good luck. Try these out. I promise you they're going to make a huge difference. See ya.