 If I told you, you could build your entire chest with just two dumbbell exercises, no cables, no machines, you'd probably think I was oversimplifying. But I'm not. Because the truth is, when you understand how the chest works, you don't need ten moves, but just two done right. And it starts by choosing the right dumbbells. And you're actually going to need two pairs to do these two different exercises. One heavier and one lighter. And this lighter pair is going to serve a very important purpose. You're going to want to use about 30 to 50% of the weight that you're going to use for the weight that you're going to use for the weight. You're going to get the heavier and the heavier set of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight of the weight the bar. But when doing them with a dumbbell, you can tuck your elbows more. You can actually obtain a little bit more external shoulder rotation and make the exercise a lot more comfortable. The other benefit you get from dumbbells is a more natural resistance throughout more of the range of motion. When your arms are fixed in place on a bar, you don't get as much resisted adduction of the arm across the chest because the arm is basically just fixed in one place. But the dumbbell can move freely towards the midline, ultimately losing its force at the top, but you still get more resistance and it makes the exercise more effective for a lot of people. Now, here's where those lighter dumbbells come in. Anybody that still finds that it's just too uncomfortable to bench press, before you bail, try this variation instead. It's called the close grip neutral squeeze press. And what you're going to do is press the dumbbells against each other, which is going to naturally drop the elbows a little bit closer to your sides. More than that, the neutral grip is going to take your shoulders out of that internally rotated position and instantly make the exercise feel more comfortable. Now, I get it. The more your elbows are tucked, the more your triceps become involved in the exercise. However, you're sort of offsetting that because of the active squeeze of the dumbbells against each other throughout the range of motion. You're getting isometric adduction. So, your chest should start to feel the engagement from the very beginning of the lift. And for a lot of people that struggle with the exercise, that engagement is what is needed to just start the exercise off on the right path and letting your chest actually take over instead of your shoulders throughout the rest of the range of motion. The next exercise is actually you utilize those lighter dumbbells or the ones that you actually used if you took that orthopedic alternative on the first exercise. And this one is going to be the dumbbell floor fly. Now, you guys know my issues with flies. When you perform them on a bench, your shoulders are in a more vulnerable position because the dumbbells are unsupported. The anterior shoulder capsule is placed in a very vulnerable position, especially if you reach fatigue and you don't have control of the dumbbells on those few final reps. And that's why we do the floor fly, because it removes the risk by having the floor act as the support that's missing on the bench. And more importantly, we're getting an eccentric overload opportunity because eccentrically we are stronger and the pecs can handle more if you just allow them to handle more weight during the exercise. This exercise will allow you to get a great stretch overload. Again, with that safety built in from the floor and not compromised. And what most people will find when they switch to this version is better gains for that very reason. More eccentric overload, higher tension being handled. Now, where do those light dumbbells come in? Well, they actually provide a great opportunity, even for those that have no issues with their shoulders, to do a drop set. So when you go all the weight to failure on the floor fly, you can simply use the same exact weight and drop right into that close grip neutral press. Once again, you're going to have a little bit of extra ability to do the exercise because yes, that tricep contribution will kick in right at the right time here to continue to push the chest to and through fatigue. That's usually the exact stimulus that you need to finally create change. Now go back to that original exercise because here you could do the same exact thing. I mentioned a little bit of a twist. You can do the dumbbell incline bench press with the weight that you would use for eight to ten reps all the way to failure and then grab that second pair of dumbbells that you already set aside. That's about 30 to 50% lighter and go immediately into a drop set of that same neutral grip squeeze press. And if you really want to make this video useful, guys, there's one more thing you can do. You can program this simply as one straight drop set. So you can go from using your heavy weight on the dumbbell incline press done at 30 degrees, go right into that dumbbell squeeze press from that neutral position, take it down to the floor, do your floor flies, and if you have anything left over, of course, you could try a couple more reps at the very end in one big giant set. But the beauty about this is that just two exercises are needed and they're going to hit all the major functions of the chest and help you to grow yours. If you're looking for more in this series, guys, when we're making them, you're going to find them linked over here. If you haven't done so, make sure you subscribe, turn on your notifications so you never miss a video when we put one out. Guys, the full, complete programs based around the science of training and with a mind towards health and longevity, you can find them over at ATHLEANX.com. All right, guys, see you soon.