 controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy controversy All right. Now, just to clarify, this is for overall chest. Overall chest. We're doing upper or lower later? Yes. Okay, cool. Doesn't matter. Mine doesn't change. Oh, God. Doesn't change. Low-eye crossover. What? That's how I got my reasons. I picked the dumbbell bench press for you because I know you like to press when you train your chest. Right. But I know your shoulders are jacked up and the barbell's not very comfortable, so you hit the dumbbells. Yes. The dumbbells have actually afforded me the ability to actually continue pressing long after the barbell bench press was tough for me because of my torn labrum and rotator cuff. But that's a good choice. I'm going to agree with you. So why did you pick low-to-high crossover? Well, so you've not just once but 1,000 times. Share with me how you really enjoy how you look when you're doing a low-to-high crossover and how juicy you look. I mean, yeah. So I figured even if you had a whole bunch of other options, you would not forego doing the low-to-high crossover. Well, you're half right. I do love that exercise. I do love that clip. But I would choose the barbell bench press because I'm moving more weight than I ever have before. True. And I notice I don't increase the weight on the dumbbells as much, so I'm kind of addicted to moving weight. So it's a self-motivating exercise. Yeah. You're going to write? I don't need to. I've already got my selection. Am I right? Yes, you're right. I do love that exercise. I mean, at least it's appropriate now. Yeah. So I wrote for you dumbbell incline bench press. I'd say you're almost right, but I like cable incline bench press. Really? Because I don't have to worry about the sacrifice of the weight as much using cables. And I definitely feel more of a contraction in my upper chest when I do that. I can set the cables a little bit out so I get some adduction into it at the same time. But you're right. It's definitely going to be an incline bench press, but it's probably cables more than dumbbells. Just personally for me. I'm ready. 3, 2, 1. Reveal! What do you got? Weighted dips. Weighted dips. Hey! Look at that! You finally agree. Yes. I will clarify something for you, though. Oh. My weighted dips, I would definitely do my 1.5 style weighted dips. Meaning, go down all the way, come up halfway, go down again, and then come up. Yeah. And I do them in drop set fashion where I do the weighted dip, then I strip the weight off when I go to failure, and then I do them again in by-away fashion. So a drop set, technically, you're almost right. Drop set, doing the 1.5 style all the way to failure both halves. Okay. I like it because I'm able to use weight on it, obviously. And also, I don't get a feeling in my lower chest in any other exercise as much as I do with the weighted dips. Don't cheat. I'm not cheating. All right, ready? Yeah. 3, 2, 1. What do you got? One arm high cable row. He watches my Instagram. Yeah, I watch your Instagram and your YouTube videos. I shoot the YouTube videos. So that actually is true. Now, I'm saying this is my favorite, right? This is my favorite. I love that exercise for hitting the lats. You get a good stretch. I like to be on my feet. I like the fact that I get a good contraction because, yes, that matters too. All of the above. I would actually say that's one of my favorite. That is my favorite. You're right. That's me. So you were incorrect on the barbell row. Really? I don't like that exercise as much as you might think I would. Well, you know what they say. What? Do the things you don't like to do if you want to get better, Jesse. Fair. But my favorite is the straight arm push down. Really? Yeah. Because, honestly, I get a great contraction on the lats and I get a good stretch. And it's helped me with my deadlift. So I feel a little indebted to it. Okay. I got you. All right. So fair enough. Good. These are your choices. Yep. So even if they suck. You know this is my favorite, right? I know your favorite. Ready? Am I right? You're right. And you know how I know I'm right? Why? Because every time I see you train your biceps, you do this gosh darn exercise every single time. So it's two exercises technically. So this is the barbell strict curl up against the wall, go to failure, step out, cheat a little bit on the way up, and then slow eccentric on the way down. But yes, that is my go-to every single time I train my biceps. Yeah. You got this one right. Why? Well, I don't really feel my biceps as great as you might think I would. What does that mean? Because they're so impressive. Yeah, exactly. But I do like being able to feel the contraction at one at a time and be able to look and see that I'm really getting the weight up and really contracting real. All right. You know why I use that, by the way? Why? I'm the old saying. If it ain't broke, don't fix it. Well, you have a broken bicep, so- Oh, that's low. That's a cheap shot. All right. Ready? Sure am. Three, two, one. Line triceps extension. That's true. How about this? Close. It's not right. It's one of my favorites, but it's not right. So I figured it had to be one of the exercises that has your arms out in front of your body. Am I at least close? You're close. Because his lateral head of his triceps is much better developed than mine. So what is it? Close grip and press. There you go. Guys, this is an example. I'm not always making your favorites the ones that you do all the time. Because mine is probably underdeveloped in the lateral head because I don't do enough of that. And of course, my overdevelopment comes from- The line triceps extension. Line triceps extension. See, I got that one right. A good stretch at the top. I'm no dick if you watch that video. I know how to do it right. You get a good stretch. You don't start and stop with it over your face. But that is definitely the right answer for me. Okay, ready? Good. Good. Three, two, one. Dumbbell front raise. Overhead press. You're right. I'm right because I know how wrong you are. Oh, come on. Well, I knew you picked this. I'm not going to argue that if you want one overall shoulder developer. We're talking about front delts here. So front delts here, I wouldn't pick the overhead press, but I knew you would. Yeah. And by the way, you have a nice overhead press, which is why I think you probably give it more credit than you probably should. Yeah, I mean, it helps with my bench press a lot. But it is a great shoulder exercise. Again, shoulder but front delts. I'm going to go with the front raise. And I don't care what anybody says. If you want to develop your front delt, you can develop it really nicely by having some focused work towards it. What I would do here, though, is perform it from the seated position on the incline bench. Okay. So that basically in the down position, I have a little bit of a stretch in the front delts. Yeah. And you don't get from just standing. So I'm half right. Half right. Here we go. Middle delts. Cheat laterals for you. Cable lateral raise for you. I can almost swap these cards. Exactly. That would be right for me. Was I right? Yeah, you're right. I love that exercise. I love this exercise. So the cable lateral raise, guys, gives you that extra stretch on the middle delt across your body to start it, which I love. And I actually do think I literally could have done either one. But I'm very loyal to the cheat lateral raise because I felt like that gave me my most shoulder growth. Yeah. When I subjected my middle delts, always have been doing really strict weight, very lightweight, strict form. But when I added in some additional looseness to my form by having the cheat lateral and starting to heave 40s, 50s on that exercise, I definitely noticed some more hypertrophy in my shoulders and my middle delts specifically. So that's my choice. But either one could really work for me. Yeah. I'm in total agreement. Ready? Yep. Face pulls, face pulls, face pulls. You think it's face pulls? I think it's face pulls. Guess what? What? It's not face pulls. No! It's not face pulls. For me, it's actually the seated row. Seated row? Oh! Seated row. Seated cable row. Seated cable row is one of my absolute favorite ways to build your delts because it's one of the few exercises that you subject your rear delts to more weight, which they actually can handle because they have some assistance in the exercise. But when you do that, I promise you, just make sure you get those elbows way back behind the body, which leads me to my choice for you, which I bet you I'm right on. You are right on. The reverse pecta. I love the reverse pecta. Jesse's a machine guy from time to time. We don't have it here, but at the gym that I go to, I use it for pretty much every time I train my rear delts, and I do exactly what you say. Don't just go to here. Get your arms back. Get your elbows back behind your body. The key to all rear delt exercises, and this is why I don't really like the reverse fly, is that you need to get that elbow way back behind the body. So if you can set that up with the machine, which you easily can do with a reverse pecta, then by all means, you can do it. I don't have access to it here, so I certainly am not invested enough to buy one here because I don't care about the exercise that much. But good choice for you. Thank you. You ready? Yeah. Chief? Ready. Hamstrings, glutes. Glute ham raise. In Detroit. Glute ham raise. GHR, yes. That is my choice. So I like the glute ham raise because I can simultaneously get that glute work and hamstring work, but it is preceded. It starts with the glute work. You contract, you stabilize to the glutes, you come up, then you do your knee flexion to get to the top. Yeah. I think people have a sequencing problem when they do that, and they don't really engage the glutes first, and then their low back takes on too much of the work. You do it right, it's a great exercise. Not everybody has access to it, though, so it's a little bit limited for you. Am I right? You're right. Barbell RDLs. I do love that exercise. It's an accessory that I use for my deadlift, and I think it hits my hamstrings and my glutes pretty significantly. Good stretch at the bottom. Yeah, absolutely. Teaches the hinge, right? Yep. Checks all the boxes. I love this exercise, too, but that would be my number one. Barbell curls? Barbell curls, I know you like to curl in the squat rack, so I figured this is going to be your number one leg exercise. When you can curl while I curl, then you can squat. You can curl in the squat, right? No, honestly, the way my knees feel any time I squat, period, I could always find room for curls on any leg day, for sure. Obviously not my choice, for real. My real choice would be, as I mentioned with my knees, I love, some people hate this exercise, I love the dumbbell Bulgarian split squat. I hate it. I love that exercise. I love that exercise. You're a psycho. First of all, I can feel it in my quads the best. It does not cause me issues with my knees. I feel like I can load it up properly. For sure, that would be my exercise. Again, this is not a bad choice, but... Do you like the feeling that you're going to throw up afterwards, too? I don't get that. I don't get that. And I go hard on them, too. But yours is... Squats. Squats is correct. And if I could do low bar all day, every day, I would. But if I wanted to hit my... We're talking quads here, Jesse. I know. I'm saying if I could hit my quads specifically, it'd be the front squat, even though I have to use much less weight on it and hold that upright posture, which sucks. Right. So, all right. But a squat in general, though. Yeah, squats. Let's see how well I know Jesse. My marker is dying a little bit, so it may not come out as clear, but... Did I get it? You got it! Power shrugs. Angle shrugs. That is a good one. I love that one. So, can I explain that one first? Go ahead. So, the angle shrug... The direction of the fibers of the traps, the upper traps, run out this way, right? So, when I get on the angle machine, I grab a cable low and I shrug it from this side, which is in more direct alignment to how they pull. I've always loved that, but I have to admit one thing. Trap training is not my priority. So, in my training, a lot of times it falls to the back end of the workout. And when I'm short on time, because I tend to work out late at night, I don't do that because it takes one arm at a time and it takes longer. So, I do a variation. I can move two arms at a time. And for me, I do a dumbbell shrug, but I do it face down on the incline bench. And the reason for that is I've been getting a lot of neck strain from doing it standing. And when I lay down face down, I don't feel that at all. Oh, that's cool. So, it's like no sore neck later on and I still get the same effect of training my traps. For you, I just figure, again, all in that whole meathead capacity that you like to train, that we got power shrugs in here too. Am I right? You're not wrong. I love power shrugs. Very easy to decode, Jesse. There's two brain cells. You go one or two, A or B. All right, really? Yeah. Can I give this one away before? Yeah, we did. So, face pulls. But, if you point to the arrow, face pulls again. There's more face pulls. Well, I thought the same thing. Well, you're wrong. Don't disappoint me, Jesse. I know you love the exercise and I know you want me to love it as much as you do, but it's not my favorite. My favorite is actually the high pull because, I know, it hits the whole upper back and I'm able to use, you get to use a pretty decent amount of weight with it when I'm using a barbell and I get that external rotation, which is great. I actually love the exercise. The high pull is great for all of the above and I like the fact that you use more weight. Obviously, the face pull, you're going to be a little bit restricted in the weight that you can use, but when it comes to overall total upper back development, I think it's been shown on you and anybody else that's adopted this exercise as much as I've told them to. You're going to see really good development and also you're going to fortify that upper back to make you more resilient to the things that oftentimes knock us down. So, spasms and things that happen in the upper back weakness. It's all going to be taken care of if you face pull up and those big lifts of yours will benefit too. Who trains calves? Not me. Really? Honestly. I know I've got this one, 100%. Oh, yeah? Yes. So do I. Okay. All right, ready? Ready. What the hell? Come on. I said if you can only do one, this is it. Rest of your life. There's too many sites to choose from. Jesse builds his forearms. It's not how I build my forearms. How do you build your forearms? I build my forearms with wrist rollers. You know, honestly, one of my favorite exercises that you can do is one that you showed me when we first started training together. We took a lacrosse stick. Yeah, we took a lacrosse stick with a string and a little, what was it, five-pound plate? Well, we built up. Yeah, but just basically rolling over and under. Yeah. Right? That was my favorite. They work the back of your forearm and the front of your forearm. Yeah. That's a good exercise. What did you put for me? Oh, I put carries. Carries. Carries. I like carries. So, two things about the carry. It's obviously not a huge forearm builder. It's more of an endurance builder, especially grip strength too. But quite honestly, if you want to know what the best thing you can do for your forearms is, having trained a whole bunch of people, I got the inadvertent experience of just picking up plates for a lot of people or lifting dumbbells or lifting barbells. That builds your forearms a lot. And a lot of people that just stick to machine training don't experience that sort of ancillary growth of their forearms. All that contributes to enough volume that I think builds your forearms up if you don't want to do a direct exercise. Let's see if we can end on a high note. Ready? Ready. Cross body hammer. Hey! Look at us. Am I right? You're right. Am I right? Yes, you are. Hell yeah. The cross body hammer curl, just a slight variation. Instead of coming straight out in front of you, crossing over allows for a little bit more pronation. So, we can kind of turn some of that bicep down a little bit and increase the activation of the brachialis. Some are probably thinking, I don't even know what the brachialis is. I never train it. You really should mix the brachialis into your overall arm training if you want to have the widest upper arm, most shirt sleeve filling upper arm, and just overall the most complete training program. Speaking of, I had fun with this, Jesse. I had a great time. I'm glad you enjoyed it. Now go have your forearm training. If you're looking for programs, guys, that actually incorporate some of these exercises into what we do, you can find them over at Athleanx.com. If you like the video, make sure you subscribe. Turn your notifications down to the next video when we put one out. All right, guys. See you back here again soon. Bye. Thank you.