 ár ár Allows me to get that pre-stretch on the front delts, which often does not happen when we're doing just basic standing front delt exercises. This gives me that pre-stretch. The second thing that's happening here is you're giving yourself a chance to get into expanded ranges of motion in the shoulder joint that we don't normally get to, meaning shoulder extension under load. And that's a good thing. But we're doing it in a way that is much safer than let's say a dip or even a bench dip. I like the dip and I like the bench dip. But again, certain people don't have the strength to get into that bottom position of the dip and be able to stabilize the shoulder in that position. The front anterior shoulder capsule can be very vulnerable when your entire body weight is being used to do a dip. So unless you're limiting the range of motion on that, then it's not the best way to stretch and get into extension at the shoulder joint. Same thing with that triceps dip. I've shown modifications on a bench dip of having to rotate your arms out and get your chest open to be able to handle that exercise more effectively. Would you say that training your front delts and strengthening your front delts would actually help carry over to the dip or the bench dip or something like that to where you can handle those stresses? Yeah, because you'd have more stability in those bottom positions because you have increased strength there. A lot of that is an isometric hold and being able to support your body under those conditions. But I would do this exercise because it gives me a chance to do that. Not to mention that pre-stretch reflex that we get. Again, with tension under load is a great way to build the muscle more effectively. The next exercise here is what I love. It's called the cable relay raise. This is more of a press variation. And I get to finish up and over my body but more of a 45-degree angle. So if I have any of that overhead restriction I can do this much more easily. But I also get this really nice extension under load on the front delt again. Right? And get that shoulder extension in the joint. So this is another way that I can do this. The third exercise here is the seated incline dumbbell front raise. So what's happening here, Jesse, with the incline position? You're getting more stretch on the front delts. Right. Starting off and more stretch. The only thing I don't like about this as much is I don't have as much of that tension in the bottom position. Right? So you have to actually not go completely straight down to still have a little bit of tension on the front delts to get the benefits of that. But you're still going to get some of that stretch on the front delt because of the position of the bench putting you in that starting position. Now this one is one I really love. Oh, I remember this one. Because as we go up from the 90-degree position all the way up overhead, we start to involve the trap muscles, the middle traps, the lower traps, which are contributing to, guess what? Shoulder girdle strength and stability. So we're getting that really nice front delt work, especially from down our thighs up to the 90-degree mark. But we can continue that and try to tie the whole shoulder girdle together into one unit with this exercise. So this is going back to that concept I said. Think of it more than just the front delts. You're going to get nice front delt isolation work here, but you go beyond that and shift the focus to the other muscles that makes it really good. Overhead pressing. I love overhead pressing. You're not going to get away from overhead pressing. I just said before it might come at a different time in your journey depending upon how orthopedically ready you are to do it. But I like overhead pressing. We know we can work the front delts here. One modification I would say though is if you really want to work the front delts from this exercise, get into that bottom range of motion. Open up the chest and bring this down. Now there's a benefit from a hypertrophy standpoint, especially in the middle delts, to keep the range of motion higher where you have more constant tension. You're not letting it kind of get to the bottom where some would say is a bit of a rest. But if I have a pause at the bottom of an overhead press, also is a good way for me to build strength once again in the front delts. Right. Because you're eliminating momentum and you're going, you're limiting the stretch reflex because you're sitting in that position for a second. Right. Right. Yes. And then finally, I understand again that not everybody is orthopedically ready to press from day one, but there are variations of pressing that are going to give you a chance to actually still train your front delts. And we're talking about a landline press or a Viking press. So, I'll start with the Viking. The Viking is where you have a specialty bar like this. You still attach it to a landline press, but now it's just really a preference of grip. Where they want to have a shoulder-width neutral grip or where they want to have your hands together like this in the landline press. But I love this because you can load up the weight here. It does not have to be heavy and you're still able to press up and away at a 45-degree angle. And again, it's not actually even just front delt work you'll get here. You'll actually get some of that upper chest work too because those muscles function very similarly when we get towards these upper ranges of motion. Right. It's why there's such thing as a front delt chest tie-in. Yeah. Because the muscles have a shared function right here around the delt. You do need to train your front delts and you don't want to ignore them. And I say, unless you are Derek from More Plates, More Dates, you're falling into a very small group of people who never needs to train their front delts directly and your overall shoulder development will benefit. But I did say you've got to train those rear delts because those are probably what's most lacking in causing you to have these distorted impressions of what type of training you need. Follow this video right here. This is the only two exercises, if you're only going to do two, for your rear delts that will help you to grow bigger rear delts. I hope you found this video helpful. In the meantime, our programs and supplements available over at Athleanx.com. If you haven't done so, click subscribe, turn on your notifications so you never miss a video when we put one out. All right, guys. See you soon.