 There's a loth, right? There's a common misconception that in order for a workout to be effective it has to be long, but that's actually not true. Today I'm going to show you an exact workout to train not just one, but two muscle groups and we're going to use my express training program, right? We're going to use it as the template for how to do this. If you want to train hard, you can train a lot shorter, right? We have the express chest and back workout. Here's what it's going to be consisting of. A way to warm up that gets you ready to actually perform what you're going to do without wasting a whole hell of a lot of time. I'll show you what the fast 50 looks like. So, you're going to have a systems check because it's a systems check because it's a very important next step before you start to handle heavier weights and you're not going to not handle heavy weights here. We're not compromising the workout just because we're making it shorter. Then we're going to go into high tension exercises and mod to low tension exercises. And the way that we're going to combine them is going to keep them efficient, it's going to keep the workout moving, but again, never compromising the type of results that you can see. And again, we're hitting two muscle groups here. Actually, not me. Jesse, you're up. Ah, shit on the single. I did this, didn't you? I still have to show you how to do it. So, keep watching. And so, it starts here with the fast 50 warmup. And this consists of two exercises. One is this kneeling banded incline press. And then he's going to stand up and go right into the second exercise, which is a banded squeeze row. So, what you're looking to do is perform 14 reps in this first exercise. Go ahead. Yep. Now, you're ready. So, 14 repetitions. Now, what this is doing, again, because the band is being used, it allows your muscles to actually warm up as they warm up. In other words, there's flexibility built into a band that allows for more stretch as your range of motion increases, as your force output increases. So, I love using bands for warmups because you can kind of push a little further, a little harder as your body starts to warm up. Stand right up now. Turn it around. Now, it's a squeeze row. So, now what you do is in that position there, get to a good low back position. Good. A squeeze row is where you want to pull and get that extra little pull at the back. Squeeze your scapula together. Right? We're trying to warm up the joints that are going to be affected here. And that is your shoulder girdle. Right? So, not just your glenohumeral joint, but your scapula also, your elbows, your wrists, between these two. If we can do that, we can work into the muscles, as I just explained before. All the way up here, 14. Where do we go from here? 12. 12 and 12. 10, 10, 8, 8, 6, 6. Guess what that equals when you add it up, Jesse? 50. 50. Performing 100 repetitions of the two exercises throughout the entire warmup here. Again, how much time do you have to do this? A fixed three minutes. So, here's where Express is different. Everything is time-centric. I want to be sure, not like guess or estimate that you might be able to finish this in 30 minutes or less. This is exact. There's three minutes. You start the clock when you start your first rep, and then you keep going. And as long as you have time left in that time, that's the remaining time that you would rest. You use the final 40 seconds to rest. Let's pretend we got there. Now, we head over to the bench for our systems check. So, the fast 50 down, and when we come over here, we're going to perform something called a systems check. Okay, Jesse, though, so far? Ah, dude, I feel great. Chests, back, even a little pump. Little pump. Little pump. And the joints are good. Yes. All right, so most of you are going to feel that, but we still want to be sure, because the first exercise here is going to be a high-tension exercise, so I want to do one warmup set for that, too. So, you take your 12 rep max, and you're going to perform 10 repetitions. But the pacing here is going to be slower, because unlike the last exercise, and Jesse could have even picked up the pace a little faster there as he felt more loose, here you want to try to go slow. And what you're trying to do here is give yourself a set 1 minute and 30 seconds to do your 10 reps. Obviously, it's not going to take you that whole time, but you're feeling for anything that still feels a little kinky, right? Is that the right word? That's the wrong word, maybe. A little kinked up here. You've got to get through those kinks. Get the wrists and the elbows and the shoulders feeling good. All right? One more. One more. So, you take sub max, not all the way to failure, take it, and you put them back. Now, what I want you to do is in the time that you're resting in the 130, whatever's remaining here, that's yours. You get to do what you want. But what I would suggest is go get your dumbbells, because you're going to need a dumbbell here, which is an 8 rep max for the incline dumbbell bench press. You're also going to need a weight for your 8 rep max for a chest-supported row. A lot of people will find that that weight is the same. In this case, it's the same for you, Jesse. All right, for some, if you needed two pairs of dumbbells, you just go grab both pairs of dumbbells. Now, with your minute and 30 up, it's time to start the actual high-tensity set. You're going to do these three times. Okay? But what you do is you can have an option here. In the first set, you can take this exercise all the way to his 8 rep max failure. Or you have the option to leave one or two in the tank on the first set. That is because I know by the time you're doing the second or third set, it's going to catch up to you. From here now, you go right around into the second part, which is the chest-supported row. Every one of these is a three-minute block. Okay? So, you start the timer at three minutes, counting down for this entire block. Eight reps. One, two. Good. Good squeeze here. And remember, you've got three minutes to do the entire combo and then rest. So, if you go through this a little quicker, you've got a little bit more rest. If you do a little bit more deliberate here, you've got a little bit less rest. Is that eight and eight? That's eight and eight. Okay. So, now, again, what you do is you're resting the balance of the three minutes. Fixed workout times here, guys. There's no guesswork. You had three minutes on the warm-up. You had a minute and a half on the systems check on the first double-unclined bench press. You started your first round here of this exercise with the chest-supported row incline bench press. You had three minutes to go through that. By the time that three-minute timer is over, you should be in position to start the next round of this. Okay. The second and third round, though, there's no more option to stop just shy of failure. You've got to take it to failure. If you can't get all of your repetitions in round two or three, it doesn't matter because you're taking it to failure. Objectively, I know that you're increasing your workout intensity. And I said before, you can train long and you can train hard, but you can't do both. As long as I know objectively you're training hard, we're good to go. So, you get back in here one more time. Let's just see what the result is. You grab those dumbbells. Again, this would be the second three-minute block of this workout. Push as hard as you can. Good. Drive them up. Keep going. There you go. Get it up there. That's it. There you go. Come on. Get up there. Get up. Cool. Down. And then you go right back into that chest-supported row. Same thing. Get in position. Again, you can take a little bit of a breather here, but know that the three minutes is fixed. So, by the time it's up, you're going to need to start that third set again. So, in here. And then pull up. There you go. Two. How's it feel? Sucks, but it's great. He said awesome. I didn't hear that part. Awesome. Awesome. Awesome. Awesome. Awesome. Awesome. Awesome. Plus, I fast-tracked you on that rest. So, you probably took about a minute and 15. I wasn't counting there, but about a minute and 15. So, you actually would have gotten a full minute 45 here before you had to go back to that third round. All right. So, I might be moving at a little bit faster than what we need pace here, but you get the idea. So, this would be done again three times, and then we're not done. But this time of the workout, though, you've already done 13 minutes and 30 seconds. So, we're on track, but we still have 16 minutes and 30 seconds left. And that brings you to the final portion of the workout here. This is where we combine the moderate and light tension exercises, right? The ones that are not as heavily loaded as those bigger compound exercises. Right. And we're going to change the rep scheme here. Moderate is usually around 10 to 12. The lighter is more like 12 to 15. The four exercises you're doing here starts off with a cable crossover. So, what you do is you set that timer now. Five minutes and 30 seconds is what is allotted to you to complete this four exercise giant set. The first two are devoted to the chest. The first one is the high to low crossover. So, again, a 12 rep max weight here. You do have that same option to go all the way to failure on the first one or save one or two reps in the tank on that first set. Second and third set, you're not going to have that option. You've got to take them all the way to failure. So, Jesse does these all the way through. Once he gets to failure here, the second exercise for you and for him is to drop down to the ground. Okay. Down to the ground and do your push-ups. So, here you take a basic push-up. Obviously, right after a cable crossover, you're not going to get so many push-ups. But you take it all the way to failure. This one, you always go to failure all three sets. Why can't you even do any push-ups at all? And why does it work here in this workout well? Because mechanically, no matter how much you lift here or how hard you push yourself here to failure, you're always going to be able to get some repetitions out because mechanically, this is an easier exercise than that. So, we use mechanical failure to our advantage. Now, two down, two to go. The next one up is the one-arm high cable row. So, here now, we're working our back. Yep, make it a little heavier. We're going to train our back. This one, you're going to have to do both sides. All right. So, you're going to have to go right arm, then left arm, taking it all the way through. Again, five minutes and 30 seconds is your total countdown. You feeling the effect of that density, Jesse? Yes. So, this is what we call density training. But because we're manipulating tension also, it's tensity, right? That's what we're calling it. But the idea is that you're taking tension, using that, changing it up when needed, and the density of combining exercises. And because we have these antagonistic muscle groups like chest and back, we can get more done. Because while he's resting his chest, he's still working in the workout. That's one of the biggest advantages to using those antagonistic muscle groups. Get your 11 to 12. Get one more. Come on. Go. Show everybody how to be done. Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go. All right. Good. Now, come in. Whatever the weight would be for your straight arm pushdown. There's a little bit of a cheat here. You can actually use the two hands on one if you're using that D-handle. So, straight arm pushdown. Really trying to squeeze your elbows into your sides, right? Get that armpit closed up. Put no room for your armpits in here. Squeeze down. Try not to bend your elbow because you don't want to have your triceps take over here. You want to make this your back. Almost done. Again, remember, this is 12 to 15. This would be a little bit of a lighter load here, and you have that option to go, you know, 13, 14, 15 reps. But in the second and third round, you don't have that option. They're dying to know, Jesse. They can't wait to hear how you feel. Oh, I'm pumped. So, for real. Now, how's everything feel? A lot of work done in gas, too. So, you also get that additional conditioning benefit that comes when you keep moving. So, 30 minutes. Is it possible? It's entirely possible, guys. If you want to try this, it's in the new Express program from AthleanX. You can find it over at AthleanX.com. If you're looking for more of these workouts, you want to see a few more of how they play out, you can do that, too. I'll just drop them in the comments, and I'll try to do those for you, also. All right, guys. If you haven't done so, click subscribe. Turn on your notifications so you don't miss the video when we're pulling out. See you soon. Good job. Thank you.