 I really believe this, for the average person, if they do ten exercises twice a week, and each exercise, the last set was to failure. For the average person, that would be a brilliant routine. That would change their life. So today we get to do something fun, because I get to talk about somebody that I grew up working out to and ultimately winding up about one third the size of him. If you could only prescribe 10 exercises, what would they be? Let's go through what Dorian had to say. All right. If you could only do 10 exercises to train your entire body to build the best physique, what 10 exercises would you do? Oh, 10 exercises. All right. Let's start with the legs, yeah? 10. All right. Leg extensions and or squat leg press. Okay. Whatever. Barbell, Smith machine. Squat machine, leg press, compound, pushing, yeah? All right. Leg extension, I'm not a huge fan of, but I will say I know why he picked it, clearly. Because he says, build the best body. Your leg extension is going to get your quads. Yeah. Better than any other exercise to isolate the quads if you want to really build them up. My only issue, as I'd say, is as a PT and someone who's suffered from pretty bad knees for my almost entire adult life, that exercise doesn't feel so great. And I know it's a little bit problematic for other people who have existing knee issues. But if you're able to do them, then certainly I could see that being a good option. I wouldn't have it in my top 10. Yeah. But I know why it's there. Obviously, a squat or a leg press variation. I definitely like the squat better than a leg press. I think that the leg press, there's so many ways you can cheat that. You really can't cheat a squat all that much. Yeah. But I will say from a squat perspective, from an overall standpoint, certain people have difficulties building different parts of their legs just based on their anthropometrics and their body shape itself. Right? If they have a long torso and short femurs, they're going to have an easier time building their quads because they can stay more upright. Whereas someone that has longer femurs and a shorter torso is going to have to bend forward more. I will say that they hate the exercise in terms of building their quads, but they love the exercise because it builds up their glutes and hamstrings. Which makes it a really good complement to the quad-focused leg extension. Yeah. And again, when we're limited in choices, that's one of the things that you have to sort of make is those picks. That's one of my favorite combos right there, leg extension and squat. Yep. Back. Well, if you could choose what you want, I would do nautilus pullover. And, ooh, it's going to be a toss up between a row and a pull down for the second one. Okay. Let's go pull down for argument's sake. Literally one of my first visions of Dorian Yates training was with the nautilus pullover machine. Like he is one of the originators of that exercise or made it popular, certainly with me, because he did it. Yeah. And I followed a lot of things that he did trying to get the same results. Again, tried. But the issue is it's not as accessible in a lot of different gyms. They don't carry it as much anymore. If you are going to do the exercise, you've got to drive with the elbows. Driving with the elbows. This is an elbow driven exercise because you're basically moving your humerus through space. You're not just grabbing on with your hands and trying to dominate or move with your hands. That's not how this exercise is designed. You don't get as much power in the exercise. And one of the best benefits of it is being able to load it up very heavily and be able to drive down, get that humerus down, adducted towards your sides, doing all the things we know the lats do. And again, I would include it in a top ten of mine if I thought everybody had access to it. If I had a video about it here or my top ten, I couldn't include it because I know there's too many people that tell me I don't have access to the machine. So what do you think about the lat pulldown? Oh, that's a tough one for me. Or a row. He said a row or a lat pulldown. So if it was me, I would go with the seated row. Because I think that the seated row is truly one of the absolute best backbuilding exercises you can do. And I think one of the best benefits it gives you other than or beyond the pulldown is what it can do for the rear delts. It allows you to get extension of the arm back behind the body, which gives really good overload to the rear delts, which are always sort of relegated to those really light dumbbell exercises. So the rear delts can handle good load if you're supporting them and you're supporting it very well with a seated row. You've got other muscles helping out and it basically works your entire posterior chain. Whereas I don't think you get as much low back or mid-back development when you're doing the lat pulldown as you do on a seated row. Yeah, I mean for my upper back, one of the exercises you've had me do for the longest time was the seated cable row with my elbows wide. And I noticed my upper back blew up. Right. We could change elbow positioning with the pulldown too. Obviously Dorian like underhand variations, you could go underhand on the pulldown, a little bit more biceps. You can go overhand, you can go wider, you can work more teres major. There's a lot of options. They're both amazing exercises. They're like, literally, I don't know if I, I might put them both in my top 10. I don't know if I would take it because one's going to be a vertical pull and one's going to be horizontal pull. So in my top 10, I'd probably have both of them in there. All right, let's see what's next. Some kind of bench press movement and a fly movement. That's six. Okay, so I just made a video about how I dislike the fly. But start with the bench press. You have to do some variation of a bench press. Especially when you're limited to 10 exercises and you're trying to get all the pushing muscles to be worked in concert. There's nothing better than a horizontal bench press. For me though, it's going to be dumbbells. Do I think that the barbell bench press is a bad exercise? No. It's just going to be a lot more challenging orthopedically for a lot of people. With the freedom of movement of the dumbbells, some people think it's more challenging because you have to control that. But once you have your basic level of coordination through lifting beyond, let's say, six months, I think the dumbbells are going to give you a lot more freedom and that movement allows you to adapt to fit your body more than the barbell does. The barbell forces you to bench with it rather than the dumbbells allowing you to bench with your body. Right. And I'll put in there that I personally like the incline bench press with dumbbells the best. Well, he didn't differentiate, right? No. Yeah, I mean, I think if I was going to pick one there, I'd probably go incline over flat. Yeah. As far as the fly component of the recommendation, so I just don't like the fly because I don't think that your shoulder is as protected as it can be. And because I know we're looking for the stretch and we're looking for adduction, that's the complimentary thing we get from the fly to the bench press and makes it a requirement. I just want to see you do it like in standing with a cable crossover. Yeah. Right? A cable fly variation so that you have a safety net behind you. If you have to just drop it down, you can. If you want to do a pec deck, you can do a pec deck. You have the ability to rotate back and safely put them back without exposing that anterior shoulder capsule to anything excessive, especially as we want to use heavier weights. We can get a little bit heavier for more overload if we do a cable cross than we can sometimes with those unsupported dumbbell flies. Yeah. So that's probably the only one that I would literally take out, but I would just swap it out with the standing cable cross. Respectfully. Something for shoulders, but we're already done pressing. So, laterals? Dumbbell? Dumbbell or cable? Dumbbells. Okay. Why? More natural plane of movement. All right. So, he says since we're already hitting shoulders and we have the press in there, we're getting a lot of front delt. He's going to go with a dumbbell lateral raise. Can I make a point real quick? Sure. The people that say that you get all those front delt work that you need just from benching, that can't be real, right? No. You get a lot of it because you do get a lot of overload on the front delt, especially at the bottom of the bench press. But does that mean you don't need to train it whatsoever? No. Look, you're getting a lot of front delt work from the bench press, especially at the bottom of the lift. But, we're talking Doreen Yates, top level bodybuilder. When you're trying to go out and beat every other bodybuilder on stage and you want to maximize the development of every muscle and every head of that muscle, it makes a lot of sense that you could open up the possibility to do something directly for that head. So, doing a movement like a front dumbbell raise to more effectively target the front delt. There are people who are a little bit more tricep dominant in their bench pressing because of their elbow positioning. If that's you, you may not have the best front delt development even though you're benching and benching heavy and often. So, in that case, maybe you want to sneak in an extra couple sets for your front delt. There's nothing wrong with that. So, I think it's fine. But as far as which variation of the dumbbell raise, the lateral raise is definitely going to be the best, I think, because it's developing the middle delts. The middle delts, when viewed from the front, are going to give you all that width, that capping of the delts. I love it. Dumbbells, cables, any single variation, single arm. I love that exercise. Any which way you can give it to me. Okay. Calf raises, standing, eight. Who does calf raises? Let's be real. I was waiting for you on that one. Half the audience just groaned, right? So, here's the thing about calf raises. You're not going to build your calves necessarily unless you're doing something focused on your calves. It goes back again to what I just said about the front delts. If you want to get maximum development of your calves, either you are genetically so gifted, and we all know the guys, the calves versus the calves knots, who just have great calves just by getting up in the morning and brushing their teeth. It's the 45-year-old dad who's never stepped in the gym. Right. Who plays a little tennis, right? Yeah. Right? Because the tennis is what's responsible. Or softball. Right. And their calves blow up. That's not me, and that's not a lot of people. It's not me either. If it's not you, you're going to have to do one. And I definitely like the straight-kneed variation here of a standing calf raise versus a seated calf raise. It's going to do a little bit better job of getting the gastroc. I do think, though, that doing them in a very specific way, though, is important. Yeah. We've talked about that in the past, haven't we? Yes. Because the calf is attached to the Achilles tendon, if you're having troubles building your calf right now, likely what's happening is your Achilles is conditioned to take on the brunt of the work that the calf muscle is trying to do. That is a tendon that's very ballistic. It can propel your whole body through space. So if you want to take it out of the role that it's used to, of robbing necessarily the muscular force generation of the calf muscle, then slow down every repetition. Go down into a no momentum state, go down into a four second hold at the bottom of your calf raise. Make sure that there's no ballistic component pushing you back up. Slowly rise up to the top. When you get to the top, make sure you have a good solid contraction by holding it for four seconds up there. In other words, take away all the speed and then you'll likely start to take away some of that over contribution of that Achilles tendon to the exercise and make the muscle do more of the work. It does tend to do wonders for people who haven't been able to build up their calves. And maybe you'll start liking it so much you'll throw it in your top 10 exercise group next time. It's not mine, by the way. I hate calves, but whatever. I know why it's there and it belongs there. Some kind of curl. Take your pick. Concentration curl. Tricep push down. All right. So that is that nine and 10 there? Yeah. Concentration curl and tricep push down. I'm not doing the concentration curl. Not that I don't think it, like I feel it good in the bicep and I can get a good solid contraction. But I don't know if you can build the biggest biceps by doing that exercise. If you're looking to build it up, I would probably do just a classic heavy cheat curl. Or a strict curl into a cheat curl is my favorite thing to do. Just go up against the wall and start with a strict curl. When you can't do any more, stand out, step away from the wall and do some heavy cheat curls to get a little bit more eccentric overload. It's one of my favorite ways to actually build my biceps. The tricep push down. I like it. It would be really close for me. I would probably lean towards the lion tricep extension just to get the long head, put a little bit more stretch because I can weight it up a little bit more. My triceps always grew really well from that exercise. But like literally, if that was 1A, 1B is a tricep push down. And here's the thing. I really believe this for the average person. If they did those 10 exercises twice a week and each exercise, the last set was to failure. For the average person, that would be a brilliant routine. You would cover your whole body. You wouldn't overtrain and it would be enough stimulus to grow muscle mass. You wouldn't have been bodybuilding contests because you need to do more. You know, we need to do hamstrings now, we need to do rear delt and so on. You need to do a bit more work. But for the average person, that would change their life. And so there's a lot of truth right there, right? So the fact is, he did mention the bodybuilder thing, by the way, where if you wanted to be a bodybuilder, you're going to have to start specializing even more. So that's where those front delt exercises probably would come in. But the reality is, most people look for the elusive exercise rather than do the obvious exercises. But for the average person who just wants to look damn amazing and they want to know what to do, those exercises could certainly form the foundation of what they would build off of. Now a lot of times people get bored and they want to do more and they get more interested in lifting as a hobby and as a way that they can change their body and start to fine tune. That's normal. And you're going to want to open it up past 10 exercises for that reason. But if you only had to do 10 and these are the 10 you did, you're going to get bigger. You're going to like what you see. And I'm making some substitutions here and there, but that's me looking at it from a slightly different perspective as a PT or whatever it is that's framing my experience and making me choose different things. Because that's what I feel like would be my 10, just like Dorian had his choices of his 10. But all of them work. All of them will be good if you do them the way he's saying. Let's train to failure and train them hard. Not focusing so much on what you're doing or which ones you're doing and make sure you're putting the effort behind what you're doing and I promise you you're going to see results. I like that. That was fun. Dorian H has always been one of my favorite and he's obviously maintained an amazing physique even all these years later. And his mentality has never changed. That's the thing that's great about him. His mentality towards lifting has been the same as it was when I first saw him all those years back. Yeah. All right guys, if you're looking for complete programs where we lay things out step by step, where there's more than just 10 exercises but the effort is still required to do what you do to see the gains, that's over at ATHLEANX.com. You've just got to be prepared to work. Also we have supplements, we have all the things that do help you grow on top of what we just talked about here. You can find them over at ATHLEANX.com. Make sure you click Subscribe, turn on your notifications, and don't miss a video when we put one out. All right guys, see you soon.