 Many of the exercises I'm going to show you here in this video are ones you probably aren't doing right now or you didn't do them in the last year. But you should start doing them this year. But you should start doing them this year. And especially if you want to be training for many years to come, these exercises are going to pay big dividends. We start with a bar hang. Now I've talked about this exercise since probably 2014. What are you doing? Not much, but just hanging here on a bar for as long as you possibly can. The benefits are many. Number one, we get good core activation and strengthening from this position. Number two, number two, number two, number two, number two, number two, number two, number two, number two, number two, you're getting good shoulder mobility. You have to be able to get your arms up overhead to maintain normal, healthy shoulder function. This is a great way to do it. Number three, this is reinforcing thoracic extension. That's that area of the spine below the neck and right here up to the rib cage that we tend to see a loss of mobility in. It rounds out and creates very poor posture. This is going to give you really good thoracic extensions and allow you to do so with just this one simple hang done ideally every single day. Men, you should be targeting up to two minutes. It's a long time, but it's something you can build towards in the next 365 days. Two minutes of a hang. Women, if you can get to a minute and 30, you're doing great things. But whatever you do, don't miss out on the bar hang if you want to kick off your year the right way. And the second exercise you need to do is one down here on the ground, and it's the side plank. Now, it's different from a regular plank. It can be much more challenging and therefore much more beneficial, but you have to do it right. What a lot of us do is we keep this leg on the ground, we lift up into a side plank, and we work on what we've been told, the pillar strength. The lateral pillar strength, being able to hold your torso still as you lift up and, again, get challenged from gravity on the way down. But we don't want to necessarily focus from here to here because the big benefits come from the hip strengthening, namely the glute medius. That is what we can challenge if we progressively stop supporting ourselves with this top leg. So what that means is, can you lift your body up into a horizontal position, but then not have this leg supporting you? So, can you get up into this position here? Now, that bottom hip is having to do all that work to push down to the ground, to lift you up, give you that hip abduction that that glute medius is responsible for. And when you do, you don't only build stronger hips, but you're going to fortify your low back to prevent that back pain that you might be used to once a year or twice a year from maybe not coming back at all this year. If there's one exercise that my knees here at 50 wish I had discovered when I was in my teens, it'd be the lunge. But done a very specific way. Because if you do a reverse lunge rather than stepping forward, you're going to find that almost any knee pain that you get from traditional leg training is gone. However, when we start, we start with a regular reverse lunge with a step back. And again, the direction of your torso is going to determine what part of the leg you're feeling more. If I'm going to get an upright torso like this, I'm going to get more of the quads. If I lean forward a little bit when I do this, I'm going to get more of the glutes. Versatile that way. However, we can go one step further, literally, by changing the direction as well. Because I don't always like to work in that sagittal plane straight forward and back. We can take this and step to the side in a frontal plane and work different muscles and then step back into a quarter step where we now have a rotational step going on. So, we're working in all three planes of motion. So, again, a three-way lunge here. Back, and back. Side, and side. And then again, step back, quarter turn, lunge, push back, quarter turn, lunge, and push back. It's not just multi-dimensional, but it is a way that you can train your legs, progressively load with heavier and heavier dumbbells, and not have to worry about the knee pain that might be debilitating right now. So, exercise number four might surprise some people. Because what's happening is a lot of people, maybe TikTok, is telling them that they don't need to do direct arm training because all their compound lifts is going to do everything they need. That is not true. Coming from somebody that has some pretty decent arms, I know that when you want to get your best arms you need to directly train them. What do you want to do? A simple curl will do everything you need it to do for your biceps. However, I do want to focus on a couple things. Number one, if you do these together at the same time, it's going to be a little bit more difficult because you have to control the weight of two dumbbells combined with your core. If you were to separate them one at a time, you're going to have an easier time getting one contraction. You're also going to have an easier time handling more weight per arm. Please go to failure. Don't just go to failure in a very strict way, but allow yourself to start the workout or the exercise and set in a very strict way. But then realize that we have the opportunity with a curl to do some cheat reps at the end. What that means is getting a little bit of a lean back just to get the dumbbells going, and then eccentrically controlling that and slowing it down on the way down. Cheat it up, down, and slow it down. The nice thing about an eccentric rep on a curl is if you don't have control anymore, you can simply drop the weights in a safe way, but it still gives you a chance to overload those biceps, build them up with direct arm training in the next year. Now this next exercise is another one you've likely been doing in the last year. It's the dumbbell bench press. However, if shoulder pain has made it a lot more difficult for you to do, or maybe you had to stop altogether, then try this elevator press variation of it. Because this is going to do a few key things that will make the exercise possible again. And when you start to build your strength back up, your shoulder will feel better. We start in the bottom position and press one dumbbell up. As it comes down, the other one comes up. That one then stays in the down position. What's happening here is a couple things. Number one, to control the dumbbells in space, because we're doing one at a time, you're going to want to be a lot more deliberate and slow. The slowness of the movement is going to provide a lot of stability to your shoulder joint. So whether you have a structural issue, or whether you just have a lack of stability itself, the slowness is going to actually provide a lot of relief of discomfort just by doing that. But what it also does is it requires this down arm to stay in this position of tension, or higher tension, for a longer period of time. It's not resting down here. There's more stretch applied here. There's more tension because I'm holding the weight still. Not resting against my body. It's being held out here in space. So when we do that, it makes for a lot more difficult exercise. But again, at the essence of it, it's still a press and a bench press for your shoulders, or for your chest. But at the same time, it gives you that reprieve that your shoulders aren't getting right now. It's a nice way to build them up in the next year. For the next exercise, if shoulder pain was making bench pressing difficult, then overhead pressing probably isn't even a thing for you. But it still could be if you change how you do it. Again, I like to do a single dumbbell at a time for my overhead press. Because this does a few different things that you're going to feel the benefits of right away. Namely, a joint stack. So I can take this dumbbell, push it up overhead, and then make sure that my wrist is stacked over my elbow, it's stacked over my shoulder. Because when I do that, I've got a lot more stability and support of the dumbbell in space, which makes that shoulder feel a lot more stable and less likely to be a little bit more to feel pain when I press overhead. A lot of people who can't press overhead literally do this and they find they can instantly. Now, it also is going to work some of that lateral pillar strength that we talked about before and that core strength. But what it also does is it almost automatically puts this elbow in the right plane to press safely. Which is the scapular plane. Which is not directly out to the side from here. It's more in front of you at like 30 degrees or so, angled forward from the side. So when I get in this position here, it goes up a lot more smoothly. I don't feel any of that crunching that might be there if you have any type of degeneration in the joint. But again, just by dropping one dumbbell you're giving yourself an opportunity to still press, or maybe even start pressing again in a way that allows you to keep doing this and building your strength for many months and years to come. This next exercise is one that could actually make your conditioning work maybe a little bit more interesting. Because it can get pretty boring just walking on a treadmill. But I still want you to walk. Or more specifically, I want you to carry. And all I'm doing here is carrying a dumbbell in each hand, but there's a lot going on behind the scenes. Number one, my grip strength is being challenged. My forearm endurance is being challenged. My traps – the muscle endurance basically of my entire upper torso. My lower body is being challenged with every step that I take because each time I take one step and lift a leg up, this other hip is being challenged as well. So we're getting good stability. But more so, it's kind of a mental toughness exercise. How far can you go? How long can you go? And what I want you to do is take half of your body weight in each hand in terms of a dumbbell. So if you're 170 pounds, you take 85 pounds in each hand and you do what I'm doing here. You walk with good posture at a nice, slow pace. This is not meant to be rushed. You want to try to get 50 steps with that weight in your hand before having to drop it because of the burn in your traps or your forearms or the fact that you just can't hold the dumbbells anymore. There's a lot of variations that you can do as well that can keep this thing challenging you for more than just a year. One is the two down carry like this. Another one is one up, one down, which is going to really reinforce good posture in that thoracic extension. Another one is double hand overhead like that. That makes it even more challenging and more of a postural challenge. And then of course we have a gun carry where we hold it in this bent arm position, which adds a little bit more bicep and arm strengthening focus to the exercise. The idea is simply carrying a weight will increase the interest in basic walking, allow you to maybe get a few more steps and a few more productive steps with that each day. Now if you did any type of fitness work at all last year, at some point you likely did a pushup. I'm going to show you a pushup here today that's a lot more dynamic and has a lot more benefits than simply pushing your body up and down off the ground. However, you have to understand when it comes to the pushup there are some benefits that maybe even surpass the bench press if it's properly loaded because once you put your hands on the ground you've got this closed chain environment where your shoulder blades are actually getting feedback from your hands that they're not getting when your hands are just freely floating in space on a bench press with dumbbells. So there are some great benefits, but we can go further than that. When we shorten the legs in space rather than being back here, we put them right up underneath us in like a crawl position here. When you go down now you're going to handle a lot more of the weight in the upper body. So I don't necessarily need to start putting weights on my back. I can just change the way I perform it and now have a lot more overload from that. But there's one thing missing there too and that is we can make it a lot more dynamic and introduce some mobility into the exercise. That's where this Spiderman crawl comes in. So what I want you to start doing is build up to the point where when you do your pushups, you step in as you go down and then as I push up, I step and crawl and push down again. So what I'm doing is basically stepping and crawling and going down. Let me show you from the side what that looks like. I'm in here like this. I'm going to step and go down. The higher I can get this hip, the more of that mobility I'm going to work into that hip. Stretching out the adductors. Getting that external rotation to the hip, right? Driving that back as I go down. When I come out of it and step up, I advance the other side and come down. So I'm doing a basic pushup every time. But when I go down, again, because of that forward lean, like in that quadruped position, I'm getting more upper body work. One big key there too. I said quadruped. When we do this, there's only three points of contact on the ground. Two arms and one leg. So we're having even more of our body weight that we have to stabilize in space. It's just a different way to do a pushup that has a lot more benefits than just doing straight up and down work. People underestimate the value of just a simple band when it comes to building up both strength and actually mobility. And what we could do is one exercise here with this simple Athlean Elastics band that we can wrap around our feet like this. We step in and then you're going to cross the band over. All I did was just turn it and cross it so I have an X. We call this an express lateral walk. Express. You'll see the press here in a second. I get inside the band as wide as I can, get it up into this position here. Sort of a rack position up on my shoulders. Now, what's happening is my feet are locked in place. So every time I step, I'm resisting that abduction at the hip. So I start to feel that hip strength again, or the weakness more specifically, that's there that I can start to strengthen. But as I step laterally, I can press up overhead and come down. Press up and come down. What's nice about this is the press is actually not as difficult as it looks to get up, but it gives me really good extension. Again, we look at that thoracic extension that I get. I'm almost being assisted by the band into really good thoracic extension. So it will fatigue your shoulders a bit, but really what it does is it reinforces proper mechanics. At the same time, what's really burning here, and what I'm really developing is that lateral hip strength that so many people are lacking right now and can be achieved with this nice warmup with this band, or again, as a nice finisher to your leg workouts when all of your work is squat, sagittal, plane driven. We're nine exercises deep. You didn't think I'd go a whole year without recommending a face pull, did you? If you want to see how to do it right, make sure you click on the video at the end of this one. I'll show you a step-by-step tutorial to make sure you get it right every single time. And then we have the pullup. I know you probably hate me for recommending it for another year, but there's really no escaping it. It's a matter of fact, an institutional standard, including the military itself, who requires us to be able to do pullups. Because it's one of the most functional upper body exercises you could possibly do. If you ever had to pull yourself up on top of a wall, well, you better know how to do some pullups. That being said, how many are we talking about? Men, I really want you to be able to do 10 to 15 unbroken pullups. Women – I've got high standards there too – 5 to 7 unbroken pullups is a good place to start. We've got women who attend our ATHLEANX Live event who do up to 15 to 20 unbroken pullups. You can build up the strength there if you're looking for a tutorial on how to do it. This video right here is 22 days to double your max pullups, and the one I promised you over here on how to do face pulls properly. You can head to ATHLEANX.com, get our complete line of programs and supplements as well. Guys, if you haven't done so, click subscribe and turn on notifications so you never miss a video when we're putting out. Let's kick off this year right, guys? The next 365 days are going to be your best. See ya.