 What you see behind me is a collection of the most common beliefs in fitness and nutrition. And the problem is some of these are just total BS. Some are actually half true and others are actually totally legit. But the key is knowing which is which because that changes everything. And we can start with one that's near and dear to me, and that is the belief that you can't build muscle and burn fat at the same time. Well, I did it. I have actually heard this quite a few times. If you are willing to take just a little bit more time to do it this way, you absolutely can build muscle and burn fat at the same time. Now, this is compared to, let's say a bulk. Now, this is compared to a dirty bulk. Now, this is compared to let's say a bulk or a dirty bulk where they claim that you could add muscle at a faster rate because you're providing a lot more calories. Who wants to go through those periods of being fat if you don't have to? The best thing you could do to make this work is make sure you don't get too aggressive with your caloric deficit. You're going to need one to burn fat but more than, let's say, 300 calories a day is going to be a little bit too aggressive where you may not get in enough calories to support muscle growth. Make sure you keep your protein levels high even when you're cutting back on your calories and you'll be able to make a lot of muscle. stay in a positive nitrogen balance, add new muscle and accomplish this very much so. So Jesse, can you do the honors? This one is a lie. This one better not be true. As an Italian, I love my pasta. I can assure you that carbs are not specifically making you fat. A surplus of calories can make you fat. The issue with carbs is that we tend to enjoy our carbohydrates. In other words, portion control in carbohydrate rich foods becomes more challenging than let's say having five or six steaks. That being said, there is a little bit of confusion and scapegoating on with carbohydrates. You see, when you digest your carbohydrates, you store them as glycogen in your muscles and liver. For every one gram of carbs that you're storing, you're also storing along three grams of water. So when you go on a carb restricted diet and you see a lot of success because you see a lot of weight loss in the first week, you immediately blame the carbs. But really what you're losing is a lot of water weight. When it comes for fueling performance and lifting in the gym, I think carbs are a crucial part of a reasonable meal plan, knowing that eliminating them is never going to be a logical long-term solution for me. So will the carbs make you fat? Well, I guess I'm going to have to give it the half truth and give you some good advice. And that is, don't fear the carbs, just respect them. Wait, you can build an amazing body with just six exercises? The truth of the matter is exercise variety is not a necessary requirement for building a muscular body, though it does keep your interest level up. When you have the right six exercises, you can actually build a lot of muscle. For instance, Arnold's Golden Six, rows, squats, deadlift, bench press, curls. Remember the last one? Was it dips or overhead press? I believe it was dips, but actually either one, dips or overhead press. The key to all of those is that you can easily continue to perform those for many, many years to come because there's a great opportunity to progressively overload on them, build your strength, and therefore continue to build muscle. Though the variety might keep your brain and head more in the game and more interested in your workouts, I also think that just continuing to make gains and see results would also keep you interested. So six exercises can do it. So for me, this is definitely a truth. Fasted cardio burns more fat than fed cardio. Well, it's actually based on research that shows that while we are in a fasted state, yes, we do burn a higher percentage of fat. We oxidize fat more readily to fuel our performance than we do when we're in a fed state. However, how we get our fuel and where we get it from does not determine what level of body fat we carry around. The only way we lose body fat is by being in a caloric deficit like we talked about before. The other thing that gets effectively lost in this belief though, is that our body is good at energy balancing throughout the rest of the day. So if you burn more fat during your fasted workout, you're going to burn more carbs during the rest of your day. If you burn more carbs during your workout, a fed workout, you're going to burn more fat throughout the day. So it's like a credit card versus a debit card. At some time, you're paying, whether you're paying now or you're paying later. I will say this, some people find it more convenient to not be doing the workouts on a full stomach and therefore they increase their adherence to doing the workouts and their consistency goes up. So if that's the reason why you're doing it, then by all means, okay. But I will give it the mixed bag here because again, there are some benefits for certain people, but it's not a magic elixir that's going to magically melt away belly fat. There are no bad exercises. Well, let me jump to the punchline here first. And that is there are bad exercises. And the reason for this is not because of bad form and it's not because you're not properly load managing. There are just some exercises that suck. And when you talk about an exercise like the upright row, we're considering an exercise that places your shoulders in an internally rotated position with extreme amounts of weight, usually in your hands, further driving your shoulders into that position, increasing the risk for impingement. And yes, there is such a thing as impingement without the need to do it, because I can give you an exercise that just simply changes the position of the elbows, the high pull that does the same exact thing for the shoulders and helps you get all the positives, but it eliminates or almost completely eliminates the negatives or the risks involved with the upright row. The same thing can be said for a one arm dumbbell row performed with one knee up on the bench. I've talked about the inherent risk to destabilizing the groin and the pelvic area by doing that exercise that way. Where's the compromise? If we simply put both feet on the ground and do it from a more stable position and a more balanced position, the lats will still grow. So we can eliminate some of the risk and unnecessary risk by getting rid of some of the bad exercises and simply just choosing smarter exercises that would give us everything we're looking for in the first place. Next up, the belief that you can fix bad posture. You can because you fixed my bad posture. That's right. Although the researchers tend to think sometimes you cannot. However, that's because there's a misunderstanding of what posture even is. Posture is not some sort of genetic trait. It can have some inherited elements like increased joint laxity or maybe even a curvature of the spine. But for the most part, posture is a dynamic habit that changes over time and is most often a learned behavior because of the things that we do day in and day out. But the good thing is if we can learn it, we can also unlearn it. But remember, you're not correcting your posture by simply standing up straighter for five seconds. You do it by moving better, training smarter, and building the habits that position your body where it needs to be automatically. So how do we do that? By strengthening what's weak, by stretching what's tight, by learning to reprogram motor patterns that, again, we have learned through habit that need to be reversed. But the fact is, through the right approach, which we actually have a couple of videos on this channel that will help you do it, you can fix bad posture. And for me, this one is based soundly in truth. So we've all heard probably at some point about the post-workout anabolic window. I literally grew up on it, racing home from the gym, risking speeding tickets and my life to make sure I can get back in time to have my protein shake within 30 minutes of finishing my workout. Irresponsible. Now we hear that it's a myth. So where are we? Well, it's actually kind of a half truth, because here's a few things that we do know. After a workout, muscle protein synthesis is actually increased and can be influenced, of course, by nutrition. The second thing is eating protein after a workout can be a good thing, especially if you haven't eaten within hours of your training. The third thing is we can replenish glycogen after a workout. And again, if you've been training hard, that would be something that would be really appropriate. Here's what we know also. The window is not really a 30-minute window. It's more like a four to six-hour garage door. In other words, it doesn't have to be so specific. And the better thing and the more important thing is your total daily protein for the day. Alan Aragon, a good friend of ours, talks all about the importance of prioritizing how much protein you take in a day. The timing becomes a secondary factor, provided you have as much protein as possible. So you can kind of cram your protein in into different parts of the day and still have a very good environment for building muscle. You don't have to think so much in terms of the anabolic window. So the fact is, while some of the conditions that led to the creation of the belief in the anabolic window are true, the urgency of that window are not. And again, you do not have to risk life or speeding tickets in order to get your protein. So for me, let's call this one a half truth. Women will get bulky if they lift weights. Now listen, this is a myth. You need to lift weights. If you want to be strong and healthy, you need to lift weights. And also you need to worry about your nutrition. Because at the same time that you are increasing muscle mass, you really should be prioritizing at the same amount a loss of body fat if you are carrying it, because that will keep you feeling lean and toned. Women have far less testosterone in their bodies than men do and are far less susceptible to getting big. It's not an accidental thing that you're going to start to look big and bulky like the women in your gym. The bodybuilders. Being lean, strong, and capable is something that all women, I'm sure, aspire to. And following a sound training plan and nutrition plan is what's going to get you there. But again, as far as this goes, I think it's complete garbage. And for me, it's getting the lie. All right, Jeff, this is a good one for me to chime in on, because I've always heard the more you sweat, the better the workout. I don't sweat a lot. Does that mean my workouts suck? Sweating is not a measurement or a scorecard for the effectiveness of a workout. As a matter of fact, it's just simply your body's cooling mechanism. There's a sweat culture out there that tends to think that we see people do hard things, and as a result, they sweat. And we think that it's a reflection in that pool on the floor that's collected of all burned calories and lost fat. That is not true. It simply could be the ambient temperature in the room, your hydration levels for the day, right? The clothes that you're wearing is not a reflection of effort. As a matter of fact, you can have an incredibly effective strength training session and not sweat at all. Like me. Right. Or you can go into a sauna and sweat a lot, but really not put forth a lot of effort. The key is performance dictates the quality of what you just did, not perspiration. So, if you're looking for a measurement of the amount of sweat that you've dropped on the floor to be something that's indicative of a high level of success, please don't look here, guys. Remember, sweating is not a scorecard. Instead, it's a big fat myth that deserves the Big Red X. So, the next belief here actually comes with a story. You see, I had a contractor at my house. He had been working with me for a long time. He knew what we did with ATHLEANX. So, I figured he's pretty familiar with our videos and he's watched a lot of them. Except he came up to me one day and said, Jeff, I don't have a lot of time. So, what exercise can I do for this? What's the one thing I can do for this? And he patted on his big beer belly. The fact is, you can't spot reduce belly fat with ab training, but the belief is there. And I will say this. There was one study done back in 2013 by Ramirez and Campillo. I remember it because it's been sent to me a million times that showed a small, and I mean small, small increase in fat loss locally when people trained with high reps, one leg versus the other. Guys, when you're someone who's going like this and you can actually hear it echo, believe me, that study is not going to support your pursuit of doing one single exercise or one ab exercise to lose that belly fat. We're talking minimal, minimal effect there. You need to focus, as always, on nutrition. This is not going to get you where you need to be. So, please stop doing ab exercises for the desire of getting the six pack. Do them to make sure you have that muscle available to see once you fix that problem through nutrition. So, for me, this is by far a truth. You cannot spot reduce belly fat with ab exercises. This one's gained a lot of popularity over the last few years, and that is knees over toes when squatting is bad. Well, knees over toes guy would like to have a word with you, Jeff. I've actually had quite a few words with knees over toes guy, Ben Patrick Jesse, probably because we agree with each other. And that is, I believe that squatting requires that your knees go past your toes, or at least out in that direction. Why? Because we know that in order to do a squat properly, it starts from the ground up, and that is your foot on the floor. In order to get a proper squat, you need to have enough dorsiflexion at the ankle, right? Being able to pull your ankle up. Well, if it's on the floor, how do we get dorsiflexion? By driving the tibia further over the toe, right? And by doing that, we actually allow the foot to absorb the forces better on the ground itself, rather than having the force be propagated up to places that shouldn't be handling it in the first place. Like the hips and the low back. Like the hips and the low back. So for me to do a proper squat biomechanically, and to avoid undue stress on the hips and low back, you need to be able to drive that tibia over the toe. And that for me means that knees over toes squatting is bad. Not so. I think knees over toes squatting is good. So this is going to get a big lie here, and you really should be trying to do more of this. Supplements aren't necessary if you have a good diet. Well, since you sell supplements, you're going to say supplements are necessary. Listen, don't buy my supplements then. Let me at least explain the truth here. The truth of the matter is supplements are incredibly helpful. And as a matter of fact, in most cases needed, if you want to optimize the results of your training. Let's look at protein powder, one of the most popular supplements you can put in your body. Most people these days don't get enough protein in their diet. Why? Well, I would say a lot of it has to do with the cost of protein these days. It's just risen over the last few years to amounts that people can't support through a daily whole food diet. They need to reach for things like a protein powder that allows them to more easily get there in a more economical way. But if you look at something more specifically like creatine monohydrate, you are not getting enough creatine monohydrate in your body consistently. And again, at an economical cost, because to do so you'd have to eat a lot of meat. You're not doing that in an economical way that you can repeat with the frequency that's needed to see the benefits of creatine. Again, if you want to experience the benefits of creatine, and there are many and many new ones coming out each and every day, then the only way to get there is through supplementation. That being said, if it's not that important to you to see those benefits, you can still live a very healthy life with a good diet without the need for additional supplementation. But if you're looking to train hard and get the most out of your training, I believe supplements are a necessary part, whether they be mine or someone else's. But for me, it depends on the person's goals. And for that reason, I'm going to have to give this a conditional half truth. Was the bro science standard of one gram of protein per pound of body weight to build muscle a real requirement? I've heard that a million times. It's sort of based on the fact that one gram was really easy to remember. It also erred on the side of making sure you had enough, making sure that you weren't underfeeding like I talked about before when it came to protein. That being said, research has shown that you can actually build muscle with a little bit less, like 0.7 to one gram per pound of lean body mass. So when we go round up to just total body weight, we're sort of assuring the fact that we're getting enough protein. However, newer research has shown that if you are somebody who's training in a deficit, trying to lose weight at the same time, like we talked about in the beginning, the protein becomes even more important. And having higher levels of protein has been shown to become more beneficial. Also, if you're training very hard or if you're very experienced and you really put out higher levels of output in your workouts, then even the higher protein levels can be helpful there. So we've gone as high as to say one gram to even 1.2 grams per pound of body weight. I suggest starting every meal and focusing on how much protein you're getting. About 40% of each meal would be a good place. And then building your meal around that. In this case, like I said, something like a protein powder could be that very economical way for you to make sure you're meeting your daily protein needs. As a matter of fact, I mentioned you didn't have to buy my supplements, but if you wanted to, Pro 30G has a full 30 grams of protein per serving to make sure that you do. I'm just saying, but as far as the necessity of one gram per pound of body weight, well, let's just say again, we can get away with a little bit less for some. So let's call this one and a half truth and move on. Training to failure isn't even necessary after all. Well, I thought it is now. Yeah, but it wasn't then. When was that? Like two months ago. Yeah, but now is now. Yeah, but it was the same guys. So when is it necessary? Now. On the first set? The third set, maybe. What about the second set? I don't know. I'm confused. I think everybody else is too. Fact is, I've actually been pretty consistent myself in recommending training to failure. Now there's different context here. If you're training for strength like you, Jesse, training to failure really isn't the avenue to go down. Nope, because I don't want to get pinned under the bar. Right. We're not actually, we're just trying to build a separate skill set here. If you're trying to build muscle though, as I just pointed out, training to failure becomes almost a requirement if you're training in higher and higher rep ranges in order to even get the stimulus for new muscle growth. So is it necessary? I actually think it is necessary, particularly so for people who are just starting out, who have no concept of what their true capacity for lifting is. How many times have you seen it? Somebody will do a set and they'll stop five or six reps short. You know, I used to do it, right? It looks so damn easy when you're an observer from outside, you know, they didn't even come close. So if they're following recommendations that say, hey, leave one or two reps in the tank and it's just as good as training to failure. No, they're not. They're leaving like five or six reps in the tank because they're taking that advice. So to objectively ensure that you've gone far enough, trained to failure in good form. Now from there, if you want to back off a rep or so in subsequent sets, you at least know what true failure was and you're ensuring that you're still within a muscle building range because research will show that it is almost just as good to perform a set with one or two reps at most in the tank, as opposed to going all the way to failure because it helps with overall recovery. But again, that's if you understand what true failure really is. We'll say sort of in the middle here, conditionally, we have both training to failure and maybe leaving one or two reps in reserve, but it requires you to understand what true failure and what your true capacity really is. Next up, recovery is the most important part of building muscle. Wait, Jeff, I thought steroids was the most important part of building muscle. Well, steroids promote recovery, which is the most important part of building muscle. Remember, you stimulate in the gym, you build muscle when you're recovering away from the gym. And for that, it gets the big green check mark for truth. And there's not much more to say. Is it true you get enough core training from compound movements? I certainly hear this a lot. I will say this as a physical therapist, this doesn't align with my understanding of core training because we know that one of the biggest factors when it comes to core training is the core muscles are much more than just the rectus abdominis, much more than the six pack. We're talking about the obliques, the hips, the glutes, the muscles of the low back. But all these muscles in conjunction want to be able to produce and control rotation. Rotation is key when it comes to core training. When you look at the big compound lifts like the squat, the bench, the row, the deadlift, these are just sagittal plane movements. There is not a lot of rotational torque demands going on here. There is a lot of bracing requirements to be had here. And that's where a strong core is beneficial. And being able to get better at bracing against heavy loads is going to certainly help you to build a more resilient core, but not completely. Because if you're not training these elements of rotation and anti-rotation in a controlled, direct way through specific ab exercises or specific core exercises, then you're not really fully training your core. So for me, I'm going to give this one a big red X because it's just a myth. I take a little bit of offense here to discrediting specific arm training because you don't need it apparently because compound movements once again, save the day. You need to do arm exercises. Case in point, if you looked at the triceps itself, one of the biggest areas of your triceps is the long head, two thirds of the size of your triceps. Now, which compound exercise are you doing? Which bench press variation are you doing that puts your arms back over your head so you get that stretch needed to more effectively target that head? There is none. There is none. Now you could do other exercises like a heavy lying tricep extension, but it is a direct tricep exercise. So for me, when you're trying to build the biggest arms possible and also the most aesthetic arms possible, the compound movements, the big basic compound movements are simply not enough to do that. So for me, once again, we're getting the big red X here in terms of another myth busted. Sleep is the most important part of recovery. Not steroids. I think it's time I traded my natty card. You know, I think I should eat clean, trend hard, and a bar give up. You shut the f*** up, Jesse. All right. So sleep as part of recovery, we also know nutrition as part of recovery. Supplementation that we talked about can enhance recovery. But if I had to put my eggs all in one basket, I would have to agree that sleep is the most important part of recovery. And the reason is twofold. Number one, it is the time when our body is actually mechanically repairing itself. So the damage that you do in the gym, the stimulation that happens there is actually being repaired while you sleep, coming back bigger, stronger, and allowing for that new muscle to be built. But the other part of this is the neurological regeneration that happens during sleep. If you are continually sleep deprived, you're never going to allow yourself to recover enough mentally so that the next day when you have to go back and exert another effort, usually higher than the last time in order to keep your body growing, you're not going to be able to bring it because you just haven't allowed yourself to recover enough neurologically. So for me, sleep is going to hit both aspects of that. Make sure you get enough. Six to eight hours is generally best for most people. Some will claim they can get away with a little bit less, but I wouldn't go much lower than that. But for me, sleep is definitely important and therefore it gets the big green checkmark for a solid truth. Next up, deadlifting is bad for your back. Is that myth or not? Let me take this one. It's a load of bullshit. Bad deadlifting is bad for your back. Well, he's got a good point, right? Now, this is not one of those cases where it's a bad exercise. You see, this is actually a good exercise that's oftentimes misperformed. Now, if you do a deadlift, you train all the muscles of your posterior chain, your glutes, your hamstrings, your spinal erectors, your lats, your traps, right? It's a great builder of strength. However, you do have to do it right, like you said. I think the biggest issue with deadlifts is people bend at the waist rather than hinge back to perform the exercise. If you have proper hinge mechanics, then you actually are not lowering the weight while leaning forward too much or over flexing at the spine. Matter of fact, with good bracing, right, good spinal positioning, this is one of the best exercises you can do. There was a 2015 study where they actually used it in a rehab setting to strengthen people's low backs, and it did an amazing job at doing that. So, with proper progression, programming, and technique, the deadlift is not a back breaker, but it's actually a back maker. And so, for me, this is, Jesse, a load of bullshit, and it gets the big red X. Are abs made in the kitchen, Jesse? Yes. You cannot out-train a bad diet. Oh, I've heard that before. No matter how much weight training you do, no matter how much conditioning you do, you're never going to be able to have an impact calorically in a way that you can by simply eating less or being more mindful of the foods you're eating right now. In other words, more sets of pushing yourself away from the table versus sets of, let's say, burpees. Even a high intensity exercise like a burpee can burn like 15 calories per minute, but you will not be able to sustain it for long enough to get a high total calorie burn at the end of that workout. Even if you did long duration cardio, you're going to have to go for an extremely long time to make a significant impact calorically in terms of the number that you burn in a day that can all be undone so quickly with just one poor food choice. So, for me, abs are made in the kitchen, and they deserve the green check mark of truth. Next up, proper form is everything. As a physical therapist, you might actually be a little surprised by my answer. Well, let's hear it. Well, you see, proper form is critical if you're a beginner like you were. Yes. We started everything out learning proper form and building upon that proper form because you cannot establish a foundation of strength if you're building upon a cracked foundation. So, to do this, guys, you need to start out learning all your lifts with proper form through full range of motion. Once you have that, then you can actually be able to benefit from something we call control cheating. Like a barbell cheat curl gives you another weapon in your arsenal for adding more size to your arms, but only because you first trained yourself through proper form and built up that strong foundation because you can actually overload the eccentric but do so in a controlled way because that foundation is in place. So, for me, it's a bit conditional here. I do think a good cheat at the right time is the right way to go, but it's got to be a conditional because building your foundation has to start with proper form. Wait, Jeff, you said full range of motion, but I thought partial range of motion was better than full range of motion. Well, Jesse, it depends on what research you've been reading lately and also how you want to define the benefits of training because for me, it's not just about building muscle. You see, the person you're training needs to become not just bigger, but also stronger and hopefully more injury proof and to focus on just building muscle isn't necessarily the best way to go. That being said, if you're going to do that to then exaggerate the benefits of partial range of motion in terms of creating, let's say, upwards of a 10% gain in muscle, you have to make sure that you're including the absolute levels of gain. So, if you and I were training and we're trying to build bigger arms and I gained an inch, but you gained 10% more than me, how many inches additionally would you be getting? 1.1. No, just the 0.1 part because we both gained one. You're only gaining 0.1 additional. So, the difference between my arms and yours is 0.1. I don't think that's really perceptible. However, if I needed to compete against Chris Bumstead, maybe in that world of competitive bodybuilding, those extra 0.1 inches might actually be the difference between first and second place. Maybe. But most of us watching here are not competitive bodybuilders. We're just trying to get stronger, look better, and actually be able to do things for a lot longer. So, for me, partial range of motion does not provide all of the additional benefits that we get through full range of motion training. And so, I'm going to have to give this one a big red X for a big fat myth. If you want to talk about myths, check out these myths about creatine, the most popular supplement on the market right now. You can find them here. And also, if you want to see me rank more exercises, you can check out our gym exercises ranked video here. I hope you found this video helpful. Make sure you click subscribe, turn on notifications. If you're looking for those supplements, like I mentioned before, guys, high quality creatine and protein powder available at athleanx.com. All right, guys, see you soon.