 radi radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, radiatesx, this and I've been seeing results. What's up guys, Jeff Cavaliere, ATHLEANX.COM. So what are Chris DiStefano and Josh Brolin talking about on Joe Rogan? They're talking about effective reps and today I show you how to do effective reps when it comes to building bigger shoulders. Actually not me, you Jesse. Take these pair of dumbbells. Now I want you guys to watch Jesse do, in this case, a lateral raise. Okay, you're going to do 12 repetitions and the weight that we select here is one that would cause failure at the 12 rep range. Okay. You're going to do them though and tell me how you feel after every repetition in terms of your exertion level. Okay. All right. How hard it is. Yeah. All right. I'll sit here and watch and coach. Okay. Ready? Go ahead. Easy. Okay. That should be. Still easy. Good. Am I going for a walk in the park? That's three. Wise ass. All right. Keep going. This is good. Four. All right. I'm starting to feel a little bit. Okay. Getting a little bit harder. Six. Okay. All right. Now I'm making a face. Yeah, so it's starting to catch. Yeah, there's a face. All right. I'm muscling a little bit. Eight. Getting hard. Nine. Yep, getting hard. Ten. What are we talking about here? The reps? Yeah. Yes. Oh, my collarbone is clicking. All right. Keep going. All right. You might want to go a little bit more. Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. You got one more? Yeah. If you got one more, it's fine. Go ahead. Go. It's fine. All right. It means you didn't exactly choose the… Okay. All right. Good. Now put them down for one second. Okay. Now, most people would stop there, right? What would you do at this point in the gym? Probably just scroll on Instagram for a few minutes. A few minutes. No, I mean, be honest, for real. Yeah. No, seriously. Like two minutes, three minutes. Okay. So a lot of people will do that. And a matter of fact, I do that also. Okay. But if you want to get into the effect of reps, because all the only part of that set that you did that was actually effective, I'm going to argue, were those last six reps. So guess what? I got to do them again? Go right now. Now. So you'll only rest around 15 to 30 seconds max. I'll tell you exactly how long, depending upon whether you're a beginner or more advanced. Now, how's that feel? Oh, that's way harder. Okay. Good. Number two. Now, I want to see how many repetitions you can get. That's hard. Keep going. Accumulate these repetitions. That's four. Come on. Drive it up. Fight through these. Come on. Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it. Up. There you go. That's it. Okay, cool. Now, put them down. Now, the purpose of effective reps is what you just witnessed there. How quickly were you able to get back into those grinding, sort of difficult repetitions? Almost immediately. Almost immediately. Yeah. By minimizing the rest that you have between sets. So when you heard Josh Brolin referenced in the beginning there, like why are we, why are we arbitrarily resting longer? Again, this is not for strength. This is not a strength prescribed technique. But when you're looking to build muscle in hypertrophy, you want to try to make these things more inefficient. You want your muscles to feel the demand. And by shortening that rest to 15 to 30 seconds, that's what happens. Now, let me show you something on the board here. Okay. Cool. So what we're looking for is when you perform these, this is not done to a standard set of X amount of sets of X amount of repetitions. Like what you're used to. Like three sets of 12. Instead, you target a number of effective reps. So watch how you do this. And by the way, I'm going to show you an overhead press next, because that is going to require something slightly different. Okay. So I would say, Jesse, I want, or you watching, I want 20 effective reps, 20 ERs. Okay. I don't know how many you're going to do. So in set one, how many did you get? Six, right? Okay. First of all, the first thing he did there was 12 reps, right? That we call the ignition set. That has no bearing on this number right here. That is simply to set the stage for you to get more. So what happens to those 12 reps? You throw them out. They're garbage. They're just there. They're not garbage, but they're there to get you to the point of accumulating effective reps. Got it. That first set following the ignition set was one, two, three, four, five, six, right? Six effective reps. Now, if I had you go again after the 30 seconds or 15 to 30 seconds, how many do you think you would have gotten? Four. Okay. Probably because of the fatigue factor. So let's say you go four more, right? Like that. Now you're at 10. Okay. The next set, if you went again, do you think you're going to do more, right? No, no shot. So you're going to probably keep dropping a little bit. So maybe then the next set you get three out, right? And then you wind up getting a double, right? And then you go and you get another double and then you get a single and then you get another single and then you finally get your last one. It might take you six or seven sets to get through those 20 effective reps, but that's the prescription for that exercise. Okay. That's it for that exercise. Now you have an alternative way to do this. If you didn't want to do that over the course of let's say six or seven sets, then you would change the weight up because in that case you're just keeping the weight the same or the whole time. Your other option would be, okay, after the first set, I'm going to drop by five pounds and five pounds is sort of the limit for how much you want to drop. Now what happens is on that subsequent you did six the first time, the subsequent set you might get six again. Yeah. Right? So you got six and then you go six again, right? And then you maybe even six again or five at that point. You're going to do fewer total sets to get to your 20 effective reps, but you're not having to compromise the effectiveness of effective reps. So those reps are still effective. They're still effective. Of course, you're only dropping five pounds, but you'll just shrink the number of total sets that you'll have to do or those 15 to 30 second rest periods. So you'll get to your effective rep count a little bit faster. So if you're short on time, that would be the way to do that. But this is a relatively quick workout anyway. Very fast workout. I'll give you a full workout. Get back in position here. Okay. Overhead press. Grab your weight. Okay. So now if we're going to do it on overhead press, what would be different? Come a little closer. So what happens is now I want you to give me the same sense of how it feels. Okay? So it's 12? 12. Yep. Easy. Okay. Easy. Walk in the park. Are you taunting me? Yes. Okay. Is this five? It's getting harder. It's getting harder. Yeah. Now you're already fatigued also. Yep. Okay, it's getting really hard now. Okay. Come on. Come on. Is that 10? Yep. Okay. You got one more? Come on. Try. Good. That's a good set. Very good set. Now, hang with those. We've got to keep them close. Okay. What we do on an overhead press is it's a unique exercise. I don't want to be able to, or have to forego the exercise because we know how beneficial it is. But it's one of those exercises that we all know it gets stuck pretty quick. Not just your progression on the exercise, being able to add weight over time, but just even from set to set. It's a hard exercise to do strictly. Yeah. But I can allow you just a little bit of momentum. So when we do effective reps for an overhead press, I say do them as a push press. Okay. All right. So your time is up, Jesse. Get back into it. This time though, do them as a push press with a little bit of use of the legs. Okay. So a little sit back, up, one. There you go. That's better. Okay. Two. But now they're already more difficult though, right? Right away. See, they become difficult quickly. Without the push press, I probably wouldn't be able to do it at all. There you go. Press. There's five. Good. Okay. So the push press is the only thing that you would want to do. So when you do these effective reps, sometimes there's strategies that become important that you want to make sure that you're adding to the exercise to make sure you can still do them. Would you prescribe the overhead slash push press first in the workout? Yeah. Yeah. The way to show this a little bit easier for them was to do the lateral raise first. But if I had to, I would do this first as my compound lift. Yeah. And then I would go to the lateral raise second. Okay. Matter of fact, Jesse's referencing a workout that we did for the shoulders. It's called the 100 shoulder workout. You can find it and look at it right here. Make sure you take a screenshot so you can try it for yourself and see and feel what effective reps are for yourself. In the meantime, guys, let me send it out with the same guys that brought it in here, Josh and Chris talking about in depth, what their experiences were with the effective reps. Be like, look, if I'm in, if I'm, you know, if I'm at my last three reps, why do we have to rest for two minutes? Like who said that? Who made that up? Is it really a recovery thing? Two minutes before you can go back into 12 more reps. What if we just rest 30 seconds and then you're right back into that thing almost immediately. And those are the things that are tearing the tissues and growing the muscle and all that kind of stuff. So just experimenting with it all. You know, I've been doing this and I've been seeing results is he thinks that the real hypertrophy, which I think is scientifically, uh, uh, uh, backed the real hypertrophy comes at the last two to three reps of an exercise. So say you're doing, you know, 12, 10, eight, six, the last, you know, nine, 10, 11, 12 is really where the hypertrophy comes. So what he says is he does, uh, 20 efficient reps, right? 20 ER. So you get an ignition set. So you take a weight that you'll fail at between eight and 12. Let's say you're doing bicep curls. You'll take A-50 pound dumbbell and you'll fail at 10. You're failing at 10. When failing to him means you're breaking the, breaking the form and the concentric exercise and you're failing it. You know, you're using other muscles to kind of recruit the bicep to get that that's failing. So he says, what you do then that's your ignition set. You take A-50 pound dumbbell. Your ignition set is 10 reps. Boom. Good. You wait 15 seconds. Now the real workout begins. You have to get 20 efficient reps, 20 ERs in that time. So after you do the tenure at failure, wait 15 seconds, boom, boom, one, two, maybe I can get four and then I got to take a break. Wait 15 seconds. Boom, boom, boom. Every 15 seconds up to 20. That's one set. Then you move on to the brachioradialis, the brachialis, the front deltoid, whatever it may be. And you, you know, Athlean X says you stay in that one type of workout. He has, you stay in that efficient rep range. And I got to tell you, that's brought, I've went from doing his efficient rep exercise. I went from being able to do about 10 pull-ups in a row to 20 in about a month and a half. Wow. So with weight, right? So, so I think I've been following that, that Athlean X YouTube follow, in my opinion, one of the best follows you can on, on, on, uh, on YouTube.