!hthththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththt version of an overhead press. But that's not it. Because there's different variations of the press and some are definitely better than others. In other words, I wouldn't recommend doing a seated dumbbell overhead press. Instead, I want you to stand up. Again, being a trainer of athletes, I'd like you to be on your feet anyway. But there's a variation here that's even better than just the standing overhead press you see here. And when we're talking about building overall maximum strength, just take one dumbbell at a time. You'll notice a couple things happening. When you just lift one dumbbell, you're not worried about any core limitations or strength that are holding back your ability to press as much weight as possible. Because when you try to press two dumbbells up overhead, there is a lot more core strength demand. But when you can do this just with one dumbbell, something else happens too. The exercise becomes a lot more favorable biomechanically. And anybody that has any pressing discomfort overhead is going to find that this variation works so much better. When you press in this way, you can keep what we call stacking in place. Meaning the wrist stacked over the elbow, stacked over the shoulder. Keeping that dumbbell a little bit closer to your center of gravity. What happens there? You actually press more weight. So if you're used to pressing 45s or 50s in the bilateral press, here you'll probably wind up pressing even maybe 60 pounds or 65 pounds. Add that up, rep over rep, and the overload is enough to increase your strength. As we see later on down the road here, more gains. Now sometimes as trainers of athletes we want our guys to be very powerful. And that means we need to increase their speed at the same time that we increase their strength. So can we add an exercise that allows us to accelerate the weight through space? We definitely can. And one of the best ways to do it is with a dumbbell push press. And all you're required here is just to get a little bit of your legs involved in the exercise. And some would say, is that cheating? And my answer is no. Especially when you're trying to develop power. Because power isn't isolated to just the muscles you're trying to build. Power is a total body phenomenon. Being able to be more explosive in space is what makes you a more powerful athlete. The bottom line is the push press is definitely going to be my choice if that's what you're looking to develop yourself. Now we move into the category that most people who watch YouTube videos are looking for. And that is, Jeff, I just want to build big shoulders, man. How do I do it? Well, it's through hypertrophy based exercises, but there's different kinds. You see, if you want to build bigger muscles you can do it one of three different ways. The first is with just overall increased tension. How do you drive more tension into the working muscle? With this exercise called a dumbbell cheat lateral raise. What is this? It's exactly what it sounds like. It's basically like a cheat curl for your delts. Where you're going to allow yourself to actually swing the weight up a little bit, but of course under control and doing it safely. The idea is you're able to use a little bit heavier weight and then focus on controlling the eccentric on the way down. We know that the controlled eccentric or the tension driven to a muscle during the eccentric is one of the great drivers and promoters of hypertrophy. So you use a little bit of extra weight, you control it at the top, you almost try to stop the weight momentarily even though it won't, and then you force yourself to try to slow that thing down as much as possible. You take it to failure and then you do a drop set because again, this is another technique that we know can drive high levels of tension and make muscles grow that are actually not wanting to right now. And what do I do? A much lighter lateral raise, but I do it in a very specific way. My favorite way actually is called the one and a half raise. Here all I'm doing is taking the dumbbell all the way up, coming down only halfway, keeping the tension incredibly high. Again, the momentum is going to want to take that double all the way down, but you don't let it. And then you go back up again. So for another half of a rep. So up one full rep, down halfway, back up again, there's your one and a half reps. But when you do this in this drop set fashion from cheat lateral to strict, you really drive high levels of tension to that delt. And again, you get those things to grow even if it's the last thing they feel like doing right now. Sticking with hypertrophy though, we know there's other ways to do it, like I said. And one of them is to just sort of drown your muscles in lactic acid and make that burn be the metabolic driver of your gains. And there's two ways that I actually like to do this the best. The first is with a mechanical drop set. And the theory behind a mechanical drop set is that you don't have to change the weight you're using. You just change the movement you're doing that gets harder and harder because of the fatigue that's building up. So with a single pair of dumbbells, you start with this exercise here called the scoop press. And what you do here is you fix your elbows in space and then press the dumbbells out in front of you, basically scooping them up to the top. With the elbows held in this fixed position here, you're really kind of isolating the front delt as the main driver of shoulder flexion. You take these to failure and then you go into your next exercise here, which is done by high pull. So you see, I might be incapable of doing another front raise, but it doesn't mean my shoulders are incapable of still working. And that's the whole theory behind a mechanical drop set. You keep going to and through failure. And the high pull allows me to work more of the middle delt now and give that front delt more of a reprieve. And I take this part of it all the way to failure. Then I take just one dumbbell, dropping one of them, and I perform this exercise here. You're making these sideways figure eights in space. Again, this is going to get now a little bit more of that front delt again, having had that slight reprieve and still continue to kind of pound away at those middle delts. And then finally, I put both hands back on that single dumbbell because I got just a little bit more left in me and I do these dumbbell press outs to failure. Again, this combination here all the way to failure is what drives those big metabolic overloads that actually can produce muscle gains. Now I have another option here too, and this can be done with a lighter set of dumbbells. You take maybe 10 pounders or fives for some people and you get down to this kneeling position. We do something called the SFT, which is just short for the different planes of motion you're going to move in. Sagittal, which is front and back. Frontal, which is going to be side to side. And transverse, which is going to be kind of rotation back behind you. And what we do is we just alternate one repetition of a front raise on each side, then one repetition of a lateral raise on each side, and then one repetition of this sort of transverse, almost rear delt type focused raise towards the back. It also hits your rotator cuff too. And we continue to just go through that sequence over and over and over again. And even if one part of it drops out because of fatigue, you keep going with whatever remaining pieces you have until all three parts are done. And we're not done yet with hypertrophy because we still have one other way that we can do this. And we know that there's a lot of focus on stretch driven hypertrophy, right? Taking a muscle into a stretch position and overloading it in that sense because we can get that load plus tension that we know produces gains. Well, if you wanted to build your middle delts, then you would do this. You simply lean up against a rack or a bench, something stable. You put your dumbbell on the side opposite of where you're leaning against, and then you allow your arm to drop in front of your body. You can see that at the bottom of this repetition, the dumbbell is not just resting at my side like it would be on a typical lateral raise. It's actually across my body, putting that stretch on the middle delt, even from the very beginning. We can do this also for the front delt too. And that just requires us to set ourselves up on a bench. If you set the bench up at a slight incline like this and just allow your body to rest back into it, you can see that once again, from the beginning of the exercise, your front delts are going to be in more of a stretch position. Either way here, either exercise, again, I'm giving you more than one option because again, you might want to develop more than one part of your shoulders. Now, sometimes when we're training our athletes, we have to do something that's a little bit more efficient in terms of time. And we need exercises that do a little bit more than just train the shoulders, but still have a heavy focus on building the shoulders. So, these are more of our total body focused shoulder exercises. And for me, the classic is probably a power clean over. Again, very explosive exercise, dare I say even fun to do, but something that gets a lot more than just your shoulders working here. So, it becomes a better bang for your buck exercise, especially when you're limited on time. And so, now we shift gears with the next category, but maybe not as much as you think. Because even though this is a smaller exercise, it's these small exercises that build up those weak lengths in the chain of the bigger exercises, allowing you to do better on all the exercises I already showed you. And for me, what better way to train your shoulders than to do a face pull. But I don't have the access to a cable or a band. So, what do I do? Well, damn it. I use dumbbells. And I do it this way. I lay face down on a bench and I bring the dumbbells up as if I'm doing a face pull standing up. You're still working the same muscles. You're working them here against gravity, rather than the weight of a stack or the resistance of a band. But it still works the same muscles, namely the rotator cuff, the rear delt, all those muscles that support the overhead pressing movements that you're going to do in those other bigger exercises, leading to better overall gains. So, even though this is a smaller movement with much lighter dumbbells, don't underestimate its importance and the overall big picture of your shoulder development. Continuing down this sort of less popular, but no less important category of shoulder exercise, we have to look into this one that, again, internally amongst coaches, we would just call it our IR list, right? For the injured reserve. What do you do when you got to get someone back moving again and you can't afford to fuck them up again? Well, we have our list of go-to exercises, but to positively spin it better, I would call it the no pain all gain exercise. And for me, there's none better than the dumbbell hip hugger. And what this does is it allows us to get shoulder joint movement and motion without putting us in any of the positions that can become more aggravated, more quickly when there is a problem. So if you have troubles right now, let's say overhead pressing, you can start by just doing the hip hugger and get good shoulder abduction activation and rear delt activation by doing it. You see, when you bring the dumbbell up, you're only doing two things. You're trying to raise your shoulder into extension against the downward force of gravity, which is not very troublesome or stressful to the shoulder joint, but it does give you good rear delt activation. And you can abduct your shoulder or act as if you're trying to spread your elbows out as you drag the dumbbells up. That will give you some of that abduction stimulation, but at a lower degree. In other words, only about 45 degrees away from your side versus the 90 degrees that would be required to do something like a lateral raise or even an overhead press. So it gets you on the track back to doing some of those other movements. And even if this is all you could do for now, it'd be a great way to actually stimulate and yes, even start to build your shoulders back up to give you that successful on-ramp to those bigger overall exercises that we already talked about before. So don't diminish the importance of this. Realize that if this is where you need to be right now, this is the exercise you want to do. And then, so as good coaches like to do, we like to cover ourselves so that we have a sort of a catch-all category or a miscellaneous where we can throw one more exercise. And when it comes to the specifics of shoulder training, I think you really got to make sure you have extra work for the rear delt because it never gets enough. So what do we do? My choice here is getting one of two because there's two that I really, really like. The first one is something called a rear delt row. And again, when you try to build your rear delts, remember this. You have to get your elbow back behind your body. And a typical reverse dumbbell fly just doesn't do that. It gets it at best to the level of the body. But the extension of the elbow back behind the body is what really lights up the rear delt. So you want to do something like this where you actually get that arm and elbow going way back behind you. You'll see and feel the rear delts much more when you do this. But there is another option that's very close to this that has one additional benefit. And we call it the dumbbell Urlacher. And what it is, is not only an exercise named after Brian Urlacher, another athlete, but it's one that actually delivers something slightly different, more rotator cuff health. So still getting that elbow back behind your body and still getting good rear delt activation. But because the dumbbells are almost being thrown back behind you or being driven in a backwards direction, you're getting external rotation of the shoulder too. So a little bit more rotator cuff activation with yes, probably slightly lighter weights. But either way here, you're not going to go wrong. The big benefit here is just to stop overlooking the rear delt and sneak in a little bit of extra work if you have the time for it. And so from where I sit, if you only have dumbbells and you want to train your shoulders, then those would be my go-to exercises. If you want a whole playlist of the best dumbbell exercises for whatever you're trying to build, you're going to want to check that out here. And also check out my latest video. You can see that right here. If you haven't done so, click Subscribe and turn on your notifications so you never miss a video when we put one out. Full programs, meal plans, supplements, everything available over at ATHLEANX.com. If you want to look like an athlete, you've got to train like an athlete. See you soon.