 If you take ozempic, or know someone that does, you need to watch this video, or at least share it with that person. For those that don't know what ozempic is, it's a weight loss drug. It belongs to a class of drugs called GLP-1 agonists, and the specific drug ozempic is actually known as a semiglutide, which is the generic name for it. There's a lot of different drugs that fall into the GLP-1 class, and there's a lot of them that actually have different names for the same generic drug, ozempic Glutide. In general, what it does is it helps people who struggle with losing weight to lose it by taking a different approach. For many years we've had drugs that sort of sped up the calories out portion of the calories in, calories out equation. So they were amphetamine based drugs that basically were causing accelerated activity to try to drop more calories and lose weight. But they also came with a lot of really bad side effects. This class is working more on the calories in portion of the equation. So on controlling appetite at the neurological level, at the central level, trying to control your appetite. And also by delaying gastric emptying. So keeping the food that's in your stomach there longer, leaving you feeling more full for a longer period of time, hopefully leading to less calories taken in. Now there's two different names you might have heard. If it wasn't ozempic, maybe you heard something called Wagovi. And they are both semi-glutide and they have different applications. So ozempic actually has been out and approved since 2017 for type 2 diabetics. Well, Govi is one that's been used more recently, I think since 2021, which is for people who are overweight or deemed to be significantly overweight or obese. So with a BMI greater than 30. So different populations, same drug, slightly different doses, I believe, but the same end effect. Great. We're all good on that. For those that have actually needed it, this drug has been a game changer. Because as I said before, it's produced the result people are looking for at a lower risk to their overall health or with less side effects. And again, I think that sometimes people are quick to judge very overweight people who struggle with their weight. And I have to say that I've even walked the line from time to time, and I kick myself when I do, of blaming someone's lack of dedication on the end result of them having a severe weight issue. It's not always that, guys. They could do the same things that we do in terms of showing up to the gym, putting in the effort, but they have such metabolic mayhem going on that they can't escape that. And nothing works. And there needs to be something, less judgment and more options for people who find themselves in that position. And this drug is actually doing that. So I think that's a great thing. But with everything that brings good to the world, there's often a misuse of that. And there's no doubt that a large percentage of the people that are using this drug are doing so because they want to lose, let's say, 10 pounds for the medication coming up. Not only has that caused sort of some issues for the people who actually need it. There's a shortage of supply. The price has skyrocketed. Right? The stocks are doubled in price. These are things that happen when people sort of misuse or abuse the medications that were intended for other people. However, what makes this even more misguided is when you now consider the fact that this side effect of ozempic and others in this class that doesn't get talked about enough is where your loss of weight is coming from. Because with these drugs, there's a significant amount of loss of lean tissue, of lean muscle mass. That becomes a significant problem for anyone taking these drugs. And it's something that you need to be aware of. So, whenever you lose weight, especially a significant amount of weight, there's going to be a portion of that lost weight that comes from both body fat and from muscle. However, your job is to try to mitigate the amount of loss that comes from muscle tissue, and that's the metabolically active portion of the equation here. In a typical situation, if someone is training and engaging in strength training along the way, you want to minimize that loss of muscle contribution to, let's say, 8% of the total loss up to maximum, let's say, 15%. The lower, the better there. And the majority of that loss should come from body fat. And when you're talking about even a more minimal loss of body weight, you want to do this over a prolonged period of time because the longer you do this over, the better control you have over that distribution of whether it be muscle or fat. With these drugs, the weight loss is significant and it's usually rather quick. So your control over where it comes from is not as good. But what makes it even more disturbing is instead of an 8% to 15% max muscle loss, they were showing accelerated losses of muscle mass that went up to as high as 25% or 35%. That's not good. There was actually one study, and only one study so far, but it showed a middle-aged woman, I believe she was 47 years old, who developed severe rhabdomyolysis when taking semaglutide. Now, rhabdomyolysis is something that you oftentimes hear about with, let's say, CrossFit. Like when you completely overdo your training, severe overtraining, and that causes a breakdown of muscle tissue that releases chemicals into the bloodstream that are indicative of this being present. She was developing rhabdomyolysis from taking this drug. Now, who knows what the connection was? But we know that there's this accelerated lean muscle loss from taking the drug. What is it doing to the muscle that's creating something like that? When they removed the drug from her protocol, the condition went away. When they reintroduced semaglutide to her protocol, the condition came back. And she wasn't training. This was rhabdomyolysis that came from no induced training effect. Now, in my world, if someone asked me to help them lose weight, if I created anywhere near a 25% to 35% loss coming from muscle, I'd get fired. That's not good because what that's going to do is lead to that skinny fat physique. All right? I promised you I'd come back to my world here. Skinny fat physique is what people ask me to get away from. They don't want to have that look. This is what it looks like here for those of you who are unaware. It's a lower bodyweight person, but not carrying any lean muscle mass. That doesn't really look that good as it is. Again, it's kind of like soft and skinny. Not a good look. The problem that comes as a result of being skinny fat at the end of any weight loss attempt is that you have less metabolically active tissue to help you to hold off or fend off additional weight gain when you start to eat like you were before you started your diet or your weight loss attempt. Because inevitably that usually happens, especially if you're not using a drug to sort of assist you in doing that. That's a problem, okay? So, we always want to maintain as much muscle mass as possible. Now, I'm going to make this even worse. Throw in the equation here that aging presents some problems for us all. There's an inevitable loss in both strength and muscle size as we get older. And it can become more or less pronounced depending upon whether or not you're engaging in physical activity or regular strength training. So what we normally see when people don't engage in any type of activity at all is a third 30% to 50% total loss in strength and muscle size by the time they're in their 70s starting at the age of 30. That's a big, steep decline that occurs between those few decades there. If you lose that much strength and size, you're going to have a worse quality of life when you're in your 70s guaranteed. Things that shouldn't be very difficult are going to be extremely difficult. That being said, if you engage in strength training as you should, then you can lower that number down significantly. You're still going to see a decline every decade, but you can lower that down significantly. Your quality of life will improve. So what does that bring us in terms of the overall picture? Well, first of all, every time you have the opportunity to train. I always stress while cardiovascular endurance and training is so, so important, it should be making up part of your conditioning and your overall plan for fitness. Don't think that that's all you need to do. It's just part of the equation. You need to carve out a little bit more room in your life to maintain both your cardiovascular fitness and your muscular health. And that means you need to be strength training three times a week at least. In trying to push yourself to improve your strength levels, don't just accept your levels of strength, or don't just coast through your little workout or go through a circuit around the gym and think that you've accomplished what you've done. If you're approaching the gym like, I just need to be there and do a few things and move around, not enough. You need to have an intent and the effort needs to be there because that's the only way you're going to create the overload to maintain and maximize your strength as you age. Hold on to what you've got. The first thing it does is it gives you metabolic forgiveness. What that means is the more lean muscle you carry, the more forgiving your body is metabolically. So I can go out and have that cheat meal and it's not going to affect me as much as it would if you don't carry as much muscle tissue because the muscle is the storage depot for that overflow of glucose. It gives you a lot of places to store it. Much more forgiving. So the people who are jumping on ozempic in the beginning who are looking to lose those 10 pounds engage in strength training instead regularly and hard. And if you do, you might be amazed at what you're able to accomplish without ever having to inject yourself with this new pen. You need to consider that. For the people that needed it, it gives them more opportunity to actually get a hold of the drug because less people that don't need it are taking it from the inventory. We don't want to do that. And maybe it'll even help drive the price down and help them out there too. There's one other consideration that you need to make sure of though. When you are on these drugs, your nutrition plan should prioritize protein because protein is going to help you to maintain and build new lean muscle. And so while you're on a calorie restricted diet because your hunger is being controlled and your calories are decreasing, you don't want to let that take with it the proportion of those calories that are coming from protein. As a matter of fact, you want to make sure that you stress that the significant portion of those calories should come from protein. Some MDs are recommending between 25 and 30 grams of protein per meal to ensure that you're getting enough protein per day. I would say for those taking the drug and even others who are engaging in physical activity, that the one gram per pound of body weight is a pretty safe estimate for how much protein you should be getting in. If you're on ozempic or another semi-glutide, possibly you should be going even a little bit higher than that. Maybe 1.25 grams per pound of body weight. But don't let the calorie restriction bring along with it a decrease in the overall amount of protein that you take. I literally have a protein powder that we put 30 grams of protein in because I'm very aware of the fact that people don't oftentimes get enough protein in unless they're diligent in doing it. So putting 30 grams of protein is one of the industry leading amounts per serving. It's important. You certainly can invest in this and it's going to help you along the way, but there's other options there too. I'm not trying to turn this into a commercial. But Pro 30 G is basically my option for what I do to make sure I get enough in every single day and for those that I care about. I will tell you this though, guys. Without taking additional steps you're going to set yourself up for a long term problem. These drugs have been miracles for some. They can maintain the ability to be miracles for some as long as I think they're checking the rest of the boxes in terms of what they should be doing. Namely, engaging in strength training and increasing their protein intake and high quality protein intake to maintain and maximize muscle mass. That falls squarely in my realm of what I do and that's why this video I believe needs to be made. If you're looking for strength programs, guys, you can find them over at ATHLEANX.com. I mentioned ATHLEAN Pro 30 G is available at the website also. And if you leave your comments below, tell me what your experience is with this drug and others who are taking it. I'd really like to know what you think and what's happening. What are the results? What are they doing long term? How's it working? All right, guys. I'll be back here soon with another video.