 I'm going to give you three different workouts, one each for beginners, intermediate, intermediate, and advanced, that's going to take you through five separate exercises. Each one is designed to hit the different areas of the chest and also the different functions of the chest and also the different functions of the chest. If you ever wonder whether it's possible to build a bigger chest with just push-ups, then this is the video for you. It starts with your upper chest exercise because you're going to need the most amount of energy to perform it. For the beginners, you're going to perform this from your knees and we call this a push-away. Now, what I want you to do, now what I want you to do, now what I want you to do is you're going to be a push-up workout. Now, what I want you to notice is that you're not going to be moving just straight up and down but rather up and back and what this does is it puts those arms in a relative position above your shoulders at the end of every repetition. This is how you target those upper pec fibers more effectively because they're moving from that low to high position that actually follows the functions of those upper pec fibers. Now, how many repetitions are you going to do here? All of them. See, any rep-based push-up workout is likely to leave you with a push-up workout. a little bit frustrated with the results that you see because it's not taking you to a point of change or challenge. You need to take each set of this workout all the way to failure no matter what number that might be for you. Now, again, the exercise has to match your capabilities. So, if you're more at an intermediate level, then I want you to do this exercise instead. This is the prowler push-away. It's the same movement but this time you're doing it from your toes rather than from your knees which is going to make the exercise more difficult because you're moving more body weight. Now, if you're doing this from the more advanced level, then you do this. This is a decline push-up and again using the same mechanics of up and back but when you put yourself up against the wall here, the challenge becomes even greater if you can't get at least four or five of these repetitions that would drop back down to the intermediate level and build yourself up. Remember, no matter what level you decide to follow this workout at, you have to take this set all the way to failure. Now, here's something that is a bit of a departure from normal push-up workouts. I don't want you to just rest in between exercises because you're going to need a little bit of reprieve before moving on to the next push-up but what can we do instead? A little bit of ab work. I mean, you're literally on the floor in perfect position to move into one of three different ab exercises. So, for the beginners, you would do something here called the V-Sit Hold. Again, transition right out of that exercise, hold in this position here for as long as you can and then get into your next push-up exercise. If you're at the intermediate level, it's not just the V-Sit Hold but it's a scissor V-Sit. So, we're not just increasing the difficulty of the push-up but we're increasing the difficulty of the ab exercise you do in between push-up sets. As soon as you're done, you move right now back into the next exercise. And this time, we lower down the focus to that big, broad area of the chest. We're talking about those sternal fibers. And here, the exercise is going to do it best for beginners. is going to be that standard knee push-up. Make sure you're fully extending your elbows. You're not shortchanging any repetition. You lower yourself down with good push-up mechanics all the way to the floor and back up. For the intermediate level here, you're going to have to pick those knees up once again and perform a standard push-up. And again, not sacrifice. You're going to have to make a progress in form along the way, making sure that every repetition is a good one. Just make sure that you perform all of them that you can until you can perform no more and you reach actual failure. And finally, for the advanced, you're going to perform this variation, which is the archer push-up. And we're making it a little bit more complex, but we're also increasing the challenge on the chest. And again, regardless of which variation you're following here, you're still going to take it all the way to the point of failure or really, like I said, to the point where the challenge actually creates a change. Once again, here, you don't just rest after the completion of the second exercise, but you go back to your assigned ab exercise. So again, beginners go back to that V-sit hold, the intermediates go to that V-sit scissor, and then the advanced go into that scissor V-up. You do that for as long as you can until we hit the third exercise here, this time targeting the lower chest. And the beginners are going to do the incline pushup to do this best. All you're going to need here is either a box or a bench or even your own staircase at home. The main thing that's going on here is that you're changing the angle of your body and most of all, the orientation of your arms relative to your body. Remember I said, if you wanted to hit the lower pec fibers, you want those arms to be angled more downward as if they would be in, let's say, a traditional dip. Well, here we can do that. And again, by just performing the regular pushup motion with the angle of the body now changed, you're going to do exactly that. You're going to target those lower pecs better. Now, if you're at the intermediate level, the exercise becomes the pseudo plans pushup. Now here, your focus should be on just shifting your body weight a little bit forward off of your toes and more in the direction of your shoulders to create a little bit of that forward lean and sort of backward angling of the arms. This is enough, again, small, but important to shift the focus more to those lower pecs and to give you the result that you're looking for may be missing with the pushup variations you're doing right now. And then for the advanced, we have the modified Hindu pushup. And the difference between this and the intermediate exercise is just a little bit more range of motion, a little bit more travel in that forward direction to put a little bit more of that stress and focus on the lower pecs. It differs from the traditional Hindu pushup because we're not allowing ourselves to swoop back at all. Once we reach the level of the ground, we come right back up again and push ourselves forward again, all the way to failure. And before you move on to the fourth exercise, of course, you have to take your ab break by doing the respective exercise that corresponds to the level of difficulty that you're following. Now, this is where a good pushup workout that targeted all three areas of the chest might end and therefore not be a good enough pushup workout, or in this case, a perfect pushup workout, because we're still missing one of the main functions of the chest. And that is the movement of the arm across the chest like we would in a fly. How do we do that when our hands are fixed in place during a pushup? Well, beginners are going to do it with an exercise called the twisting knee push away. And what this does is it allows us to get some relative adduction of the arm. In other words, again, we can't lift it and cross it across the body. In this case, but what we can do is twist the torso closer to the arm to create that relative adduction of the arm to engage the chest in a way that's not typical for a standard pushup where our hands are fixed in place. You want to alternate twisting to the left and right sides, making sure to push off of that hand all the way up onto your fingers if you can to really gain as much range of motion into adduction as possible. For the intermediates, the exercise is the same. The challenge becomes more difficult because once again, you're getting off the knees here. Once again, you're alternating between the right and left sides, still trying to do the same thing in terms of reaching through, almost pushing through up onto your fingers if you can to increase the range of motion that's possible with this relative adduction. For the advanced out there, if you have access to a single resistance band, then you now have access to one of my favorite pushup variations. And it's called the crossover pushup. You anchor the band out to the side, onto something stable. And as you push up, you cross your arm against the resistance of the band into actual adduction of the shoulder, which is going to light up your pecs even more. You follow it right into another pushup and again, up and across your body. Now you want to make sure you're performing repetitions with both arms, but I'll tell you how to do that for now. Focus all on one arm for one set. We'll talk about how to do the other arm later. Again, follow up any one of these variations of the exercises by doing your designated ab exercise until failure. And you come back now for the fifth and final exercise of your workout and is based around the concept of speeding up when you slow down. You may not feel like an athlete, but you can be training like one if you follow this principle and the beginners are going to be able to do something more explosive with this exercise. It's called the lateral knee plyo pushup. And again, you get to do these from your knees to allow you to do these more explosive exercises, especially if you haven't tried them to date because you tried something too hard. Intermediates are going to perform something called the double hand release plyo pushup. And the hand release is actually removing momentum, forcing you to become more explosive from a dead stop. And then the plyo portion of this is actually ensuring that you're becoming explosive enough. And again, taking these all the way till failure, no, maybe not a lot of repetitions, but make them high quality explosive ones if you want to see the benefits of this particular exercise. And again, you're going to follow that up this one last time with the ab exercise designated for your ability level. Now I know sometimes it's hard to concentrate and the good news is you don't really have to because here's all the workouts that I just discussed laid out for you step by step, rep by rep, exercise by exercise and level by level. Now at the end of one completed level, you want to rest three to five minutes and perform a second if possible. And it's during this second round that if you performed the right over left version of that bandit crossover, then you would switch it up and perform the left over right. Pushups can build a bigger chest if you know the right variations to do and the right way to sequence them. If you're looking for a complete program, you can find a body weight only program over at athleanx.com called Xero. And if you want to know all about chest exercises and where they rank amongst each other, including pushups, you can find that in my chest exercises ranked video here. Guys, make sure you click subscribe, turn on your notifications so you never miss a video when we put one out. All right, guys, see you soon.