 What's up, what's up, what's up guys, Jeff Cavaliere, athletin, athletics, dot com. So make your vote below, fast reps or slow reps, which one is better for building muscle? Jesse, you got a vote? Hopefully it's fast reps because a lot of things I do are very quick. We're talking about in the gym, Jesse. Okay, now I will reveal the answer here for you. Ready? All reps are good for building muscle, but that is only if you know how to apply the specific techniques that are needed to make slow reps work or fast reps work or even very fast reps. So what I want to do is use Jesse as an example here and take you through the different types of reps so we can talk about them. All right, the first one up is going to be slow reps. Okay, because I need to slow you down, Jesse. All right, now here this is just an example of a repetition that's done under much more control. That's the first thing that should pop out to you. It's just a lot more control. There's no momentum. There's good form. I like to call these inefficient repetitions. And I mean inefficient because as a trainer of athletes, I usually want them to utilize all the muscles that like to work together to perform a job and become a more efficient moving machine. But when you're trying to create muscle hypertrophy and growth, being inefficient and forcing the lats to do this entire motion here is going to help to overload the lats and make them grow. Now, if you want to make them grow even better when you do slow reps, you'd want to employ a type of technique here that we call trap sets that actually is taken right from my brand new warrior program available over at Athlanes.com. What a trap set looks like is the following. When you do your first repetition, Jesse, you go down for one and up for a count of one. On the second repetition, you go down for a count of two and then up for a count of two. Third repetition is down for a count of three and up for a count of three. You get the deal, Jesse, four and four. Right? So keep going. Four and four. Now, how do you know if you're going too heavy when you're trying to be controlled on a slower repetition? You should be able to stop that bar at any point in the range of motion. Stop. Good. Now keep going. So if you can't stop at some point, you're probably using too heavy a weight to get the benefits or the real benefits out of slow rep training. Now that's five and five. Now when you reach five and five, you got to go backwards. Do five and five again. Now this slow tempo will be taken over the course of 10 repetitions. You'd use around your 12 to 15 rep max. And ultimately what you'd wind up with is 60 total seconds of tension. Now what's interesting about this is that only the first one or two repetitions was easy, right? Yeah. Now we've talked about effective reps on this channel and there's a whole playlist of 100 workouts that actually utilizes effective reps. And I'll actually link another video at the end where we talk about effective reps. Ultimately your body doesn't know how much weight is here. All it knows is the tension that you're driving to that muscle. And if we can get to those more effective overloading type repetitions more quickly, then we're doing a better job at stimulating that muscle. So what the best way to do that with is when you're doing slow repetitions is to use this type of cadence where we increasingly slow down the repetitions so that by the third or fourth rep, they're already feeling productive. Oh, they were definitely feeling productive. Right. They're already feeling difficult and challenging. And so being able to incur more time under tension with an inefficient exercise that's really driving the tension through the lats is a great way to do that. So that's how I would attack the slow motion repetitions. Now, if I wanted to grow from fast repetitions here, I'm allowing a lot more body English and movement, but let me show you why you want to make sure that you've got to draw the line. You can do it. You can do it. So go ahead and increase the weight. Now I'm a big fan of utilizing momentum and some momentum on the exercises that you're doing to make the muscles work harder. But when you get in this position, get down. Now I want you to just simply lean your body back all the way, just leaning back like that. Now what you see is I've pulled the bar down to a certain degree with no work being done, right? Maybe for your low back, but that's it. Now keep your hands here and bend your body back up to the bar. Okay? Now you're almost in a lat pulldown position, but you did no work to get here. None. Okay. Go back up to the top. See, at some point, if you just start throwing your body all over the place when you do faster, more powerful repetitions, you're just going to let body positioning lift the weight for you and not the actual muscles. Right. So we have to draw the line somewhere. If you do a lat pulldown, you can explosively start pulling. Go ahead. But you have to draw a line. And most importantly, I'll show you in a second, get it going. Cool. Draw the line by locking in place. Lean back, boom, lock in place. This is the key though. This part of the lift, the eccentric raising of that bar back up to the top under control. This is the part of the lift that we know we incur the most stretch. This is the part where we know we've forced the muscle to do more work. This is the part of the lift that actually is stronger than the concentric. So we could do more repetitions this way. So even if we cheat our way through the concentric, we've got more room to grow here. So if you're going to do these fast, explosive repetitions somewhere along the line, you've got to make sure that you're not just bastardizing the exercise so bad that it's becoming just a body moving through space exercise. It still has to be the muscles that are driving this. Right. Albeit more efficiently because you get some help from some of the other muscles. Okay. All right. So that's number two. Now let's say you're like my friend C.T. Fletcher, who I love to death. And I've seen so many workouts of C.T. and the guys, and they do the repetitions a little bit differently. Right. Demonstrate what you see when C.T. and those guys do the repetitions. Guys that built amazing bodies over the years by doing tons of repetitions that look like this. Right. Kind of stuck in this sort of mid-range area with a lot faster repetition in the middle here. Why does this work and how can you make this work? Well, a couple of reasons. Number one, this is a partial repetition, right? A lot of it's occurring in the middle or towards the end of the repetition. Right. We already know that partial repetitions can have additional benefit, especially if they're occurring in that length and range. But what's most important here, and this is something that they all did, if you're going to perform these repetitions in this range at that speed, that you absolutely have to take these sets to failure. Yeah. I mean failure, like failure. Can't move it anymore? Can't move it anymore. Where you're just moving little, tiny, little repetitions. Think kind of like the Sam Sulek type repetitions at the end. Oh yeah. Just the sort of short little repetitions at the end. You take that all the way to failure. It's very similar to when you're using light weights. You can use light weights and build muscle by going even into the 20, 25 rep range, 30 rep range, as long as you're pushing yourself through that burn and taking it to failure. Right. So the answer to the question of whether or not fast or slow reps are better, the answer is they're both good and they both need to be done. As a matter of fact, I mentioned that Warrior program. We have fast and slow reps being done together in the same workouts and throughout the same phases of training because we know that both of them are necessary. Control and aggression. The ability to do both is what ultimately leads you to a more athletic, highly performing body than just being able to be one dimensional in terms of being a bodybuilder. Right. And all of these will work again if you know how to do them. And now with this video hopefully you do. If you're looking for that program guys, you can find it over at AthleanX.com. If you want Jesse to do something to help himself with that issue he's having, give him some tips below. I don't know what the hell you got for him. All right guys, make sure you subscribe, turn on notifications, and don't miss a video when we put one out. All right guys, see you soon.