 naringin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, ni And now ready to bring it to the unknown unknown Listen Wait wait wait wait Your butt okay, okay You've done that too bro Have it for you okay, okay, you're alive. You said you have your life So the shower you sugar bottle in the shower Okay That's why sticky shit I feel like he probably does one of those you know you just like You Well, you know a man's And you know the male the males G spots in the ball Mr. Macho how do you do your ass in the shower? No God of here Macho Macho huh in reality We don't finger it right like a don't pussy like fingering the shit though bro You know it's like my little warm like Yes Sometimes I go like this I'll take this and rub it against like my like this like Sometimes you get in there too I'm not gay. I'm actually very um I know what I like and I'm very confident my sexuality so I can do whatever I want His feet right now is not gay. Yeah, not that is not real shit. If you're not gay, you're not gay, bro Literally, you know, you're the light. Yeah, just kissing dudes. It's not a problem Yeah Oh What I just woke up You didn't brush your teeth your breath still so much. Yeah, oh yeah, I asked you that in years you're at 43 years old That's crazy. Do you still gonna mark what? What You can't guard no, I beg you How's that cat was not flowing as much ideas No, wait, exactly Protein if anything it makes it more efficient No Is the pecker does it float does the blood flow your pecker well solid He's lying. You just tell you long rough really how can you tell? Mmm There with so I think it's dick already has issues as it is Really my star my steroid usage in my dick those stories like actually make your boss mom They they they change your production of your natural testosterone. So like your natural production is from the testicles So if you don't use them, they kind of like So you take don't get smarter to boss. Yeah, so you get smaller. Yeah Your balls only your balls. Yes. Yeah. How do you know that though? Oh, no a lot of research And you ever took steroids before So so you take steroids you don't got a workout no So what is the reason dude is making you strong? Let me work out right? You just take the word. So it's a point of steroids to make you a big Just I think I think the point is most people who like want something from working out you get all of that faster Depending on what it is. It just makes everything happen faster essentially, but you still have to do it No, that's not Yes, that wasn't your sir. It's five serves and you switch so it's right out for all and it's your sir rings when I'm saying so No, it's my point for one It's zero zero zero zero No, the boy had a crack in it Come on And Out if your boy hey Listen, I'll give you that out off the table. I'm gonna give you that bullshit point. I'm still gonna beat you fucker You gotta solve service this I can do that Yo mama literally told me that you have to solve for you can call it right now that paper She felt bad me was candy cabinet Okay, okay, you got this I thought turn up listen to me around Yo, hey, you try to handicap Not a stinky one, bro It's for six. I gotta do is get three points Hey, but it's about another cracker Let's go, baby Shit that feel better than another What I can't Before you even he even told the story the other day I called him right my book He answered me with like phone like this like really dark where he was at my buddy was sleeping I'm like, oh, I wake you like what do you want? He's like no, I was just jerking off like hi, like whatever His hand it's all like moisturized There's no way he came in a different time it's in the same shit And I literally just grabbed motion in like I was a YouTube video how to make it look like you know come and I literally just Called no people here and they I don't want to see their reaction. Hmm. So is that Are you just chilling on your phone scroll? Like somehow your hand just comes down to your ass, bro I You tell me a phone right okay, and you like just do you know going your pants And you know the hairs that's right by like the like biohole your goose. Yeah, goops off of the bottom part It don't matter both like this side of that side. It don't matter like just the whole thing You just like do this with it I Know you're not Fucking head like no no bro, but even his head put your head straight straight No, bro. He's tall. You'll see that. I'm taller by a little bit, bro My eyes are above you look yeah, no see you not see you like my little way look look look Watch line up right here lids your eyebrows You're gonna probably get another growth spur and be talking extremely. Yes, but only I thought are you that's all my five nine five ten Five eleven five twelve fuck out of here. It's fucking five seven, bro. No You look good Who put money on this kid I did I got you ready, bro. I'm kind of scared Two one go I don't trust you, bro. I don't want to like this go win Get that neck Oh You gotta grab that's the Aiden special brother That's so weird He didn't use no strength. I'm sorry. No muscle some straight bullshit. That's bullshit. I feel bad