 dude, you know what the fuck is good, man. Whenever you see this, you know what's going on. We're gonna ruin our lives in Miami. That's what we're gonna do. No, not really, we're gonna upgrade it, because honestly, I'm just really excited for the outside. You can't even cap. Sunday, we're coming back, we're doing a podcast with Stine, Ian, Steve. What's good? Good to see you. We're gonna go to the UFC fight. Steve's coming back to YouTube. Yeah, I don't know, maybe Jack should get some pussy. See what happens. Cheers to that. Cheers. Cheers for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, for that, This guy yo I take this guy normally normally he's back right away motherfucker did not text me back, bro He's a celebrity I'm talking about Last night was so late. I saw that we just go there just because yeah, she was working me and Nelson had a bonding night You ever just from a When I was like fucking I don't know dude a kid. That's like coming when you're like in the dance You know the fence and you're like, yo get off You mean the women I respect I respect what you said you call the bitches. I didn't say that word Don't you ever use that word? I heard you that word. Yeah Run back to cliff Right You pay the bill first I fucking bill I'm going broke straight up. We put you we use my card for everything He owes me to grant you on $2,000 you know the method I use I lost my card like five months ago Don't care to get it back. I'll ask my aim extra months ago Don't get it back. I like hard for everything save a lot of money It's like I don't have a card like I can't pay yeah, I've literally saved like Just there's fighting but then I think it's my money because I pay study But I overpay it so like I see it as now. I'm just paying them like regular. That's fucking funny Do it's like you're winning it hard then cuz like you're paying in you're getting the tax deduction. Yep Damn my taxes will be dope, but seriously you save a lot of money smart You gotta be smart with your money It's not about how much you how much money you make it's how much money you keep and remember that great board I'm tell them what happened to the stairmaster. Well, basically so everyone here it came here Stiney was supposed to make sure was delivered I told Stiney and Natalie were like going together to make sure it's delivered came here sat here for too long They wanted to not have it here because they're on space or some shit So they sent it back to the company and the company's like we could hold we're gonna charge you these fees and I was like fucking just cancel it I don't want you talking about the whole Stairmaster oh, what happened with that Bradley said the stairmaster came here if Stiney didn't want didn't didn't do Shit with it came to the ass they said they said they didn't want it hold on He said it never showed up. It did show up. He said that never came. It came it fucking came No, they did try to deliver the thing I'm not capping they did go back to them And they told me they were gonna hold it and charge me to hold it and I was like I'm not gonna deal with the shit So that I canceled So you're gonna deal with it directly There was a shit show trying to get this shit fucking delivered here, and I was just like fucking I was trying to deal with Stiney it wasn't working fucking Promise me a stairstep for his driver All right, so we're Steve's filming a video. I don't know exactly what he wants to do yet But I know that we're starting with drinking. It's a part of the creative process I can't I need a drink, but I can't drink I should be drinking a lot cuz I'm Brad's tab I should be gone him. You know what? Editing editing editing run up the bill that's motivation like every single time I drink money's coming out of Brad's pocket Not in the mind, but it feels like it is it's kind of accurate Brad is a loyal guy Very little guy. We could have these conversations real hard-to-hard like cuz at the gym I just I don't get how he gets girls like thrown at him and the girls with the big asses that I can't really communicate with I don't have that shit. I don't got girls with big asses like that I kind of do but not like him in the gym Club girls not Jim girls Jim girls are way better They are it's true, but I have to say no not that hard to say no yeah It's not I mean I want to sleep with all of them, but I can't right? Well, I don't know if you have the same things going on, but like Same thing not to your scale, but it happens. Maybe like a prank in a prank or something Yeah, it happens like it totally does happen in that situation for you. It's an old world out there It's a cold fucking world. They try to get to see they're like whose cars this can you introduce me to it? Why use it people make fun of me. That's why I use it and it works Who's wrong am I wrong for using his shit or they wrong for using me for his shit What's that wipes out anxiety at any time you feel anxious So if I went no glove with a hooker and then I took this I wouldn't fear anything No, you'd still fear something because you have something to fear that doesn't take away the burning You know, you know, I'm like back into filming when I wear a Kimbo Richard I don't do that like I'll only be doing this like when I'm like Chains a Kimbo chains and a Kimbo watches when I feel like I'm not shit I won't be wearing a Kimbo Richard. I'm like upset Steve is back baby. Let's go Missed you man. They were telling me they had to watch my videos crazy. They're like, fuck. I gotta come here You should be so team back to do it Okay, the last video you guys pranked him right and it was like some girl What is this you crazy girl It was like all this girl saw so I just want you guys to know this was real because this motherfucker hit me up as soon as that Chicks lives in this DMs and was like, yo, dude, what do you think? You said this really big I don't know what to do and you thought it was serious 100% number one be confident And if you number need some supplements, you know what I'm saying. Yeah, I give you the alipay. Whatever. It doesn't matter Anyways, this motherfucker was so hyped about that shit. Yeah Fuck fucked up for today. You know this, you know, he said there. He said uh, he said He said that shit there he said I beat it up right? I'll keep you beat it up for real or something right? I think you're happy. You think he beats it up What are you talking about your only thing you you have a private only I Like He just holds cocking like different backgrounds. I could get like sunset like it's fucking funny Come on, I like how you are This is actually really dope got the whips matching. I really actually like the whipskis Car which is older Ferrari look like brand fucking new brand new Audi Huracan Huracan fuck you Stiney I wake up with a baddie Yeah, let me right Women I'll be bad because the fuck was nice I Yeah We were driving a some a lot of strava Rolls Royce over here Just listening to some like 42 dog or something and just fucking feel so gangster dude in the rolling that's why you got all your cars one of the most comfortable The rolls for yeah, yeah Second guess that I let it set it, it's God's plan We out here only accept and bless it I'm stuck with it, it's mine, said it's terminal In and out different terminals, leveling up is personal And I already made it, y'all can miss me I smack my girl's ass, tell her pension, yes Hard to believe I made something from nothing No hindsight discussions, I've been writing up love You know what's really nostalgic? The fucking flag Dude, we're not going to Miami We're going to fucking New York Hey New York Okay, on a fucking ride I feel like all we do is fly red eyes You know it's a podcast trip We're going for a podcast with a special guy Funny guy, one of the funniest guys I think right now Um, Andrew Schultz, we're going to do his podcast The plan is to do the podcast tomorrow By the way, the drop is live, I'm wearing the hoodie And like there's a ton of stuff to pants I'm wearing as well I'm wearing it for the last like, fuck it I don't know, a month or so Yeah, we're on the way to the airport Like I had to shit I was like, yo, where the fuck is everyone at? Cause I felt like we should have left it like 9 But yeah, we're going to do a fucking podcast Maybe we'll save for a few days Maybe we'll go to like one of the dope gyms Are there dope gyms on these coasts? I'm wearing really high mushrooms Wait, are you actually? Why don't you take mushrooms? I want you for it Really? Yeah I can tell by that When I pop, I'm like, get your whole thirsty Little water Oh, here they do it Get some dude, they don't give a matter Where are you setting up? 5C There's some waters by your sea Oh, you got some back there? I told them how to what I've been up on And I saw that I'm coming They're killing me See, feel that it's an early Dude, there's like one good movie set A big movie set Yeah, like a prop movie set Two beers Yeah Alright, first impression New York I've been here before, I was here like I was young and I was here like a few more times 5's are kind of weird Look, it's got underground Rubberjugs Look It'S4 level It's going down It's like they got the nail thing up here And then they got the sausage It's actually cool, man New York's dope We're going to Brooklyn I didn't know that's where we were going But that's where we're fucking going You're good, you're doing great Terrain Dude, this dude is fucking hilarious One of the funniest people And he just don't give a fuck He just says what he wants And I admire the fuck out of that So, should be a dope podcast Thank you Alright, dude Let's dope Let's dope Solid I got to piss really bad I got pissy shit I don't know if I should drink more coffee, drink more water This is all just like Studio model Like photo studio I thought you were going to take me here You killed me, we were posing up They wouldn't find you There was murder I swear to god you wouldn't find them on the fucking The whole block is just like Dumpster places But we have a new studio in Soho But the actual studio build out is not done But we're there in half the week Everyone but me Everyone but you This is dope I just do it at my house This is cool I feel like we got to step the shit up But like comedians shit is I just find it so crazy Like obviously they practice the set Whatever they get up on stage But he just makes a lot of shit on the fly What's your back? You're Asian right miss? You're Taiwanese? That's a good one No that's a good one That's like China 2.0 Taiwanese were like Fuck it we out And then they were like Japan's too far Let's just stop right here We're not going all the way You're like those Indians that made it to like Trinidad You know the Indians were like we're going to America And then the first island they were like Fuck it pull over This is fun enough They'll say like I've got my hour That's usually what you'll record in the special But that's also what people are expecting To see like the bangers For one hour When you go to comedy clubs it can be a hybrid But typically when comics like tour Like the comedy clubs Sometimes they're like developing their new material for that Good This is amazing I'm impressed Yeah this makes our podcast really tiny It's gonna be the trash That's what I'm talking about my boy It's gonna be good Speaking of eggs We're gonna have this friend come to Jamir Do you think you can crush an egg top the bottom Oh fuck I've done this before How do you crush it? Finger top to bottom It's top to bottom Can you do a full hand? Yes I can crush an egg full hand I guarantee I can break Of course You can't break it a whole hand I could but I don't want it to go everywhere Yo that's why Yo Yo That's just dumb art You can't do a whole hand I don't think Brad can do it I can't do it I can't break a whole hand I've always wondered how chickens can sit on it I've always wondered Why don't they break Brad you gotta break that egg You even lift bro? Oh Oh Oh shit That's all you had to say Brad you can't lift bro You fucking idiot You have it in your hair too That's a dope Oh you've done a great job Nah you were great dude Really good I didn't know what to expect It's really just comfortable I mean it's just a real experience Yeah I get to really what happens It's fucking crazy You gotta get to a stand up show I got you That's fucking dope Fuck with that guy So I can't wait to get him back on Raw Talk On the podcast Obviously on camera the podcast It's gotta be Not gotta be A lot of times the energy is probably a lot higher For the comedy, for the jokes For the bit But having the conversation with the dude off camera It makes sense I told myself I'm excited to have you on the podcast That's the kind of conversation I like to have Just straight Man a man talking about life and the purpose of it And all this stuff It makes sense someone like that Is so successful the point that they're at I swear I have conversations with people who are much more successful Than I am They're all saying the same shit I swear to god I just want more people to hear that That's why I love my podcast I try and make it more about that Cause obviously I'm not a fucking funny ass comedian You can't all be fucking Andrew Shultz Push the button Dude are you fucking serious Fucking cold dude No one told me it was fucking cold Fucking short We're going to Times Square because Jacob is a fucking tourist I didn't ask the girl here Yeah dude you literally were screaming He's like can we go to Times Square There's no clip Cause you're private cause you're embarrassed So he's like can we go Can we go please That's not cap dude Just cause it's off camera doesn't mean it didn't happen We're going there congratulations I'm too excited This is it man This is it Go drink I feel like there's not really much to do in New York I'm being really honest You have a few options Walk around, drink, be cold Walk around Be cold Then after you do those things There's like a few other things you can do Be cold, drink, walk around Drink I know you're excited Congratulations Can we go Yeah dude we're here No one did that You did that dude This is fucking crazy I'm fucking crazy Where are the fucking Alicia Keys Alicia Keys is probably in LA What's his name? Is that her husband? He's not just going to pop out of one of these floor events And start singing to you you dumb ass No, she won't Okay Alright so first fucking pizza I had in New York Well actually It is cap because I did it like years and years ago But I don't remember that was a long time ago It was like six years ago One fucking bite I'm giving it a seven Yeah I'm giving it a seven Harsh critic huh? Yeah that's pretty rookie They're like it's so funny It's funny because like they because they don't do YouTube like that It's like you're like introduce yourself so like I'm Ruby I'm Ruby and this is Rachel Yo bro Jacob needs to tattoo he's in New York every time he travels he gets a new tattoo You even said you're going to do that The girls are going to vote what tattoo you get Brad's making me get a fucking tattoo He said he'd beat the fuck out of me if I didn't get it I was like I'm going to physically assault him To the point of a break of death What the fuck are you doing? What are you doing? What are you doing? Let's go So I'm going to be like the fuck the internet The fuck the internet? That's my guy right there I think you got the perfect bong for you God buddy You smoke cock dude Get that one I got y'all buying more of you Fuck you You