 putting these on is like increasing my chance of dying tonight. No, it does. It's quite a lot. 50% increased chance of death. I'm not sure what to do. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. Video game he's good at video games. I was like you're like trying to kiss his ass I don't know what you're thinking like gonna get there's no New Year's Day gifts, bro Bradley need your breath What I start drinking no, I'm not drinking you have to fucking do you don't bro you're staying here for free You'd never let me stay for free. Well, that's cab. Well, you live for a month with Selena. It's not true That's true. That's true a lot with Selena fuck you and you didn't pay nothing you didn't pay nothing free completely free Nope, he made me order trifecta. Yeah, right. Will you will you shot them a beer? Guaranteed the next I'll check it. He's just gonna lie about the size so you're gonna have to confirm it You see that an ass he's fucking These run a little tighter so dress it you know Brad doesn't parent 21 sucked it fucking bit well You want to do one of my rock-paper-scissors No You remember you can do one time redemption You said what That's two out of three. That was the first time ever. He ever played me. You know what? Okay You got his game at for New Year's you got a kid's game for New Year's I've got way more like slow motion fucking 12-01 yeah like Titanic vibes stiny gave our kiss and it's all over it's happening No, but I'm not sitting here. Yes, I'm not sitting your leg. I can do that stine. I see them. I love that on this lab So the door let's go Chris. We gotta go Stine do it Oh, I'm not talking about any I Love it. I love it. Wait hold it hold it Brazilian poppy right here I I Okay, look okay look So once it is podcast and I was a kid pick me up some shrooms because I just want like a little micro Those for this podcast we're on the way to the podcast right now Let me let me give you some insight. We don't have the mushrooms Okay, because he just tiny sucks and let me show you why I told him two days ago. He goes, okay. I got you I told him yesterday. I said yo I need that yesterday at like five o'clock. He said getting it He hits me up at 939. I told the powers at 11 today Yo, the pot is really at 11 our time like question mark and I was like do why the fuck would I say that if it wasn't like Why would I tell you if it's at 11? It wasn't 11 Just so early to run a pot like 9 a.m. For them back home like who for who back home? I'm in Miami We're Miami. We're here. It's 11. I'm doing a podcast. That's what I told you But he tried to rationalize like yo, that's early if you're at home like what does it have to do with anything dude in route Where you at 1037? I'm already five minutes away from the podcast venue. You dickhead you want to drive to South Beach I'm at one hotel South Beach. If not, I'm gonna fight you when I get back. See if you I don't even care I don't even want anyone even care, but I want him to put it. I'll see if he does if he pulls up with it I won't I won't fuck with him anyways. We're gonna go do a podcast by the way subscribe to fucking raw talk It's my favorite fucking thing ever. It's my favorite content to make I've been filming an episode today with Aubrey Marcus About to meet him in a second super like in tune spiritual dude. I'm actually a fan That's rare that I say that about a lot of people. I'm a little nervous. I'm like a lot But it's dope because I hit him and I knew he was out here He's like, yo, I'll have the whole setup to show up and like my guys will take care of it And then we'll send you the footage everything so that's cool. It's not all it's not my setup It's his setup so shout out to him. Otherwise, you wouldn't be able to get the episode out here Oh, we also got sugar shan coming the 14th for a pod who else we got coming I talked to signing signing it pulls up. I highly doubt it. It's clearly a track record suck Tony Hawk which would be fucking dope. But yeah, I'm going hard on podcast this whole year. Yeah, I'm excited So we're gonna get into this real soon Yo, hold on a second, like how can we front make it look like we whipped these cars I swear what's the name of this shit? I've seen this one before whoa, what the hell When you see cars this expensive, I know right away that the same person owns both these cars like air seat. Yeah It is oranges, bro I got oranges in the bitch for free. Yo, wait, dude. I just oranges. You know, they got decorations here for free, too What you doing it's a free that's why it's on the table. I'm gonna take this tree. Thank you. Shout out whatever this hotel Hey, put that What are you doing? You ever get like really really nervous and watch it dude. I got a shit right now You got a shit current. No, like you know, like when you're about to hit a PR. Yes. Yeah, you like yes Especially a deadly PR those are the ones you know you got a shit the bench when you kind of you gotta hold that one I'll power through it the squats of the deli's like you were gonna shit your pants Dude, that's so relatable. It's like you probably have the caffeine going through you Hiked up on fucking maybe cocaine, you know, not me though. You know, it's funny I bet you mother because like the way I'm talking right now probably people probably think I take drugs like that I swear to God, I don't do I you know, I don't take Adderall. I do you do meh Cocaine Adderall bang combo the bang Garbage I don't know if I've ever told the story I contacted the dude who owns bang So I'm talking to this guy swear to God. I swear to God. I said dude. I want to start an energy drink company You know what he says to me he goes you have a billion dollars dog. I was like what bro it Number two quick two things here five billion dollars. I wouldn't be talking on the phone about starting energy company number number two Number one. It's like I probably wouldn't start an energy company have billion dollars like what are you? What are you doing, man? Nice Hello, hey There you go, it's like not a good move. I want to shit her dude one eternity later Why you filming? Come on internships really like what this internships really like it's not an internship. It's a free employee Yeah, it's an internship college credits. I would hire you but only if Steve says it's okay. I don't think I'll agree Jacob I Okay, we're live so listen, I don't really have like an official Intro or anything like that and everyone watching is gonna be like where the fuck are you right now? But I have a very very special guess I'll be Marcus I grew up my family was more like agnostic didn't really believe in anything But didn't not believe in things weren't like heart quake yes or whatever Well back up the story had some Native American type spiritual beliefs, which I really resonated with it came from my grandma Who's a Texas from California? And then I went to Italy and I went to the dungeons of the Inquisition So the Inquisition was where the Catholic Church started torturing all the people they called herit and I saw that 80% of the fucking torture Advice is involved people's gendals And I was like this is some sadistic fucked up shit Fuck that was dope. Let's go. That's a good one. You're fucking dope man That was sick dude You're a ranch though and you like actually are doing so much good with it I'm so proud of the not that I've made money, but that every step of the way how you made a money Yeah, treating people really well like they felt good in their bodies and they were inspired and the fact that I got to do it that way So like that was all I was about. It's the ultimate blessing of blessing Yeah Oh I Did not sleep dude going back to LA grinding the podcast very important very very important RIP first in peace You know Thank you. Holy shit. That was a close one dude. I'm a wallet for a second Oh Fucking baby dude almost punched the mom though I almost punched myself in the face to go to sleep To knock myself out do the entire flight like literally not like for an hour the entire like four Four and a half hour or five hour flight whatever the fuck it is. It's like crying yelling so baby It wasn't a baby. I mean if it was the baby I would have fought him The reason you