! Previously on Life of Bradley Martin. Okay, that's, that's Staggy, he's changing his voice. Staggy, come on! So basically teachers should be able to have sex with their students if it's a girl teacher to a male student. Did you fuck your teacher back in the day? We're going to fucking Ohio, we're going to the Arnold Expo. One day Saturday, then we're dipping out Sunday, flying back home to LA. It's been real, man. It's been fucking real, but I gotta get the fuck out of here. I guess the things I gotta take care of at home. We moved the entire like, Roger warehouse to a much bigger facility because the girl spent crazy over the last year, which thank you guys by the way. So we've been facilitating that. I feel like I'm just a little too stressed to stay out of Miami. Cause Miami just, it always kind of just feels like some of vacation vibes. Cause when you're out here with Steve, it's like, thankfully, yo we gotta go. Oh shit, we got a dip, bro. He's like stopping and shit. We don't want to miss this flight. Drive like super fast. But yeah, I love you guys. I appreciate all the support. If you're at the Arnold, we'll get you on the fucking blog. Yeah, I was. Fuck around where anyone was. Fuck around where anyone was. Fuck around where anyone was. I guess I'll see you later. See you later. I heard what you would say. I was the only one. I know you got crossed. What's up dude? What's up, Slime. How you doing? Good to see you. Yo, I swear it's, it's, this is a, this is warmer than last, last time I've been here. Last time I was here at the same time was fucking cold as fuck. Wait a second. That's fucked up. What? What? What? What? What are we fucking doing, man? Do, it's Saturday. We're in Ohio. It's Saturday. James Lawshack and Days, and it is Saturday and we're going to the expo. I haven't been to one of these expos for like, I don't know, if it was like three years because He killed the ex post I don't say the other work is in you know, yeah, you know black. I want to show out Yeah, I know you just love wearing black shit. You just all you wear is one. Well, I mean, that's like the videography thing You're always wearing black. You normally got a black hoodie on and like a black beanie. He just has a black hoodie black beanie It's like 98 degrees in fucking Miami. It's like fucking murder, but normally you look real sketchy people go yo They hit me they go is your boy, okay? every time Jacob is a complete psychopath Jacob was in Undisclosed apartment and there was a gun he put it to his hands like wrapping They put it to his mouth and he was like seeing fucking obscene rap lyrics. That's a psychopath You never you never point a gun at anyone or yourself bro. That's like Joker's Joker type. Don't do that, bro Imagine that he's like Never missed a moment but a memory slips away as long as Long as I'm with you Thank so much Oh What's your wire Fuckers come on and I originally found the gym to escape the thoughts that I had surrounding like you know why did this happen to me am I not good enough all those thoughts come with like someone exiting come on we get it we look forward to watching your videos every day I swear man we fucking man look man look at all the guys that look up to you we fucking look up to you and it's become that now I just want to say that's the thing full circle is I was trying to find something my whole life that I didn't have when I grew up with and then growing into this person that I didn't know it was even a possibility because social media exists how it exists today you're the just doing the things that I do you're the trendsetter you started this man this is this is this is you growing I appreciate it I appreciate it for real man it's like I started to become the person that I always wanted so my why is to be able to be that father figure in a sense to as many people as possible because I knew it felt like it's not after all I appreciate it for real man we appreciate you here's over the podcast what's the OG hat to look at for real I've been on G-TRI right here wait why came here for you oh my god run I'm sorry hey can I have one yeah okay no I don't have one I got none of those what's up the pool's a shit whoa I've watched him since middle school we feel like it's full entitled to be watching for so long I swear I love that dude I've watched you since your old like funny thumbnail videos holy fuck I show my dad the video if you do like squaw at the hoverboard look at this guy he's like this fucking insane man nice to find you yeah good yeah think that is do you think I was shorter well no I don't want to but by size by massage almost yeah respect yeah you sure first time oh let's go let's go I gotta shit it out it's you I gotta shit it out what is going on oh my god I gotta be at peace though here I'll sign it you ready no I don't smoke cigarettes look what I'm gonna sign it with listen to your voice the weirdest part about me and you is realizing like you're a real human like I was just seeing you on YouTube so like you know when you're a real human is I'm not a scientist yeah fuck around with anyone anyone oh fuck what's up dude fuck it is you know what you can't stand too close to me because you're gonna out angle me like a motherfucker and you can't do that at places like this do you like it I don't know a lot of that shit is like the gym give you a bite it's just shit it falls apart like all these logos fall off I bet it's like a year and all this is still on the high quality stuff go baby I appreciate it so I know you're not gonna I know you're not gonna jerk so I just need you to walk backwards you I know you're like a what the fuck who is this it's always good to see you I've never seen a thing like this always a blessing to see you I appreciate it let's go good night to lay some pipe boys you're shut up no problem I'll just leave don't worry about it good to see you good to see you thirsty and hungry we got a cup dude fuck it bro your gym when was that 2017 you are two young you're the old man you're the old man I'm almost starting to feel like an old man bro what you've done is incredible I'm proud of you thank you you fucking are crushing I remember you came back then I was like this kid is special I remember you at follow wise when I first had you on the gym yeah I was just starting by you so cool to see the success in the movie you were tapping out and then you were just like switch you had to go I was on YouTube for eight years I was like this is how you ventress that's how it goes you got a transition I'm fucking proud of you I just remember that side chest you took that photo yeah it was a bet I should go and film I appreciate it see you again that's all it was I mean it we're here we're here we're here we're here it's so hot we're going back to LA probably like a Miami trip soon Miami live Miami gonna live there with Steve we're getting a house to do in the month so it's exciting we're gonna stay here until then cause I'm tired of this what is this? yeah brother I think we should just move to Ohio you're tripping are you kidding me? what the fuck is in Ohio? weekend yeah it's really cool hello hello vlog camera what's going on last time I saw you was at Tana's wedding oh my god you sat next to me hello gorgeous that's a cage you're so beautiful are they friendly? yeah they're just super crazy I wanna go out with this big tie a massive cancorsa we've just got a dog Adam's like nine years to it yet he's always like go away when he sees it I feel like having a kid would be hard wait I'm not 10 times so like you have a dog it's light he's a puppy so he's just kinda like dog smells like shit he needs his own shit are kids in pain on you? my kid is not eating her own shit but I do expect it eventually she says she saw Howie Mandela at the star books that's a big deal let's go you