 fibriniediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediedied It was at this moment that he knew. He bumped up. When I go out, I have to be Danny's decoy. Danny's decoy? Yeah. You're gonna get you some tattoos on the opposite. That's a scary job. That's a scary job. That's a scary job. How do you get into the porn industry? You gotta know a director or something. How do you become a screenwriter? A screenwriter? Yeah, because the acting needs to get better. Can we talk about how terrible it's right? They need better screenwriters. They do. See you man. Bro, we're showing support from Puerto Rico bro. I watch every single video. That's what we post this morning. Oh God! So the question is, is it important for a guy to have money or clout in order for you to date him? It's not about clout, it's what a man can support himself and what he can do for you. So it's about money, not clout. Who cares if you're famous? There's lawyers and doctors that aren't famous. Hey, you're fucked man. I'm fucked. So he has fame and no money? Is that what you're trying to say? Yeah. No, I'm broke. Just sell your chain, you'll make it back. Money's more important than clout. Why though? Because I prefer a guy that doesn't have as much clout because I have the clout. Yeah. Like I said, money over clout any day because I prefer the person that's not super known, but you have it because all the girls are going to want you if you have some type of clout. They think if the guy has clout then he has money and that's not true. The majority of the time it's the people with no clout that has the most money than the people with clout. I'm not with girls. Is that what you wanted? You should've told me. There's like eight prostitutes downstairs ready to fuck man. Is that real? Go get them. I'm going to go get them. Why is there balloons in here? Where do those even come from? So Murph got arrested for some weird charge like some shit with Danny and some phony. Some dumb shit. When we got back from the Bahamas, they basically wrapped him up as soon as he landed. And these guys got balloons like instantly. How did this happen so fast? We did this. Sian, he's a wizard. Give the guy a few zaps and look at what happens then. He performed. Wow. That actually looks incredible. Is that an ice cream cake? Sian, did you do this? It's for somebody else. It has like a name of somebody who were celebrating something and you're trying to get him the cake. I just wanted to know what kind of cake it was. It's a coffee. That's what I want to know. Why is it okay for him to ask what kind of cake it is, I can't ask what kind of cake it is. Because I know the kind of person he is. He's a very nice guy. Oh, I'm not a nice guy? No. I know it won't solve my problem, but I know it makes a difference. One more sip and I'ma fix it. Out my body when I'm pimping. I told her when I was she and me say you quit or she dip it. I don't wanna feel it. So I blow up and I'ma cup and I just... Whatever type you like. What type do you like? The ones with low standards. What kind do you really like though? What's like the best to you? Like tall girls, short girls, big girls. I'm stuck on low standards. He looks at ease and I'ma. Gym rat. Gym rat. Oh, I love it. What's your approach? How do you approach these vampires? Like I wanna know how come you're striking out. Oh, just like straight stutter. But you're not stuttering when you're talking to me right now. I don't wanna fuck you. I can talk to girls any day that I have no chance fucking. And then the girls that I have a chance with, it's just like... Here's your problem. Why don't you just treat them like you're not gonna fuck them. Right away. Keep it real simple. Don't make it about you having to get something out of it. Right? You knock on 50 doors, they say. You're about to hit one. Get the hand. Get the hand. Get the hand. Like this. See if you do one of these. See if you can get a reaction. See if you can go like this. I'm gonna close you. You'll know right away if she's like what the fuck or not. I'm telling you it'll work. Girl. I don't wanna feel it. So I pull up inside my cup and I just sip till I can't feel it. I know it won't solve my problem but I know it makes a difference. One more sip and I'ma fix it. Out my body when I'm tempted. I told her one more if she hit me say you quit or she dip it. I'm gonna get it. So two powder grills, three bacon, two grills, extra cheese. Anything else? Extra, extra cheese. Next, extra cheese. Could I have uh, four sausage burritos? Four times two. Eight burritos, yeah. And then one order, one order of the homestyle breakfast. You have anything with chicken? Chicken McGriddles with extra, extra cheese please. I know he likes cheese though. I know that's for a fact. I love cheese. Can I have every single pack of cigarettes that you got? Whoa. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. What? Every pack of Marlboro Reds you have. Every pack of my bottle red? Yes. How you want every pack of my bottle red? No, we need them all. Get them all. Five boxes, yeah. Five boxes, yeah. Okay. You guys are fucking dumb, dude. 79.52. Thank you. Honestly, I feel like he's against my religion to buy cigarettes. I actually hate it. I hate it. They're gonna start for shitheads. Brad Warwick, Zoddokooker. Asian, Cuban. I'm into everything. Shout out Cuba by the way. Check out Cuba. All right. All right. Yo, what the fuck are you doing? What is all this? I went to bed early. Oh fuck. We were supposed to be in a flat tar Lando. You know that, right? We were. Fuck dude. Oh my god. Why do you have a cigarette on your ear? What? Ah. Bro. Someone put that in my ear. Off camera ciggies. No. But what happened? Like did you, they had it. I don't know man. I'm not going for this Miami life man. But yeah, we gotta film something. Maybe we just take a week off. Maybe we just go fuck ourselves. See you guys. Guess we'll just film content and see where this goes. Yeah, we're gonna see where this goes. A couple hours later. Didn't do shit, but I'm getting my first tattoo. First tattoo ever. I have zero, zero tattoos. I convinced you. No, I didn't convince. Run the clip. Yo. You got one? I'm thinking about it man. I think I might get one right here. That'd be hard. For the vlog? I did it for the vlog one time. You have to do it for the vlog one time. You're gonna get it? I gotta get it. I think I gotta get it man. Fuck. Let's go. Run the clip, but I haven't convinced myself for years. I just was never like dead set on exactly like what I wanted and where I wanted it. So now I'm like, okay. There's something I for sure I've always wanted. So I'm gonna get a tattoo right here. But I have to wait. I'm gonna have to wait to see. You guys gonna have to wait to see where I get it at. Run the clip. Run the clip. I don't know. It's a dope brand. Oh, that's a cool symbol or whatever. But the reason why it was important to me was because when I was first getting into the industry, I was trying to identify the things that were really important to me as like a person. These are the four basically pillars, like the four things I think about for myself to become a better version of myself. And those four things are like this. Okay. So number one is your mind. Number two is your body. Number three is your spirit. And then your soul, which is your purpose, like your deep purpose, your connection to who you are as an individual, like deep down inside the thing that you're most passionate about, the thing that makes you the happiest, the thing that makes you the thing that gives you the most energy, that gives you the most like momentum in your life. Right. Those four things I always thought and identified like early on were really important for me to become the best version of myself. Being able to work on my mind, which is learning new things, trying to challenge myself, trying to become better, just mentally, like trying to learn more, trying to understand things that I don't understand, trying to get the answers to things that I didn't know the answers to, trying to understand. Body is very obviously, it's apparent, right? Making your body as healthy as possible to feel as good as possible. So like these things all connect too, just so you guys understand, like your body focusing on trying, not like necessarily being like some big jack bodybuilder or something like that, but trying to be the healthiest version of yourself physically is going to help you to be the best version of yourself mentally and vice versa. Because with a clear mind, with you practicing, with you becoming better at, not just learning things, but like actively trying to become better mentally, you get better at problem solving. You get better at the things in your life that you need to overcome. And then those things coincide with physically making yourself better because now you're more mentally adept to be able to deal with the situation as it comes. When it gets a little deeper, the spirit, I always, I recognize that in life, none of us, none of us, absolutely zero of us are capable at succeeding and becoming great without the people who are constantly there with us. What I mean by this, by working on this aspect of your life, like your spirit is your connection to all the people surrounding you that are in your close circle, like I said, in your extended circle. Spirit is like your, your thought process on how are you identifying those things and those people in your life? And how are you getting those connections better with people in your life that you want to get connections? Like I'm not saying like connections, like to go make some money, but like a connection between me and let's say Jacob, right? The guy filming my video. Like, do I just like constantly be like, just like a, Hey, how are you doing? Film a video. See a buyer. Like, are we building a relationship that like is going to be better for him in his life, for me and my life, for the thing that we're doing together. That's what I'm trying to get you to realize your connection with everything around you is important. If you're not aware of it, I just want you guys to know it's happening regardless. The people say they come into your life and they say, Oh man, that's a really stupid idea. And let's say you thought it was a great idea. You hear that. Let's say instantly now you start to shut it down. Maybe that was your idea. Maybe that was your thing. And you put it away because someone in your circle was like, that's fucking dumb. I just want you guys to be aware of these things to take inventory of these things in your life. Now, as far as soul, right? So the thing that I said, these four pillars that are essential for me and I believe for everyone to become the best version of themselves, right? So your soul, your connection with who you really are, what is really driving you, what is really making you happy? What is your true purpose? This is something that probably will take you the longest out of anyone, no matter who you are to really, truly understand and identify and have like a clear understanding of. It's something that is constantly, I would say, as you grow, going to evolve, it's going to change, right? So I'm just giving you an example of the four things that I think are really important to always take inventory of in your life, throughout your life in order to become the best version of yourself. And that's why this meant so much to me because all these things in unison as well, those are all things that are going to help you become and be the most genuine, the most real, the most raw version of yourself. I love you guys. Preach it all. I love sincerely from my heart. And I hope this makes more sense to you about like why I rep this shit so hard, why it means so much to me and why I'm so fucking passionate about it. So I love you guys. I love you guys. I love you guys. I love you guys. I miss you, babe. And I don't want to miss you, babe. Stop flexing. What are you talking about? You're flexing. I don't stop. I'm not. Yeah, you are. I'm not. Look, I'm not. Look, look, look. Yeah, you are. No, I'm not, dude. My arms are relaxed. Completely relaxed. I'm 100% relaxed. Thanks for the blow. Bro, I did. What are you talking about? Good guy. Oh my God. Yeah, it's fire. Fire. What is it? A Walmart version of Ben Shapiro. All right. We'll see you next time. We'll see you next time. We'll see you next time. We'll see you next time.