 mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere Oh Actually I Missed my ending I'm gonna get a beer cut. I look fucking dirty right we're going through the u.s. He 299 sugar Sean I love you brother. It's crazy because I was looking at the numbers of like them like his uh the event I swear man. I think sugar Sean is gonna be like We thought this crazy. I'm saying this now, but we said this I don't know three four years ago now You'll be a massive star in the UFC. I think he's only gonna get bigger I think you finish the Cheeto with a knockout see how this ages Be fair I interviewed Cheeto Love the guy. I think he's amazing person. I'm going Sean on this one. I have to can't worry about being like an amazing person. I guess fighting but yeah, I'm super excited for Sean man cuz like I remember he really spoke and he spoke this should do existence like years ago Obviously even more years before than when I met him, but it's cool to see it like come to reality It's really cool to see I'm excited man He's gonna crush it Oh I Think we trip off like girls in the gym. I swear to you It's like they wear they were obviously we're close. They're not naked, but they wear clothes that makes them like nothing to the imagination like Maybe it's a Miami thing, I don't know but actually I see this all over the place, but it's kind of crazy And then they're like Crazy I'm looking like he's out of shock. I'm just like pure shock at the person. It's like essentially naked just like a Color over their body crazy dude You're old well, I'm not old I've been doing for a very long time 13 years I think that's that's how long we do 13 basically since 2011 Holy shit, that's insane All right, bounce of fitness girls introduce yourself Marlena all right, we gotta ask the question we were talking you guys think man you know what I want one time Who do you think men she more than women? Definitely Probably Definitely I think it happens on both sides for sure depending on what the problem is But I'd say men have a little bit of a harder time controlling their impulses It's a disaster and absolutely And when a woman she just because emotional things have been compromised Which is worse a man she or a woman she But they just said it's emotional when women do it which is like way worse and I'm not saying Yeah Like That's 100% accurate That's why I think it's worse that women do it that's some sort of emotional output not just physical which I'm not saying it's just okay Yeah Okay, thank you guys I want to get on I want to get on the bucket way right now 260 on the dot, baby Oh Oh Some more in the ring Easy The fish away over under C60 over 25 There's gotta be someone in this arena that's like a kid right back out right behind you the wakers He's a guy I don't know any Oh I Okay I Fuckin that last showing was crazy Yo shit, I go up here and get shredded they probably have the whole reform muscle that you can just have one line one shred said i'm the strongest motherfucker you ever seen by On the capacity in sport. I'm gonna hurt you to say Brian pick a look. I'm not sure all Carpet. I don't want to even know what you're catching. It could mean and Other department you make a half veins or vestu or whatever it is or something that's better than this They say yo come on man. You got you going hard. You try to recruit you got excited about here And I got you got that now here I appreciate it man. No doubt. Thank you brother I got you guys in the gym Guys look the fuck is that weird ass Is your phone jail buzzing? What's going on with that? I'm gonna show you. You got a weird ass password on that shit No, but look this is how I used to look. Oh damn. You were fat. I was the biggest Why were you fat? Honestly? I don't know Nah, tell the truth. Why were you fat? No, there is no reason why I was a regroup behind just grew up like this eating too much But honestly because of you I thought you put the working broke. Yeah, all that works you right? I am 260. Are you 260? Damn a fad dude. I was proud of you. Yeah, it's dope. You were what? I was 260. You were fat too? You were fat too. I gained a little weight Yeah, I was fat as fuck. I was 240. He's got a six back. What made you go like fuck this shit? I couldn't accept that every day looking at that. Yeah, what about you? I'm glad you guys did it. No, it's fucking dope. All of you did not you you were always fucking Yeah Offer me to me. Yeah, I like how you're familiar, but I'm familiar. He's also Italian But are you gonna open up the gym here? We're all waiting for that one out here I don't know about Miami Miami because Miami I would love to be Miami But there's no motherfucking space. They were like space no parking parking. No space. I get it. I get it I'm focused on like Probably gags first. Okay closer to me How easy to travel to and then out here I thought you were moving down to Florida. You don't think about Well, yeah, well, till then we wait for you here, but it was nice to meet you. Take care. I'll be right back Oh Yo, Brad is strong. Oh my god We're having fun. I was wrestling. He came up to me. He like Comment guys right now. I think I can take Brad now You guys seen the transformation video, but I think I can take Brad now. Like, come on Let's go. I can't help it. I can't help it. Can you guys sign me there right now? Yeah, I can't just take care I just did. Yeah I need some help in the gym though. I can get my arms bigger a little bit I did I'm leaving you What the fuck are you talking about? Are you drunk? What the fuck are you saying? You're leaving me crazy. No, we need the tickets right now, bro. Tell me we need food right now For real. Brad remember the boat video we went viral with the boat video. Yeah, good at it. That was a good edit Nine minute phone video Brad goes. He's taking too long. I go. Don't worry. I got this a million and two hours, baby Oh, this is the phone right? Wait, hold on. Yeah All right, I'll tell him. I'll tell him. Is it true? Oh, here we go. You're so nasty. No, let's see how terrible this show gets No, is it true? Which part? What they told me. I don't know what they fucking told you on the fake ass phone that has my Custom mate's song on it. I still heard a story. Oh, sorry. Then I fucked a guy I didn't say that you did. You said that not me. It's not true. It's all good, dude I'm not judging you. You said that. Let's go. Brad's a boneless guy. I don't get that. You gotta earn your way bone in I'm not actually worth it. I just want to make sure you shed it more. You like fingers in your mouth? What? Fuck you, me mother Imbrone move not much you can do there Then uh, fuck that guy Come on. You gotta keep it clean It's so good Oh, this is it, I forgot this was it Oh You did it bro. I know I know it's a story. It's a story Let's go Fuck that hurt dude Everyone's like I'm so mad that was the worst possible thing that could happen to say Hey Because he Oh, skates. I'm stressed out. I'm not gonna lie. I'm a little stressed out. 45, Liskie 45, and Liskie 44, for the winner by the end of the season, and Stan! he almost he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he I Yo, you guys all know that Brad out chillin Be real quick Oh He's doing up for sure I Hit me and I was like I'm sorry No No genuinely, I'm sorry. Come on. I'm sorry come on. I'm really sorry. I didn't mean I don't think I know genuinely Didn't I do a little bit. I drank a little bit. I feel really bad. No seriously Here's exactly what happened. No dude. I saw the whole okay explain it you hit him first No, no, no, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, sorry. Sorry. Sorry. What the fuck you first cuz he's like Hey, can I have a shot and then he's like, okay? He hits you and then you hit him back And then he hits you back again Yes, no, I think he did Run the clip I'm gonna ask something go ahead. Why do you feel as if you're equivalent to the power of like No, I was a little drunk I was a little drunk. Yo, you're playing. Oh, oh, I'm sorry. I'm gonna tell you something right now I'm sorry. I'm gonna very much you may hit me again. I'm sorry, dude genuinely. I'm sorry You got to like stop you have power trip sometimes. I think what what because you hit me in the guts so hard man I did I do I feel he hit you. I'm sorry I think it was like a good no, I think was a good angle. Jenny you're 260 But I was good angle. I'm sorry. You know you sweat me You sweat it. Oh here hit me again. He didn't go Oh That was a good shot Oh The first one was a really good shot You really hurt me That got me I had to sit down for a little bit. I got you really good. You got a good you got good. That was good Again, I'm sorry. I'm sorry as long as there's no like no I think my abs are gonna look good tomorrow The champ is here To the general manager now Man, I feel just like the rock star I Fire fire This just feels like That's the brady mart special right here America let's go baby. I'm scared now. Actually now that I walk in I'm kind of intimidated Like real motherfuckers No, no, I felt the same about me a lot. I shoot guns all the time, but yeah different The only thing is that I'm here later than Bradley and Brad's always late. So I don't know what the fuck you're talking about So it's just super embarrassing, but I popped out in the wrong ear fit to make it up to him Dang you dude, you need to I'm gonna find my husband here What's funny Thank you why you laughing to get a nice blue collar man. Yeah, I brought my son to shoot guns That's so rude not your son. I'm your brother That laughs will be that's a little harder You look a dude today Fire I'm kidding. I love you Down the hill. Okay. Bye all the way down the hill all the way down Bottom of the hill. It's where the beginners It's all good. Get over there. I don't want you over here. We had to help you out help me out I was actually having great content with just lucas and snacksy Don't record me. No consent to this. You this one has no consent Delete all the footage. Obviously a weapon doesn't shoot without bullets, right? We all know that so our bullets are loaded up in magazines These magazines are going to go inside the slot in the bottom And so you want to push it in all the way and then you want to give it a tug You saw how I can pull it back out. It didn't actually click in you want to make sure it clicks in all the way And now it's locked. So now the as I shoot it's not going to drop out of the bottom, right? If you're in a gunfight, you lose your magazine. That doesn't really help you out anymore Make sure it's in and it's locked. So this bolt is forward I don't want to go too in depth with it But the idea is you need a round in the chamber So now round is sitting in the chamber and we'll go through it You know if you don't feel comfortable with any of this stuff But you can kind of pull it halfway back and you can see the edge of the brass and that lets you know that There's an actual round in the chamber. So if I let go of this and pull the trigger it will go off I'm looking really fucking scared. Why? It'll be good. No, you've got to try it. I don't feel well. You're good. You're good. Let's go. Oh my god, it fell What? The thing fell. Come on. You gotta do it. I need a corner spot and I need no one else to shoot while I'm shooting What are you talking about? Just let go stand with one more. I'm helping you Is it loud? Breathe I How free she is she's so afraid of you got that was I was afraid too. I'm still afraid. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, go Not that bad, right Oh Yeah, I feel really good right now. You don't seem too good. I don't like it. It gave me anxiety I could have totally won my entire life without ever putting it on That sucks. I'm thinking about all the haters when I'm shooting all the motherfuckers dude, they close me in that one room Who cares though? What the fuck bro? I'm gonna find a way around and box them. You gotta let them try to cook you. It's good That's the internet. The internet loves They love that I care though. You gotta go head first. You gotta go head first, right? That's what I do. Dive it head first What'd you do? We're just she ran away. I didn't run away. I used the restroom. Uh-huh I did not run away. Let's get you back in there. Huh? Let's do another round of what that shouldn't go I think I shot too many Dude, why are you so why do you what do you not like about it? They said there's a limit on how many you can shoot and I reached the limit. They never said that Bradley's been through like 10 magazines. They told me 10 mags is the total and I did 10. You could just keep going What do you not like about it? Is it like scary? Um I'm a lover not a fighter What? What is it actually is it okay? It gives me anxiety I don't even being here gives me anxiety. Well around what guns and I never have anxiety All right, so think about someone you don't like and that's your target. Yeah, he's right here though. Maybe so bad Think of somebody you don't like the whole time I was shooting the gun. I was like I could put this in Bradley's head right now Is that crazy to say? No, I don't care. It's all good I'm just kidding. I'm just kidding. I think you're just afraid of what? I don't know exactly what you said Yeah, I've been eating even when that gun is in your kitchen. It scares me. I know but like the presence of it I'm just not gonna pick it up and shoot you though. No, it's my all those jokes Where it's like you just like what I'm just like what's the point?  you know, five. What's the point? It's fun. Then, you know what I find fun? What? We're eating a buck. She's just going to just play. Taking a walk on the beach. It's different. Let's go get another one. Different kinds of fun. Another round. Come on, come on. I'm vibing right now. Why don't you some pistols? That's what I want to do. I just don't want this sight. You want a test? Back out of the trigger. Good. Light coming underneath. A little bit of a clean. Have you used the red? Right. Try to keep mine in the right season. See if it dies. You want to walk around with me? I'm not going to help it. I want you to ignore the first one. Did you have fun? Yeah, I loved you. Yeah, that was a lot of fun. That was probably the most fun I've ever had. I feel like you don't like shooting guys. Yeah, I don't. That was terrible. I'm wrestling? No, back in the day. No. Back in the day. Like right now? No, back in the day. Yeah, yeah. No, back in the day. Back in the day. I had that shit going on. This is what gets you. Fuck it. Right? Everyone is going to be there someday no matter what. So what? There's a dude called Timing. He's a, have you ever seen it? Old school. Wide world sports. He's doing the arm wrestle and he breaks the dude's arm. I'm in Texas. This is back in the, probably like the 90s or the 90s. And they're doing some wrestling. And the bars do what you do. And this guy comes up to me and you got to get in. Anyhow, I wanted to, I had to go against him. And he goes, I'm going to fucking break your arm. I go, fuck you. And he goes, I said, you're that dude. And he goes, I am. I'm going to show you a trick. So the arm, I'm going to show you something. He goes, he goes, he goes, set up like this. He goes, bring this in this hole. It's all about being close. He goes, bring it in, flip. You can sit and relax and play long. You just want to, you want to take him like that. Now, a hundred percent. A hundred percent. I suck at that shit. Man, but, but it's all about it. But when you get them, there's guys that are big sons of bitches, right? Yeah. And they get up, man, you lock it and pop it. You can sit there all day. No, I know. I see small guys and big guys all day. Yeah. Sure. All right, bro. Yes, sir. Good meeting you.