 ascidenticilususilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusil Hello This is the first time in forever that I checked back because I hate checking bags because like they always lose your shit I really hope they don't lose it back. That's point. I got two podcasts one podcast for sure I got another one potentially lined up really big guests that I know the internet will fucking love and one to follow up to the Podcasts what you guys love if you haven't seen the podcast over to raw talk Go fucking subscribe. We'll do that shit right now Just so you guys know before you do this video every Monday Wednesday Friday on my fitness channel my first channel I post fitness content and I'll be doing that no matter what everything else is gonna be on this channel Which is life of Bradley Martin when I fuck around to do whatever else so subscribe to all three the podcast raw talk Life of Bradley Martin and the fitness channel if you guys are interested you guys want to make some fucking games Oh by the way go to Bradley Martin calm sign up to the day the games workouts every fucking day There's also ebooks there everything you need So guys how to die on the fucking road I'm at the airport our eight work. I mean fucking airport food Is all I want is you tonight You can record in there too no yes, I can go in the booby trap and record everything You can't record there. They've been talking to me the owners. You called me three times yesterday. I do report in there Oh, what are you there last? He doesn't watch the only watch is YouTube videos of heat is in it I just haven't seen I actually deal with a lot of shit in the last few weeks Why would you seriously though? Why would you smoke cigarettes? What did you do when you bought a house? I bought the house and I was like this is dope. I have a house and then I put stuff in it I understand taking a drink. It's like a celebratory thing But you know it's like fucked up and then like be so stressed out Cigarette tastes so good when you're fucked up and stressed out, right? But you ever been completely sober and you have the most stressful fucked up thing happen you And then a cigarette just tastes so good. Yeah, right? No, but it's crazy how stress and like Depression or whatever and a cigarette how when they get together. It's like magical Hmm, I think you just take nicotine instead of smoke a cigarette like take nicotine gum or something the same thing Was it hey, but it's nicotine is the thing you need. It's not the shitty cigarette. That's the problem. Oh I know it Closes to the kitchen Have a TV already use the couch make a bed. Yeah We'll room you get to one outside the shed Steinsen do you can't Steinsen? I want this room over here. Honestly. Oh shit Oh Section though I Like the lives Spanish tiles This was a fucking chicken. Oh, I guess it's how to handle it. Yeah, I'm going Waters like the worst thing having sex in showers is black I just want to make that clear super. I just like this whole room. I got a little back door It's nearly like run off. I'm just like you gotta get away. Yeah, you want to get away. Yeah, these little tiles I feel like a little Chair set out here in the lap. What are these? I'm really like this is here before Super strange here. Oh, it's got lights on Oh Yeah It's closest to the gym. I always thought I was like fuck season give them the morning turn that fucking speaker on I don't want to do with that shit. I'm being honest. Yeah, this could have been a room right here Oh shit, it's actually like a really it's actually like a really cool like Amposition it's nice though Oh It's actually pretty dope maybe others use this room for better than the best Something a lot of fruit So any can now move any of these ways Extra small share large the XL check it go ahead check it. Yeah Yeah, it's actually small. It's XL. He has a broad here send him shirts. I say XXL, but they're actually That's a lot Cat just like how I own this house I can do whatever I want. Maybe we should park we should pull into the showroom show them what are like a real car Looks like you do anything you say Parks more like I'm like dope. This guy's gonna say we're not allowed to park here. I could feel it Should we just go to brickle and eat wagyu steaks? Yeah, it's so funny right now. That's fucking funny. That's really funny fuck it. Let's just go eat steaks That's really fucking funny, but I don't know it's up to you, man It's your thing. Excuse me sir. My friend says you're on the phone and you're faking it my friend I told you he said you were on a fake phone call totally a fake phone called away by the car you follow Phone call the way it's time to wait for us to get out of the car so he could follow us here That's exactly what he's doing. That's what he said. Oh, do you work here? Are you car salesman? Oh, okay? That's what I'm telling you guys Like right here keep this chair around You're the guy that doesn't like Some brand last week already know it's true I Need it like like that only be like yeah, I'm taking this it's like no one's saying shit This guy just said something I Money he charges for photos $20 he normally charges What's up She says she just a friend I'm just grabbing look your fan Yeah, tell me what's the boss was the moon Ain't no captain I'm a total truth I Tell you man, they wanted you down and out during the pandemic telling you it's real shit might the beat the couch It's we're gonna get fucking fucked on that. Thank you every time fucking Russian this guy's amazing All right guys welcome to brah-tah with the cheapest hoes Bradley Martin We got mushrooms here after you record the beginning he ate three chicken tenders today and Two pieces of French bread that dog looks like he eats everything this one's like it'll give me some chocolate and he actually humps Rue And came all over my couch 20,000 dollar couch first time coming and he did it over The whole thing So obviously still moving in and get ready, you know moving in life This is Steve. This is the Amenities people do is providing Those are pillows from the couch that we finagle comfy bed. That's a nice bed very big bed not complaining I don't care about The fan dumbbells and cigarette now. I know me this is this is everything here. I'm gonna take a real shit This is so essential in my life ice and fan. I didn't have to do that. I cannot sleep without a fan So this is big dumbbells obviously gonna pump in you know if like midnight. I'm like, I need to get a set It's actually not bad. No, it's not like he's pretty comfortable. I use to close you got sheets And you got room Rooms sleeping me. That's it. It's all I need. It's essential. Hey, come on. Where about Jacob? Yo Okay, this is probably like Riley Martin subscribe to this fucking channel every Wednesday 5 30 do that shit right now also by the way Go subscribe to the podcast Podcast dude go subscribe. I got this. I got this one more time. Yeah, you're gonna cut it here Go subscribe to the podcast also one more thing. That's it I