 geralnametum, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, roungale, This is the first like two weeks where you're like dying. Yes, dying. And I've only been cutting for two weeks now, so there you go. But hey man, thanks so much. Cool for sure. Thanks Steve. Love the gym man. Thank you. Yeah, it's good. Officially signed the lease. We're gonna move to the new location. It's official, yeah. It is fucking going on. I cannot wait to show you guys the space. I'm gonna show you the space. Probably in this video, if I go, I will be like next fucking. Boom. Go with the camera. Oh, we're fucking here baby. We're here. This is it. It's the baby soon to be. We're gonna put a gym baby in this bitch. I'm gonna fuck it and get it pregnant. What? No, I mean, I'm not actually gonna fuck this. It's like, it's like the walls are too spread. I need tighter walls. But yeah, so bigger gym, more parking. In my opinion, better location. Closer to the four or five. So all the, you know, everyone's like, oh, they're like, you know, Santa Monica or like Sherman Oaks, Burbank, way closer to all that. Like more in the center of the valley. It's on Ventura and Havenhurst by the Cross streets. Tons of parking in the back, tons of parking in the front, parking everywhere. So we're not having more fucking parking issues. And I am so fucking excited because this is gonna be it. We have a big ass turf run, a bunch more equipment, a bunch more stuff for the ladies. Very important for the ladies. Go girl, bad girl, you know, hip, hip thrust machines, all that shit. We're upgrading everything. Brand new equipment. What the fuck was that? That my car? We broke in here by the way. We just opened, I was like, we didn't break anything. Yeah, I'm super fucking excited. Really, really fucking excited to start this process. Really, really excited to show you guys the whole process. Cause I've did this before, so you guys can check there's a video on my, on the fitness channel. Five years ago, maybe six years ago now, of the process of all the equipment, like the layout of the gym. Once we started putting stuff in here, like all the bars, everything. I'm gonna do a similar thing for this gym, show you guys the whole process. Cause I get asked the question all the time. I was like, yo, how did you do this? How did you start that? Obviously, besides like money, right? You'll be able to see the whole process that went on beyond just like... No, we just, we just... You're inside. Yeah, we just broke in. No, you didn't break in. They unlocked it for you, so you're not that cool. Okay, yeah. All right, we broke in. We're just gonna leave it at that. We broke in. Yeah, no, we're just gonna... Yeah, we broke in though. Anyways, point is this, I'm gonna show you guys the whole process. Cause like I said, a lot of people ask me, oh, how'd you do this? How'd you do that? And I'll show you guys the whole thing. Have a big asker and opening party. I can't wait for that. It's gonna be my favorite. So I'd say it's probably about five to six months out, ideally five months. But yeah, so to give you guys an idea, we're gonna like blow this out. Like your girl. No, I'm not gonna make jokes about your girl. Anyways, we're gonna open up this. We're gonna have a bunch of cardio over here. So we're adding more cardio because like, I know it was one of the complaints, it just wasn't enough cardio and like, we know that in order to attract specific types of birds into the facility, you need cardio facilities proper. So we're making like that, you know, very important part of this. Also, I've been doing a lot more cardio lately. And then we're gonna have in the corner, we're gonna have like a posing section around this corner over here. You guys will see it. Obviously you can't see it now. There's nothing in here yet. Damn, it's gonna go crazy for the documentary we're gonna make. Oh, I can't wait. We'll have obviously like the office, the bathrooms, like the whole floor will be selectorized equipment, plate loaded equipment. The back wall is gonna be a whole like dumbbell rack. Mirrors are gonna be everywhere. I'm excited about that. The lighting is the thing that we're gonna get funky with in here. Like we're gonna try and find areas for like dope, like down light, spot lights. Because I know obviously social media age, listen, we did this five years ago, we created the fucking, the Mecca fucking social media and we're gonna continue the trend here. In LA, I know there's some other gyms around the country that you know, all love and respect to. But we're gonna do that here in LA and I'm excited to see obviously all you guys here. This whole wall is gonna be fucking mirrors dude. The whole fucking wall. Big turf run, bunch of fucking racks, bunch of like combo racks, combo racks, combo racks. Yeah, we're gonna have a bunch of power racks, a bunch of combo racks. It's gonna be like power lifters having in this bitch because I'm being honest with you guys, like the core, I would say honestly the core of the membership at zoo is a bunch of fucking power lifters. And I actually really love and appreciate it because they take the best care of the gym. Like I'm not even gonna lie to you. They like themselves will be like, yo, make sure you react those weights and shit and then like make sure the plates are the right way. You know, power lifters are super like OCD about you know, the kilos facing a certain way and shit. I really love and respect that, to be honest with you, because they make the gym a really nice place for everyone else. So we're making sure the power lifters are taken care of. Obviously the bodybuilders are taken care of because I'm in this lighting same care of, which is also taken care of the bodybuilders because that's very important. For the fucking, for the content for the interwebs. Oh and the women, they're completely taken care of. We got, we're gonna have all the kind of like the hip thrust, we could plate load it, the pitch shark, the good girl, bad girl, all that shit, dudes. You know, the girls be on the, on the gram like they're like, they're like dancing shit. That shit, everything. I'm excited man. We're really bulking up because we have more space, like the machines, the equipment stuff. Because that was the thing, like when we went into the first space, it wasn't too small, but it was when I was like, okay, I want all this stuff. There was things that I had to not put in the gym because my whole goal was to optimize the space. But now since we have more space, we can get more of those things to optimize the space even greater. So I always wanted certain stuff like that from the beginning. I just, you know, my honest truth is when I first started, I went to that first space and it was, it was double the size. I was afraid to lease that full space. I asked the landlord at the time, I said, there's a way to like cut the space in half because I think that's what all needs. Long story short, looking back now, I should have just went for the fucking bigger space and got it from the beginning, but I was afraid because to tell you guys the truth, I didn't know before that point that there'd be such a demand for this like there is. Then I just didn't know and I was afraid because I'm investing all this money and I was like, I don't want it to fail. So I did what was safe and I just want to give you guys like a word of advice. It is smart to be safe. It is smart to make safe decisions, but sometimes like you just have to just fucking run it. Like this one, for example, the location because it's on Ventura, it's way more fucking expensive. But in my mind, I'm like, okay, also because it's a doper location, it's a bigger space. We're upgrading a bunch of parts of the gym that even though it is more expensive to own this space, I'm confident that we're going to bring in a right amount of people to make this what it needs to be so that it's not a problem. So that I'm not afraid financially to have this space. But when I first started, I'm just going to be honest with you guys, I was afraid. I was like, fuck, I don't know if it's going to work. I don't know if I'm doing the right thing. I was calling my buddies like, what do you think? What do you think all the time? And I just realized like to you guys listening now, don't be afraid to take that leap because I was afraid to take that leap. And I did take the leap ultimately, but I was like, I kind of downsized it a little bit so I felt a little safer. And like I said, now my now looking back on my fuck, I would I wish I would have just said I would have just fucking send it and just been like, okay, just do the whole thing. So now this is the kind of like a version of me understanding where I've been in my past and knowing like, all right, I just love this spot so much. I love the location. We have the more parking. We're gonna have more space that even though I know it's much more expensive than the old space to lease per month type shit. I was like, fuck it. We got to do it. This is this is it. We're going to make this work. You've got to have to have that mentality when you go into things like this. You either you're going to try your hardest to make it work or you're going to be like, oh, I don't know. And that kind of energy is not going to lead you to actually succeeding at something just whether you're talking about building a gym or whatever in your life. If you're like hesitant towards it being good or towards it being like what you really want or towards your own belief and it's like it's success. If you're just always kind of washy in that, then that's kind of what you're going to get back. You're not going to go to that that the heights that you want to go to. If you're like, well, I don't know if I can do it. It's like, you just got to fucking do it sometimes. So anyways, I'm excited. I'm super fucking hyped to show you guys the whole process. So make sure you guys subscribe to the channel, turn on the fucking post notifications. Spa, massage. Wow. The same center, huh? It's a one stop shop over here, boys. So I hope I don't know. I don't know. Never tried it. There's a chance. I know he's excited. I know he's very excited. We will see. Maybe we should go in there right now and see. There's like a fucking vitamin shop right down the street. It's fucking Norm's, which sells like everything you can eat. I think. Oh, damn. There's everything over here. Holy shit. Anyways, um, oh, you guys are probably like, yo, what the fuck is happening to the old fucking location? Okay, check this out. We are going to use the old location because like I said, all brand new, everything in this bitch, except some of the weights. Some of the weights will have to like move over in the meantime because there's like, there's a delay on a lot of stuff like that as far as like shipping and ordering and buying that kind of stuff. But the old gym is going to be used as a trainer only gym, potentially also used for content creation. Like people can say, okay, I want to do like a photo shoot or I want to shoot for my supplement company or I want to shoot for my apparel company. It doesn't matter, right? So we're going to use that location for like specific things only, but this is exciting. So here's the deal. If you guys are interested in being a trainer at the old zoo location, I'm telling you, it's not going to be a membership based gym anymore. The only people who are going to be in that location are going to be trainers. Like I say, every once in a while when someone books to shoot some sort of production in there, some sort of content. So if you are a trainer in the LA area and you're interested in training at zoo culture, the old location over there on the Soto 6455, the Soto Avenue, Woodland Hills, 91367, there's a survey below. Click this survey, fill it out. You got to have at least five clients. You got to be able to commute obviously to that location. You got to be highly motivated. Obviously you got to want to build your business. And there's a ton of cool shit that I'm working on for that location in which I want to figure out a way to help trainers build their business, grow their social media, maintain and grow their business as well as a trainer with clients in person and host a bunch of other cool events. Like in regards to training in person, training, I'm going to use that location as more of a studio. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to change the name. I'm going to brand it to Zoo Culture Studios. It's going to have you fill out name, email, phone number, all that stuff for us to contact you to see if you're a good fit for this. So if you guys are interested, let me know. Click that link. I'm super fucking excited because that's a completely separate venture now where I want to basically create a space for trainers because I was a trainer. Like when I was just turning 18 till I was about 26, I was a trainer in person. Like I trained people at commercial gyms. I trained people privately. I worked for 24. I worked for Gold Gym. I did boot camps. I did everything. So I know what it's like to be a trainer. I know what it's like to sell training. I did it for fucking years. And now the goal for me is like, okay, how could I create an environment in which it helps trainers thrive to become better trainers, to be able to maintain their business better, to grow their business better, to also grow their social media platforms. Everything that I've basically done over the years and help you guys do it for yourself so that you can grow a better, stronger business, better relationship with your clients, grow your potentially online business as well. That's the kind of thing that I'm trying to create at Zoo Culture Studio. So that's the whole point for that. And I wanted to tell you guys about that. It's something brand new because I don't want to get rid of that whole location because it's like, it's kind of like a part of me, to be honest. I mean, and also I spent like an absorbent amount of money on parking in ten. It's over the years. I think like almost to fucking, I don't even know if it was like $700,000, wasteful, wasted money because I was for anyway, I'm getting sidetracked. The point is this, I want to help you guys become the best version of yourself in the sense of like being a trainer, being a better trainer, optimizing your fucking business, learning how to grow your business, learning how to grow your social media presence through your business like as a trainer. And if you guys are interested in that again, click that link right here. And basically we'll reach out to you to figure out like, are you a good fit essentially. Like I said, the number one things that you got to be an active trainer, you got to have at least five or more clients. And you have to be willing to commute to that location, which pop it up right here, the location. 6455, Southern Avenue, William Hills, California. This, what is that? How'd you know that? How'd you know that? How'd you know that? And we got tons of parking. We got parking every spot you basically park anywhere. I think it's like free reign. And over here, we'll show them, we'll show them the parking. But that was the biggest issue was when I first moved into the space, I didn't realize that parking was going to be such an issue. And honestly, I just didn't realize the other tenants who don't have tons of, they don't have tons of everyday people coming. I didn't realize they were going to be such fucking bitches. I'm just going to be honest with you guys. To complain about someone in a spot that they literally never used. But it is what it is, right? If that's their spot, that's their spot and they want to complain about it, fine. And they created this situation in which I ended up paying for parking attendance. That if you guys been to that gym, you know those parking attendance, just sit there in the fucking chair. There's like one that's really, really nice. And I won't cap on him because he's a really nice dude. He always brings his berries and like fruit and he's always super nice and he actually does his job. But there's like five other ones that just sit and like sleep all day in fucking chairs. And I was forced by the landlord the whole time to pay for these people who just do nothing. And I've wasted so much money on that. It's a little frustrating, but that's why the number one concern was when we were moving was trying to find more parking. So this whole entire thing is like, I don't really call it community parking. But you can park anywhere basically. And there's like tons of fucking parking back here. Tons of parking in the front. I'm stoked on it. So there's this whole lot back here as well. It's cumbersome for people that are coming like, where do I park? Where do I park? There were only a lot of certain amount of spaces based on how much square footage we had, right? And it wasn't enough for what it became. Because originally it wasn't going to be like a massive membership based gym. Like I told you guys in the past, my original idea was I'm going to have a place where I film content. And then I was like, okay, well, I didn't build this just by myself. All these people who support me over the years, I'd like to create a place where I can meet and talk to them. And that's where this became. But then, you know, I fucked the parking. So now it's like, we got fucking parking everywhere. But yeah, I'm just fucking excited, man. I'm like really, really excited to finally move. It's a sushi spot. Like, you know, that's like Jimbrough approved shit. Like, I just hope it's good. I haven't been there. I can't. I'm not vouched for that yet. But I'm like already picturing like, what are my favorite things to do when I like first really got crazy into working out, bodybuilding, fucking train and then go get sushi. So I'm hoping that shit doesn't move out of here. I'm hoping that I'm hoping it's fire too. It's a liquor store. You can get liquored up. Steve's probably going to end up there. Yeah, dude. I'm really, really happy. Happy to finally be moving. I also want to open up a fucking food spot here too. If I pick one of these empty spaces, make like a dope like clean, but also dirty spot. I got a really good idea in mind. I'll tell you guys more about it later. Oh, clean, but also dirty. You're clever. It's a good one. That's a good one. It's not even disrespectful. Yeah. Ah, fuck! Oh yeah, by the way, I should tell them about this. State of California, the zoo culture. You guys suck my cock. Fuck you. I'm coming to sue you bitches. Because you guys lost. You dismissed the case. Fuck you. Fuck you for taking advantage of small business owners. Fuck you for ruining people's lives. Fuck you. You stupid fucking scumbag. Suck my dick. You had no evidence. You had no proof that it was ever a problem. That's all I'll say. That's all I'm gonna say. I'm never gonna talk about it again. I promise. I just want to say fuck you guys for taking advantage of people and ruining people's lives. And I was able to stand up for it and I was able to fight for it. I had to pay a bunch of fucking money and lawyer fees, but God damn it. You guys dismissed the case because you knew you had nothing the entire fucking time and you wasted all my fucking time and money. Fuck you. You guys ruined people's lives. You ruined people's business and livelihoods on some shit. You're like, you can't even prove that it was actually a fucking issue. It's just fucking crazy. We live in a weird world. But I appreciate all the support during COVID, throughout everything. And we're here now. We got a new location, way more fucking parking, and I'm fucking excited. And I can't wait to see you guys here. I'm out.