 ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascident Welcome to the lion's den So fucking happy to be home right now, man. I can't even lie. I cannot wait to see my dogs The number one thing I'm on line cannot wait to check on the gym Like you guys didn't know we got brand new Everything coming for the new gym because I got told you guys the existing gym is gonna say it's gonna be a trainer only Jim the new gym we're gonna build like a dope little posey room. Oh, yeah brand new fucking everything I'm really excited It's just so funny you're recording you have no shirt on We're doing a pot with Ryan Garcia apparently he wanted to do the punch shots He wanted to punch me this summer did that back in a day We were in a ring like this was like before he like blew up blew up on social and he like hit me like I think like ten times I'm not gonna lie by like the ten time I was like Oh, I think that's right when I cut the clip when you didn't see my reaction where I was like this is too much He wants to do it again. I'm a little worried. I'm not gonna lie cuz he's heavier. He's stronger He's been training a lot longer. It's been years since that so it's probably gonna hurt a little bit more But I'm not a bitch. I'll do it. I don't know we're doing a pot with them. It's good. Good news. I'm excited Also, Sylvie losses Virginia last week. He's now not a virgin anymore Vapor Jacob losses virginity. No, no, no you Jacob's men losses shit. No, no, he just It's good dude. You do when you're young don't do it when you're older. Don't do it when you're me You know what he tells me I think the last night dude. It's so easy now No, I'm gonna shut up You know, push me in the stomach Like old talent Yeah, dude fuck You got more years on you now Dude, I was just squabble man Maybe you should just accidentally punch him in the face No Ending dramatically Any of those fucking youtubers all that for sure but not a fucking real boxer dude Nah, fuck that Let me take seven pounds of pressure no matter who you are You have to not know it's coming But in the fight usually the ones that knock yours the ones you don't see Fuck How much how Oh, hey now, oh, okay, the real professional Alright cool Fuck You know, I haven't wrapped my own hands for so long. I don't know what I'm doing. Damn. That's a good problem That's a good problem to have I don't like the fucking weight of those gloves Oh I remember last time we did this I don't know how many times you hit me It was when I started going in the middle There was towards the end and I cut it I cut it before because I was super tough and then I cut it right before I was like, I don't know no more Do you only hold for so long like if someone's hitting the spot you can only hold it for so long Yeah, it's gotta be the best though when like you don't take much damage and you're just oh, yeah Oh, yeah, because you're just like man easy money Yeah, legit easy money Like I don't know Fuck Fuck He's bigger and he's more skilled now Fuck, he's stressing me out dude. Locate is really stressing me right now Bradley is crazy enough to do this without the body protector Here we go, you ready? Okay, oh, yeah, it's different than last time I grew up I told you I was gonna grow up Fuck That was good, that was the best one We're not gonna get better than that one No, no He hates running last really good I grew up That's perfect, that's perfect Jaco's birthday today and guess what we're doing today, guess what we're doing today We're working all day today Let's go baby, let's go Yeah, no day's off, day's off are for busies We don't like cars if they want to buy It's true Jaco's been talking about getting the car for like the last fucking 16 years I think How long do you want this car for real though? I don't You think high school? Yeah We're going to BMW dealership, we are doing it dog Alright, actually where are we going? We're going to BMW dealership, we're not buying the car right now You're buying the car? No, I would never buy a car for Jaco What do I look like, it's a fucking girlfriend? Okay, let's be real girlfriend, we'd never buy any Dude, but imagine you had a girlfriend that did Yeah Holy shit dude Talk about a fucking gem That chick's a fuck That chick's a fuck You kill her, you take all her money, she's buying you a car dude What? Anybody could die, any given moment is true We could die right the fuck That's fucking true man You're deep What the fuck, where do we get that car at? Order it Order it? So BMW dealership, what do you mean? Hunter, nice to meet you Which one is it? Just to end up in M3 competition Brand new right? Yeah I can see if I have any income if you want to take a look Yeah, let's go look at it It's just really hard to get those like in stock at the moment You're going to fight BMW, is that like a guy? We might have to Do you know what exact car you want? Are you found the car you want yet? Nah, I just kind of like looking around Damn Yo, just drive off Just drive off Straight up Yeah, that's a key That's a pretty key I started up He's leaving, he's leaving, look he's leaving Try No dude Steal the car, stop being a pussy dude I'm not going to steal the car Just drive away Bro, this is competition You could get away from cops in this thing Jacob picking a car is like a dude trying to find a girl Who's like, yo, she works out, she like eats good She like has her own shit going on She got a fat ass She's got a 95% chance You'll never find that Yeah, and like she doesn't nag It's like that's the kind of car you're trying to get As a dude like it's crazy dude Come on, you can't have it all man Here we go Holy fuck dude What are we doing right now dude? What do you mean? What are we doing? Dude, all we do is work, we're not here to waste time For now man We need one motivational speech for your birthday One motivational, we need some motivational One year from now everyone can look back and see How far we came, come back to this moment And you can rewatch everything that we did Hopefully I'll hop my car by then And if I don't, I'm probably dead Alright so Chris almost died this morning We almost got shut him out Chris almost died this morning He had like a crazy fever, his brain was going to melt But he like, I didn't know he lived in the area So we're going to go straight into it Let's go Let's go Let's go Let's go Wow I was not expecting that at all Holy shit Alright so I know Jacob had a super bro moment once In Miami One of his bros is here, he was the guy who gave the bro moment And he was like, yo man you fucking made it And I heard this through Stiney through Gravevon But I just want to say man like you are You've led an integral part of this team And you've done so much over the last like year And however long you've been working I think it's a year and some change And I appreciate everything you do And you're super fucking creative Very very smart, hard worker And you deserve everything you have I appreciate it I got a little present for you too I appreciate it Some sunlight But we try to actually get him a fucking car Put it up to the BMW during the trip And like, couldn't find that Let's see it Damn These are dope Thanks for everything Alright let's get fucked up I'm gonna take a break Zoodle Pie Zoodle Pie baby Let's bitch up with the one and only By the way I'm not a drug dealer He is What are you doing? You serious? You guys keep these out here in the warm huh? Way behind Let's do it with his shirt Like is this like a one on one? No we're just living on dropies No one's bought, why would anybody buy that? Yeah it's common, you actually posted it Everyone's like I want one Really? Yeah Also everyone says now goes me money Because of all the shirts Money that they made Is this old as fuck? No Did Lana hit this? I think so Shout out FullSend Podcast by the way Just because he's on it all the time Shout out Steve will do it LLC Steve will do it Shadow Steve will do it too Steve will do it gambling Happy Dad FullSend Podcast Show love Show love I love them all I love you John Love you Sam Love you Go It's Aleem Steve not Ellis Alex D. Tomaso The fucking Go Editor on YouTube At me I don't give a fuck Fuck all you editors Alex D. Tomaso All of Steve will do it's videos That guy's a fucking magician bro Straight up the best so Shit of this So fucking smooth though Holy shit Shit I've just bro I've always been A gangster rapper No I've always wanted to be a gangster rapper Yeah okay Alright so let's go I'll tell you right now When I was like 12 or 13 I remember when I was a kid I went into my parents room Played a TV in the room MTV used to play music videos Maybe I was even younger bro But have you ever seen Or heard by Pimpsy Pimpin' All Over The World That music video Music video was playing Dudes with like different chicks In every area go to the world Yeah it was amazing And cool whips I had a mini hoop And would just play hustling by Rick Ross And dunk on my mini hoop When I was like 12 or 13 So you were super street At the age of like 12 I wasn't at all But I thought I wanted to be Yes I wanted to be I just thought it was cool dude Cause it's like you have girls Money and I guess names And stuff like that And that new one's in hard to climb at all At the top of Fonso relief You see so please Don't mess up the moon I was a hot boy Now I need it bein' Oh you mess up the moon Alright Alright I was a hot boy And you get it So please don't mess up the moon Don't mess up the moon