 J-4P4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4 The gym's like two minutes down the street. All right, let me show. You think he knows that? What, knows what? That we're going to get there before he does? I don't know, man. I don't know. It is pretty funny though. Talk about like an ideal place to be like straight next to your gym. You could walk there in two minutes. It's the dumbest shit I do every day. And then I give everyone hundreds of dollar bills too. So pointless. What's your training? Shadow box is it. Lost in this place, man. Lost, lost. I'm here trying to figure out what all these things do, man. Trying to figure this place out. Hit a couple of fucking... Yeah. Brad, you should have seen this fucking bicep injury. I hit this guy with a body shot. My arm went like this. Tore up my arm. He also broke his jaw and had his jaw wired shut for six weeks. How'd you eat? Liquid through the teeth. Oh, terrible. Verify it real quick. You look good. Solid. Good. But did you even want Brad in that picture? Do you want to get a solo one? Yeah. Can I get a solo one? Yeah. Yeah. Comedy, I love it. I didn't hear anything. Ah! I didn't hear anything. Ah! So yesterday I saw your eye in this jaw and chain. I just want to show you that. Look at this. Wow, it's beautiful. This is the one you wanted, right? That's the one I like the most. I want to give this to your dog, Danny. Titus. Are you serious? Titus is the dopest dog ever. Titus is a better dog than Brad. Fuck this guy. I think I heard this. Fuck you. I already know what it's going. Fuck this guy. He brings something stupid from the room. Some blow up doll or something. Guaranteed. Guaranteed. Fuck out of here. Fuck you. Let's go, champ. Yeah, champ. Yeah, champ. Yeah, champ. Yeah, champ. Yeah, champ. Yeah, champ. Yeah, champ. Yeah, champ. Yeah, champ. Yeah, champ. Yeah, champ. Yeah, champ. Yeah, champ. This is the one you liked. Look at the difference. What the fuck? Oh, yeah, champ. Yeah, champ. Yeah, champ. Holy champ. Only because it's you, I want to tell you how much it is. This is 60 grand. 60 grand. Are you serious? Yo. God. Steve will do a fucking LLC, man. What the fuck? I've never had a chain like this in my life, man. Never. Holy shit, dog. I've never had a chain on like that. I'm telling you, you deserve a lot of credit, man. You do this shit and no one really needs to do this. You go above and beyond. Like real shit. You don't need to give me this. You don't need to give me any of this shit. But not even me. All the other people he's helping me, like, yo, you are fucking amazing, man. Seriously. I really appreciate you. It's funny because earlier today, he's like, I got this chain. I'm going to give it to his dog. But yo, real shit, Steve is a genuine fucking dude. I mean that shit from the bottom of my heart. Like this dude does so much for so many people. Yeah, he makes a ton of money doing this shit, but he didn't say much. Like real shit. I just want to say, I love that fool like a brother. For real. That licker is getting the shit out of me right now. Wow, man. Listen, so I drove this fucking car here. I cannot own cars like that, man. I can't. It hurt my back. It hurt your back? Oh, I'll race you right now. Bradley won't beat him, no way. Should I beat him with the chain on? Should I take the chain off? Fuckers, man. You're stressed. Damn, these are tight, bro. What's up, man? Yo, if you don't see the rest of this video, if you don't see the race, you know he lost. Yeah, Merv, go over there so you won't cheat me. Hold on a sec. One, two, three, go! Get down! Get down! Get still done! Oh, fuck! Let's go! I hit him with the ball. You just play football when you're on the team, bro. Yeah, what the fuck? It's steroids, it's steroids. You know a couple things illegal that Bradley's into. No! No! No! If you want them, it'll be on the YouTube channel. Make sure you subscribe and check it out. I feel good. I needed that too, because I didn't get a workout today, so I was kind of itching for that. A little open up? Yeah, itching for that competition. I'm so hungry. Oh, no. Oh, we may have a workout. Oh, my God. Oh, I knew you. This is why I didn't want to come in here, man. You got this fucking snack drawer. Chips Ahoy, Nutella, chips. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Fuck! And the real sugar sprites? Oh, my God. This is a nightmare. I need fucking steak right now. Fuck, I'm so hungry. I'm just eating dog food. Can I have some of that food? Okay, okay. Nope. No, no, no, it's two of that. Two of that, two of that, two of that. I'm so hungry. I'm so hungry. I'm so hungry. Can I have some of that food? Okay, okay. Nope. No, no, it's two of that. Two of that, two of that. Two of that, two of that. Oh, they're coming after you. Yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, extra. Ah, bitch. Oh, I'm definitely getting laid tonight, baby. We shouldn't have. It's all team over. Yo, don't even focus on the kills. Focus on the whims. You guys are mad close. Like, that was a good one. Run! Damn! That's 12 o'clock. 12 o'clock at night. My name's just kinda trash for gyms, man. Fuck Planet Fitness. We're gonna go fuck ourselves. Are there any of that food? We're gonna go fuck ourselves. Are there any gyms nearby that are open? Excuse me, miss. Excuse me, miss. We'll go fuck ourselves. Yo, does anyone know where an open gym is? Any gyms nearby that are open? Anyone? No one? No gyms nearby? Yo, you know where a gym is? Where the gym? Where the fuck is the gym? Fuck this town, man. Oh my god. I just wanna fucking work out, man. Just go hit on girls. Yeah, let's just get out. We'll just get out right here, sir. It's fine. Thank you for the ride. Yeah, I wanna go fuck myself. So, I'm gonna go fuck myself. I'm gonna go fuck myself. I'm gonna go fuck myself. So, if I was hitting on any of you right now, what would be like the number one thing not to do? Physical is the first thing. So, like, if I'm gonna look at you physically, I know it sounds like a little shallow, but like, your shoes, like, what you're wearing and shorts. I feel like you should do it in a very genuine way. So, for example, somebody asked me, they're like, like, how's your pizza? Is it good? I like that. Okay. Most girls, when they're out, they're with other girls. It's more likely that you guys are all together. Yeah. Okay. Why don't you approach that? Yeah, don't try so hard. Yeah, don't try so hard. Yo, that's Bradley. Hi, Bradley. Oh, did you? Oh, I bet the back shots go crazy. Don't lie. Damn! She was getting excited about the back shots. She was like, back shots go crazy. What's, like, the number one thing not to do? You know what? Just be real. Don't be trying to, like, be too much. Wait, how old are you? I'm 32. I'm good. Oh, my God, he's so old. I don't want you 27. I'm 22. You do have a baby face almost. Oh, I always wanna pet him. Oh, you wanna pet him? Oh, yeah. Oh, oh. I wanted to pet him, but I'm not gonna pet you. You can pet him. I can see him. I'll get you a hotel. I'll get you a hotel. Wait, my two-year-old is there. I know where you are. Hey, if you're watching this, I'm fucking your mom today. She said she wanted to pet my cock. Your mom said she wanted to pet my cock. Bradley Martin! No way! I knew it! I knew it! I knew it! I knew it! I knew it! I knew it! I knew it! I knew it! I knew it! I knew it! I knew it! I knew it! So cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute cute Yeah. Hey! It's bigger than my face. So we live in Miami. Oh my god, like that. Yeah. Holy fuck, man. Drunk people are lit. How long have you been doing Uber for? It's true. It's just fuck you, man. Yeah, OK. Now listen, when you pull up to a club, normally I literally get in every single time looking like a complete gym bro, and I'm not getting in right now. You know why? They don't lift. Whatever this club is, they don't lift. Oh, baby, you! You have some respect for that. What? You literally bear trapped him, and then you treat him like shit after you. I don't understand why you're trying to come in so bad, though. Well, I was being nice from the way. Being serious on the phone, I said, I wonder if the night man wanted to smoke. And he's like, go see. So I went in there, and I was like, hey. I see a little light on the corner, and some movement going on. And I reach over there, I go over, and all of a sudden the bear traps there. My legs give up. I'm not going to be a little bit. I'm not going to be a little bit. I'm not going to be a little bit. I'm not going to be a little bit. I'm not going to be a little bit. My legs give up. I slip over into the fucking bathroom like this. Or something like. And I twist the wrong way. I'm fucking in the bathroom like this. Murphy, I'm really sorry, dude. Is this a joke or not? Oh my god. Oh my god! Bro, bro, bro, bro. This is fucking good. Bro, this is laughing. Stop fucking talking. He couldn't tell the story. He's laughing the old time. I'm like, oh, I'm so laughing. I'm glad you're okay. I'm glad you're okay. We're here in the boat. We are going to an island. To an island. With a guy named Jeff. No, no, no. We're going to the Bahamas for a vacation. This guy doesn't vacation right here. Trips are the most stressful time for me. Fuck this. We're going to the Bahamas, okay? We're going to go gamble and get a tent. And we're going to drink. I said it. Oh, this is the most deadly thing that could be on this fucking boat right now. Is this thing in my hand. Right now what I want to do is open up like three of these. Put the chicken in there. Put a little sauce. And sandwiches. Oh shit. Oh shit. The Bahamas are beautiful, man. Look at it. We should do a cast away video out there like... Oh Shit the Bahamas are beautiful medical we should do a castaway video out there like you know We should bring you out there put your ass on there. No you stay out there for a whole 24 hours No, we'll put you out there. That's what you get when you don't bring your wallet you just stay on that fucking Yo, dude, you can't pay for your room. That's where you stay tonight. How do I get out there? Take the bull shark. Drive the bull shark? Fuck that bitch dude. When are you posting this? This is Wednesday today, man. Today's Wednesday that means yesterday at 12 o'clock all this shit dropped all the bags dropped everything dropped It's all fucking live go there right now get what you can because I guarantee these shorts are probably gone because these sell out Dumb fast there's so many colors new colors the bags bunch of fucking hats the hats that I'm wearing the tank tops I'm wearing but also other shorts that I haven't been wearing they're a little more like lifestyle a little thicker very very high quality We sold them in the past we brought back new colors get that shit before it's gone. I'm out. Well, I'm not out Just I'm getting off the boat. Okay. Bye. Later. See you dude. Yeah. Bye. I'll see you over there I'm just gonna yeah, I'm gonna I'm gonna I'm gonna jump I'm gonna jump off I'm gonna jump Come on man, what's rubbish? Whatever Whatever, you know can't win them all. I mean, that's actually pretty good 55 K is actually pretty good This is a crazy story right now. We're in the Bahamas. I need got a place shitty is no Like zero Wi-Fi in our room. We just Jimmy rigged their Ethernet cables to our computers. How much money do you have? I was at a hundred. I'm going to 200k. I'm giving away 20,000. I'm excited man. Shout out to fucking Ruben The over such Jim Rose the lighting is actually really good here and you see on the camera I'm like podcast shit. They hate bro. They hate us cuz they ain't they hate us cuz they ain't hate us haters gonna hate haters gonna hate I just want a hundred and eighty six thousand dollars look at my balance right now And while I'm talking about it That's insane rubets the ship rubet is the shit that was my biggest win ever telling you guys cold Brad and rubet Oh Brad is the best coke cold Brad rubet go sign up promo code I stream like every time I give away money every time I win you guys win You gotta give away 10% to the fucking chat every single time Bitcoin Ethereum could fucking keep it You can gamble it you could take it out you could deposit it You can put it in your own fucking bank account go show some love sign up rubet right now cold Brad go there Listen listen you guys got a bet going on. I got the box. I got the box I got the Suns gonna be the winner of the order to a zero zero basically 77 77 if the Suns win Murphy has a yes, I can't have one for the pool and the Bucks win Bradley has to jump in No No She got it done I didn't make a bet y'all It's fine Water he bet you he bet you If they get a defense defense Yeah Yeah bucks Time out Time out Why are you stressed out? I'm gonna get a score Yeah they're NBA champions I didn't make the fucking bet I didn't make the bet AHHHHH AHHHHH How you feel about this tiny? Good I've done it before I've done it too many times Yeah? So you guys are used to it? Yeah, hella used to it I like it It's more dangerous and shit It's more dangerous and shit I like it It's more dangerous and shit How you feel about this, Tiny? Yeah, I've done it before. I've done it too many times. So you guys are used to it. Yeah, I'm hella used to it. Oh, man. I like it. It's more dangerous than shit.