 packaged for similar length, Oh Damn this song goes well with this Yeah, it's another day. I'm gonna go fucking do a drive-by shooting It's like training day, you know when he was in the car and he was like I hear it this news like no I'm not gonna hit that. What are you gonna smoke that nope you are I can't do that smoke it huh? Just saying a test just take a hit That's what this is gonna be like oh that's sweet I was prepared cuz I put vodka in this so it's like a espresso martini I'm saying let's go Baby So we're going to Miami we're gonna do Yes, besides that we're gonna finish the no video we have to succeed I get any virgins late previously on life of Bradley Martin and I got a finger her and then I was about to go in and eat her out So I was getting like a regular massage just touch my butt. I was like yeah, that's good. That's good. She's so she jerked you off Yeah, how was it? It was good Have you one of the most memorable ways to get your dick touch for the first time massage place with Steve will do it Brian Laundry's best friend no Bradley Martin teams are coming back in assembly and we're gonna get the virgins late We have two virgins. I think legit. We'll get two virgins late before any of the other teams get any virgins late What the fuck did you do to your hair? I made you do it Dude I went complete savage like I don't even want to tell you what I did I Don't know what the fuck we're doing, but we straight out the plane so whatever the fuck we're doing So they have some plan all the virgins are pissed at you. Why are they mad? Oh fuck them You abandoned you guys know we're doing here We're gonna make them do stand-up comedy So they're gonna have the virgins come to like comedy in front of a bunch of people apparently and I don't think they know Kind of fuck I wouldn't want to get a fun a bunch people. I'm gonna tell you right now Oh Oh Oh So what am I gonna wear your dirty ass fucking right Managed work Exactly, what is that thing how much stuff do you own in Miami a few things? We have 28 openings in the next two years currently I have live story hotel swan Komodo Planta when cursive she fights chicken to fairy. Oh good time hotel strawberry moon fuck gotta figure that out I mean I was gonna maybe go to jail for I could relate I could relate to that. Yeah, I kept my gym open during the thing the whole time Had they catch you social media Like that James open there's people there Like the biggest show the servers ever done I've ever like walked over and just spoke the drinks or some shit Instead of pacing out the meal the order fired the whole thing right away, right? So I have apps main course dessert all at once It's like oh come on. What's the number one thing you've learned being an hospital? It's not nine to five. It's it's 24 hours a day. There's no shut off Sprats money it's his first thing that I thought he paid for for a video was the lie detector test But as I passed him in the elevator he grabbed me by the arm and said By using aggression you will now only be awarded half. So here you go Jacob Whoa Good Where's the rest of my money? I'm sitting in the chair doesn't mean I won't get a slambi against the wall I came in here for shop talk like this is too much in a mosque in here So I'm like you do your thing Now you're going for these days like trying to be LeBron James like talking into the camera like inspirationally while getting your cut We're going I gotta go why Do like what? It jerk off. No Bitches. Oh, okay, so jerk off. No, I got girls. Do name two of them. All right. See you guys. Okay Oh Brad is a certified Steve surgeon Listen didn't a pond makes you better at everything in life. What are we hitting some back-and-bys? Yeah? I mean, we're not gonna let you feel like really stupid right now You have all those muscles and you're finesse the scene. Just rip it. No, you know you can just listen listen And then you put your palms on it. Yeah Oh, yeah Oh You look like chicken little right now, you know, they're a little yeah, yeah, bro, what the fuck I see new Yeezy sure This guy look exactly like it Okay, you're not getting out of this here's the key make them tired Fuckin 10 hours He's don't get over one don't get over one Hey guys, no kicking no low shots Oh That was All right, so listen at the end of the day, we don't always get the things we want right when we want them, okay? It's important to understand rejection failure all that stuff none of that shit matters Okay, just the number one thing to get over when it comes to trying to actually get a kill do not be fucking shy share your heart That's it keep it simple do whatever it takes no matter what So Sponsored pussy 22 so Like these niggas have not got pussy and ya put them in a test to try to get it in one weekend Technically cheap like y'all gotta do this for your damn shows Maybe we left one slide the third I kiss girls She Wow maybe similar To see how similar similar similar I have to take a shot and then he cheats the whole time. Get some drugs. I'll be honest. I'm his wig man. He makes him feel like a winner for one round. Defense for Defense Hey man brother. So my name is Hector, 33 years old. I was brought up in Miami. How long have you been homeless for? I've been homeless for like a year and a half, you know, been jumping around for my baby mama's and my mom's and then my mom got arrested like recently and ended up in the street completely. You know my mom has a drug problem. She was in the verge of losing her apartment and now she got arrested so, you know, her apartment is gone and I became completely homeless. My mom been, you know, struggling with drugs since I was in her womb. So you know, I was always trying to take care of her and my little brother. Growing up, me and my brother got separated. We lived different lives. I had, you know, I lived a harder life. He lived a better life. So you know, he's pretty good. He lives in Bricko too, you know, I'm happy for him, you know, but I'm still struggling. I want to like pick myself back up before I can actually get in touch with my family and my kids. I got two boys. Who takes care of your boys? My baby mama. I also struggle with, like, you know, with addiction. Yeah. What, what, what drug? I take bars and I also do opiates. Here, what? Um, that's my... Shit. I take two bags a day. How do you get your kids to be like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, This like earlier or like recently? Earlier, earlier. Yeah, that's basically it, man. And I messed up a lot of my life. You know, I've done wrong things. It's certain ways you've been brought up. Like, they taught me the wrong things. They taught me to like, you know, always be out in the streets and always, you know, hustle or rob or, you know, do stupid things instead of being in school. And, you know, I worked hard a lot too. Like, I know how to prep cars for paint, I do construction. I'm a great cook. I got a degree in sushi chef, you know. I think we get you a job as long as you clean. Music plays Damn, son. That's a good man for sure. Wow, that's dope. Oh, and the fit. I forgot about the fit. God damn. Dang it. Oh, shit smells great here too. Do you like it? Check out that fit. That's good. That's a nice little foul. Oh, you got a foul? Yeah. You got a foul? Music plays Yeah. Should we leave it go, bro? Yeah. Jacob's sick as fuck behind the camera right now. Nah, he's got like the flu or something, right? He's got the flu. I think he's trying to play. I think there's like a 70-30% chance that I'll die here this time. Sonny is a mess. Yeah. Yeah. An actual mess. So is Jacob. I woke up in a puddle of sweat. Everybody but Murphy can come to my mom's straight up. I'm coming. I don't see where your mom is at the boat. I don't see where your mom at. I don't get it. What's going on? She's coming here. For what? To pick me up. To pick me up. To pick me up. Sick day. Party period with Steve. Getting your doctor's up. Wait, where's the doctor's up? Okay. A few moments later. I don't feel so good either. My mom's picking me up. Are you serious? Yeah, I don't feel good. We should have slept in. Oh, I think we should have. You are agreeing that even if your youth may be seriously injured or killed by participating in the activities because there are certain dangers inherent in the activities which cannot be completely avoided or eliminated. The fuck we... I'm gonna make shit worse than the sharks we expect. Yeah, sign that. Okay. You're swimming? Yeah, but I'm gonna sign it anyway. You should do it. We should talk about dying anyways. I'm gonna video- Now all of a sudden, you're pussy. No touching the sharks. Don't touch them weirdly. Alright guys, so far we have two bull sharks and about eight reef sharks. Yo, Brad, look at this. I'm actually more concerned with how sick and loud this is fucking horrible. 99% of sharks aren't gonna come close enough for you to touch them anyway. But once you start reaching your hand out, they don't know if you're giving them food or if you're trying to hurt them, touch them. How do you swim without reaching your hand out? Can you explain that to me? There's fins we just gave you? Yeah. You use those. So you don't use your hands at all? Nope. Get in there on that rope, bitch. Take your breath, grab that rope, to your right. Bro, I just kind of breathed through this fucking thing. That was sick. I got pretty scared when the fucking motherfucker came really close to me. Yeah, I was trying to save myself. I ain't gonna lie on that one. That shit was crazy. I'm not gonna lie on that one. I'm not gonna lie on that one.