 amlodipine, naringin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin I'm in the east what do you got? two bedroom? no I got three bedroom bro we're on the other side one three bedroom is building bro we must be one on the other side still be confirmed you're not in a fucking three bedroom one three bedroom in this building my boy there must be one on the other side because that's where we are this is also a legendary unit why? because the guy that jumped off it was this belt no way that was dark we talked about that on the way in it's a worst text in my life did they send you a picture? so what happened was I was at an Italian restaurant eating like pasta fucking up pasta for me for like a month Steve goes yo bro you want to see something crazy like so sick I'm like what's up I see it he calls me and starts laughing he's like yo how crazy is that? I'm like dude like I'm eating I can't see that please it's every day for a week I just get to him it's also pretty sad too show me a live on the podcast bro people love our duo I told him to have Bradley on the whole time I'm nervous just to be around you're the only one I've ever heard say that that's insane that's true you always ask for me I'm like the audible they always call me it's hard to get better us here but we're getting them it's so yeah and we're casting good with like no like 60 65 year olds that wanting to meet a 13 year old boy and give him alcohol how do you find a grinder? grinder and all these apps I want to do a talking girl sometimes he's an OG YouTube Trump twice, Elon I love it the accolades alright let's run it I don't know if I'm doing it it was so stupid no something that caught my eye after is because I'm inside it you guys are playing with an air 15 I don't know I want to ask why are you like equipped like that what I have guns like that John Wick bro you don't need an air 15 I have a lot of guns one of my guns I'm sure you are in the bedroom that's terrifying because I actually feel like you fire that it's a hundred percent I'm fucking Muslim what is the thing you said before do you know what that means? that's my name motherf***er why do you ask me if I know why when you're screaming bye what are you doing Dubai I shopped a lot I was partying went out I was there for five nights no this is gonna be one of the funniest things you've ever done you don't even properly tag us they go tag me he goes yeah I got you wait look at mine zoom out so they see it actually so what is his actual story it's really funny that's the crazy shit you've ever done I didn't think you were gonna check while you guys were sitting here I didn't check but she told me respect for that I don't really use my phone when I'm having dinner with two of the authorities the fact that you have to squeeze and pitch that tiny that's more work than just work people are scrambling to find the tag I can't even click on a tag that's a new level that's impressive dude why would he do this for a tag they're only there for the tag it's just back for a minute it's crazy because all this actually happened absolutely off camera I just turned the camera on because I had to document this you did that for real 100% off camera that is some shit well, Loki I'm like proud of you that's not tough savage with this literally you're a dumb girls boy I'm impressed what? I think there's no shame at least we fuck around and find out I'm impressed I'm impressed I mean just technically he tagged me you might as well have done it I meant to zoom in and it zoomed out I swear I would never that's a lie I actually decided to make hers a little bigger well I'm actually flattered that you made my tiny bit bigger so I'm like a little flatter maybe I favor Mia bro no it's fine just make mine always a little bigger when you press mine it skips the story you're crazy bro maybe he's trying to hide you secretly if Loki he wants to hide you he's trying to keep you doing it himself you already get DM'd by all the guys that are gonna search for it anyway so it's like why give them that you found a wall? you just tapped me up off like when they weren't looking I'm impressed I'm actually literally impressed that you had the balls to do that like it's cool yeah I gave you a favor I got you I can't believe you did that 100% literally off camera we put the camera up just to document it it's so good now you're not gonna talk to me the rest of the team he's caught it over you're gonna leave all fucking reposa and full screen go follow Amanda Trippus Us right now maybe you should hit me there go ahead do it are you gonna trade me now? I'll just update the fans show it fuck can you finally read it? can you tag us properly? it's a way to work on me literally what is true sometimes you got jokes bro I'm impressed that's the we gotta find that it was after Sugar Shun 1 and me and Steve you and Steve were wrestling you and Steve were wrestling in the lobby and I tried to table top you and I was standing there I'm guarding I was one of these I remember it was like this and I just went like that it was looking one of Falco punch bro under clip it wasn't a falco punch it was a jab a little quick jab and I stepped off windoff fucking kill shot what are you looking at me for? you're gonna hurt your neck doing that huh? it's light bro you're a fairy huh? not fairy you're a fairy huh? so light let's see if the tea is warm pretty good form about the last where you at? keep here keep here there you go trainer is on her way so we're gonna introduce you trainer? he goes don't film this set why does this set you actually go hard on? I just wanna focus bro I wanna be distracted I'm here to fucking work out oh really? gotcha gotcha I dig it I dig it should we do a warm up? I got such a good try it I respect it don't touch me I don't need help you're gonna throw me off I don't need help I don't need help those are 35 I don't need help right staring at that guy that dude right there which one? that guy you didn't use the check to see that like it was a chick bro right here that guy I was looking at his brother right here I don't need help camera again my sort of god what's your favorite color? I have no idea blue how much did she weigh? 110 pounds? yeah maybe one yeah probably those are in the cap yo lift those not gonna lie that's funny there you go I'm gonna try say you beat the fuck out of you you're gonna say five you gonna try? let's do it tomorrow why way? I got a pump right now you don't want to do it right now I mean shit we can you always gotta stay ready then be after you think that's a good transition? I think he used to start with you dude makes more sense to start with you how much you weigh? I think how much you weigh bro? you're on the undercard I'm gonna come back and do it that doesn't make sense weight wise he looks heavier that's three minutes left of my workout how much longer you got? three minutes I gotta record my pumps so like 10 minutes bro come on I have 120 I do I like toot the stick I gotta go through Bradley first get to the kid come on now how much do you weigh? I'm around like 285 oh shit I can take that guy you ready? no bro stop fighting he ran one second dude he ran that guy thought he could beat you up but he ran away as soon as I came over he just he sees ready I'm gonna run now look look he's hiding he's hiding over there we gotta turn the AC off we should turn the heat on in your gym? yeah oh my god you're gonna get a fucking pumping let me get your weight to the head here hey wow you see that? why are you so pissed bro? that guy's beating the shit out of the bag he's like a secret fighter him? hey he said he would beat my ass nooo I'll fight you but I would not fight you oh my god no it's smart you're very smart I appreciate that you destroyed me without even touching me bro it's all mental I'm almost at the mind of like AI'm intimidating I'm not gonna do nothing here I'm in love you're in love with him? this is insane what's going on today how you doing? I'm so terrible aren't you supposed to be doing legs with her? no bro she's doing legs no brad stop did you see his face? he's like a fucking little kid you bitch oh my god that's a trainer he's shit he's supposed to train he's shit he was afraid of him oh my god he blamed me what did he say? it's a Bradley smart how? cause I'm training him oh that's crazy he just didn't want to hit legs bro what the fuck sorry about that I didn't know you were here that's what he lied he said he was his fucked wait you met brad? she's been in my gym I've seen her all the time you guys know each other? stay away from my fucking trainer she just trains at the gym she's my trainer also why you blamed me for you not wanting to hit legs I thought we were eating chess today I don't look like I need to work chess I need quads I did like chess yesterday I went to the gym dude I honestly think you're stronger than it I think that's why he doesn't want to do it I agree I feel like you're kind of nervous I'm not gonna kill you first? yeah dude you can do it let me do um we do one chess workout though with you training me like spotting me chess workout? yeah I do it I'll do it wow okay come on bye bye come on okay I don't need help I don't think I'm not gonna say yeah come on you can go come on show them how you do it two more that's one more you can do it fuck yeah do you think he could ever get big? I think it is mustard I think it's mustard you think he could ever get big? get your turn I mean I don't know you got Turo on your side he's got Turo so I think he's ever gonna get big he's ever gonna get big I'm telling you short guys you know Tristan guys like that I don't think you've ever done it in a while busy I have other shit bro I don't just get paid to work out for a living yeah it's pretty cool thank you guys thank you so much great though you're actually really trist me out what? dude for the last 12 years I've gotten paid to work out actually it's kind of insane if you really put that in perspective I'm getting there it is get this I haven't heard their stories you know what I'm saying everyone's coming to our podcast they're gonna do goadie 3 otherwise cause they're always promoting something I remember the video I was like 4 bro he took her field side at the colorado college gave I had an extra pass and she was there I always play it off I'm not even gonna do that like you played down like you weren't really trying it's always in the back of your head I think it's in the front of your head but that's not what I'm always thinking shit for so many years I don't understand who's running those bigger companies but they just keep flopping and like overall it seems like and I've talked to mr beast about this stuff all these creator led companies which kick is essentially not necessarily creator led but you obviously have a partner you are a creator you are one of us you've been making the content you've done for so many years I don't know why they distance themselves from the creators who are like these platforms don't exist without creators it's crazy bro and it's funny you say that too I want to say like it's like how could you not do it you have tons of people who are locked in with you so it's like how could you not commit it's the same thing like if you're around the bullshit, the lean, the nonsense it's hard to kind of step forward so have you made a point that you know anyone in your circle they're not around you doing that kind of stuff 100% if you're first of all if you're not on what I'm on if you're eating unhealthy if you're constantly abusing drugs and if you're just straight up on some lazy shit I'm at the point you're dead weight to me mommy met you wow what's up bro how you doing brother biggest fuck I don't know I never said that anyways what's up bro you good you good I feel amazing I'm happy that you shifted your career you're doing so good now you're doing great I watch your podcast so I can sleep bro you're amazing straight humble guy I love the hustle you're a good hunk you gotta go hard I'm crazy I love the hustle I really like that this is crazy man they're just like fighting in a backyard like this is someone's house they're about to just fight in this fucking backyard what size are those gloves they're almost like MMA gloves a little more no I have no idea what the rules are I don't know what the fuck like I think it's just gonna I feel like they're gonna fight to the death I don't know I don't I like when they're like why are you hitting me they're looks on their faces like why is he hitting me should be hitting me like that you're going to get hit you're going to get hit let's fucking go give me a contrast Thank you guys! I'm going for the sweet. Oh my god, bro. That hits. Oh my god. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm going to get you. I'm going to get you. I'm going to get you. You did this thing so well. I had a bunch. I had a bunch. I went down there and I slammed two Red Bulls like six of those Snicker Doodle Cookies. You're on two Red Bulls right now? Yeah. I'm tired too. I'm slow. I came straight here. Bro, when you put me in these environments, I don't know if I can get in there. I know you know what I'm talking about. I just jumped in to see what happens. I just glinched him. He's too slippery in the clinch. But there's not much grappling, right? No, they pulled him apart. I'm not going to say it right, but he was like hitting him in the head. Thank you for that. That was descriptive. That was great. I don't think he was supposed to be hitting him in the head like that. You're an expert. You're fucking good at this. This is entertaining though. I ain't going to fucking lie. It's entertaining. You see everything when you want to throw it. Throw it. You can't go into the game. You can't really go into a game. Can I take a picture with you? I've seen some videos from the 90s. I appreciate it. I appreciate what you did. First-in-development health, getting jacked. I appreciate that. The week before the World Championship, I went to see my boy down, bro. Slipped, he fell on my neck, slapped. I've been very lucky to have him since fall. He's a trainee. He switches like that. I couldn't even imagine that. You're a guy, but you're a guy. You're used to it. We adapt to what we're coming to. You either do that or you quit. That's not true. Never. Respect, man. Thank you for the love, too. How about the run? I'm up 250. In what, 30 minutes? Easy. Easy. Anyone on a 250,000 run, bro. Oh, my God. I'm not knocking anybody out right now. I need to get a chair. Come by when I'm... Come by. You say brass, that's all good. You come in. I'm here at normally around 11 o'clock. I train every day. I love when they say you're a bigger person. It's not favorite. It makes you feel good, right? Don't come. They don't come. I promise I'm coming. I promise. You know my word. I got your word. My name is 100%. You know what's on what? What else, bro? We're not cool no more. No, that's not true. I messed with your brother. We made too many comments about this. I'm there. Tell us so we know. What do you have to say about this? You too, you got to chime in on this. People say, right? That you talk about the girls that you also use. You know what I'm saying? It's leveraging them. They're talking bad about this. Okay. That's the accusation? Yeah, you know people always say that. This is what it is, bro. Before every show, we do three announcements. Ladies, so you know, they're fat based show. Whatever you say, can and will be as guess you in a quarter of a content. So they know what's happening beforehand. Three times, ladies, you'll get emotional, but they're not the truth. From a man's point of view. How would they react to that? It's not on us. They're crazy. Three times. Bro, people go hard on you guys for like, just fucking shit. Which is not necessarily untrue. You know what I'm saying? It's true. And they say clips. We're on kick here? This is YouTube. Okay, so I gotta watch my wording. I was gonna say something else, but I was like, nah, let me make sure. We warn the girls multiple times, and right before we go on, I give them a fourth warning. We're not trying to get clips to keep you guys kicked off. Think before you speak, and it facts over feelings. We're trying to have good conversation. Every single show I warn them, they still act crazy about it. Yeah, that's fair. And then, like the thing is too, so people think like, I just kicked the girls off. Now, I'm real patient. If you see me kick the girls off, I guarantee you she's been acting crazy crap. At least in Howard. What happened with that one Robert shit? She was threatening you on a spazel? Yes, bro. That dusty ass bitch. Oh my god. So this is what happened, right? So she shows up two hours late, right? She sits down. And then she kept interrupting and hurting the show. Before she got there for two hours. So she was going to talk, or somebody was going to talk, and the girl interrupted again. I was like, yo, I've been warning you, stop interrupting. Asian girl, I'm not knowing that this girl had been disrupted for like two hours. Why you got to act like that? And I'm like, yo, you just got here, but you don't know that this girl's been disrupted for two hours plus. And then she gets all but her and says, oh, you mean blah blah blah. I'm like, no, I'm not mean. I got her shoulder running. She clearly has never heard that shit before. And then she says some dumb shit because she had three guys in the back and she thought she was tough. So she said that shit and then one of the guys in the back said, oh yo chill bro, she ain't going nowhere. Oh really? Okay, cool. So I go take a piss, calm down a little bit, because these are our freshest guests, they're not my guests. I go get my Glock and I'm like, all right, cool. This is a Florida. So I come back out there, go on, thank god. But bro, I was about to tell them, yo, y'all got to get the fuck up out of here, bro. When I came back out, they were still out there. Why did they cap like there was like 50 booze there? No, it was only three. And I showed a clip on Twitter, I showed like a screenshot on Twitter. It was like two or three guys and like one chick that she came with. But yeah, they said that shit and I was like, you know what, let me calm down. But if it wasn't for freshest guests, I would have spazged out. But I know freshers trying to build a relationship so I was like, I'm not going to get that crazy. That's when I got up and went to just go to cool off. I get it, I get it. But then I was like, all right, I'm going to come out, tell them calmly to leave and if they don't, hey, I got my piece for me because I don't know what the fuck these dudes are on. You know, it's Florida, it's a standard ground state. So, and that's like my crib too. So I was like, yo, y'all got to leave. But they left, they were gone by when I came out. Like two minutes later. Crazy how people get on the internet and talk crazy. Yeah, and they don't know all the facts. Like they think I was just singling.  naringin, niacin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, n naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, n naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, n naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, n oh my god oh my god he hit my fucking bump bro and then they also lied about how drunk he was and that Naringin took over the whole media randomly did he run it back? ah! I've been trying to run it back with him but I wanna do it as a real like event and he's fucking ducking me bro ohhh no but so do you know who I'm going after now? your boy Nios ohhh ohhh ohhh for real? wait a sec he gotta get run train a little bit he needs a train a little bit But the way he talks, he shouldn't need to train him. He needs to train him. Hey, bro, stop talking to me. Stop talking to me. You're watching so much. I'll see you tomorrow. I'll see you tomorrow. I love you. I'm looking forward to it in the end. I don't want to lie. Oh, that's what I'm saying. Right, he's good. These are also really good. These are also really good. Thank you. Of course. Thank you. Oh, yeah. Definitely that guy, bro. I don't think so. That was a trip. That was a trip. That wasn't a trip. I also was going like fucking 10%. All right, bro. All right, man. Bro, I would fucking kill you. All right, man. I would kill you. We got to rematch. We'll do it. We got to rematch. Any day. Let's do it. I would force you on it. You want to really go hard? Yeah, we can go. Okay. I love how you don't give a fuck. I thought that, like, the fact that you got it was when Sean was like, I was like, whoa, dude. And I look, you know, it was great. It looked great, right? It was a great day, man. That was a great day. Did you get any, like, tuss at all? I'm here. Damn, bro. Everyone's talking about it as if it was last week. The ship was like four or five hours ago. It was great. Bro, you like it. He really started to get you down. I knew I had a good ship, man, and now I proved it. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. What's up? Oh, it's good to see you. Do you want to say fuck you, Young LA? What are you doing? What are you doing? What are you doing? How you doing? Good, man. Why didn't they let the cat out of the cage at the power sign? I know. They don't let the fucking beast out. They knew Young LA would go out of business. They knew it, bro. They knew it, bro. I knew it. You would have been on the slap stage like, fuck Young LA. I saw Mickey rocking at Young LA, thinking I'm like, you might be good at gambling, but switch over to it. Oh, that should have waited for a burn-out stage. How you been? Good, bro. Good to see you. Are you guys leaving? We're going to go fuck around a little bit more in there. We gambled? We gambled early. Oh, yeah. What was it? Slapbox. You're going to be me versus the CEO of Young LA. Fuck you guys. I've been hilarious. It's just... Sarah must be drunk right now. I am. You told me you have to drink a bottle of 18, 19, 42, or else... 19 or 19, 42. Or else you're never going to... What kind of alcohol is that? Bumper. Secure level. Yeah, that's what I said. You made that up. She made that up. Listen, listen, this is serious right now. Brad Force, you're going to drink a whole handle to myself. And I was like, yo, I don't usually drink. And he was like, you have to. Or else you're getting cut from raw gear. No more podcasting with me. Our friendship is done. I'm canceling you. I'm going to delete her Instagram, too. Hope you bro, thank you for everything. Yes, sir. Thank you, man. Thank you. Kiss. What the fuck? That's crazy. Why would we kiss? Don't you do that with people? She's the guy that... No. You guys should kiss. What? What? He kissed it. He was so down. He was so down. No way, look. I got food in my hand. There you go. Wow, that was cute. Fuck, young yo man. Oh, he's the type of guy I love. Listen to some tribe repul up for Sarah. Holy shit. What's up, man? How's it going? How's it going? It's been great. What'd she say? She said, I need a better friend. I would agree. Oh! I would agree. This is my first time ever seeing you. I was 290 and I saw you jump out of the pool. I didn't know that was your video until way later. And in my mind I was just like, bro, I'm big and it says a fat weight at the time. This big thing can jump out of the pool. I can figure this shit out. I just want to say congratulations, man. Thank you and you're a perfect doctor. Thank you. Thank you. My eyes are OG in the fucking game. I just love it, man. Get your fucking hands up, let's go. Hey, sorry. How are you guys doing? This is Danny Shenanah. This is too many days in a row. One time, 2016, I was still homeless. I stayed at Brad's house and he touched me inappropriately. Wow. And I never really talked about it. I'm glad you're finally coming out about that. Yeah, I just want to let everyone know. No, I'm glad you're telling me. It was in my sleep. I was sleeping too. Yeah, well, I figured it would be better that way. You'd be less traumatized. What's the move, dude? What's the move? I'm ready to go eat. I just ate. I'm about to eat. I'm going to piss. It's good to see you, though, man. I miss you. It's been a long time. It's been. I like this. Nice material. Yeah, nice little Chanel patch. Thank you. It's a nice little track fit. Yeah, unwashed for like a week. Looks pretty good. Yeah, still look pretty good. It looked clean. It was good color. Yeah, it's good. Cover your eyes. Yeah, now you don't look drunk. Cheers. Cheers, man. What do you mean, baby? Cheers, man. Cheers, man. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. I'm gonna do this right now. What the fuck? I thought there would've been more time between like, I didn't even know. I didn't even know I was gonna walk straight into this shit. I've done it once, it hurts really bad over here. Like by the low lab. It's depending like how much hair you have. All right, well I'm hairy, I'm not that fucking, you're probably more hairy than me dude. There's not a chance. There's not a chance? I'm gonna, I don't wanna do this. I lost my back. Oh my God. Is it bad? Oh shit. Okay. Oh this is tough. What do I do with my hands? What? Grab the table. Grab the table, what? No, oh you're doing down there? Oh okay. Well, you said full back right? Yeah, full back, yeah. Okay. Okay, I didn't know you were doing that though. Is that enough wax? It should be. Okay, she said you need extra. It's not even that hot, I'm, they tricked me. What, oh shit. It's just powder. Oh my God. You'll know. What is that? It's just baby powder. For what? It's just to dry the skin off. Can you do my arms too, they're pretty hairy. We won't have time to do your arms. What about like the shoulder up here? Is that the, is that the? I can do that, the thing is with waxing it, just kind of cuts it off so it's not like buzzing. You know what I mean? Like where you can kind of lock, fade it. You're getting the fucking tapers. Yeah, give me a taper right there bro. Little design in there. Please. Okay, if something's happening, I'm just gonna get wax on your hands. Okay. I'm gonna start in the middle, just so you're pretty. All right, do I get like a massage too or? Is this like, okay, no massage. Yeah. Whoa, oh shit. No, definitely don't sit up. Definitely don't sit up. Whoa, that feels really thick. Wait, don't rip off that mole, I got a mole right there. It won't come off. Are you sure it's gonna hurt? Positive. It's not dear. You ripped that mole off, we're fighting. Why does it feel like I have a fucking, like clay on my fucking back now? Full back, right? Yeah, I mean, oh, okay, this is like hot. Guys, I don't even know, I'm already not recommending this. Have you done, take a deep breath. Whoa, oh shit. Oh, that actually really hurts. Ah, no, it's gonna hurt more there. It's gonna hurt more there, I already know. You ever lost a bit before I had to do this? No. Oh, okay. You just do it for fun, that's fucking, whoa. Oh, that hurts there. Oh shit. Ow, oh, that fucking hurts, bro. Oh shit, oh, that fucking hurts. Oh, that's gonna hurt. One, two. Dude, I don't wanna do this anymore. It's just not even worth it. Fawesome, she, ah. Oh my God, never, never. You did it once. Yeah, it was last time I filmed a fucking YouTube video. I have no sense. How long ago was that? Seven years ago, maybe? I would just shave, I would like, you know, like, the thing you, you like, it extends and I go like this. Yeah, and I would just cut it off like that. Oh fuck, ah, it's so fucking terrible, dude. No. I don't like it. I feel like my whole back's bloody. Oh, that, oh, that really hurts. Oh, that shit is not good. Oh, okay, that wasn't as bad. Oh, that was the worst one. Oh, that was the worst one. Oh, that's sick. Oh, that really hurts. Okay, ah, fucking bitch, you're not you, not you. Not you, just the, oh. Not like overly hairy, but like, my hair. Oh fuck, I hate it. Like when I came in here with my back, when it was hairy, was it like, is that overly hairy? I mean, yeah. I was getting there, was I getting there? I mean, it's just hair. Like I think like if it looked like a rug, I'd be like, hey, you need to do something about it. Dude, I couldn't see it. It's not like awful. Is that too hairy? Was it too hairy? No, to be honest, I don't care, dude. Like you saw a guy go, that's too hairy. Like I wouldn't be bothered if like he had a lot of hair. I don't know. I think you're fine. Yeah. Okay. So I'll just have you sit up and then just face the door so I can get to the top. You ripped the whole thing. I was sweating on that bitch. Bro, I was sweating, look at this shit. Oh God, damn it, it just keeps hurting. Don't touch it. Don't touch it, okay. Okay. Geez, all the wax, bro. That whole thing? Yeah. Oh, Jesus Christ, why? That's gonna hurt. I got a little towel, it's gonna hurt. Ah, okay. Oh, that's gonna hurt. Oh, she barely touched it, it's gonna hurt. No, it's just, it's just the hair up here. Okay. Okay, it wasn't that bad. Oh, thank God. It's gonna be a body odor again. Shade, a tan. All right, you should hide. That's it? Yeah. Oh my God, this is amazing. Little red. Ah, fuck yeah, dude. That was so good, that was great. I feel like a new man. Wow, my back looks like a duor. I can't even shave all this up. I feel like, look at this line. That's what I said, it's hard to wax. She gave you a taper. I can't blend it with the wax. Oh fuck. Damn. Your body shit, I lose a lot of it. I feel like that's... I don't know what you're filming, man. I wish you were filming. I am. Okay, that was so funny. I hope the audio got that. I've seen you one time before. Where? Visiting World of Harry Potter and World of War. Wait, Universal? Yeah, Universal. Dude, it was years ago, you were in line and it was crazy. I'm like, that's Brad fucking Martin. And my girl at the time was like, who's that? I'm like, trust me, I know who this dude is. That was it, I don't know. Do you remember going there? No, I've been there. It was, it was it. Can I get a quick picture with you? Yeah, let's do it. Dude, he... He's back, same. I was like, where the fuck this motherfucker's on? And he's gonna be like, I see you at the Harry Potter convention. Hold on to that, bro. Don't say that in front of everyone right now. No, I don't care. No, it was at the Universal, the city one. I wasn't at Harry Potter. Even if I was, even if I was. You know what, we were just talking about the Harry Potter world at the Universal. Whatever, I wasn't, that's fine, I fucking go with her. Dude, I love Universal. The fucking Mario thing, you've been to the Mario thing? So sick. I gotta see some passes, let's go. For Universal? I love Universal. Subscribe to the channel every fucking Wednesday. Yeah, we're posting it, that we're here. I don't know if we're doing it every Wednesday. Don't count me. Just Wednesdays. Wednesdays, we'll see you in a Wednesday at some point in the future where there's a day that's Wednesday. It's the hardest day of the week to spell, don't forget it. I'll see you there, subscribe to the channel.