 ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus ascitibus asc Okay, cool. Hey, I'll try and get to that question before me. That's what this motherfucker's about What are you gonna ask Brad? Yeah, okay? And it's like the openness now that shit talking it's all fun. That's all fun games Oh Okay, I'm sitting here watching an old video of mine where I got wax That was now I was good I was contemplating going to get waxed again and then Natalie said some random shit about what were you saying about your balls? Can your testicles taste? Their testicles in different sauces and liquids and they could taste it. What the fuck? There's no way. That's a real thing No, there's no way. It's real You're telling me that I could fit my balls and like some sauce and I'm gonna taste it People have been putting soy sauce on their testicles to see whether their their nether parts can detect the salty condiment Whoa, do your nuts taste? Condiments what bro? What are you talking about man? Okay? Wait? This is actually interesting So we're gonna put different things and then I'm gonna tell you what they are I won't look at it But you guys will pick the things you won't tell me what's in it and then I'll be like, yes or no This is the dumbest shit ever. Fuck it, dude. All right, it's your shot for liquids. All right guys So we're going to a grocery store. We're to get multiple different sauces I think we should get a hot sauce because I feel like that's gonna burn now All right, so like we're at the grocery store now. I saw the pasta so I'm like we definitely need to get some marinara sauce Oh, should we get sweet and spicy because then he's not gonna be able to really figure out like what the taste is because it's sweet and spicy And spicy sweet and spicy because it's nuts act because it'll be confused. Oh, we'd have 30 bucks with 30 dollars to go crazy Both of them What's good chocolate though? I just want to drink it after what? Did you get his ball milk? No, he's not fucking singing this one thing in there. This is for showing up late yesterday I say it's honestly so stupid I say pretend like I'm gonna do it But silver just doesn't and then we'll be like, no you really just your balls and like fucking sauces and shit I think that'd be hilarious. Dude, you have to do it. Oh look look trust trust trust. It'll be funny What do you think about this idea? Right? I don't know sit. He's coming. What'd you get? I was very generous picking out your goody Don't you do it too? No, because I already know what I got bro. Come on So someone will sit on like they'll sit on that side with the camera and we'll sit on this side It will just like sit off the off the little bench thing and give your ball real quick and then cool Yeah, but like I feel like it's not funny for me because I already know everything we got You acting your balls know what those things taste like? No, we're gonna mix it up. We don't know what it is. You just go All right. All right. Yeah, let's go Let's go So we've got a different array of sauces and things I say not you say sauces not Not You don't need all of it, dude. Dude. You're nuts don't hang that load. You don't have to really get in there Okay, so we've got we've got soy sauce 100 lime juice balsamic vinaigrette balsamic vinegar. That's a big word for Elmo We got pineapple juice next we have the hot sauce. Let's actually try it if it's hot then I guess you guys perhaps pretty fun ready? Oh, yeah Last but not least to cool the nuts off because after a nice spice you need milk I really don't do it enough liquid to do all six Bro stop it like fucking bitch dude. I swear to god. We don't have enough liquids Sylvie's doing this with you. This is dumb ass You can't share nut sack juice. Yeah, well get different fucking get more. That's not what I'm saying Let me talk to you outside real quick. You're not fucking putting any weird shit in my fucking home Come here motherfucker. Jesus christ dude. What the fuck come on Did you fucking tell me fucking pussy? No, I didn't tell anything. We really don't have enough liquids Why is he backing out because we don't have enough liquids. So we'll do three and three the joke is gonna be that I'm not gonna do it at all Oh, you're not. Yeah, bro. The joke is that he's gonna do it. I'm gonna be like you dumbass you actually did that That's the joke. I thought you guys had a conversation. You're trying to fucking finagle me and my own finagle the fuck It's like Jesus. I thought you were gonna actually do it. I think you should though. You should do at least a soy sauce one You're gonna blindfold them. Don't make you can't make them feel uncomfortable. That's weird How long do I have to do this for? Like do you just like Till you get a taste, bro! Till you get a taste! What should I do? Which one is that? Okay, what is it? Okay, okay How do I do this though? Oh my god, my nuts are in. What is that? Can you taste it? He's going this, he's like Yo, can you taste it? Is that pineapple juice? No. Yo, you're making shit up. No, I really can't taste shit. Can you taste anything? It was soy sauce. It was soy sauce. Oh shit. Ew! Shit! All right, you ready? All right, wait, wait, wait, what is it? Hey, don't be looking for this. It feels heavy dog. Don't move it too much. I swear to god, I'm not looking. It feels thick. No, it's just like what is this liquid, bro? It runs in the brim. Yo, don't play with me like that. Uh, it's nothing. Oh wait, wait, wait for it. But god, I'll taste anything. Oh, shit. What are the other ones? What is that, dude? Ew! Is it warm or cold? Oh, wait a second. That's bosomic. Oh my god, he nailed it. Yeah, you can smell it though. You really are dipping your nuts up in there. Yeah, it's crazy. Don't be looking for it. Cover it. Cover it. Come over here. Okay, we gotta figure out what that is. This one is uh All right, put the hat there. All right, we'll look up. Look up. Look up. Look straight forward and grab the fucking thing. I knew it. Look up. Don't, hey, I see you looking down. I'm not looking down. Look up. Not looking down. Relax. Look at the brim. Looking at the brim. What is that? Nothing. Is this the last one? No, you have one more. No, he has one more. Okay, I don't taste anything. I don't taste anything. Are you serious? Yes. Swear. Are you serious? Yeah. No, you're fucking with us. Maybe your balls are not sensitive like his are. That was eggnog. Eggnog! No, real question. Serious, serious shit. You swear to god. You swear I was going to get the taste in your mouth. No, I literally had it was smelling and tasting at the same time in my mouth. Totally. We got one more. So we're gonna save this one for Brad. Come over here fucking eyes. Don't be a fucking cheater. All right, here we go. Stop Christopher. I see you. Okay, close your fucking eyes, bro. Take your balls out. You're actually doing it. All right, I'm going with this. But I'm holding it because I don't want you to look. Mate, I know what this is. You fucking dick, dude. Eww. What? Leave it. Don't look. Do not look. Keep your eyes closed. Can you put my hat on? Do it. Dude, put it in there. It's in there. Lime juice. Really? Is it lime juice? Or is it hot sauce? I'm pretty sure it's hot sauce. Okay, dude, I knew it. It's hot sauce. Oh, my shit is burning. Let me see it. Let me see the towel. Let me see the towel. You really had to shit in your balls? You really are putting them shit in your balls, huh? You didn't do it. I didn't do it. Yeah, you really put his balls in the fucking... You didn't work because you were like not drawing yourself out. Did you really put your balls in those things? What do you think I'm wiping off? Nah, it's so real shit though. Real shit though. Did the balsamic really... You swear to God? Oh, you're... you're dead serious. Oh, I'm dead serious. I gotta know now for science. That's why you want me to do it. You damn right. You damn right. You damn right. Dude, my balls are on fire. We did it way... Your balls actually on fire? Yo, I kind of want to try the balsamic though. You swear to God you really taste the balsamic. I'm doing this shit. My balls are on fire. Are you serious? My right nut is literally on fire. I swear on everything. Are you serious? Yes. Oh, get an ice bag. Does it actually burn? Yes, dude. It's like you're losing, burning up your hot wings, you know? You're not kidding. No. This is amazing. Oh my God. He's dead ass. That's funny. Good shit, dude. Silly. How are you stallion? Good shit. He's stallion's down and out. Oh, I'm real, bro. My balls are on fire, bro. Actual initial thoughts. It works. Maybe you should wash it. Maybe you should duck your balls in the milk. Put them in some milk, dude. Oh, that's hot. Whoa, you put your nuts in this? Balls in the hour. Balls in the hour. Balls in the hour. No, seriously. I wish people know like what this feels like. This is amazing. Next video, we're eating hot wings. I'm gonna act like I put the sauce on and not eat any of it. Watch you do it. That was the whole joke. The whole joke is you couldn't see anyone do it. You're gonna eat the fucking omelettes or we're gonna be like, we saw you not eat it. Yeah, you're full of shit, bro. All right, see you guys. All right, guys. See you. Yo. Yo. What the fuck are you doing? What? Oh, bro. I want to try the... What are you doing? Bro, I want to try the balsamic. What the fuck are you doing? I'm just kidding. Yo, he said it tasted like balsamic.