PUBMED RESEARCH ABSTRACT
========================
PMID: 35406137
Title: Whey Protein, Leucine- and Vitamin-D-Enriched Oral Nutritional Supplementation for the Treatment of Sarcopenia.
Authors: Cereda, Pisati, Rondanelli, Caccialanza
Journal: Nutrients
Year: 2022
Topic: whey protein muscle synthesis

ABSTRACT:
Sarcopenia has been recognized as a muscle disease, with adverse consequences on health. Updated recommendations, aimed at increasing awareness of sarcopenia and its accompanying risks, have been produced to urge the early detection and treatment of this disease. Recommended treatment is based on an individually tailored resistance exercise training program, the optimization of protein intake using high-quality protein sources (i.e., whey protein) in order to provide a high amount of essential amino acids-particularly leucine-and addressing vitamin D deficiency/insufficiency. The purpose of this review is to collate and describe all of the relevant efficacy studies carried out with a muscle-targeted oral nutritional supplementation (MT-ONS)-namely a whey-protein-based, leucine- and vitamin D-enriched formula aimed at optimizing their intake and satisfying their requirements-in different patient populations and clinical settings in order to determine if there is enough evidence to recommend prescription for the treatment of sarcopenia or its prevention in high-risk patient populations. Trials using a MT-ONS with or without a concomitant physical exercise program were systematically searched (up to June 2021), and those addressing relevant endpoints (muscle mass, physical performance and function) were critically reviewed. In total, 10 articles providing efficacy data from eight trials were identified and narratively reviewed. As far as older patients with sarcopenia are concerned, MT-ONS has been pertinently tested in six clinical trials (duration 4-52 weeks), mostly using a high-quality randomized controlled trial design and demonstrating efficacy in increasing the muscle mass and strength, as well as the physical performance versus iso-caloric placebo or standard practice. Consistent results have been observed in various clinical settings (community, rehabilitation centers, care homes), with or without adjunctive physical exercise programs. A positive effect on markers of inflammation has also been shown. A muscle-protein-sparing effect, with benefits on physical performance and function, has also been demonstrated in patients at risk of losing skeletal muscle mass (three trials), such as older patients undergoing weight loss or intensive rehabilitation programs associated with neurological disability (Parkinson's disease). MT-ONS has demonstrated not only a significant efficacy in clinical variables, but also a positive impact on healthcare resource consumption in the rehabilitation setting (length of stay and duration of rehabilitation). In summary, MT-ONS, alone or in association with an appropriate exercise program, is an effective therapy for older patients with sarcopenia and should be offered as a first-line treatment, not only to improve clinical outcomes but also to reduce healthcare resource consumption, particularly in patients admitted to a rehabilitation center.

---
Source: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35406137/
