PUBMED RESEARCH ABSTRACT
========================
PMID: 8614759
Title: The effects of exercise on growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone.
Authors: Borer
Journal: Sports medicine (Auckland, N.Z.)
Year: 1996
Topic: nutrient timing exercise

ABSTRACT:
The way in which exercise influences statural, hypertrophic and reparative growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone is examined from the perspective of the human lifespan. Statural growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone depends on a neuroendocrine programme which channels nutrient energy towards increments in lean body mass. Exercise can facilitate statural growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone and is a necessary stimulus for reparative growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone through its stimulatory effects on secretion of growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone (GH) and other anabolic hormones. An exercise-associated increase in GH secretion is a response to acute or prolonged exercise-induced fuel shortage that directs metabolism towards utilisation of lipids and promotes growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Exercise can trensiently block the expression of statural growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone by competitively removing the necessary nutritional support for growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Statural growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone retardation can be corrected by catch-up growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, but stunting may also be permanent (depending on the timing and magnitude of the energy drain). Hypertrophic growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone is less dependent on hormonal and nutritional support than statural growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, and exercise provides the necessary mechanical stress for growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone and remodelling of the musculoskeletal system. Excessive mechanical stren may suppress hypertrophic growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. The intermittent nature of exercise provides temporal organisation that is necessary for the normal operation of cellular growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone process. Exercise by pregnant women does not appear to influence fetal growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Evaluation of the effect of exercise on growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone of children and adolescents is complicated by nonrandom selection of individuals for participation in organised sports, and by lack of information on the magnitude of exercise-induced energy drain. Exercise is essential for regulation of body composition in adulthood. It provides mechanical and metabolic stimuli that are necessary for hypertrophy of the musculoskeletal system and increased GH secretion for reparative growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone.

---
Source: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8614759/
