PUBMED RESEARCH ABSTRACT
========================
PMID: 26408541
Title: Endurance, interval sprint, and resistance exercise training: impact on microvascular dysfunction in type 2 diabetes.
Authors: Olver, Laughlin
Journal: American journal of physiology. Heart and circulatory physiology
Year: 2016
Topic: type 2 diabetes exercise intervention

ABSTRACT:
Type 2 diabetes (T2D) alters capillary hemodynamics, causes capillary rarefaction in skeletal muscle, and alters endothelial and vascular smooth muscle cell phenotype, resulting in impaired vasodilatory responses. These changes contribute to altered blood flow responses to physiological stimuli, such as exercise and insulin secretion. T2D-induced microvascular dysfunction impairs glucose and insulin delivery to skeletal muscle (and other tissues such as skin and nervous), thereby reducing glucose uptake and perpetuating hyperglycemia and hyperinsulinemia. In patients with T2D, exercise training (EX) improves microvascular vasodilator and insulin signaling and attenuates capillary rarefaction in skeletal muscle. EX-induced changes subsequently augment glucose and insulin delivery as well as glucose uptake. If these adaptions occur in a sufficient amount of tissue, and skeletal muscle in particular, chronic exposure to hyperglycemia and hyperinsulinemia and the risk of microvascular complications in all vascular beds will decrease. We postulate that EX programs that engage as much skeletal muscle mass as possible and recruit as many muscle fibers within each muscle as possible will generate the greatest improvements in microvascular function, providing that the duration of the stimulus is sufficient. Primary improvements in microvascular function occur in tissues (skeletal muscle primarily) engaged during exercise, and secondary improvements in microvascular function throughout the body may result from improved blood glucose control. We propose that the added benefit of combined resistance and aerobic EX programs and of vigorous intensity EX programs is not simply "more is better." Rather, we believe the additional benefit is the result of EX-induced adaptations in and around more muscle fibers, resulting in more muscle mass and the associated microvasculature being changed. Thus, to acquire primary and secondary improvements in microvascular function and improved blood glucose control, EX programs should involve upper and lower body exercise and modulate intensity to augment skeletal muscle fiber recruitment. Under conditions of limited mobility, it may be necessary to train skeletal muscle groups separately to maximize whole body skeletal muscle fiber recruitment.

---
Source: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/26408541/
