PUBMED RESEARCH ABSTRACT
========================
PMID: 37094636
Title: Evidence-based labor management: postpartum care after vaginal delivery (part 6).
Authors: Zullo, Di Mascio, Berghella
Journal: American journal of obstetrics &amp; gynecology MFM
Year: 2023
Topic: postpartum return exercise

ABSTRACT:
In the setting of postpartum care after vaginal delivery, rooming-in is associated with a higher rate of exclusive breastfeeding rate at hospital discharge, but there is insufficient evidence to support or refute rooming-in to increase breastfeeding at 6 months. Education and support for breastfeeding are valuable interventions to promote initiation of breastfeeding whether it is offered by a healthcare professional, nonhealthcare professional, or peer. A combined intervention, a professional provider-led intervention, having a protocol available for the provider training program, and implementation during both the prenatal and postnatal periods increased the rate of exclusive breastfeeding for 6 months. There is no single effective treatment for breast engorgement. Breast massage, continuing breastfeeding, and pain relief are recommended by national guidelines. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and acetaminophen are better than placebo for relief of pain caused by uterine cramping and perineal trauma; acetaminophen is effective in breastfeeding individuals who underwent episiotomy; and local cooling pain relievers have been shown to reduce perineal pain for 24 to 72 hours, compared with no treatment. There is insufficient evidence to assess the safety and efficacy of postpartum routine universal thromboprophylaxis after vaginal delivery. Anti-D immune globulin administration is recommended in Rhesus-negative individuals who have given birth to a Rhesus-positive infant. There is very low-quality evidence that a universal complete blood count is useful in reducing the risk of receiving blood products. In the absence of any postpartum complication, there is insufficient evidence to recommend a routine postpartum ultrasound. Measles, mumps, and rubella combination; varicella; human papillomavirus; and tetanus, diphtheria, and pertussis vaccines should be administered in nonimmune individuals in the postpartum period. Smallpox and yellow fever vaccines should be avoided. Individuals undergoing postplacental placement are more likely to use an intrauterine device at 6 months than those advised to follow-up for placement during outpatient postpartum care. An implant is safe and effective for immediate postpartum contraception. There is insufficient evidence to support or refute the routine administration of micronutrient supplements in breastfeeding women. Placentophagia does not provide any benefits and exposes mothers and offspring to infectious risks. Therefore, it should be discouraged. Because of the low level of evidence, there is insufficient data to assess the efficacy of home visits in the postpartum period. There is insufficient evidence to recommend when to resume daily activities, and individuals should be counseled to return to prepregnancy level of activity or exercise when comfortable. Sexual activity, housework exercise, driving, climbing stairs, and lifting weights should be resumed as soon as postpartum individuals want. A behavioral educational intervention reduces depression symptoms and increases breastfeeding duration. Physical activity after delivery is protective against postpartum mood disorders. There is no strong evidence that supports early discharge after vaginal delivery compared with standard discharge (ie, &#x2265;48 hours).

---
Source: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37094636/
