PUBMED RESEARCH ABSTRACT
========================
PMID: 31920971
Title: Inter-correlations Among Clinical, Metabolic, and Biochemical Parameters and Their Predictive Value in Healthy and Overtrained Male Athletes: The EROS-CORRELATIONS Study.
Authors: Cadegiani, Kater
Journal: Frontiers in endocrinology
Year: 2020
Topic: adrenal fatigue overtraining

ABSTRACT:
Objectives: The Endocrine and Metabolic Responses on Overtraining Syndrome (EROS) study identified multiple hormonal and metabolic conditioning processes in athletes, and underlying mechanisms and biomarkers of overtraining syndrome (OTS). The present study's objective was to reveal independent predictors and linear correlations among the parameters evaluated in the EROS study to predict clinical, metabolic, and biochemical behaviors in healthy and OTS-affected male athletes. Methods: We used multivariate linear regression and linear correlation to analyze possible combinations of the 38 parameters evaluated in the EROS study that revealed significant differences between healthy and OTS-affected athletes. Results: The testosterone-to-estradiol (T:E) ratio predicted the measured-to-predicted basal metabolic rate (BMR) ratio; the T:E ratio and total testosterone level were inversely predicted by fat mass and estradiol was not predicted by any of the non-modifiable parameters. Early and late growth hormone, cortisol, and prolactin responses to an insulin tolerance test (ITT) were strongly correlated. Hormonal responses to the ITT were positively correlated with fat oxidation, predicted-to-measured BMR ratio, muscle mass, and vigor, and inversely correlated with fat mass and fatigue. Salivary cortisol 30 min after awakening and the T:E ratio were inversely correlated with fatigue. Tension was inversely correlated with libido and directly correlated with body fat. The predicted-to-measured BMR ratio was correlated with muscle mass and body water, while fat oxidation was directly correlated with muscle mass and inversely correlated with fat mass. Muscle mass was directly correlated with body water, and extracellular water was directly correlated with body fat and inversely correlated with body water and muscle mass. Conclusions: Hypothalamic-pituitary responses to stimulation were diffuse and indistinguishable between the different axes. A late hormonal response to stimulation, increased cortisol after awakening, and the T:E ratio were correlated with vigor and fatigue. The T:E ratio was also correlated with body metabolism and composition, testosterone was predicted by fat mass, and estradiol predicted anger. Hydration status was inversely correlated with edema, and inter-correlations were found among fat oxidation, hydration, and body fat.

---
Source: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31920971/
