PUBMED RESEARCH ABSTRACT
========================
PMID: 38473747
Title: Identification of insulin-like growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone Factor (IGF) Family Genes in the Golden Pompano, Trachinotus ovatus: Molecular Cloning, Characterization and Gene Expression.
Authors: Ndandala, Zhou, Li, Guo, Li
Journal: International journal of molecular sciences
Year: 2024
Topic: insulin like growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone factor muscle

ABSTRACT:
insulin-like growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone factors (IGFs) are hormones that primarily stimulate and regulate animal physiological processes. In this study, we cloned and identified the open reading frame (ORF) cDNA sequences of IGF family genes: the insulin-like growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone factor 1 (IGF-1), insulin-like growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone factor 2 (IGF2), and insulin-like growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone factor 3 (IGF3). We found that IGF-1, IGF2, and IGF3 have a total length of 558, 648, and 585 base pairs (bp), which encoded a predicted protein with 185, 215, and 194 amino acids (aa), respectively. Multiple sequences and phylogenetic tree analysis showed that the mature golden pompano IGFs had been conserved and showed high similarities with other teleosts. The tissue distribution experiment showed that IGF-1 and IGF2 mRNA levels were highly expressed in the liver of female and male fish. In contrast, IGF3 was highly expressed in the gonads and livers of male and female fish, suggesting a high influence on fish reproduction. The effect of fasting showed that IGF-1 and mRNA expression had no significant difference in the liver but significantly decreased after long-term (7 days) fasting in the muscles and started to recover after refeeding. IGF2 mRNA expression showed no significant difference in the liver but had a significant difference in muscles for short-term (2 days) and long-term fasting, which started to recover after refeeding, suggesting muscles are more susceptible to both short-term and long-term fasting. In vitro incubation of 17&#x3b2;-estradiol (E2) was observed to decrease the IGF-1 and IGF3 mRNA expression level in a dose- (0.1, 1, and 10 &#x3bc;M) and time- (3, 6, and 12 h) dependent manner. In addition, E2 had no effect on IGF2 mRNA expression levels in a time- and dose-dependent manner. The effect of 17&#x3b1;-methyltestosterone (MT) in vitro incubation was observed to significantly increase the IGF3 mRNA expression level in a time- and dose-dependent manner. MT had no effect on IGF2 mRNA but was observed to decrease the IGF-1 mRNA expression in the liver. Taken together, these data indicate that E2 and MT may either increase or decrease IGF expression in fish; this study provides basic knowledge and understanding of the expression and regulation of IGF family genes in relation to the nutritional status, somatic growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, and reproductive endocrinology of golden pompano for aquaculture development.

---
Source: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38473747/
