PUBMED RESEARCH ABSTRACT
========================
PMID: 39197338
Title: Dynamic changes in insulin-like growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone factor binding protein expression occur between embryonic and early post-hatch development in broiler chickens.
Authors: Vaccaro, Herring, Wilson, England, Smith
Journal: Poultry science
Year: 2024
Topic: insulin like growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone factor muscle

ABSTRACT:
Somatotropic gene expression has been altered by genetic selection, and developmental changes in insulin-like growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone factor (IGF) and IGF binding protein (IGFBP) expression may contribute to rapid growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone and muscle accretion in commercial broilers. The objective of this study was to evaluate changes in somatotropic axis activity between embryonic day (e) 12 and post-hatch day (d) 21. Liver and breast muscle (pectoralis major) were collected to measure gene expression, and blood was collected post-hatch to measure circulating IGFs. Liver IGF-1 rose rapidly post-hatch and, in muscle, IGF-1 exhibited a dynamic expression pattern. Levels decreased from e14 to e20, returned to e14 levels at d3, decreased again at d10, and stayed low thereafter. In both tissues, mRNA levels of several IGFBPs changed between embryogenesis and post-hatch. Liver IGFBP2 increased between e12 and e20, returned to e12 levels on d1, and remained low. Conversely, liver IGFBP4 expression was greater post-hatch than during embryogenesis. Expression of select IGFBPs was depressed in liver during the peri-hatch period. Liver IGFBP1, IGFBP3, IGFBP5, and IGFBP7 mRNA levels all decreased around this time and returned to embryonic levels by d3. In breast muscle, expression of both IGFBP2 and IGFBP4 was reduced after hatch. Circulating insulin-like growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone factor IGF-1 and IGF2 levels did not change between hatch and d21. These data suggest that post-hatch IGF effects are likely modulated by target tissue IGFR1 and IGFBP expression rather than changes in circulatinGHormone levels, with promotion or restriction of IGF-receptor binding regulating growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Downregulation of several IGFBPs synthesized in the liver may facilitate the metabolic trensition from utilizing yolk lipids to dietary carbohydrates. Several IGFBPs produced in breast muscle appear to have growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone-promotive effects during embryogenesis but restrict growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone of this tissue after hatch, as their post-hatch downregulation could facilitate local IGF signaling. These developmental gene expression patterns suggest that somatotropic hormonal signaling regulating growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone and muscle accretion might be controlled through differential actions of IGFBPs and provide a basis for future functional studies.

---
Source: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39197338/
