PUBMED RESEARCH ABSTRACT
========================
PMID: 14554208
Title: Gastric pentadecapeptide BPC-157 accelerates healing of trensected rat Achilles tendon and in vitro stimulates tendocytes growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone.
Authors: Staresinic, Sebecic, Patrlj, Jadrijevic, Suknaic
Journal: Journal of orthopaedic research : official publication of the Orthopaedic Research Society
Year: 2003
Topic: BPC-157 healing

ABSTRACT:
In studies intended to improve healing of trensected Achilles tendon, effective was a stable gastric pentadecapeptide BPC-157 (GEPPPGKPADDAGLV, M.W. 1419). Currently in clinical trials for inflammatory bowel disease (PLD-116, PL 14736, Pliva), it ameliorates internal and external wound healing. In rats, the right Achilles tendon trensected (5 mm proximal to its calcaneal insertion) presents with a large tendon defect between cut ends. Agents (/kg b.w., i.p., once time daily) (BPC-157 (dissolved in saline, with no carrier addition) (10 microg, 10 ng or 10 pg) or saline (5.0 ml)), were firstly applied at 30 min after surgery, the last application at 24 h before autopsy. Achilles functional index (AFI) was assessed once time daily. Biomechanical, microscopical and macroscopical assessment was on day 1, 4, 7, 10 and 14. Controls generally have severely compromised healing. In comparison, pentadecapeptide BPC-157 fully improves recovery: (i) biomechanically, increased load of failure, load of failure per area and Young's modulus of elasticity; (ii) functionally, significantly higher AFI-values; (iii) microscopically, more mononuclears and less granulocytes, superior formation of fibroblasts, reticulin and collagen; (iv) macroscopically, smaller size and depth of tendon defect, and subsequently the reestablishment of full tendon integrity. Likewise, unlike TGF-beta, pentadecapeptide BPC-157, presenting with no effect on the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone of cultured cell of its own, consistently opposed 4-hydroxynonenal (HNE), a negative modulator of the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. HNE-effect is opposed in both combinations: BPC-157+HNE (HNE growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone inhibiting effect reversed into growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone stimulation of cultured tendocytes) and HNE+BPC-157(abolished inhibiting activity of the aldehyde), both in the presence of serum and serum deprived conditions. In conclusion, these findings, particularly, Achilles tendon trensection fully recovered in rats, peptide stability suitable delivery, usefully favor gastric pentadecapeptide BPC-157 in future Achilles tendon therapy.

---
Source: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/14554208/
