PUBMED RESEARCH ABSTRACT
========================
PMID: 15646370
Title: Pharmacological characteristics of KP-102 (GHRP), a potent growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone-releasing peptide.
Authors: Doi, Hirotani, Ukai, Shimada, Okuno
Journal: Arzneimittel-Forschung
Year: 2005
Topic: growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone releasing peptide

ABSTRACT:
KP-102 (D-alanyl-3-(2-naphthyl)-D-alanyl-L-alanyl-L-tryptophyl-D-phenylalanyl-L-lysinamide dihydrochloride, growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone-releasing peptide-2, GHRP, pralmorelin, CAS 158861-67-7), is a potent synthetic growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone (GH) secretagogue. In the present study, the pharmacological characteristics of the GH-releasing property of KP-102 were investigated by means of in vivo and in vitro experiments. In conscious rats, the GH-releasing activity of KP-102 was more potent than that of exogenously injected GH-releasinGHormone (GHRH). Under pentobarbital anesthesia in which endogenous somatostatin secretion is known to be decreased, KP-102 and GHRH, both showed an almost equivalent GH-releasing potency, which was also similar to that of KP-102 in conscious rats. Besides, KP-102 showed GH-releasing activity in conscious dogs as well, while GHRH failed to increase serum GH levels in conscious dogs. These findings suggest that the GH-releasing activity of KP-102 was less sensitive to GH suppression by endogenous somatostatin as compared with that of GHRH. The GH-releasing activity of KP-102 was completely absent in hypophysectomized rats, but present in median eminence-lesioned rats in which secreted GH amounts were significantly less than those normal rats, indicating necessity of the median eminence (endogenous GHRH) to exert the full activity of KP-102 in GH stimulation. KP-102 directly stimulated GH secretion from cultured rat anterior pituitary cells, although the GH-releasing potency of KP-102 was significantly weaker than that of GHRH in vitro. In conscious rats, KP-102 stimulated the secretion of both adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) and corticosterone, but not of prolactin. Three weeks administration of KP-102 showed growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone-accelerating effect, a slight increase of body weight and wet weight of some organs in both normal and monosodium glutamate (MSG)-treated rats. These results suggest that KP-102 showed specific GH-releasing activity apart from slight ACTH secretion, and that the GH-releasing activity was stable in comparison with that of exogenously injected GHRH.

---
Source: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/15646370/
