 na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na na with a super remarkable range of expertise. I feel like my brain doesn't work as well as it used to. People understand now. They're sort of like amyloid plaque is what causes or perpetuates Alzheimer's or dementia. We have drugs that decrease amyloid in the brain. Historically, they've been very unsuccessful. If you want a cognitive function test, you can only get it if you have likely cognitive impairment and you might get a diagnosis of dementia. When we find ourselves in overwhelmingly stressful situations, it's impossible to think your way out of that. Hey, Dr. Kelly Starrett here. If you're listening to this podcast, you obviously care about health, performance, longevity, and you've probably heard us talk about the longevity triangle, strength, conditioning, and mobility. Let's be honest. Mobility is usually the piece that falls off the list and you think it's probably okay. Nothing could be further from the truth. Mobility isn't optional. Improving your movement choices, moving more effortlessly, and having less pain are huge drivers and actually having a body you can count on. That's exactly why I created the Mobility Coach app to make mobility simple, actionable, and something you can actually do every day. A few minutes, the right inputs, and you keep your body doing what it's designed to. Go to thereadystate.com slash free trial and try it free for a week. Tommy Wood, welcome back to the Ready State Podcast. Thanks for having me back. I'm so excited to be here with you guys. I'll just set this up for everyone that we've just been gushing. We just haven't talked to an old friend for a while and we're just getting so caught up. Everyone, this podcast is very important. I think that this book that we're going to talk about and Tommy's current work obsession is one of those things that's going to be a seismic change in how we think about maintaining as much function as we can, as long as we can. And I'll set this up by saying that it's been a slow pivot for me, but in the last few years, I've really started to look at the brain as not a performance machine, but as a survival machine. And so much of the way I think now is, does the brain, does this person feel safe? What are the signals and cues where I can have this person believe or have their brain believe that they're safe versus unsafe? And that might be sleep, that might be how we train ourselves and hang out with other people. But it's really been a seismic change in the way I begin to think about what seems like complex problems, but really how do I get the brain involved? So that's my framework for this. And recently, I'll just let everyone know that my mom just passed and she had sort of stage four dementia. So I'm very keen on not having stage four dementia. So it's very topical to me, everyone. I've put my cards on the table. Tommy, I'm really excited to have you here. Thanks so much. I think that, you know, I'm really glad that people are thinking more and more about the brain and all the kind of parts that go into that, right? The physiological, the biochemical, the psychological. And, you know, hopefully the book and some of the work that I'm doing can sort of like help people, you know, navigate that. Well, I'm just going to come in swinging because I talked to some people about having you on this podcast. And I know this relates to your book, which, by the way, for everyone, is called The Stimulated Mind. And it's amazing. Highly recommend. And we'll be talking about it extensively throughout this podcast. Underrated comment. But to sort of go off of what Kelly said, you know, my grandfather had Alzheimer's or dementia. I never know what the correct diagnosis was. And Kelly's mom did as well. And both of them were alcoholics. Yeah. And maybe also diabetic, likely diabetic, possibly undiagnosed diabetic. And so as I was preparing for this podcast and talking to people in my neighborhood and friends about like, hey, we're having Tommy Wood back on. I know brain health and like basically not getting Alzheimer's is sort of top of mind for a lot of people in our age group in our 50s. They all said the two main questions people came out where, you know, does diabetes or any form of diabetes cause Alzheimer's? And, you know, the second question is, if people in my family have it, am I doomed to have it? And do things like alcohol or an amount of alcohol doom us in the future? Yeah. Let's just kick it off with like fun ideas. Here we go. Sorry, everyone. Um, so yeah, fantastic questions. And I'll say I'll start at the end there because the most prominent experience that I have of dementia was my grandfather who was also an alcoholic. And his dementia was probably some combination of, you know, just like the total burden of vodka that went into that brain. Right, right. Um, plus, um, plus like in particular vascular disease and, and, um, like changes in, um, in, uh, the blood vessels in the brain, vascular disease in the brain, they overlap very tightly with Alzheimer's disease. They, they kind of, if you look at the umbrella of dementias, they make Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia make up 70 to 90%, but they're also like intimately connected. You know, anybody who has Alzheimer's disease, the majority have some kind of issues with the blood vessels in the brain as well. So it plays, plays a big role there. Um, I actually think the reason why I think he lasted as long as he did, he lived until just before his 90th birthday. And I'll tell you on his 80th birthday, he had this massive party. He was still in pretty good shape then. Um, and you know, like all, you know, rented out a big hotel and like all friends and family came. I went in my, like, I sat, I sat in national address and he said on his 80th birthday, this is going to be my last major birthday because I'm not going to make it to 90. And he, he was right by like a week. Um, but one of the reasons why I think he, he lasted that long, actually, despite being, being an alcoholic was, he was well fed by my grandmother, a really nutrient rich diet. And he was also quite physically active. So like, I think that obviously the alcohol was the primary driver there, but that I think that sort of staved off a little bit of it. Um, and we can like talk about there's other bits, um, as well. Um, so to go back to the first question, like diabetes or metabolic disease, um, and dementia, um, there's actually one of the, the strongest, uh, predictors of cognitive decline and dementia. So if you look at the things that you could measure on a blood test or, you know, uh, physical health issues as predictors of dementia, we know that essentially the, the worse your blood sugar, the more rapid your cognitive decline. So this isn't even just making it to dementia. It's just the rate of change of cognitive function over time. Um, and so those who have pre-diabetes versus those who have normal blood sugar, they have an, they have an accelerated, uh, decrease in cognitive function over like a period of about 10 years. This was a study done thing. English longitudinal study of aging done a few years ago. And those who have type two diabetes, so even worse blood sugar, they have even more, um, rapid decline. Um, and of the sort of, uh, metabolic health and cardiovascular health predictors of dementia, high blood sugar and high blood pressure are the two that are the strongest sort of consistent, uh, predictors. So these are things that like any doctor will measure, any doctor can track. We, we know many things you can do to improve them. So like really important to start measuring those things in your forties and fifties, you know, you know, ID, cause that's, that's when risk really starts to increase. It's just that we don't see the final expression of it until several decades later. Um, the next question, the next question was, um, so, so fam, so family history. And yes, there, there are two main ways to think about this. One is like genetics. So we know that, um, there are several genetic risk factors for, um, Alzheimer's disease and dementia. The most well-known is your ApoE genotype. Um, so you, you can have two copies of either ApoE 2, 3, or 4 or some combination. We know that those who have one copy of ApoE 4 have something like a two to six times increased risk of Alzheimer's. Those who have two copies, something like six to 20 times, depending on which study you look at. Um, but there are also like polygenic risks. So if you look across like thousands of genes, they can all sort of like add up to kind of increase or decrease your overall risk of dementia. But within both of those categories, we know that if you improve other lifestyle risk factors, you can offset a lot of that genetic risk. Uh, and so one of the ways that I think about ApoE 4 is as a risk multiplier. So there are studies that show that, um, if you're sedentary, right, that's associated with increased risk of dementia, but that risk is even greater if you're ApoE 4. Yeah. So at the same time, if you are more physically active as somebody who has ApoE 4, you'll get greater benefit because you're kind of offsetting that increased risk. And that's the, that's the, that seems to be the case for most dementia risk factors. Um, and then the, the, the sort of final part of that is, yes, if you have a family member who had an increased risk of dementia or who had dementia, you have an increased risk. And so some of that may be genetic, but, um, probably a big chunk of it. And there were a couple of studies that look at this are shared lifestyle and environmental risk factors. Right. So, right. I have, I have, I will have a particularly increased risk of dementia if I drink like my grandfather did, um, which I don't. Um, and so. Which you couldn't in your wildest dreams. Nice try, pal. Yeah. Just like, I mean, it was, it was pretty heroic. I wouldn't, I just don't have, I don't have the capacity. Um, but you know, diet, sleep, physical activity, you tend to do these things like your parents did or like your family do. And if they, and if that looks like something that's associated with greater risk, that's, that's some of the family, um, uh, risk that comes with you. So if you know what risk factors your loved one who had dementia had, and those are risk factors that you sort of put some time into addressing, you're, you're dramatically decreasing that, that sort of shared, that, that shared risk. And then just sub question on this APOE4, if people have done like their own genetic testing, you know, through 23andMe or something like, is this something that people could go back and look up in there? Is this part, part of what we would learn if we had some genetic data already? Yes. So, um, 23andMe has, um, APOE genotype. So if you didn't look at it, but you, you did it 10 years ago, like, like I did, you could log back in, um, and find your genotype, um, if, if you want. Um, it's probably an open AI anyway, just, it's already, Kelly Starrett's genotype. It's there. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. Um, so, so yeah, you can go and find that out. And it's something that people are testing more frequently. Um, whether or not you test, you know, it's going to depend on you personally. There are certainly some studies where a proportion of people, maybe 25% to a third, are like, I wish I never knew, right? Because they just get stressed about their increased risk because of their genetics. Um, whereas other people are like, well, now that I know, I'm going to invest even more time in the things that I know are going to be protective against my dementia risk. So it's really going to come down to like, what is that information useful to you to then make the changes that you don't want to make? Okay. This book is not just about, let's look at complex behaviors over decades and talk about outcomes. This is really a book about performance and opening up your capacity, expanding your ability to be nimble and not have your brain become crystallized, uh, as we get older and, and less dynamic. You have this idea called headroom. We, we just sort of set up this because I really want people to understand that you actually can feel better, sharper, clearer, greater capacity, and even build in tolerance. And I think that's really the central aspect of this, which I love so much because then we get defense in the bargain, but we get to get something now. And that's the thing. Like, it's really hard for me to say, hey, you should really look at your hip range of motion because, you know, 50 years from now, something's going to happen to you. Like people just don't care. But now talk about good function now and in the future. Yeah. So this is absolutely right, right? Humans suck investing in something now for, for some like unknown benefit in the future. Um, and so what's great about the brain is the things that you do, do right now to improve your function and capacity right now are then protective long-term. So you can get gains immediately and know then they're going to give you a long-term payoff. So this idea of headroom is one that I 100% stole from Art Devaney, um, who, um, was, was an economist. Yeah. Shout out Art. He passed recently. Um, but he sort of was talking about evolutionary fitness and how to build capacity and longevity like 40 years ago before anybody else was really thinking about it. But he had this idea of headroom, which is, and he was talking about metabolic headroom or physiological headroom. Um, but it's, and so I've, I've turned it into cognitive headroom, but it's the difference between what do you need in terms of function on a day-to-day basis versus the total capacity that's available to you in that, in your cognitive system, right? That difference is, is your headroom. And you want to make that headroom as big as possible so that when you're sleep deprived, when you're stressed, when you're sick, you're still able to maintain a higher level of function. And then when you start to lose some function with age, which, you know, we can't prevent the aging process entirely, you still have plenty of function, uh, available to you. And the, the way that you then, um, and also like one way to think about this is the, so like your lower body, if you think about your lower body headroom or your quad and glutes headroom, right, is the difference between the strength required to get up off the toilet versus your maximum back squat, right? That's your, that's your headroom. And you want that to be as big as possible because as you start to lose function, you don't want it to be that like getting off the toilet is the hardest thing that you could possibly do because that's when you're going to have falls and your sarcopenic and right injuries and all the terrible things that happen with broken hips and all that kind of stuff. So the, we want to try and build that capacity in the brain. And I think the primary determinant of that is the balance between the challenge and the stimulus that we apply to the brain tissue and giving it adequate rest and recovery so that it can adapt to that challenge to increase function. So there's sort of three parts of this headroom idea. There's cognitive reserve, brain reserve, and cognitive resilience. And I really, that really helped, those three things together really helped me sort of visualize this headroom idea as I was reading your book. And so I'm hoping you can just talk through those quickly because I do think it's sort of important to like bring to light this headroom thing. Yeah, yeah. So in the formal neuroscience of looking at things that determine long-term cognitive function and risk of cognitive decline, there are these ideas of reserve and resilience. And so reserve has two components, broadly brain reserve and cognitive reserve, like you said. Brain reserve most simply is how much brain do you have in your skull, right? and the more the better because you will lose some at some point and you just want to have like, it's the hardware. You want to have as much hardware as possible. So it's an evolutionary advantage in my relationship that my head is bigger than Juliet. You do have a really big head. Hey, you're welcome. So unfortunately not. Is that borderline phrenology? Is that what's happening here? Yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah. And I was like, well, Kelly. This is scaled to the size of your skull. So yeah, it's thinking like that, which is why men used to think that women weren't as smart as they were and look where that got us. So yeah, what percentage of your skull is filled with brain is a better way to think about it. And then cognitive reserve is like how much capacity can you lose before you start to see significant amounts of like decrements in function. So it's kind of like the software, like how robust is the software? And then resilience is how well does your brain tolerate the accumulation of pathology or damage? And they had to develop this idea of resilience because the classical idea of Alzheimer's disease is that we accumulate these proteins in the brain, amyloid plaques and tau tangles. And as they accumulate, they damage the neurons and other things. They create inflammation and other stuff. And because of that, neurons die and we start to lose function. But there are a large number of people who accumulate a lot of this pathology who don't lose any cognitive function at all. and some estimates are like, if you get into your 70s or older, something like 30% of people will have brains that look like Alzheimer's disease brains, but they function just fine. Really quick subtext there. Kelly is always pointing out just to have like a physiological, like skeletal example that there are, if you look at the spines of dead people, they're like, everybody has degenerative spinal changes, right? And in some people that causes pain and in other people it doesn't cause pain. And it's just really, you know, that's just interesting. Let's make it even more simple. Like look at your skin on your face compared to your 17-year-old self, right? I mean, just like you are going to age, tissues change over time and I have to believe that the brain is the same, but it doesn't mean that I, X is going to happen, I will experience X and that's really remarkable. Yeah. Yeah. No, so that's exactly it, right? We, we, the analogy that I use in the book is that amyloid in the brain, so this accumulation of proteins is kind of like rust on your car, right? If you don't look after your car, it will rust faster and you will get to the point where you've accumulated so much rust that the car could like completely fall apart. But if you, if you have a car long enough, like it's going to get a little rusty, right? But it doesn't mean that it won't still work just fine. And also if we just focus on rust, then we forget about the other components of the car that are also important for function, like, you know, the brakes and the pump, the fluid pumps and the electrical wiring and that kind of stuff. And so that's kind of where we look at the bigger picture of all the things and inputs to the brain. they're important in addition in addition to just this, like one particular pathway. And so one thing that seems to be particularly good at building resilience is exercise. So those who exercise more have less negative changes in the brain in response to pathology and fewer changes in cognitive function, even as they get into their 70s, 80s and 90s. So like exercise is doing some magic stuff that's kind of building resilience in the system, even if it's not changing it, necessarily changing the actual structure of the brain, which it can, which it can do as well. Yeah, but thinking about it in terms of building resilience makes a lot of sense to me. I mean, I like that. There's two things here I want to just highlight for people. We think that brain decline is inevitable, right? That we have to. And I'll tell you that Juliette's grandmother was sharp as a stinking knife until like, I mean, One minute before she died. 100%. Like just lucid and sort of inappropriately lucid. You know, just you're like, oh man, you brought a lot of firepower and experience with that brain that's still functioning. So I want to, that it's more fiction that we have to lose this cognition. We just speak to that for a second. This episode of the Ready State Podcast is brought to you by Momentus. And today, we are pumped to talk about the new, exciting Momentus product called Fiber. I know, I know. Look, a couple things. We keep running into high performance environments where people are not eating foods. You've heard us talk about running into that, you know, high level nutritionist at a big, top university where the kid was reporting that he was not regular for days at a time. And suddenly, we, matches up with what we're understanding around that adults are not getting fiber, they're not getting enough micronutrients. Yeah, I mean, I think the data is pretty clear that something like 90 or 95% of Americans do not eat enough fiber. Like, they do not eat the recommended amount of fiber each day. And I'll tell you that not all fiber is the same. One of the fun things, and we've been talking about, I was like, hey, please introduce this. Because it's hard sometimes in a performance setting to feel like you can eat all of these fibrous foods and then go ride your bike. I mean, I've heard nightmare stories about people eating a lot of figs and a lot of fibrous material and then running marathons and things. Look, you need fiber, full stop. And especially if you eat in a certain way that doesn't have a lot of fiber involved because you don't like it or it's not part of your diet. Yeah, and look, you and I have been, you know, fans of and promoters of E.C. Sienkowski's 800-gram challenge for years. You know, there is a lot of talk now about making fiber the fourth macronutrient. And of course, as we always say, like, the goal is to get most of this fiber with food. And, you know, the recommendation is about 28 to 30 grams of fiber per day per person. But we also are humans that live in the real world and appreciate that it may be difficult to get enough fiber. And this is just, Momentous fiber is just, again, filling such an important gap. What's been really fun is that everyone who's had access to this early fiber from Momentous has said the most significant change I've ever felt by taking anything that was food. Any kind of supplement, yeah, that they really noticed. Three kinds of fiber. soluble, insoluble fiber and a resistant starch is in this product. It's amazing. If you want to learn more, go to livemomentous.com slash TRS and use code TRS to save up to 35% on your first order. Yeah. So, one of my favorite studies looking at this is called the Seattle Longitudinal Study. It was actually done or like founded out of the University of Washington by a guy called Warner Shai. And it was one of the first ever studies that took the same people and looked and looked at their cognitive function over decades. because what we've done historically and what we still do in a lot of studies is we look at a big bunch of people and we say, well, what does cognitive function in the average 70-year-old look like cognitive function compared to cognitive function in the average 30-year-old, right? And on average in that big population as people get older, like average cognitive function declines. And that's kind of what we think happens to everybody, right? But what's really happening is that within that group there are some people who are losing function and they're kind of like dragging down the average, whereas actually there are lots of people who are maintaining cognitive function and it's just like the way we calculate the data that's kind of making us think that function is declining. And so when you, when you, when Wanashai did the Seattle Longitudinal Study, it started in the 1950s and he took people and he saw them every seven years and he brought in new waves of people every seven years. So in the end they had like people in the data set from like 20 to over 100. and what he found was that from like people as they went from their 50s to their 80s, the average effect and by average I mean what most people experienced was that their cognitive function remained stable over time from like 50 to 80. The app, like if you then like added them all up and divided them by the number of people like the mean average, yes, the mean average decreased but most people had stable function in their 50s, 60s, 70s and 80s. And this study was actually used to raise the retirement age in the US in the 1980s because it actually People can't work longer. Yeah, whether or not you think that's a good thing, what it did is it showed people that the norm can be that cognitive function stays stable into your 60s, 70s, 80s and this is what we should expect. However, and we see something similar nowadays, the technical scientific term for somebody who maintains the same cognitive function in their 80s that they had in their 50s is a super-ager, right? This is what we call them now. But if you look at what a super-ager does, they avoid major metabolic disease, they are regularly physically active, they are socially connected and they maintain sort of like other really basic sleep habits. They don't drink too much alcohol, that kind of stuff. This should be the norm and it can be the norm and it doesn't require superhuman effort. But what it does require, and this is like the, my third R of headroom, right? Resilience, reserve and resolve because what it requires is the resolve to keep engaging in these things that we know maintain cognitive function over and over and over. Every day. Some phrase you'll use is called bone-crushing consistency which is so boring. Yeah. Can I just take a pill, Tommy? I mean, come on. Sorry. So I, we talked about this a bit in the pre-roll and one of the things I thought about as you were talking about exercise and I read this book years ago and I think we talked about this last time we had you on the podcast was I remember John Rady in his book Spark said like, exercise is miracle grow for the brain and that was just this quote from his book that I've always remembered. Um, and we talked a bit about this exercise piece in the pre-roll and I'd love for you to talk about the Norwegian protocol study but the, the underlying question here is I, you know, and I know what people wonder is okay, all right, I know like everybody knows they should exercise and I, I think the resolve is probably the biggest problem there. however, what kind of exercise, like are certain kinds of exercise better for our brain health and our path to be the super agent? I feel the reduction is coming on. Yeah, I mean, and, right, what's a minimal dose that I can do with this stuff? I guess maybe broad, broadly speaking all exercise, I mean, I'm assuming you would agree that all exercise is good, any exercise is good, movement is good, whatever, but I know that there's some, well, talk about the Norwegian protocol study. Yes, so, the, right, the kind of baseline, you're right, like, for the vast majority of people, any increase in any physical activity is going to significantly improve cognitive function. We've kind of seen that, you know, across a whole, a whole range of studies. In, so in people who are completely sedentary, you make, we're in their 60s, you make them do brisk walking three times a week for 40 minutes, right, you see significant improvements in hippocampal volume, so like the, the size of the hippocampus, really important for memory, improvements, improvements in, in memory function, right, just with, with that level of activity. However, we, we do increasingly know that there's an intensity component here. So, the, the study that, the, the, the mentioned, this was, it came out a couple years ago, it was by an Australian group and they took, again, adults in their, sort of, 60s on average and they randomized them to three groups. There was like a low intensity group, so like a walking group, moderate intensity groups, like a jogging group, and then a high intensity interval training group. And they, they all did this on the treadmill for like 40 to 45 minutes, three times a week. The, the hit group did the Norwegian four by four protocol. So, the version that they did was 85 to 95% of maximum heart rate for four minutes with a three minute break in between times four. And right, and with the warm up and warm down, that sort of whole thing takes kind of like 40-ish minutes. And they did that, they did that three times a week for six months. Anybody who's done the four by four protocol will know that that is, I mean, that's a bit of a beast in terms of a training protocol for six months. Yeah, especially at 85%. I mean, that's hard work. like super impressed that they did it. But, what they found was that that hit group had much larger improvements in the structure and funcus, function, structure and function of the hippocampus after six months. And actually those, they kind of continue to improve like during the training protocols. So, they were like seeing benefits of like three months and then they stopped at six months. But then five years later, they went back five years later, which I think is amazing and retested them and they still maintained those benefits over the other groups. Even though they hadn't been continuing to do that. Yeah. So, they also tried to... And I can guarantee no one had done that protocol again. They were like, I'm done, I'm out. Do you think all this like 2,000 meter rowing I did when I was a kid, did that give me some hippocampal volume that I can rely on? Yes. And I'm going to tell you why in a second. Um, so, um, yeah, they did look at how much activity they did in the intervening time and everybody just went back to what they were doing before. Like Kelly says, nobody does Norwegian 4x4 for six months. It's like, do you know what? I want a lot more of that because it sucks. Um, so, what's interesting is that when they looked at VO2 max, the jogging group and the HIIT group actually improved VO2 max about the same. So, it wasn't just driven by improvements in fitness. And I think the big differentiator is lactate. Um, and maybe some other things that are released during, during, during, during like very high intensity exercise. Some of which, most of which they probably didn't measure. But, this is where it comes to your, your Miracle-Gro comment. We'll quote, uh, lactate is directly taken up by the brain. Like, the lactate uptake into the brain is proportional to lactate, uh, levels in the blood. And, lactate goes into the brain and switches on the production of BDNF, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, which is a miracle-growth for the brain. It helps to support the function and connectivity of recently activated, uh, neurons in particular. And this is important because, like, we, we know that most kinds of exercise increase BDNF production. But, if you measure BDNF in the blood, that BDNF doesn't make it into the brain. There isn't, uh, a really good transporter for BDNF, uh, in the body to be taken up into the brain. So, the, the messenger is lactate. Um, and lactate then goes into the brain and, and, and switches on BDNF. So, this is probably why intensity matters. This is probably why all those awful 2K tests, which is my, the personal bane of my life as well, historically. Um, this is why they probably ended up doing something pretty good for the brain because of the amount of lactate, um, that was produced. And just like the people who did the 4x4, neither of you have been on a rower in the last 30 years. Well, yeah. That's true. Not, not for longer than 90 seconds at a time. That's right. Yeah, I mean, you know, remember I told you I did the head of the Charles last year, trained up for it, and, um, this has nothing to do with brain health, but, uh, the race was great. It was fun, and being in a boat was fun, but I'm like, I can't do that again because sitting on the erg in my garage alone, it's just too lonely and sad. Like, I can't do it. It was hard. Well, you know, I think it's, is, this is an oversimplification, of course, and I'm just a physical therapist, but it's almost like the brain says, we're dying. This is enormous threat. You're generating this lactate. This is a problem. We better upregulate the system. I mean, is that an overly simplified way of looking at this? No, I think that's, I think that's a huge part of it, right? You have been exposed to this massive threat to your survival, which is definitely what a 2K test feels like. And, and as, as a result, your, your brain and body, like, I need to expand capacity so that I can deal with this stressor when it comes, when it comes again. And, you know, maybe even support the hippocampus because I need to remember what terrible things put me in the position that this happened to me so that I can avoid them next time. Um, and when you look more broadly, um, there's this really nice idea of the cross stressor adaptation hypothesis, um, which particularly focuses on exercise. But what it, what it suggests, and there are some randomized controlled studies that kind of support this, is that if you, if you do exercise, especially including some, some kind of intensity, you are better able to deal with psychologically stressful situations. So, you're, not only have you sort of like built capacity, you've also improved your ability to regulate in the setting of other stresses because you're like, I know what it's like to, to like feel stressed. Yeah. Yeah. Almost like physical manifestation, physical movement behavior is just a different behavior of the brain. Yeah. The brain doesn't really just like emotions, cognition, movement, all the same thing. It just, you know, it actually makes intuitive sense to me. And when we're trying to get into, I mean, I think it's, um, Iyengar who said, nerves are king of the breath. The breath is king of the brain and that we could very much use the body. I think that's a shorthand for the body and physicalness can and should be used to change brain state, cognition, drive, all of those things. Yeah, absolutely. And the, in, uh, one of the chapters in the book, I talk about these ideas because particularly when we find ourselves in overwhelmingly stressful situations, it's impossible to think your way out of that, right? Your brain is being dunked in adrenaline and it can't really figure out what's going on, but we can leverage physiology like bottom up. So like breath being the easiest one to do that where you can regulate your nervous system and calm the brain down so it can kind of like get itself back online. So yeah, like things go, go in both directions. We want to be able to expand the capacity of the brain to deal with stressful situations, but also we need to understand how we can leverage our own physiology to manage the brain if needed when sort of, when we feel overwhelmed. So I want to go back to this amyloid conversation a little bit because I feel like in the last, I don't know, seven years and I think we talked about it a bit last time we had you on a podcast, it's like, it's sort of a term that like everyday people understand now. They're sort of like amyloid plaque is what causes or perpetuates Alzheimer's or dementia. And I heard recently and I actually can't remember the source whether I read an article about it or we had someone on our podcast say that, you know, the research is starting to show that maybe amyloid isn't as big of a factor or isn't as important and maybe has been a bit of a side quest from a focus perspective in the research community. I know you mentioned it a little bit earlier where you said some people, everybody has them, these amyloid plaques in their brains and some people are symptomatic and some people aren't. So what is sort of the state of the state and was this giant focus across the research universe on amyloid a side quest and if so, where's the focus now? Yeah, it's a great question and I think it's something that the field has grappled with for a long time. The people who have been in the field for a lot longer than me, those who felt that amyloid shouldn't be the only focus, you know, they certainly have stories about having their ideas repressed because there was such a big focus on amyloid or like if all the money for Alzheimer's is being funneled to amyloid, right, they don't get the opportunity to research other areas and I think that's starting to change now as people appreciate that there's so many other things that are happening. So there was a recent study done by the Allen or partly done by the Allen Institute for Brain Sciences here in Seattle where they tried to like map how the brain changes with age in addition to kind of the trajectories into Alzheimer's and dementia and you see changes in the brain that occur before you see significant increases in amyloid like some inflammatory processes start kicking in and some other things so there's definitely a whole bunch of other stuff that's going on including and this kind of ties onto the exercise question one thing that we see that maybe predicts cognitive decline better than amyloid is the structure and function of the white matter which kind of sits in the middle of our brains and is responsible for the really fast connections and one of the best ways that we know to improve the structure and function of white matter in older adults is with resistance training and again our randomized controlled trials show that and that's probably because resistance training releases IGF-1 which is really critical for the structure and function of the white matter so that's another mode of exercise that is important at least sort of once or twice a week is sort of the minimum effective dose so because of this sort of focus on amyloid right we now have blood tests to look at amyloid levels they kind of predict amyloid levels in the brain we have drugs that decrease amyloid in the brain historically they've been very unsuccessful there are a couple now that have been approved in the US other countries haven't all uniformly approved them because they have a questionable benefit with a high risk of side effects so often you might get bleeding or edema in the brain that can you know sort of negate any of the benefits you might be getting at best I can kind of estimate that like amyloid is like 25% of the story amyloid predicts kind of 25% of the variability in cognitive function and cognitive decline if you completely remove amyloid or massively reduce amyloid levels in the brain with a therapy you might decrease the rate of decline by about 25% that's kind of what the study suggests so it's not everything but it's not nothing so it's kind of a part of it but we definitely have to expand out so now people are looking at the importance of inflammatory changes you know inflammatory conditions metabolic disease we've already talked about nutrient status is obviously critical recent estimates have suggested that you know maybe the majority of cases of dementia are preventable including Alzheimer's disease you know and they're looking at metabolic disease smoking alcohol sensory loss so vision loss and hearing loss traumatic brain injury certainly really really important education and other forms of cognitive stimulation being important so people are starting to kind of look at the bigger picture and I think that's what we're really going to need to do if we want to have impacts at our population level I know Kelly has a question and it may have been from a podcast that we had with you but or someone else but I remember the loss of hearing being so critical and such a there's such a connection between that and loss of cognitive function as we age and so you know ever since then I'm like the moment I feel like I can't hear something like I'm getting hearing aids like we just need to like make like that hearing aids can't be uncool like they need to be cool right and I just I remember thinking that I'm like Kelly and I are going to have hearing aids by the time we're like 60 what you think I need hearing aids now because I live in a house full of women and might have subjective hearing loss yeah I definitely have subjective hearing loss there's a difference between not being able to hear and not listening because I'm not so this is a perfect segue one of the things that it's difficult when we're working in the body looking at mechanical output function and it is we are a system of systems we keep saying that but sometimes I can measure range of motion I can measure wattage and output right those are like my clear objectives that I can look at day after day after day and probably why you know we're looking at measuring wattage and force as output signals of the state of the human there are these subjective measures that we use all the time desire to train I feel burned out hey I'm stiff I'm sore I can't quantify your stiffness or your soreness right I can't but I can see what the impact is on your training or output especially in these high performance environments I really see it you know you sort of talk about and make this practical point that mood might be a subjective you know way to summarize brain state will you talk because I feel like if we can get people to be aware that there are these signals and feelings they have brain fog might be one for example when we might say oh I'm behind or there's something I can do physically to change that state but sometimes we're just like eh this is who I am now I'm just I'm just slower and duller and not funny anymore I mean am I right in thinking flowers for Algernon baby oh Julia just made a flowers for Algernon joke because you know that's me I'm in the regression stage how deep cut deep cut bro that's going on the infinite shelf am I right in thinking that I can sort of take this way of thinking about hey I'm sore or I'm stiff or I don't feel good but I can apply that same level of thinking for the brain in terms of understanding changes or at least current state this episode of the Ready State podcast is brought to you by Element you may know that I coach at a local university really a ranked amazing team of women and one of the things that I've done for the last few years is really worked hard to get energy drinks those crappy energy drinks out of the gym and out of the language of pre-game performance yeah I mean I think that apart from the fact that like we all see Instagrams now of like teens being hospitalized from drinking too many energy drinks that's only because they're and just that it's just playing too much caffeine plus all the other sketchy stuff kids and athletes yeah so an athlete came in one day and said hey I it was a few many hours before or have a big game and she said hey I had one of these things and I feel terrible and I was like yeah you deserve that and I was like you won't do that again she's like no I will not the next day one of our every woman gets a packet of element and they have to drink it before warm up and some of that is just getting salts on board because we don't know and making it more fun to drink water but she said I feel more lucid and feel good I don't feel shaky she's like I really didn't realize what those things were doing and I want to point this out if you have a kid who's competing for multiple games has big tournaments we're deep in ourselves this season starting that morning with some element can be a really big game changer in terms of hydration cognition reaction time the whole thing look you probably don't need five of these packets a day but getting one in before your team plays is a big deal and it has really really changed the culture and substituted all that other crap yeah and I think one of the things you and I have focused on over the last five or six years professionally is doubling down on how we get people to actually do healthy behaviors in their lives like drink water and honestly I think one of the greatest things about element is it just tastes so good and it makes water drinking way more exciting and fun we're way more like kids they don't wake up and be like let me chug some magnesium and potassium and a little bit of sodium in the bargain and you've had a lot more water to drink than you otherwise would have drank and like that is a huge win word and if you want to learn more you can order through our link a free sample packet of elements most popular drink mixed flavors and of course if you want to try sparkling you should do it because it's a party in your mouth so go to drinklmnt.com slash trs say it we literally drink it every day hey if you're enjoying the show make sure you're subscribed wherever you get your podcasts that way you won't miss any of the new episodes we drop plus it really helps other people find the show so hit that follow button now and let's get back to it yes yeah I think so I think we don't give that enough credit either in neuroscience neurology you know sort of even even beyond that when when you sort of compare brain performance to physical performance right physical performance we can we can measure inputs we can measure outputs very well it's really hard to do that for the brain right especially measuring like inputs and cognitive stimulus and like what's the load I'm applying am I doing it in a progressive way am I building capacity right so we have to kind of right now we have to use some proxy measures I think we should get better at just like testing people's cognitive function broadly and repeatedly over their lifetime so that we can see when things change and some of the companies and charities I work with are trying to increase access to that just because nobody's doing that right now if you want a cognitive function test you can only get it if you have likely cognitive impairment and you might get a diagnosis of dementia right which just doesn't make it doesn't make any sense yeah right especially since there are so many things we can do 100% yeah so so that's one thing that I think needs to change but you're right there in sports performance like nowadays we can measure so many things right hrv heart rate respiratory rate blood tests all this kind of stuff the most consistent predictors of performance are related to subjective feelings right they still out compete some of the best quantitative metrics and the brain I think is the same if you think about your brain it is constantly surveying its state plus the state of the body and its state relative to the environment right so the ultimate output of your brain is probably how you feel as the like the final integration and like scoring of everything that's like all the different inputs and outputs and stresses and and all that kind of stuff recently they added subjective cognitive impairment which is I feel like my brain doesn't work as well as it used to into the kind of stages of cognitive like the formal stages of cognitive decline and I think that that you know it's been kind of under the radar but I think that is a massive shift in terms of how we think about this because now it says if you notice changes in your in your cognitive function which only you would notice or maybe like a loved one notices if they like you see you every day that now counts as something that we need to take seriously and and previously that was previously that wasn't the case right it wasn't until we could diagnose some massive loss of function on a test that we would we would take something seriously so subjective cognitive impairment we know if you experience that you have a you have an increased risk of dementia but not everybody gets so subjective cognitive impairment gets dementia and it's considered that if you have subjective cognitive impairment which is the fancy word for like my brain doesn't work like it used to those changes are considered reversible right which means that if you notice that you can act upon it the the symptoms of subjective cognitive impairment overlap with the symptoms of brain fog in the research they're considered separate but I kind of think that they're probably the same they're probably the same thing in many different ways you know they they relate to fatigue memory issues mood changes like they're they're very very similar and you know there are different ways to measure them but it kind of to me says that this is your like brains check engine like like something's not quite right this is an opportunity to start to start looking at that and then using mood as a way to or you know mood and these you know any other changes you experience is like how you feel how you think you're performing and tracking those things over time as you make changes of course like if you're trying to improve your blood sugar or you know improve your nutrient status or you know improve your fitness you should measure those things as well but I think we should you know be able to you learn how to interpret what our brain is thinking and feeling like some of that interoception I think is going to be really important to kind of track things over time the only caveat being that there are lots of things that we can use to dissociate our objectivity from what's really happening my sociopathy I can just like I have I now have one feeling but I can turn that feeling you are really good at that yeah you're welcome yeah and I just want to say I know you have a question but I just want to say that what if I don't want to go back to my 22 year old brain you probably in many ways you probably don't right and this is this is the next thing that we should talk about because actually there are lots of things that your brain gets better at as you get older that maybe you want to keep yeah like wisdom yeah we do want to talk about I'm going to do a little side quest here on behalf of all perimenopause and menopause women out there and as a subtext like we're all pissed and Gen X and we're mad because we feel like we got screwed somehow by medicine and so just you know setting it up that way but I will say that I have a lot of women you know I'm 52 and so you know my social group is women who are 52 and you know we are kind of freaked because lots of women in this age group are starting to you know feel weird cognition things like forgetting people's names or brain fog or you know however they experience it and I think you know on the one hand you could just say okay that's perimenopause menopause and sort of put that on a shelf there and it probably is in many cases but is there like a way for women in this age range to differentiate like okay yeah there are totally normal weird brain things that happen around perimenopause and menopause that are like okay just accept this is your life now and you're fine and you aren't on a you know sloping terrible path to dementia by the time you're 55 versus you know something that would be like red flag yeah I think this is super important I'm honestly so glad that people are talking about it now like historically in the neurosciences in particular we have been the worst just like ignoring females and like all the all the data comes from men and I'm I mean this is like rat studies in the lab through to like studies in humans and like finally the tide is turning and so I say that because there's a lot still to learn of course but there's a lot of like research being done which I think is fantastic and people people are talking about it which is great what I think is worth just starting out with is that every woman who lives long enough will go through menopause only 20% of women will get Alzheimer's disease right so it is not it is not the thing that kind of determines the final risk but it is the time of life when risk diverges and risk starts to increase in women relative to men so there is absolutely something that goes on in that period during the menopausal transition that kind of drives an increase in risk I think everything that I've seen from the literature suggests that menopause kind of like ApoE4 I were talking about earlier it's it's a time that other risk factors are multiplied so there are studies that show that if you have metabolic disease entering into perimenopause and menopause those individuals are the ones who see more significant changes during the transition we also know that physical activity diet quality they can both alter cognitive changes during perimenopause as well as other symptoms of menopause like vasomotor symptoms and it's actually the frequency of vasomotor symptoms and like the severity of vasomotor symptoms so like you know hot flushes night sweats that kind of stuff that are seem to be the strongest predictors of cognitive changes during that during that time so some of it is driven by hormone changes right because that's what sort of sets the whole system going but it seems to be a lot related to vasomotor symptoms outside of hormones and there are lots of lifestyle factors that play a role there one thing that we haven't talked about yet much but is nutrient status so it's very common for women who experience cognitive changes during perimenopause to have low iron status and so actually more of it is related to iron rather than rather than hormones so this is like the perfect time to like get get the test figure out nutrient status figure out metabolic health like get on top of that because that seems to be a big that seems to be a big determinant and so the final piece just because you mentioned it and we can go into more into any of those bits as you'd like but there is a part there is a part of this which is reversible so there are some studies that show that changes cognitive changes during perimenopause then revert back to their previous state or close enough afterwards so some of it is is temporary but then the the other the other part is that long term afterwards you also tend to see overall improvements in well-being wisdom all these other things so it is is sort of like a temporary transitionary period rather than some like like you're doomed decline yeah yes yeah exactly yeah so interesting that's so helpful and do you think on this is again another side quest question but on the vasomotor symptoms and we haven't talked about sleep or nutrients or whatever but do you think that is actually the fact of having them or the fact that nobody can sleep because they wake up 9,000 times and if you wake up 9,000 times and have crap sleep like no wonder your cognition isn't awesome yes shout out so so the answer is yes yes to both and I'm sure that's that's part of it so one so insomnia or sleep issues with menopause is one reason to be prescribed menopausal hormone therapy and there are now you know whether MHT on its own significantly improves cognitive function or prevents dementia is right now very controversial right the the data suggests on its own it doesn't but it will be very clear that if you if if taking MHT improves quality of life sexual function mood sleep vasomotor symptoms all of those things are going to have an impact on the brain so the the benefits are likely to be indirect but it will absolutely be there so if it's helping manage symptoms that are affecting quality of life that are preventing you or from doing these other things that we know are really important for brain health then it's absolutely something that that is it you should be sort of like top of top of consideration yeah that makes complete sense to me okay we know you have to ask about wisdom what they're like aging brain we have to go back we're not we're not coming back okay okay okay there's so much to talk about there's so much to talk about um one of the things that we want people to recognize and i'll say that this is tricky julian and i sometimes get home and like we don't want to talk anymore we don't want to work anymore i don't look at another email we don't we just we flop down on the couch right we're just like i'm done right but there has to be some aspect of not just like i'm i'm like you know 1984 i'm the horse dragging you know animal farm sorry wrong reference drag it is 1984 but dragging a different horse um i need to still train my brain and you say that we should train the functions we want to keep what are i love that things that we should be thinking about and this year i i vowed like pick up my guitar again and work on that i want to work on learning french even though i speak german and it's ruined me um you know i'm learning a new skill with a friend i'm doing some woodworking and i'm trying to just you know do some things and i don't know if that's because my brain is like bro you know turns out netflix and chill is not enough and and four by four is not enough pretty nice though but how do you train these functions and what functions are you talking about we should be working on to keep yeah um great question and the the the functions you want to keep comes in kind of two um two flavors but luckily when you do one you're doing the other at the same time um so i think about functions you could think about them like the actual things you want to do like what do you what do you want your brain to be good at in 10 20 years time um and i mean that in terms of skills languages things you want to go out into the the world and skills you you want you want to have abilities you want to keep right those things you need to actively keep doing so there's a um a nice study i have early on in my book that talks about uh pianists expert and amateur pianists young and old um so like four groups and what they found was that the expert pianists in their 60s and older were just as good as the amateur pianists in terms of like piano skills right so age wasn't a factor there but the major factor was how much practice are those those older pianists doing right so it's just a case of like do the stuff that you want to still be good at and that's also important on like a day-to-day working basis right if we offload all of our tasks to AI say we will lose the function the ability to do those things we'll just become prompt generators um so like anything we want to still be good that we need to keep working on but sort of more specifically in terms of functions in the brain things that tends to decline as we get older include processing speed um uh executive functions so like rapid decision making like response inhibition um and working memory right so like these short-term fast processes that they're really important for just like everyday activities when you look at um lots of different types of complex skills that humans can learn languages music um sport like open skill sports that require sort of uh responding to the environment strategizing uh teamwork that kind of stuff ball sports board sports martial arts you know as long as you're not getting kicked in the head like all those all those kinds of complex skills and actually like some evidence similar evidence from video games arts um dancing all of like all of those things require you to rapidly process multiple sensory inputs and create some kind of output that usually involves moving your body in one way or another right or you know your body could be your tongue um if you're speaking a language um and so when you look across all those different types of skills they seem to have very similar benefits in terms of maintaining the structure and function of networks in the brain that are responsible for these kinds of functions so what that kind of you know translates to is that doing the complex skills that you want to keep as you get older maintains these some of these core functions of the brain that are then important for lots of things that you want to go and do out in the world so even though you can think about them in two buckets you're essentially training both at the same time but it also means that you get to pick what you like to do because you are you don't have to play guitar you can if you want but you could go like go to tango lessons instead or up to a certain point you could play super mario 3d world which is one of the best studied video games for supporting cognitive function um so the there are these core functions of the brain that seem to be trained across all these different kinds of complex skills um and we can just then pick and choose the skills we we like and enjoy because they will then help keep those those functions um going that's uh that i love that and it makes me think um i had this i had lunch next to a former chess grandmaster who was now in his 40s and he was at one point ranked top five in the world maybe top four in the world very very good chess player but he said he couldn't play at the level that he would when he was in his 20s just the fatigue of practice the fatigue and i think of this the same way that you work in formula one and we have become a formula one family thanks to my daughter caroline um the young drivers we don't see lots and lots of old drivers is that a function of like there are normal age related changes that we just we can't be as fast cognitively we we don't have this reserve but that if we just take one sort of you know standard deviation out we're still pretty damn good if as long as we keep working on those things this episode of the ready state podcast is brought to you by vitality blueprint and you know on this episode with dr tommy wood he emphasized something we talked about a lot is that there are some really important like traditional medical metrics that we should all be tracking that we really can change and influence and have a positive impact on our overall health but our brain health in particular yeah and i think what's really wonderful about this conversation with him is looking at specifically some of these markers of inflammation and even insulin sensitivity yeah to like resting blood sugar what's great about vitality blueprint is you can begin to track these things and their incredible system allows you to understand what you can do to change these things yeah i mean it really is it it is about getting these you know seeing these trends especially in 40s and 50s yeah and and especially in these markers of inflammation and glucose blood glucose and what's amazing is you get this really simple easy actionable protocol by vitality blueprint that tells you exactly what to do to improve these specific metrics and it's not some complicated program that is gonna you know require you to quit your job and spend a billion dollars on supplements like it's really practical things many of which are free that you can implement in your life to improve these really critical markers that really can be drivers of poor cognition and you know potentially even dementia or alzheimer's as you age and vitality blueprint i just want to highlight that we're playing offense here because if you can get this information and start you know opening these small doors they lead to big changes especially over the long haul the problem is we didn't have a really good way to get the blood test to have someone analyze it for us besides being like i guess it's good i'm in the range right these guys are saying hey take a look at these things and now we have a way of tracking it when it starts to matter so we can have this historical data and actually do some things that improve the quality of our lives for the long haul yeah and the process is simple i mean you can go to a local lab or they even will send someone out to your house to dry your blood and you wait a couple weeks and just get this really comprehensive panel with this really specific protocol of what to do for your own specific situation to improve your health and your cognition i'm so down if you want to learn more go to vitalityblueprint.com slash trs definitely use code trs for 50 off any vitality plan so so yes and no um and and so right now we still do have two drivers in their 40s still considered you know maybe good enough to win world world championships if they're in the right car um fernando alonso and lewis hamilton right so we do have drivers at that at that level still um and you know historically there have been drivers even even older although it was in you know previous eras of formula one when things just weren't weren't quite the same and you know i think we see more and more athletes performing at the top of their game into their 40s right lebron tom brady yeah right it's had a recognition those ronaldo that's right yeah so i think this is this is absolutely possible but the shift that has to happen or the thing you know a shift and b a maintenance is that they become much better first of all they have to just remain dedicated to their craft right so are you still doing everything and investing the same time with the same passion and the same energy as you were in your 20s and like when you've been um a superstar millionaire for a couple of decades right there's so many other right there's maybe well there's maybe just other things that you want to do with your life right yeah and so you just don't invest the same time so one of it is just a consistent dedication to the craft and the other is becoming much more targeted in terms of i'm doing this training session for this adaptation and that's it no junk volume nothing like that and then i'm going to focus on recovery and these other supportive processes so yes that is to help combat some of the declines that we see with age but i think if you sort of maintain focus and become much more targeted you can maintain function for longer but of course you will get to a point like i said you can't completely prevent the processes of aging um so at some point some of that will take over and and you will start to lose those and i just i know you have something to say but i just want to say that i appreciate that you said the right driver in the right car do you see a ferrari hat behind you and no shade thrown but i understand what you were saying there so we just had our friend brad stolberg on the podcast talking about his book uh the way of excellence and one of the things he said is that our constant phone use is like adult pacifiers and i've been thinking a lot about that because i and i get stuck we all get stuck in this right we're waiting in line phone i mean you just go to any public place and if there's a moment of of transition or waiting time or anything we just all immediately default to go onto our phones we're no different um but having brad's voice in the back of my mind saying like you're using your adult pacifier maybe is helpful but is there a value from a brain health perspective and you know like the on when it does make sense to me but is there science or uh anything you know real real supportive that actually just boredom um free associating doing nothing is also important yeah so um absolutely like multiple different ways to come at this and think about it and so you're right like starting with that one last and we know that when you stop thinking about things and like stop focusing on something that's often when you get moments of insight because the brain starts to like put things in place this is right the classic is you start like eureka in the shower right um or like often it's like when i'm in the gym right phone's down you know not thinking about anything else right you sort of you like get these moments of insight um and so like that's one part of it is we don't give ourselves the opportunity to to do that let's let ourselves reassociate um but we're also just not letting ourselves actually down regulate and relax right so it it kind of depends a little bit on what you're looking at on your phone but if it's like emails if it's you know a lot of social media where you're like and it could be things like oh look look at this person who's so much more jacked and successful than i am man that makes me feel bad about myself yeah um you know this is why i can't follow kelly because it's just like i just you you you feel so unflexible yeah like i'm so stiff hashtag um and or it could be right you see stuff that makes you mad right all this you know any pick anything that's happening in the world right now and right that creates a stress response so so you're you're often not allowing yourself to truly relax and recover and we know just like even just short breaks a few minutes of nature um mindfulness actually can rapidly sort of reinvigorate us and allow us to go back in and do hard work and focus but we need to really give ourselves that break and then the the sort of like the final part of this is that often when we're on our phones we're doing something else at the same time um so like it's netflix and chill but it's also netflix and chill and instagram um at the same time um and so what you see from the studies of what we call multimedia multitasking which is like using you know many of these things at the same time is that you become people become more distractible um so your brain actually gets better at dealing with multiple disparate inputs at the same time right so you get better at watching friends and scrolling on instagram at the same time and by paying attention to both but your brain sort of widens its net its focus net slightly because it's like there could be something interesting that could happen anywhere at any time right because i'm so used to getting multiple inputs at the same time so we lose our ability to focus because we're so used to having this like distributed attention so none of this is necessarily bad it's just if that's all we're doing we never get a chance to really like truly practice practice focus we never give ourselves a true kind of cognitive break um and we don't give ourselves the opportunity to do like use these kind of more um like random creative kind of thought processes because we never really sort of like switching off so tommy could you just shout out to georgia and caroline starrett and tell them that maybe playing a video game or looking at instagram every time they also watch tv might not be the best for them i was telling them this over christmas the whole time i was like our daughter georgia was playing some video game while she was watching tv all the time like it was like a one-to-one we just talk about the tv she was watching for starters well yeah i mean forget about the fact that our kids are watching for like the third time the 19th season of um gray's anatomy but simultaneously and and i said i try i was trying to say to them i was like you know i think there's research showing that this you know doing this and this at the same time is bad for your brain and they're like yeah yeah yeah mom i'll tell you i have to get on instagram when you guys are on love island just yeah well yeah yeah so you know this is just personal if you could shout out to the two of them on this one yeah um well what i'll say is obviously we know from decades of psychological research that having somebody uh having your parent tell somebody to tell you something is really useful it's really effective the expert is someone who lives one podcast away apparently tommy um there this is this you've opened up uh pandora's box of getting us to think tactically about having lives that are richer that are more connected you keep coming back to the the basics of you know rich social interactions of nutrition of of sleep and of play um as we sort of wrap this thing up a little bit what are you reading and thinking about right now we have this thing called the the infinite shelf and we'd love to take one of your recommendations and it could be anything that you're thinking about reading listening to but give a give us kind of a glimpse into something that you're stoked on um so one thing that uh a book that i've started reading that to be honest i should have um started reading a long time ago is called um the master in his emissary oh my god it's literally sitting next to my bed yeah um it's just i mean it's just fabulous i mean it's like such in-depth science and and storytelling fast i mean i'm i'm some what's it like what's the theme science yes it's written written by ian mcgill chris um it's about um well there's two parts to it one is what is the anatomical structural functional functional separation of the two hemispheres of the brain that the left brain and the right brain um and what's the evidence that actually they are different and do different things and like in humans but also in other species but then also the the later pies like how as western society have we increasingly gone left brain sort of reductionist um look at look at the look at the small pieces finite details kind of um like over analyzing stuff and you've kind of suppressed our right brain bigger picture integrative kind of holistic sort of approaches to things um and so like it's a commentary both on the neuroscience and on sort of like society in general like absolutely fascinating i mean it's a monster it's a monster yeah but but like fascinating book so that's something that i'm i'm enjoying right now i love amazing it was given to me by dr aaron cafaro who also happens to have a couple olympic medals in welling thanks very much aaron yeah shout out aaron cafaro uh so tommy i feel that uh we just uh sort of got a little taste here there's so much more we could talk about and uh your book the stimulated mind highly recommend it's for those listening it's now available for pre-order get it and i just want to um make a shout out to not only tommy but all authors that um buying books as a pre-order is really important for authors for a myriad of reasons so blow this thing up in the atmosphere really do this is important please support authors and do that by buying books and especially if you can pre-order them do it yes tommy i know you're on the uh the gram tell us where we can find you and just see insights into your brain uh thanks yeah so um that is where i do most of my social media stuff so at dr tommywood um tons of stuff all about the book on there anytime i do a podcast all that kind of stuff goes on there too if i publish a paper that's sort of like relevant i think people will like that will go on there too um my website is the same dr tommywood.com uh the book website is the stimulated mind.com um and there'll be like um if you pre-order there are some there are some goodies that you can get uh some advanced chapters there's a workout video i did uh there's some recipes that i wrote uh some fun stuff like that um and then i also have a sub stack which is mainly a podcast um that i do with my friend josh turknit uh who's a neurologist so that's betterbrain.fitness is the url and you can sign up for the free version everything happens in the in the free version amazing tommy so fun thank you for being here thank you so much tommy thank you for having me um absolute blast uh as always amazing tommy so much