The classical [music] idea of Alzheimer's disease is that we accumulate these proteins in the brain, amaloid plaques and [music] towel tangles and as they accumulate they damage the neurons and other things they create inflammation and other stuff. Because of that your neurons die and we start to lose function. >> It's almost like the brain says we're dying. Dr. Tommy Wood. Tommy has an undergraduate degree in biochemistry from Cambridge University, a medical degree from Oxford, as well as a PhD in physiology and neuroscience. He's a physician scientist and performance coach with a super [music] remarkable range of expertise. >> I feel like my brain doesn't work as well as it used to. >> People understand now they're sort of like amaloid plaque is [music] what causes or perpetuates Alzheimer's or dementia. >> We have drugs that decrease amaloid [music] in the brain. Historically, they've been very unsuccessful. If you want a cognitive function test, you can only get it if you have [music] likely cognitive impairment and you might get a diagnosis of dementia. Even when we find ourselves in overwhelmingly stressful situations, it's impossible to think your way out of that. >> Hey, Dr. Kelly Starret here. If you're listening to this podcast, you obviously care about health, performance, longevity, and you probably heard us talk about the longevity triangle, strength, conditioning, and mobility. Let's be honest, mobility is usually the piece that falls off the list, and you think it's probably okay. Nothing could be further from the truth. Mobility isn't optional. Improving your movement choices, moving more effortlessly, and having less pain are huge drivers, and actually having a body you can count on. That's exactly why I created the Mobility Coach app to make mobility simple, actionable, and something you can actually do every day. A few minutes, the right inputs, and you keep your body doing what it's designed to. Go to the readystate.com/freetrial and try it free for a week. Tommy Wood, welcome back to the Ready State podcast. >> Thanks for having me back. I'm so excited uh to be here with you guys. >> I'll just set this up for everyone that we've just been like gushing like we've just haven't talked to an old friend for a while and we're just getting so caught up. Um everyone, this podcast is very important. Um, I think that this book that we're going to talk about and Tommy's current work obsession, >> yeah, >> is one of those things that's going to be a seismic change in how we think about maintaining as much function as we can as long as we can. And I'll set this up by saying that it's been a slow pivot for me, but in the last few years, I've really started to look at the brain as not a performance machine, but as a survival machine. M >> and so much of the way I think now is does the brain does this person feel safe? What are the signals and cues where I can have this person believe or have their brain believe that they're safe versus unsafe? And that might be sleep. That might be how we train ourselves and and hang out with other people. But it's really been a seismic change in the way I begin to think about what seems like complex problems, but really how do I get the brain involved? So that's my framework for this. And recently, I'll just let everyone know that my mom just passed and she had sort of stage four dementia. So, I'm very keen on not having stage four dementia. So, it's very topical to me. Everyone, I' I've put my cards on the table. Tommy, I'm really excited to have you here. >> Um, thanks so much. I I think that um you know, I'm really glad that people are thinking more and more uh about uh the brain and all the kind of parts that go into that, right? the the physiological, the biochemical, the psychological um and you know, hopefully the the book and some of the work that that I'm doing can sort of like help people uh you know, n navigate that. >> Well, I'm just going to come in swinging because I talked to some people about having you on this podcast and uh I know this relates to your book, which by the way for everyone is called The Stimulated Mind and it's amazing. Highly recommend. Um and we'll be talking about it extensively throughout this podcast. to uh to sort of go off of what Kelly said, you know, my grandfather uh had Alzheimer's or dementia. I never know what the correct diagnosis was. And Kelly's mom uh did as well. And both of them were alcoholics. >> Yeah. >> Um and maybe also diabetic, likely diabetic and possibly undiagnosed diabetic. And so as I was preparing for this podcast and talking to people in my neighborhood and friends about like, hey, we're having Tommy Wood back on. I know brain health and like basically not getting Alzheimer's is sort of top of mind for a lot of people in our age group in our 50s. Um they all said the two main questions people came out were you know um does diabetes or any form of diabetes cause Alzheimer's? And um you know that the second question is if people in my family have it, am I doomed to have it? And do things like alcohol or an amount of alcohol uh doom us in the future? >> Yeah. Um >> let's just kick it off with like fun fun ideas. Here we go. [laughter] >> Sorry everyone. Um, so yeah, fantastic questions and I I I'll say I'll start at the end there. Um, because the the most prominent experience that I have of of dementia was my grandfather who was also an alcoholic. Um, and his his dementia was probably some combination of, you know, just like the total burden of vodka that went into that brain, right? Um plus um plus like in particular vascular disease and and um like changes in um in the blood vessels in the brain, vascular disease in the brain, they overlap very tightly with Alzheimer's disease, they they kind of if you look at the umbrella of dementias, they make you Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia make up 70 to 90% but they're also like intimately connected. you know, anybody who has Alzheimer's disease, the majority have some kind of issues with the blood vessels in the brain as well. So, plays plays a big role there. Um, I actually think the reason why I think he lasted as long as he did, he lived until just before his 90th birthday. And I'll tell you, on his 80th birthday, he had this massive party. He was still in pretty good shape then. Um, and you know, like all you rented out a big hotel and like all friends and family came. came. I went in my like Icelandic national dress and he said on his 80th birthday, "This is going to be my last major birthday cuz I'm not going to make it to 90." And he he was right by like a week. Um your future planned it out. >> Um but one of the reasons why I think he he lasted that long actually despite you know being being an alcoholic was he was wellfed by my grandmother a really nutrient-rich diet and he was also quite physically active. So like I think that obviously alcohol was the primary driver there but that I think that sort of saved off a little bit of it and we can like talk about those other bits um as well. Um so to go back to the first question like diabetes or or metabolic disease um and dementia um that's actually one of the the strongest uh predictors of cognitive decline and dementia. So if you look at the things that you could measure on a blood test or you know uh physical health issues as predictors of dementia, we know that essentially the the worse your blood sugar, the more rapid your cognitive decline. So this isn't even just making it to dementia, it's just the the rate of change of cognitive function over time. Um and so those who have pre-diabetes versus those who have normal blood sugar, they have an they have an accelerated uh decrease in cognitive function over like a period of about 10 years. This was a study done the English longitudinal study of aging done a few years ago and those who have type two diabetes so even worse blood sugar they have even more um rapid decline. Um and of the sort of uh metabolic health and cardiovascular health predictors of dementia high blood sugar and high blood pressure are the two that are the strongest sort of consistent uh predictors. So these are things that like any doctor will measure any doctor can track. We we know many things you can do to improve them. So like really important to start measuring those things in your 40s and 50s, you know, your you because that's that's when risk really starts to increase. It's just that we don't see the final expression of it until several decades later. Um >> the next question the next question was um so so fam so family history and yes there there are two main ways to think about this. One is like genetics. So we know that um there are several genetic risk factors for um Alzheimer's disease and dementia. The most well-known is your APOE genotype. Um so you you can have two copies of either APOE 2, three or four or some combination. We know that those who have one copy of APOE4 have something like a two to six times increased risk of Alzheimer's. those who have two copies something like six to 20 times depending on which study you look at. Um but there are also like polygenic risks. So if you look across like thousands of genes, they can all sort of like add up to kind of increase or decrease your overall risk of dementia. But within both of those categories, we know that if you improve other lifestyle risk factors, you can offset a lot of that genetic risk. Uh, and so one of the ways that I think about APOE4 is as a risk multiplier. So there are studies that show that um if you're sedentary, right, that's associated with increased risk of dementia, but that risk is even greater if you're 4, right? Yeah. So >> sense >> at the same time, if you are more physically active as somebody who has APO4, you'll get greater benefit because you're kind of offsetting that increased risk. And that's the that's the that seems to be the case for most dementia risk factors. Um and then the the the sort of final part of that is yes, if you have a family member who had an increased risk of dementia or who had dementia, you have an increased risk. And so some of that may be genetic, but um probably a big chunk of it and there are a couple of studies that look at this are shared lifestyle and environmental risk factors. Right. So >> okay. >> Right. I have [clears throat] I have I will have a particularly increased risk of dementia if I drink like my grandfather did. Um which I don't. Um, and so >> which you couldn't in your wildest dreams. Nice try, pal. [laughter] >> Yeah, just like I mean it it was pretty heroic. I I wouldn't I just don't have I don't have the capacity. Um, [laughter] but you know, diet, sleep, physical activity, you tend to do these things like your parents did or like your family do. And if they and if that looks like something that's associated with greater risk, that's that's some of the family um risk that comes with you. Oh, if you know what risk factors your loved one who had dementia had and those are risk factors that you sort of put some time into addressing, you're you're dramatically decreasing that that sort of shared that that shared risk. And then just sub question on this APOE4 if people have done like their own genetic testing you know through 23 and me or something like is this something that people could go back and look up and there is this part part of what we would learn if we had some genetic data already? >> Yes. So um 23 and me has um aoE genotype. So if you didn't look at it but you you did it 10 years ago like like I did you could log back in um and find your genotype um if if you want. Um, >> it's probably on Open AI anyway, just it's already Kelly Starret's genotype. It's there. Yeah. Yeah. >> Exact. Exactly. [laughter] Um, so, so yeah, you can go and find that out. And it it's something that people are testing more frequently. Um, whether or not you test, you know, is going to depend on you personally. There are certainly some studies where a proportion of people, maybe 25% to a third, are like, I wish I never knew, right? Because they just get stressed about their increased risk because of their genetics. Um whereas other people are like well now that I know I'm going to invest even more time in the things that I know are going to be protective against my dementia risk. So it's really going to come down to like what is that information useful to you to then make the changes that you then want to make. >> Okay. This book is not just about let's look at complex behaviors over decades and talk about outcomes. This is really a book about performance. >> Mhm. >> And opening up your capacity, expanding your ability to be nimble and and not have your brain become crystallized uh as we get older and and and less dynamic. You have this idea called headroom. we we just sort of set up this because I really want people to understand that you actually can feel better, sharper, clearer, greater capacity, and even build in tolerance. And I think that's really the central aspect of this, which I love so much because then we get defense in the bargain, but we get to get [clears throat] something now. And that's the thing like it's really hard for me to say, "Hey, you should really look at your hip range of motion because you know 50 years from now something's going to happen to you." Like people just don't care. But now talk about good function now and in the future. >> Yeah. So this is absolutely right. Right. We humans suck at investing in something now for for some like unknown benefit in the future. Um and so what's great about the brain is that things that you do do right now to improve your function capacity right now are then protective long term. So you can get gains immediately and know then they're they're going to give you a long-term payoff. So this idea of headroom is one that I 100% stole from Art Deainy um who [laughter] um was was an economist. Yeah. Shout out Art. He he passed recently. Um but he sort of was talking about evolutionary fitness and how to build capacity and longevity like 40 years ago before anybody else was really thinking about it. But you had this idea of headroom which is and he was talking about metabolic headroom or physiological headroom. Um but it's and so I've I've turned it into cognitive headroom. But it's the difference between what do you need in terms of function on a day-to-day basis versus the total capacity that's available to you in that in your cognitive system. Right? That difference is is your headroom. And you want to make that headroom as big as possible so that when you're sleepd deprived, when you're stressed, when you're sick, you're still able to maintain a higher level of function. And then when you start to lose some function with age, which you know, we can't prevent the aging process entirely, you still have plenty of function uh available to you. And the the way that you then um and oh so like one way to think about this is the so like your lower body if you think about your lower body headroom or your quad and glutes headroom, right? Is the difference between the strength required to get up off the toilet versus your maximum back squat, right? That's your that's your headroom. You want that to be as big as possible because as you start to lose function, you don't want it to be such that like getting off the toilet is the hardest thing that you can possibly do because that's when you're going to have falls and your psychopenic and right injuries and all the terrible things that happen with broken hips and all that kind of stuff. So the we want to try and build that capacity in the brain and I think the primary determinant of that is the balance between the challenge and the stimulus that we apply to the brain tissue and giving it adequate rest and recovery so that it can adapt to that challenge to to to increase function. >> So there's sort of three parts of this headroom idea. there's cognitive reserve, brain reserve, and cognitive resilience. >> Um, and I really that really helped those three things together really helped me sort of visualize this headroom idea as I was reading your book. And so I'm hoping you can just talk through those quickly because I do think it's sort of important to like bring to light this headroom thing. >> Yeah. Yeah. So in the formal neuroscience of looking at um things that determine long-term cognitive function and risk of cognitive decline, there are these ideas of reserve and resilience. Um and so uh reserve has two components broadly, brain reserve and cognitive reserve. Like you said, brain reserve uh most simply is how much brain do you have in your skull, right? Um, and the more the better because you will lose some at some point and you just want to have like it's it's the hardware. You want to have as much hardware as possible. Um, >> so it's an evolutionary advantage in my relationship that my head is bigger than Juliet. >> You do have a really big head. >> Hey, you're welcome. [laughter] >> So, unfortunately not. >> Is that borderline phology? Is that what's happening here? [laughter] Yeah. >> I'm just like, well, Kelly, >> this is scaled to the size of your skull. So it's >> yeah it's it's it's it thinking like that which is why men used to think that women weren't as smart as they were and look where that got us. So um >> point so yeah how how what percentage of your skull is filled with brain is a is a better way to to think about it. Um, and then cognitive reserve is it like how much capacity can you lose before you start to see significant amounts of of like decrements in function. So it's kind of like the software like how robust is is the software and then resilience is how how well does your brain tolerate the accumulation of pathology or damage. Um and they had to develop this idea of resilience because the the classical idea of Alzheimer's disease is that we we accumulate these proteins in the brain amaloid plaques and and towel tangles and as they accumulate they damage the neurons and you know other things they create inflammation and other stuff and because of that your neurons die and we start to lose function. But there are a large number of people who accumulate a lot of this pathology who don't lose any cognitive function at all. Um, and some estimates are like if you get like if you get into your 70s or older, something like 30% of people will have brains that look like Alzheimer's disease brains, but they function just fine. >> Really quick subtext there. Kelly is always pointing out just to have like a physiological like like skeletal example that there are if you look at the uh spines of dead people there like [clears throat] everybody has like you know degenerative spinal changes right like and in some people that causes pain and in other people it doesn't cause pain and it's just really you know that's even more simple like look at your skin on your face and compare it to your 17-year-old self >> right I mean just like you're going to age tissues >> change over time and I have to believe that the brain is the same but it doesn't mean that I >> X is going to happen I will experience X and that's really remarkable >> yeah yeah no so that's exactly it right we we we the analogy that I use in the book is that amaloid in the brain so this accumulation of proteins is kind of like rust on your car right if you don't look after your car it will rust faster and you will get to the point where you've accumulated so much rust that the car could like completely you fall apart. But if you if you have a car long enough, like it's going to get get a little rusty, right? But that doesn't mean that it won't still work just fine. Um, and also if we just focus on rust, then we forget about the other components of the car that are also important for function like, you know, the the brakes and the pump, the fluid pumps and the electrical wiring and that kind of stuff. And so like that's kind of where we look at the bigger picture of all the things and and inputs to the brain. Um, they're important in addition to just this like one particular pathway. Um, and so one thing that that seems to be particularly good at building resilience is exercise. So those who exercise more have less negative changes in the brain in response to pathology and and fewer changes in cognitive function. Um, even you know as they get into their 70s, 80s and 90s. So like exercise is doing some magic stuff that's kind of building resilience in the system even if it's not changing the necessarily changing the actual structure of the brain which it can which it can do as well. >> Yeah. But thinking about it in terms of building resilience makes a lot of sense to me. I mean, I like that. >> There's two things here I want to just highlight for people. We think that brain decline is inevitable, right? That we have to And I'll tell you that Juliet's grandmother was sharp as a stinking knife until like >> I mean, >> one minute before she died, >> 100%. [laughter] Like just lucid and sort of inappropriately lucid. um you know just you're like oh man you brought a lot of firepower and experience with that brain that's still functioning. So >> I want to that it's more fiction that we have to lose this cognition. We just speak to that for a second. >> This episode of the Ready State podcast is brought to you by Momentous and today we are pumped to talk about the new exciting Momentous product called fiber. I [laughter] know. I know. Look, a couple things. We keep running into high performance environments where people are not eating foods. Uh you've heard us talk about running into that, you know, high level nutritionist in at a big top university where the kid was reporting that he was not regular for days at a time. And suddenly we matches up with what we're understanding around that adults are not getting fiber. they're not getting enough micronutrients. >> Yeah. I mean, I think the data is pretty clear that something like 90 or 95% of Americans do not eat enough fiber. Like they do not eat the recommended amount of fiber each day. [music] >> And I'll tell you that not all fiber is the same. One of the fun things and we've been talking about I was like, "Hey, please introduce this because it's hard sometimes in a performance setting to feel like you can eat all of these fibrous foods and then go ride your bike." I mean, I' I've heard nightmare stories about uh people eating a lot of figs and a lot of fibrous material and then running marathons and things. Look, you need fiber. Full stop. And especially if you eat in a certain way that doesn't have a lot of fiber involved because you don't like it or it's not part of your your diet. >> Yeah. And look, you and I have been, you know, fans of and promoters of ECowsky's 800 gram challenge for years. Um, you know, there is a lot of talk now about making fiber the fourth macronutrient. And of course, as we always say, like the goal is to get most of this fiber with food. And you know, the recommendation is about 28 to 30 g of fiber per day per person, but we also are humans that live in the real world and appreciate that it may be difficult to get enough fiber. [music] And this is just Momentous fiber is just again filling such an important gap. What's been really fun is that everyone who's had access to this early fiber from Momentous has said the most significant change I've ever felt by taking anything that any kind of supplement. Yeah. That they really noticed. >> Three kinds of fiber. >> Yeah. Soluble, insoluble fiber, and a resistant starch is in this product. >> It's amazing. If you want to learn more, go to livemus.com/trs and use code TRS to save up to 35% on your first order. >> Yeah. So um one of my favorite studies looking at this was called the Seattle longitudinal study. It was actually done at the like founded out of the University of Washington um by uh guy called Warner Shai and it was one of the first ever studies that took the same people and looked and looked at their cognitive function over decades because what we've done historically and what we still do in a lot of studies is we look at a big bunch of people and we say well how what does cognitive function in the average 70-year-old look like? cognitive function like compared to cognitive function the average 30-year-old right and on average in that big population as people get older like average cognitive function declines and that's kind of what we think happens to everybody right but what's really happening is that within that group there are some people who are losing function and they're kind of like dragging down the average whereas actually there are lots of people who are maintaining cognitive function um and it's just like the way we calculate the data that's kind of making us think that function is declining Um and so when you when you when Wesai did the Seattle longitudinal study, it started in the 1950s and he took people and he saw them every seven years and um he brought in new waves of people every seven years. So in the end they had like people in the data set from like 20 to over 100. And what he found was that from like people as they went from their 50s to their 80s, the average effect and by average I mean what most people experienced was that their cognitive function reta remained stable over time from like 50 to 80. The a like if you then like added them all up and divide them by the number of people like the mean average. Yes, the mean average decreased but most people had stable function in their 50s, 60s, 70s and 80s. And this study um was actually used to raise the retirement age in the US in the in the 1980s because it actually >> people can work longer. >> Yeah. Um whether or not you think that's a good thing. Um what it did is it showed people that the the norm can be that cognitive function stays stable into your 60s, 70s, 80s. Um and this is what this is what we should expect. However, um and and we see something similar now like nowadays the the technical scientific term for somebody who maintains the same cognitive function in their 80s they had in their 50s is a super aager, right? This is what we call them now. But if you look at what a super aager does, they avoid major metabolic disease. They um are regularly physically active. They are um socially connected um and they maintain sort of like other really basic sleep habits. They don't drink too much alcohol, that kind of stuff. This should be the norm and it can be the norm and it doesn't require superhuman effort. But what it does require and this is like the um my third R of headroom, right? Resilience, reserve, and resolve. Because what it requires is the resolve to keep engaging in these things that we know maintain cognitive function >> over and over and over. >> There's some phrase you use is called bone crushing consistency, which is so boring. >> Yeah. Can I just take a pill, Tommy? I mean, like, come on. Sorry. >> So, I we talked about this a bit in the pre-roll and um one of the things I thought about as you were talking about exercise and uh I read this book years ago and I think we talked about this last time we had you on the podcast was I remember John Ray in his book Spark said like exercise is miracle grow for the brain. And that was just this quote from his book that I've always remembered. Um, and we talked a bit about this exercise piece in the pre-roll and I'd love for you to talk about the Norwegian protocol study, but the the underlying question here is I, you know, and I know what people will wonder is, okay, all right, I know like everybody knows they should exercise and I I think the resolve is probably the biggest problem there. However, what kind of exercise like are certain kinds of exercise better for our brain health and our path to be >> I feel the reductionist coming on. Yeah. I [laughter] mean, right. >> What's the minimal dose that I can do? >> You know, I guess maybe broad broadly speaking, all exercise I mean, I'm assuming you would agree that all exercise is good, any exercise is good, movement is good, whatever. Um, but I know that there's some Well, talk about the Norwegian protocol study. >> Yes. So, um, the right the kind of baseline, you're right, like for the vast majority of people, any increase in any physical activity is going to significantly improve cognitive function. We've kind of seen that, you know, across a whole b whole range of studies. Um, in so in people who are completely sedentary, you make in their 60s, you make them do brisk walking three times a week for 40 minutes, right? You see significant improvements in hippocample volume. So like the the size of the hippocampus, really important for memory, improvements in fitness, improvements in in memory function, right? Just with with that level of activity. However, we we do increasingly know that there's an intensity um component here. So, the the study that that that you mentioned um this was it came out a couple years ago um was by an Australian group and they took again adults in their sort of 60s on average and they randomized them to three groups. Um there was like a low intensity group, so like a walking group, uh a moderate intensity group, so like a jogging group, and then a high intensity interval training group. And they they all did this on the treadmill for like 40 to 45 minutes three times a week. The the HIT group did the Norwegian uh 4x4 protocol. So the version that they did was 85 to 95% of maximum heart rate for 4 minutes with a 3minut break in between times four. Um, and right with the warm up and warm down, that sort of whole thing takes kind of like 40-ish minutes. And they did that they did that three times a week for six months. Anybody who's done the 4x4 protocol will know that that is I mean that's a bit of a beast in terms of a training protocol for six months, >> especially at 85%. I mean, that's hard work. >> Like super impressed that they did it. But what what they found was that um that hit group had much larger improvements in the structure and funk fungus function structure and function of the hippocampus after 6 months and actually those they kind of continued to improve like during the training protocol. So they were like seeing benefits for like 3 months and then they stopped at 6 months. But then five years later they went f back five years later which I think is amazing and retested them and they still maintained those benefits over the other groups >> even though they hadn't been continuing to do that. >> They had Yeah. So they >> and I guarantee no one had done that protocol again. They were like I'm done. I'm out. >> Do you think all this like 2,000 meter rowing I did when I was a kid did that give me some hippocample volume that I can rely on? >> Yes. And I'm going to I'm going to tell you why in a second. Um so um yeah, they did look at how much activity they did in the intervening time and everybody just went went back to what they were doing before. Like Kelly says, nobody does Norwegian 4x4 for 6 months. I was like, do you know what? I want a lot more of that. Um [laughter] cuz it sucks. Um so what's interesting is that when they looked at V2 max, the jogging group and the hit group actually improved V2 max about the same. So, it wasn't just driven by improvements in fitness. And I think the big differentiator is lactate. Um, and maybe some other things that are released during during during during like very high intensity exercise, some of which you most of which they probably didn't measure. But this is where it comes to your your miracle grow uh comment or quote uh lactate is directly taken up by the brain like the lactate uptake into the brain is proportional to lactate uh levels in the blood and lactate goes into the brain and switches on the production of BDNF brain derived neurotrophic factor which is miracle growth for the brain. It helps to support the function and connectivity of recently activated uh neurons in particular. And this is important because like we we know that most kinds of exercise increase BDNF production, but if you measure BDNF in the blood, that BDNF doesn't make it into the brain. There isn't a really good transporter for BDNF uh in the body to be taken up into the brain. So the the messenger is lactate. Um, and lactate then goes into the brain and and and switches on BDNF. So, this is probably why intensity matters. This is probably why all those awful 2K tests, which is my the personal brain of my life as well historically, um, this is why they probably ended up doing something pretty good for the brain because of the amount of lactate um, that that was produced. >> And just like the people who did the 4x4, neither of you have been on a rower in the last 30 years. [laughter and gasps] >> Well, yeah, that's true. >> Not not true. Not not for longer than 90 seconds at a time. >> Yeah. I mean, you know, remember I told you I did the head of the Charles last year, trained up for it, and um this has nothing to do with brain health, but I the race was great. It was fun and being in a boat was fun, but I'm like, I can't do that again because sitting on the URG in my garage alone, it's just too lonely and sad. Like, I can't I can't do it. >> It was hard. >> Well, you know, I think it's it's this is an oversimplification, of course, and I'm just a physical therapist, but it's almost like the brain says we're dying. This is enormous threat. You're generating this lactate. >> This is a problem. We better upregulate the system. I mean, is that an overly simplified way of looking at this? >> No, I think that's I think that's a huge part of it, right? You have been exposed to this massive threat to your survival, which is definitely what a 2K test feels like. [laughter] Um, and and as as a result, your your brain and body are like, I need to expand capacity so that I can deal with this stressor when it comes. um when it comes again. Um and you maybe even support the hypoc campus cuz I need to remember what terrible things put me in the position that this happened to me so that I can avoid them next time. Um and when you look more broadly um there's this really nice idea of the crossstressor adaptation hypothesis um which particularly focuses on exercise. But what it what it suggests and there are some randomized controlled studies that that kind of support this is that >> if you if you do exercise especially including some some kind of intensity you are better able to deal with psychologically stressful situations. So you're not only have you sort of like built capacity you've also improved your ability to regulate in the setting of other stressors because you're like I know what it's like to to like feel stressed. Yeah. Almost like physical manifestation, physical movement behavior is just a different behavior of the brain. >> The brain doesn't really just like emotions, cognition, movement, all the same thing. It just, you know, it actually makes intuitive sense to me. And >> when we're trying to get into, I mean, I think it's um Ayenar who said nerves are king of the breath, the breath is king of the brain. And that we could very much use the body. I think that's a shorthand for the body and physicalness can and should be used to change brain state, cognition, drive, all of those things. >> Yeah, absolutely. And the in uh one of the chapters in the book, I I I talk about these ideas because particularly when we find ourselves in overwhelmingly stressful situations, it's impossible to think your way out of that, right? Your brain is being dunked in adrenaline and it can't really figure out what's going on. But we can leverage physiology like bottom up. So like breath being the easiest one to do that where you can regulate your nervous system and calm the brain down so it can kind of like get itself back online. So yeah like things go go go in both directions. We want to be able to expand the capacity of the brain to deal with stressful situations but also we need to understand how we can leverage our own physiology to manage the brain if needed when sort of when we feel overwhelmed. So, I want to go back to this amaloid uh conversation a little bit. Um because I feel like in the last I don't know seven years and I think we talked about it a bit last time we had you on the podcast. It's like it's sort of a a term that like everyday people understand now. They're sort of like amaloid plaque is what causes or perpetuates Alzheimer's or dementia. Um, and I heard recently, and I actually can't remember the source, whether I read an article about it or we had someone on our podcast say that, um, you know, the the research is starting to show that maybe amaloid isn't as big of a factor or isn't as important and maybe is has been a bit of a side quest from a focus perspective in the research community. Um I know you mentioned it a little bit earlier where you said some people everybody has them these amaloid plaques in their brains and some people are symptomatic and some people aren't. So what is sort of the state of the state and >> is was this giant focus um across the research universe on amaloid a side quest and and if so where where's the focus now? >> Yeah. Um it's a great it's a great question and I think it's something that the field has grappled with for a long time I the the people who have been in the field for a lot longer than me me those who felt that amaloid shouldn't be the only focus you know they certainly have stories about having their ideas repressed because there was such a big focus on amaloid or like if all the money for Alzheimer's is being funneled to amaloid right they they don't get the opportunity to to research other areas and I think that's starting to change now as people appreciate there just so many other things that that are happening. Um, so there was a a recent study done by the Allen or or partly done by the Allen Institute for Brain Sciences here in Seattle where they did they tried to like map how the brain changes with age in addition to kind of the trajectories into into Alzheimer's and dementia and you see changes in the brain that occur before you see significant increases in amaloid like um some inflammatory processes start kicking in and some other things. So there's definitely a whole bunch of other stuff that that's that's going on um including and this this kind of ties on to the exercise question. What one thing that we see that maybe predicts cognitive decline better than amaloid is the structure and function of the white matter which kind of sits in the middle of our brains and responsible for like the really fast connections. Um and one of the best ways that we know to improve the structure and function of white matter in older adults is with resistance training. Um and again uh randomized control trials show that and that's probably because resistance training releases IGF-1 which is really critical for for the the the structure and function of of the white matter. So like that's another mode of of exercise that is important at least sort of once to twice a week is sort of the minimum minimum effective dose. So because of this sort of focus on amaloid right we we now have um blood tests to look at amaloid levels they kind of predict amaloid levels in the brain. Uh we have drugs that decrease amaloid uh in the brain. Historically they've been very unsuccessful. Um there there are a couple now that have been approved uh in the US. Other countries haven't all uniformly approved them because they they they have a questionable benefit with a high risk of side effects. So often you might get bleeding or edema in the brain that can you know sort of negate any of the benefits you might be getting. At best I can kind of estimate that like amaloid is like 25% of the story. Amaloid predicts kind of 25% of the variability in cognitive function and cognitive decline. If you completely remove amaloid or or massively reduce amaloid levels in the brain with a therapy, you might decrease the rate of decline by about 25%. That's kind of what the the study suggests. So it's not everything. Um but it's not nothing. Um so it's kind of a part of it, but we definitely have to we definitely have to expand out. So now people are looking at the importance of uh inflammatory train changes um you know inflammatory conditions metabolic disease we've already talked about nutrient status is obviously critical um you know recent estimates have suggested that you know maybe the majority of cases of dementia preventable including Alzheimer's disease you know and they're looking at metabolic disease smoking alcohol um sensory loss so vision loss and hearing loss uh traumatic brain injury certainly really really important um education and other forms of of cognitive stimulation being important. So, people are starting to kind of look at the bigger picture and and I think that's what we're really going to need to do if we want to have, you know, impact at our population level. >> I know Kelly has a question and it may have been from a a podcast that we had with you, but or or someone else, but I remember the loss of hearing being so critical and such a such there's such a connection between that and loss of cognitive function as we age. And um so you know, ever since then I'm like the moment I feel like I can't hear something like I'm getting hearing aids. Like we just need to like make like that hearing aids can't be uncool like they need to be cool, right? And um I just I remember thinking that I'm like Kelly and I are going to have hearing aids by the time we're like 60. >> What? [laughter] >> You think I need hearing aids now because I live in a house full of women and might have subjected hearing loss. >> Yeah, I definitely have subjective hearing [laughter] loss. >> There's a difference between not being able to hear and not listening. are not not the same. [laughter] >> So, this is a perfect segue. Um, one of the things that it's difficult when we're working in the body, we're looking at mechanical output function and and it is we are a system of systems. We keep saying that. >> Um, but sometimes I can measure range of motion. I can measure wattage and output, right? Those are like my clear objectives that I can look at day after day after day. And probably why, you know, we're looking at measuring wattage and forces as as as output signals of the state of the human. >> Um, there are these subjective measures that we use all the time. Desire to train. I feel burned out. Hey, I'm stiff. I'm sore. Like, I can't quantify your stiffness or soreness, right? I can't. But I can see what the what the impact is on your on your training output, especially in these high performance environments. I really see it. you know, you sort of talk about and make this practical point that mood might be a subjective, you know, way to summarize brain state. Will you talk because I I feel like if we can get people to be aware that there are these signals and feelings they have brain fog might be one for example when we might say, "Oh, I'm behind or there's something I can do physically to change that state." But sometimes we're just like, "Eh, this is who I am now. I'm just I'm just slower and duller and not funny anymore. I mean, am I am I right in thinking that >> for Algaran baby? >> No, [laughter] >> Juliet just made a Flowers Alen joke because you know that's me. Um I'm in the regression stage. How deep cut deep cut, bro. Um that's going on the infinite shelf. Am I right in thinking that I can sort of take this way of thinking about, hey, I'm sore or I'm stiff or I don't feel good, but I can apply that same level of thinking for the brain in terms of understanding changes or at least current state. >> This episode of the Ready State podcast is brought to you by Element. >> You may know that I coach at a local university, >> really >> a ranked amazing team of women. And one of the things that I've done for the last few years is really worked hard to get energy drinks, those crappy energy drinks out of the gym and out of the language of pregame performance. >> Yeah. I mean, I think that apart from the fact that like we all see Instagrams now of like teens being hospitalized [music] from drinking too many energy drinks. Um, that's only because they're >> and just that it's just playing too much caffeine. >> Oh, plus all the other sketchy stuff. >> Kids and athletes. Yeah. So, an athlete came in one day and said, "Hey, I" It was a few many hours before or having a big game and she said, "Hey, I had one of these things and I feel terrible." And I was like, "Yeah, you deserve that." I was like, "You won't do that again." She's like, "No, I will not." The next day, one of our regular practices is in the morning, [music] every woman gets a packet of element and they have to drink it before warm up. And some of that is just getting salts on board because we don't know >> and making it more fun to drink water. >> But she said, "I feel more lucid and feel good. I don't feel shaky." She's like, "I really didn't realize what those things were doing." And I want to point this out. If you have a kid who's competing for multiple games, has big tournaments. We're we're deep in ourselves this season. Starting that morning with some element can be a really big game changer in terms of hydration, cognition, reaction time, the whole thing. Look, you probably don't need five of these packets in a day, but getting one in before your team plays is a big deal. And it has really really changed the culture and substituted all that other crap. >> Yeah. And I think one of the things you and I have focused on over the last five or six [music] years professionally is um doubling down on how we get people to actually do healthy behaviors in their lives. >> You mean like drink water? >> Like drink water. And [music] honestly I think one of the greatest things about element is it just tastes so good and it makes water drinking [music] way more exciting and fun. were m way more likely. >> Kids aren't they don't wake up and be like, "Let me chug some water right. >> Get some magnesium and potassium and a little bit of sodium in the bargain and you've had a lot more water to drink than you otherwise would have drank." And like that is a huge win. >> Word. [music] And if you want to learn more, you can order through our link a free sample pack of Element's most popular drink mix flavors. And of course, if you want to try sparkling, >> you should do it >> because it's a party in your mouth. So go to drinklnt.com/trs. Say it. >> We literally drink it every day. >> Hey, if you're enjoying the show, make sure you're subscribed wherever you get your podcasts. That way, you won't miss any of the new episodes we drop. Plus, really helps other people find the show. So, hit that follow button now [music] and let's get back to it. Yes. Yeah, I think so. I I think we don't give that um enough credit either in neuroscience, neurology, you know, sort of even even beyond that. When when you sort of compare brain performance to physical performance, right? Physical performance, we can we can measure inputs, we can measure outputs very well, it's really hard to do that for for the brain, right? Especially measuring like inputs and cognitive stimulus and like what's the load that I'm applying? Am I doing it in a progressive way? Am I building capacity, right? So we have to kind of right now we have to use some prox um proxy measures. Um I think we should get better at just like testing people's cognitive function broadly and repeatedly over their lifetime so that we can see when things change. And some of the companies and charities I work with are trying to increase access to that just because nobody's doing that. Right now if you want a cognitive function test you can only get it if you have likely cognitive impairment and you might get a diagnosis of dementia right which just doesn't make doesn't make any sense. Yeah. Right. >> Especially since there are so many things we can do. >> 100%. Yeah. So, so that's one thing that I think needs to change. [gasps] >> But you're right that in sports performance like nowadays we can measure so many things, right? HRV, heart rate, respiratory rate, blood tests, all this kind of stuff. The most consistent predictors of performance are related to like subjective feelings, right? They still out compete some of the best quantitative metrics. Um and the brain I think is the same. If if you think about your brain, it is constantly surveying its state plus the state of the body and its state relative to the environment. Right? So the ultimate output of your brain is probably how you feel as the like the final integration and like scoring of everything that's like all the different inputs and outputs and stresses and and all that kind of stuff. Recently they added subjective cognitive impairment which is I feel like my brain doesn't work as it as well as it used to into the kind of stages of cognitive like the formal stages of cognitive decline. Um, and I think that that, you know, it's been kind of under the radar, but I think that is a massive shift in terms of how we think about this because now it says if you notice changes in your in your cognitive function, which only you would notice or maybe like a loved one notices if they like you see you every day, that now counts as something that we need to take seriously. And and previously that was the previously that wasn't the case, right? It wasn't until we could diagnose some massive loss of function on a test that we would we would take something seriously. So, subjective cognitive impairment, we know if you experience that, you have a you have an increased risk of dementia. But not everybody who gets subjective cognitive impairment gets dementia. And it's considered that if you have subjective cognitive impairment, which is the fancy word for like my brain doesn't work like it used to, um those changes are considered reversible, right? Which means that if you notice it, you can act upon it. the the symptoms of subjective cognitive impairment overlap with the symptoms of brain fog in the research. They're considered separate, but I kind of think that they're probably the same. They're probably the same thing in many different ways. Um, you know, they they relate to fatigue, memory issues, mood changes, like they're they're very very similar. Um, and you know, there are different ways to measure them, but it kind of to me says that this is your like brain's check engine like like something's not quite right. This is an opportunity to start to start looking at that and then using mood as a way to or you know mood and and these your any other changes you experiences like how you feel, how you think you're performing and tracking those things over time as you make changes. Of course, like if you're trying to improve your blood sugar or, you know, improve your nutrient status or, you know, improve your fitness, you should measure those things as well. But I think we should, you know, be able to, you learn how to um interpret what our brain is thinking and feeling. Like some of that interception, I think, is going to be really important to kind of track things over time. The only caveat being that there are lots of things that we can use to dissociate our [laughter] objectivity from what's really happening. >> My so sociopathy I can just like I have I now have one feeling but I can turn that feeling. >> Yeah. You're [clears throat] welcome. And I just want to say I know you have a question but I just want to say that what if I don't want to go back to my 22-year-old brain [laughter] like >> you know you pro in many ways you probably don't right. And this is another this this is the this is the next thing that we should talk about because actually there are lots of things that your brain gets better at as you get older that maybe you want to keep >> Yeah. like wisdom. Yeah. We we do want to talk about I'm going to do a little uh side quest here on behalf of all pmenopause and menopause women out there. And as a subtext like we're all pissed um and Gen X and we're mad because we feel like we got screwed somehow um by medicine. And so uh just you know setting it up that way. Um, but I will say that I have a lot of women. You know, I'm 52 and so, you know, my social group is women who are 52 and, you know, we are kind of freaked because lots of women in this age group are starting to, you know, feel weird cognition things like forgetting people's names or brain fog or, you know, however they experience it. And I think, um, you know, on the one hand, you could just say, okay, that's permenopause menopause and sort of put that on a shelf there. Um, and it probably is in many cases, but is there like a way for women um, in this age range to differentiate like, okay, yeah, there are totally normal weird brain things that happen around permenopause and menopause that are like, okay, just accept this is your life now and you're fine and you aren't on a, you know, sloping terrible path to dementia by the time you're 55. Um, versus, you know, something that would be like red flag. Yeah. Um, I think this is super important. I'm I'm I'm honestly so glad that people are talking about it now. Like historically in the neurosciences in particular, we have been the worst at just like ignoring females and like all the all the data comes from men. And I'm I mean this is like rat studies in the lab through to like studies in humans. And like finally the tide is turning. And so I I say that because there's a lot still to learn, but there's a lot of like research being done, which I think is fantastic and people people are talking about it, which is great. >> Um, what I think is worth just starting out with is that every woman who lives long enough will go through menopause. Only 20% of women will get Alzheimer's disease. Right? So it is not um it is not the thing that kind of determines the final risk but it is the time of life when risk diverges and risk starts to increase in women relative to men. So there is absolutely something that goes on in that period during the menopausal transition that that kind of drives an increase in risk. I think um everything that I've seen from the literature suggests that menopause kind of like apo like we were talking about earlier it's it's a time that other risk factors are multiplied. So um there are studies that show that if you have metabolic disease entering into permenopause and menopause those individuals are the ones who see more significant changes during the transition. Um we also know that uh physical activity, diet quality um they can both um alter cognitive changes during par menopause as well as other symptoms of of menopause like vas vasa motor symptoms and it's actually the frequency of vasa motor symptoms and like the severity of vasom motor symptoms so like you know hot flushes night sweats that kind of stuff that are seem to be the strongest predictors of cognitive changes during that during that time. Um, so some of it is is driven by hormone changes, right? Because that's what sort of sets the whole system going, but it seems to be a lot related to vasom motor symptoms outside of hormones. And there are lots of lifestyle factors that that that play a role there. Um, one thing that um, we haven't talked about yet much, but is is nutrient status. So, it's very common for women who experience cognitive changes during permenopause to have low iron status. And so actually more of it is related to iron rather than rather than hormones. So this is like the perfect time to like get get the test, figure out nutrient status, figure out metabolic health, like get on top of that because that seems to be a big um that seems to be a big determinant. Um and sort of the final piece just because you mentioned it and we can go into more into any of those bits um as you'd like. Um but there there is a part there is a part of this um which is reversible. So um there are some studies that show that changes cognitive changes during parmenopause then revert back to their previous state or close enough um afterwards. So some of it is is uh temp is temporary. Um but then um the the the other part is that longterm afterwards you also tend to see overall improvements in well-being um wisdom all these other things. So it is it's sort of like a a temporary transitionary period rather than some like like decline. Yeah. >> Yes. Yeah. Exactly. >> Yeah. So interesting. That's so helpful. And do you think on this is again another side quest question but on the vasom motor symptoms and we haven't talked about sleep or nutrients or whatever but do you think that is actually the fact of having them or the fact that nobody can sleep because they wake up 9,000 times and if you wake up 9,000 times and have crap sleep like no wonder your cognition isn't awesome. Yes. Shout out to [laughter] >> So the answer is yes. Yes to both. Um and I'm sure that's that's part of it. So um one so uh insomnia or or sleep issues with menopause is one reason to be prescribed menopausal hormone therapy. Um and there are now you know whether MHT on its own significantly improves cognitive function or prevents dementia is right now very controversial >> right >> the the data suggest on its own it doesn't but it will be very clear that if you if if taking MHT improves quality of life sexual function mood sleep basot symptoms all of those things are going to have an impact on the brain So it the the benefits are likely to be indirect but will absolutely be there. So if it's helping manage symptoms that are affecting quality of life that are preventing you or from doing these other things that we know are really important for brain health then it's absolutely something that that is you should be sort of like top of top of consideration. >> Yeah that makes complete sense to me. >> Okay we know >> you have to ask about wisdom. >> What >> the like aging brain if we go back to >> we're not coming back. Okay. Okay. >> We talk about there's so much to talk about. >> Um, one of the things that we want people to recognize, and I I'll say that this is tricky. Juliet and I sometimes get home and like we don't want to talk anymore. We don't want to work anymore. I don't look at other email. We don't we just we flop down on the couch, right? We're just like I'm I'm done, right? But there has to be some aspect of not just like I'm I'm like you know 1984 I'm the horse dragging you know animal farm sorry wrong reference drag it is 1984 but dragging a different horse um I need to still train my brain >> and you say that we should train the functions we want to keep >> what are I love that >> things that we should be thinking about and this year I I vowed to like pick up my guitar again and work on that I want work on learning French even though I speak German and it's ruined me. Um, you know, I'm learning a new skill with a friend. I'm doing some woodworking and I'm trying to just, you know, do some things and I don't know if that's because my brain is like, bro, you know, turns out Netflix and chill is not enough >> and and 4x4 is not enough. >> It's pretty nice though. >> But how do you train these functions and what functions are you talking about we should be working on to keep? >> Yeah. Um, great question. And the the the functions you want to keep comes in kind of two um two flavors, but luckily when you do one, you're doing the other at the same time. Um, so I think about functions. You could think about them like the actual things you want to do, like what do you what do you want your brain to be good at in 10, 20 years time. Um, and I mean that in terms of skills, languages, things you want to go out into the the world and skills you you you want to have, abilities you want to keep, right? Those things you need to actively keep doing. So, there's a um a nice study I have early on in my book that talks about uh pianists, expert and amateur pianists, young and old. Um, so like four groups. And what they found was that the expert pianists in their 60s and older were just as good as the amateur pianists in terms of like piano skills, right? So age wasn't a factor there, but the major factor was how much practice are those of those older pianists doing, right? So it's just a case of like do the stuff that you want to still be good at. And that's also important on like a day-to-day working basis, right? If we offload all of our tasks [snorts] to AI, say, we will lose the function, the ability to do those things, we'll just become prompt generators. Um, so like anything we want to still be good at, we need to keep working on. But sort of more specifically in terms of functions in the brain, things that tends to to decline as we get older include processing speed, um, uh, executive function, so like rapid decision-m like response inhibition, um, and working memory, right? So like these short-term fast processes that that that are really important for just like everyday activities. When you look at um lots of different types of complex skills that humans can learn, languages, music, um like open skill sports that require sort of u responding to the environment, strategizing, uh teamwork, that kind of stuff, ball sports, board sports, martial arts, you know, as long as you're not getting kicked in the head, like all those all those kinds of complex skills. And actually like some evidence similar evidence from video games, arts, um dancing, all of like all of those things require you to rapidly process multiple sensory inputs and create some kind of output that usually involves moving your body in one way or another, right? Or you know, your body could be your tongue um if you're speaking a language. Um and so when you look across all those different types of skills, they seem to have very similar benefits in terms of maintaining the structure and function of networks in the brain that are responsible for these kinds of functions. So what that kind of you know translates to is that doing the complex skills that you want to keep as you get older maintains these some of these core functions of the brain that are then important for lots of things that you want to go and do out in the world. So even though you can think about them in two buckets, you're essentially training both at the same time, but it also means that you get to pick what you like to do because you you don't have to play guitar. You can if you want, but you could go like go to tango lessons instead or up to a certain point you could play Super Mario 3D World, which is one of the best studied video games for supporting cognitive function. Um, so the there are these core functions of the brain that seem to be trained across all these different kinds of complex skills. Um, and we can just then pick and choose the skills we we like and enjoy because they will then help keep those those functions um going. >> That's uh that I love that. And it makes me think um I had this I had lunch next to a former chess grandmaster >> who was now in his 40s and he was at one point ranked top five in the world maybe top four in the world very very good chess player but he said he couldn't play at the level it's be that he would when he was in his 20s just the fatigue of practice the fatigue >> and I think of this the same way that you work in Formula 1 and we have become a Formula 1 family thanks to my daughter Caroline. Um the young drivers we don't see lots and lots of old drivers. Is that a function of like there are normal age related changes that we just we can't be as fast cognitively we we don't have this reserve but that if we just take one sort of you know standard deviation out we're still pretty damn good if as long as we keep working on those things. This episode of the Ready State podcast is brought to you by Vitality Blueprint. And you know, on this episode with Dr. Tommy Wood, he emphasized something we talked about a lot is that there are some really important like traditional medicals that we should all be tracking that we really can change and influence that have a positive impact on our overall health, but our brain health in particular. >> Yeah. And I think what's really wonderful about this conversation with him is looking at specifically some of these markers of inflammation and even insulin sensitivity relative to like passing fasting blood sugar. >> What's great about Vitality Blueprint is you can begin to track these things and their incredible system allows you to understand what you can do to change these things. >> Yeah. I mean it really is it it it is about getting these you know seeing these trends >> especially in the 40s and 50s. >> Yeah. And and especially in these markers of inflammation and glucose blood glucose and what's amazing is you get this really simple easy actionable protocol by Vitality Blueprint that tells you exactly what to do to improve these specific metrics. And it's not some complicated program that is going to you know require you to quit your job and spend a billion dollars on supplements. Like it's really practical things, many of which are free, that you can implement into your life to improve these really critical markers that really can be drivers of poor cognition and, you know, potentially even dementia or Alzheimer's as you age. >> And vitality blueprint, I I just want to highlight that we're playing offense here because if you can get this information and start, you know, opening these small doors, they lead to big [music] changes, especially over the long haul. The problem is we didn't have a really good way to get the blood test to have someone analyze it for us besides being like I guess it's good I'm in the range right these guys are saying hey take a look at these things and now we have a way of tracking it when it starts to matter so we can have this historical data and actually do some things that improve the quality of our lives for the long haul. >> Yeah. And the process is simple. I mean, you can go to a local lab or they even will send someone out to your house to draw your blood and you wait a couple weeks and just get this really comprehensive panel with this really specific protocol of what [music] to do for your own specific situation to improve your health and your cognition. >> I'm so down. If you want to learn more, go to vitalitybloopprint.com/trs and definitely use code TRS for $50 off any Vitality plan. So, so yes and no. Um, and and so right now we still do have two drivers in their 40s still considered, you know, maybe good enough to win world championships if they were in the right car. Um, Fernando Alonzo and and Lewis Hamilton, right? So, we do have drivers at that at that level still. Um, and you know, historically there have been drivers even even older, although was in, you know, previous eras of Formula 1 when things just weren't weren't quite the same. And you know I I think we see more and more athletes performing at the top of their game into their 40s right LeBron Tom Brady right it's >> pattern recognition those kids insane that's right >> yeah so I think this is abs this is absolutely possible but the shift that has to happen or the thing you know a a shift and b a maintenance is that they become much better first of all they have to just remain dedicated to their craft right So, are you still doing everything and investing the same time with the same passion and the same energy as you were in your 20s? And like when you've been um a superstar millionaire for a couple of decades, right? There's maybe other right there's well there's maybe there's other things that you want to do with your life, right? And so you just don't invest the same time. So one of it is just a a consistent dedication to the craft and the other is becoming much more targeted in terms of I'm doing this training session for this adaptation and that's it. No junk volume, nothing like that and then I'm going to focus on recovery and these other supportive processes. So yes, that is to help combat some of the declines that we see with age. But I think if you sort of maintain focus and become much more targeted, you can maintain function for longer. of of course you will get to a point like I said you can't completely prevent the processes of aging. Um so at some point some of that will take over and and and you will start to lose those problems. >> I know you have something to say but I just want to say that I appreciate that you said the right driver in the right car. I do see a Ferrari half behind you and no shade thrown but I understand what you were saying there. So, we just had our friend Brad Stolberg on the podcast talking about his book, uh, The Way of Excellence. And >> one of the things he said is that our constant phone use is like adult pacifiers. And I've been thinking a lot about that because I and and I get stuck. We all get stuck in this, right? We're waiting in line phone. I mean, you just go to any public place and if there's a moment of of transition or waiting time or anything, we just all immediately default to go onto our phones. we're no different. Um, but having Brad's voice in the back of my mind saying like you're using your adult pacifier maybe is helpful. But is there a value from a brain health perspective and you know like the on it does make sense to me but is there science or uh anything you know real real supportive that actually just boredom um free associating doing nothing is also important. >> Yeah. So um absolutely like multiple different uh ways to come at this and think about it. And so you're right like starting with that one last in we know that when you stop thinking about things and like stop focusing on something that's often when you get moments of insight because the brain starts to like put things in place. This is right. The classic is you start like >> Eureka in the shower, right? Um or like often it's like when I'm in the gym, right? Phone's down, you know, not thinking about anything else, right? You sort of like get these moments of insight. Um and so like that's one part of it is we we don't give ourselves the opportunity to to do that. Let's let ourselves free associate. Um but we're also just not letting ourselves actually downregulate and relax, right? So, it it kind of depends a little bit on what you're looking at on your phone, but if it's like emails, if it's, you know, a lot of social media where you're like, and it could be things like, oh, look, look at this person who's so much more jacked and successful than I am. Man, that makes me feel bad about myself. >> Yeah. [laughter] Um, you know, this is why I can't follow Kelly because it just like I just >> you you feel so unflexible when you like so >> cranky. [laughter] Um, and or it could be right you see stuff that makes you mad, right? All this, you know, any pick anything that's happening in the world right now and right that creates a stress response. So, so you're you're often not allowing yourself to truly relax and recover. And we know just like even just short breaks, a few minutes of nature, um, mindfulness actually can rapidly sort of reinvigorate us and allow us to go back in and do hard work and focus. But we need to really give ourselves that break. And then the the sort of like the final part of this is that often when we're on our phones, we're doing something else at the same time. Um so like it's Netflix and chill, but it's also Netflix and chill and Instagram um at the same time. Um and so what you see from the studies of what we call multimedia multitasking, which is like using many of these things at the same time, is that you become people become more distractable. Um, so your brain actually gets better at dealing with multiple disparate inputs at the same time, right? So you get better at watching friends and scrolling on Instagram at the same time and by paying attention to both, but your brain sort of widens its net, its focus net slightly because it's like there could be something interesting that could happen anywhere at any time, right? Because I'm so used to getting multiple inputs at the same time. So we lose our ability to focus because we're so used to having this like distributed attention. So none of this is necessarily bad. It's just if that's all we're doing, we never get a chance to really tr like truly practice practice focus. We never give ourselves a true kind of cognitive break. Um and we don't give ourselves the opportunity to do like use these kind of more um like random creative kind of thought processes because we're never really sort of like switching off. So Tommy, could you just shout out to Georgia and Caroline Starretette and tell them that maybe playing a video game or looking at Instagram every time they also watch TV might not be the best for them. I was telling them this over Christmas the whole time. I was like our daughter Georgia was playing some video game while she was watching TV all the time. Like it was like a one to one. >> Can we just talk about the TV watching for starters? >> Well, yeah. I mean, forget about the fact that our kids are watching for like the third time the 19th season of um Grey's Anatomy, but simultaneously. And and I said I was trying to say to them, I was like, you know, I think there's research showing that this, you know, doing this and this at the same time is bad for your brain. And they're like, "Yeah, yeah, yeah, Mom. [laughter] >> I'll tell you, I have to get on Instagram when you guys are on Love Island." >> Yeah. Well, yeah. Yeah. So, you know, this is just personal. If you could shout out to the two of them on this one. >> Yeah. Um, well, what I'll say is obviously we know from decades of psychological research that having somebody uh having your parent tell somebody to tell you something is really useful. [laughter] >> Um, >> it's really effective. >> The expert is someone who lives one podcast away apparently. [laughter] Tommy. Um, there this is this you've opened up uh Pandora's box of getting us to think tactically about having lives that are richer, that are more connected. You keep coming back to the the basics of, you know, rich social interactions, of nutrition, of of sleep, and of play. Um, as we sort of wrap this thing up a little bit, what are you reading and thinking about right now? We have this thing called the the infinite shelf and we'd love to take one of your recommendations and it could be anything that you're thinking about reading, listening to, but give a give us kind of a glimpse into something that you're stoked on. Um, so one thing that uh a book that I've started reading that to be honest I should have um started reading a a long time ago is called um The Master in His Emmer. >> Oh my god. It's literally sitting next to my bed. >> Yeah. Um and it's just I mean it's just fabulous. I mean just like such indepth science and and storytelling. F I mean I'm I'm some >> What's it like? What's the theme? Science and storytelling about >> Yes. It's written by Ian McGillchrist. Um it's about um well there's two parts to it. One is what is the anatomical structural function functional separation of the two hemispheres of the brain the left brain and the right brain. Um and what's the evidence that actually they are different and do different things and like in humans but also in other species. But then also the the later part is like how as western society have we increasingly gone leftrain sort of reductionist. um look at look at the look at the small pieces, finite details, kind of um like overanalyzing stuff and you kind of suppressed our right brain bigger picture integrative kind of holistic sort of approaches to things. Um and so like it's it's a commentary both on the neuroscience and on sort of like society in general like abs absolutely fascinating. I mean it's a monster. >> It's a monster. >> Yeah. But but like fascinating book. So that's something that I'm I'm enjoying right now. >> I love it. >> Amazing. was given to me by Dr. Aaron Kafaro who also happens to have a couple Olympic medals in rowing. Thanks very much Aaron. >> Yeah, shout out Aaron Kafaro. Uh so Tommy, I feel that uh we just uh sort of got a little taste here. There's so much more we could talk about and uh your book, The Stimulated Mind, highly recommend. It's for those listening, it's now available for pre-order. And I just want to um make a shout out to not only Tommy but all authors that um buying books as a pre-order is really important for authors for a myriad of reasons. >> Blow this thing up in the atmosphere. Really do. This is important. >> Please support authors and do that by buying books and especially if you can pre-order them, do it. >> Yes. Tommy, I know you're on the uh the gram. Tell us where we can find you and just see insights into your brain. >> Uh thanks. Yeah. So, um, that is where I do most of my social media stuff. So, Dr. Tomtommywood, Dr. Tommywood. Um, tons of stuff about the book on there. Anytime I do a podcast, all that kind of stuff goes on there, too. If I publish a paper that's sort of like relevant, I think people will like that will go on there, too. Um, my website is the same, drtomywood.com. Uh, the book website is the simulatedmind.com. Um, and there'll be like, um, if you pre-order, there are some there are some goodies that you can get. uh some advanced chapters. There's a workout video I did. Uh there's some recipes that I wrote. Uh some fun stuff like that. Um and then I also have a Substack which is mainly a podcast um that I do with my friend Josh Turknet who's a neurologist. So that's betterrain.fitness is the URL and you can sign up for the free version. Everything happens in the in in the free version. >> Amazing Tommy. So fun. Thank you for being here. >> Thank you so much Tommy. >> Thank you for having me. Um absolute blast as always.