Hey, welcome back mobility project. Still in Austin and you may notice by all the shrines to Lance Armstrong. We are in the coolest bike shop in the world. It's called Melo Johnny's. And I ran into one of my friends here for who's basically the dentist to the to the stars. He's the hippest coolest dentist around. This is Greg up here and he works with a company called Agility Guard that I think is the bomb. We'll put a link up to the site. What you're going to see is um Oh, by the way, this is this is Aaron Nearro. You may have seen her on the MAD before shaking her legs back and forth. uh she's a pretty good athlete. Um what we're hearing is doing some performance testing that if we can change uh the position of our athlete, we know we get into a better better output uh better in a situation where we create more force. And let's talk for a second. What is agility guard? Sure. Agility guard is it's evolved from TMD dentistry. I'm I'm a TMD doctor. I What's TMD mean? TMD, temporalmandibular disorder. Oh, check. So it's a bigger bucket that we fit. Lots of people say I have TMJ. My joint pops and clicks. I Everyone has a TMJ. I have a TMJ. We've all got it. But some people's function good, some peoples don't. What we know in TMD dentistry is the way the teeth fit together dictate alignment of the lower jaw to the upper jaw. That alignment of the lower jaw to the upper jaw dictates head position. If the bite's off, the head positions off. And we see that disseminate all the way from the atlas down to the SI affecting orthopedically the way a person presents. So, Agility Guard grew out of that TMD dentistry. We use the same equipment in TMD dentistry to identify an ideal bike position for an athlete which facilitates ideal alignment lower jaw to upper jaw giving us good head position and leading to all the things that Kelly season is athletes better output in whatever sport it is they're performing. Now I want I want to say that you know I got an agility guard from me I don't know four or five months ago and uh it's radical that uh when I my I put that position and I closed that circuit I end up with better head position better thoracic positioning my front squat goes up everything goes up and all I have to do is close close down on that thing I had a terrible bite true yeah you did very small got a terrible bite terrible bite so but what what's nice about this is that it's you know we know that we see neural changes neurologic changes in terms of kind of the neural dynamics we know that we see changes in position, but we can test that because if you can't see change, there's no change. So, what we'll do with Aaron here real quick is we'll have Aaron get into a plank position since we're on the theme this weekend is uh we're here in the bike shop. I think there's a bike race going on in France. Uh the other thing that's happening is there's national weightlifting. And one of the things we're always after is can our athletes create external rotation for us? That's the stable position and pushup and our bench press, whatever it is. All of these positions are externally rotated. So, we're going to put Aaron into a plank position and make her work on external rotation. We can just test and look at how how she performs. And when we put the bite in, we'll see if we see a change. What change we should see is that her neck maybe changes position, but we'll change her her mechanics. We should see a change in position. All right. So, go ahead and clap your teeth 10 times. That's her bite. You know how many times a day you shut your jaw? 3,000. Oh, just 3,000. Yeah, just 3,000. 3,000 reps. Okay. Let's go into a plank position we did before. Now, take a look at this. Aaron's plank is pretty good. Her butt's squeezed. Her feet are together. just hold me external rotation means she is Olympic medalist. So here I am. I'm just going to internally rotate her and you'll see that I'm able to kind of collapse her down. And so hold that position. Come on here. Don't be so weak. She's pretty good. She's turned on there, but I still able to break her. Now we're just going to put this guard down. Now this is the temporary guard that based on registration. Bite registration. Some very kind of 3D voodoo stuff that you guys do. Mhm. Fatigue the jaw. Now take a look at this. We're going to put Aaron back in that position. All she's done is just changed her bite. She's closed that that neurom muscular loop with the jaw. And we'll see if we see any change. Squeeze your butt. Get tight. Good. Hold this position. And all of a sudden, I can't must I'm not pretending. Jeez. And uh what all that happens is we can test this anyway. You can test this to an kind of an axial shear loading test. You can look at internal rotation. We look at balance. We can look at kind of forward strength, truck flexion. But what we should see in the boat is better positioning which unloads tissues and we should see a change in wattage. Otherwise it doesn't count and it doesn't matter and it turns out it matters. It matters big time. And where can where can I find out more about this stuff? Agility.com. There's a dentist locator on there for your area. Uh I'm in Austin, Texas, but we're able to fly and get to whoever needs this uh kind of a service. Um our numbers say that 80% of the population walking around is deviated somewhat from optimized alignment. So we can help a lot of people. Uh, just give us a call. Thank you. If you want to go faster. And by the way, Melo Johnny's good cup of coffee here. We'll see you guys tomorrow. Awesome. Dino, Mike. All right, let's put the gold back in here.