Hey, welcome back. Mobility Project Westside barbell. Is that what that shirt says? Hey, we're we're standing around with the really strong kids here and talking about how to go faster and most importantly lift heavier weights faster. Isn't that right? Yep. It's not just lifting heavy weights, lifting heavy weights faster. Here with AJ. Um we're talking about squatting and talking about some of the issues about how to get into a better position to finish more effectively. So, what's going on with your squat? Um basically been squatting wide stance, feet out for so long that's actually became my natural position. Um, we work we just we've done a few drills already, so I've uh gained a little bit of mobility or point my toes forward, but until we did toes forward position would bind up my hips and and put a lot of tightness in there and not allow me to bring my my hips through and finish in a triple extension position. Uh, especially on the deadlift. Couldn't couldn't block out properly without overextending and basically changing my posture and not being optimal. And for the kids at home, we're talking about like you're talking what what's your squat? Uh I squat 1140. Isn't that the world record? Uh no, the world record is 1220. Yeah. But um so the difference being is the the wide position is good, but at a certain point if your feet are too wide, you can't generate you can't fire the glutes. So you lose power. So they're still even in a wide position, you still need to be able to turn your feet forward without comp without tightening up because then it puts pressure on the knee obviously. And so just by allowing us to do that, you know, we'll be able to generate more force um and finish a lift a lot stronger whereas that's you know usually where you miss a lift is at the end. So check. So here's what we got. We kept it simple for AJ. Two couple things. One is that we notice he was missing all of his internal rotation and flexion. So let's set you up when we did. Now we've got the cap to stretch. What's going to do is a little bit different is we're going to use AJ has great training partners. He's going to hook that up and he's going to scoot sideways. We've got the distraction because as soon as he noticed that when he tried to mobilize internal rotation, he told me he was missing intern rotation. As soon as he tried to work on internal rotation himself, he felt what? Tightness. A tightness. An impingement. That's right. Suddenly, we get this distraction, maybe a couple hundred pounds. And when he starts working on intern rotation, you'll notice he has a ton. you know, we we did work on a little bit, but this is perfect internal rotation, especially in the range. I would call this normal and neutral full range. So, one of the things that he could do even before squatting is have a training partner or super friend load up the back of the hip just actively like this. I'm just weighing on it. We got the distraction and then he could internally rotate and I'll just take him to the end range. Go ahead, internal rotate. And I'm just following him. So, it's just like kind of doing a PNF kind of style thing. I'm just activating with him. He has to now work in those new ranges mapping that with his body and then you know his training partner can just hang out at those end ranges while he's being distracted. I'm just laying on the hip is now in the back of the socket. Before when he went for internal rotation the hip kind of came up and became superficial and that's when he was adding that capsular binding. So pretty simple way and and especially when we have strong athletes this is a simple way. He feels supported. He's still in control going into rotate. Boom. Look at that. Fantastic. And that's that's easy and quick. All right. And then our second piece. So we walked over here. Very simple. We noticed that when we when we just put him on a stomach and brought his heel to his butt, very very tight, overextended. When that when I'm short under high loads, it is hard to finish. And especially if this is where I'm going to be missing this this quad range. And so we're focusing on is how do we open up the hip he can mash his quads open all he wants but in this position now without the big band he's this probably two or 300 lbs of band tension maybe 200 right in that glutial fold pulling that hip anterly we don't challenge him just based on pure musculature we're working on through that whole system and then I can wind up he's doing a good job keeping the hip over I can bring that foot into a little internally rotate the leg and then as a super friend of course you can always be talking about, you know, hey, did I tell you I squatted with Amy today? Laura Phelps, like a dream come true. The strongest gym on the planet, right? Hang out here. Super friend is now oscillating and he's doing a great job of keeping that butt on. So, we're mapping that position in range. And uh after doing that, what'd you feel? Uh what was your test retest? Oh, just in the squat position here. Can go wider down. Keep my natural position without folding. I still get tight at the bottom, but if I bring my feet in, and even before with my feet in, I couldn't rotate my feet forward. Now, feet in, feet rotated, I can break parallel in that position without my feet rotating. And you'll notice he's not perfectly straight. 11 5 11° that's fine. What we're seeing though is he does a beautiful job and his ankles are not collapsed. So, he even he can turn out as far as he needs as long as he doesn't collapse that ankle and put him into the best position. And one of the things we want to confuse with our athletes are is this a issue of weakness or is it an issue of position? You clearly oh wait I'm just kidding. There's no capsular versus flexibility or anything like that. Westside mobility w it's the dream. Talk to you guys tomorrow.