Welcome back to Mobility Project. Thanks so much for dealing with the hiatus. We were away up in the mountains, Strawberry Music Festival, no internets of any kind. I'm going to make it up to you this weekend. I'm going to make it up to you by one showing you what's going on in the garage. You pan around. This is the uh I don't know how many how many photos did we take today? 1,500, 1200. Yeah, 1,200 photos for the movement mobility book out this fall. Uh this is what we're working on right now. Um, today we will get caught up later on this week with uh episodes, but I want to show you what we're going to go on today. And that is I know I've been doing a little bit traveling, a little bit sitting. I ran a lot when I was gone. Um, I know that my anterior hips got a little bit tight and quads got a little bit tight. So, guess what we're going to do today? We're going to take your quads to the mat and we're going to beat them down into submission. We're going to tear your face off. Okay? So, here's what here's what's on the tab. First, I want you to stick this into your ghouie right in that hip crease. We're going to go two minutes aside. Really fast. No big deal. Belly tight. Squeeze your bum. Press forward. If I did this two-handed rule, you'll notice that uh I'm not going to extend through and lose that relationship between stern pubic bone. And I'm just going to lock my butt off and keep pressing forward and just keep hanging out. And remember, we can do some oscillating through here. I can tear a little bit if I want to. Darren Torres active mobility style. But I can keep hanging out either way. Two minutes. Find those corners. Find those rays where you're tight each side. Then get all fired up because you're open and supple. Now we're going to talk get into the corner back up. Belly tight. Drop that knee up and then start by pressing hip to the ground. But since we've already done that, we're just going to go straight up. Again, look at the two-hand rule. Don't screw yourself by overextending, making this problem worse. You got to have the pelvis under control, belly under control. Then open up. Yeah, like you're a cobra flexing your cobra hood. Should be fired off. This doesn't feel very good on the inside. I'm queasy on the outside. I have my Zen face on. Okay, so that's two minutes aside. Contract. Relax. Don't go static. Use your brain. Get ready for round three. Slap yourself in the face. Hook up. Belly tight. Drop out. We're just going to do an end range static hang out. Butt is on. Hang out as long as you can. Shin vertical load as much as you can. Shoulders back. Be cool. Load. Load. Load. Just put this thing under isometric load. Big tensioner. And just keep hanging out. As that thing loads, keep going further and further down. Two minutes aside. You're at six minutes aside. Last thing you need to do, grab the ball right in front of your kneecap here. We're going to tack and we're going to attack. So, go ahead and tack and stretch. And just think a minute roll back and forth the whole region from the kind of teardrop all the way down all the way around the outside. Just keep pulling. If there's nothing there, go up one centimeter. Start pulling again. Clear that whole room a section at a time. A minute or two up each side. Welcome back to the project. We got work to do. We'll see you tomorrow.