Hey, you may see that. That's the Golden Gate Bridge. Means we're at San Francisco CrossFit. It's at least what? 56°. There's a hat on. I'm wearing a down coat. Growing a beard. We're freezing down here. We're getting so soft. Construction going on. I'm going to talk over that for a second. Show you some things we got going on. This is RP is one of our coaches. He's in a compromising position that we wouldn't want to put on the internet um because it's so awkward. What you see is R was actually a second semester PT student working on a working on a doctor's group and he was figuring out that he could just put himself into a little bit of flexion. Get some approximation to the back of the hip and ironically it's not an 88lb kettle bell it's 53 but he's got blocked his knee and then that band is pulling him over. The key is that he's not going to he's going to worry and kind of mind about the impingement feelings, but he's just right at the limits of that. And then he can adjust his body angle, hip angle to adjust internally, externally. But we really have a hard time getting our athletes into finding this true hip internal rotation. And what we call this is a capsule position. It's just like the shoulder. We've got to have full internal rotation so that we can adopt a strong externally rotated position and he's in the when it matters under torque. So RP has been working on this and uh does it work for you R? Fantastic. And uh the ladies love it. What can you say? I mean look at that guy. He's like an Indian hunk. Indian indianhunk.com. Right. Right. Right. Okay. So check this out. I'm going to take this now. I'm going to hand over. You guys remember me remember may remember JD Kafaro. I think he used to play at cow. Something like that. Is that a Is that a cow hat? No, it's not. It's not AI'm only famous for my sister now. Oh, what do you mean famous for your sister? What does that even mean? She's a Mad Star. All right. Mad star, of course. Uh you know uh J D has freakish work capacity. You may know him as the ninth on member of the team of the ninth best exercising team in the uh in the country right now. Yeah. So what's happened is that we have taken the piece that we did today or yesterday which is that straight kind of posterior chain uh hip extensor stretch and now Dizzle is into this kind of external rotation in a little bit of flexion. The the key here is that he's going to fold forward. Body is remaining as a as a a steady fulcrum. He's trying not to round his low back. You're round your low back a little bit. There you go. Control that thing. Right. one joint biases that position with that band distracting that joint back in the socket. He really allows him to tack into some corners here. Now, go ahead and spin away from that a little bit and see what happens. Just kind of turn away from the hip. Does that change anything a little bit? Oh, yeah. Bam. That's So, what the key is that once you set up and understand that we're trying to get the hip to glide to the back of the socket here, this really opens up. So, I want you guys to spend, if you can get into this crazy setup first, that's fine. But I want you to spend a good 10 minutes monkeying with these different positions and then JD can kind of spend some more time in more external rotation. Can you externally rotate that leg even further? Uh, let me kick the box towards you. Look, so he's almost in that super pigeon, but then with that joint distraction feels very, very different. And what we're really trying to do is use this thick band to really unlock the the kind of heel cord piece or the not heel cord but the the capsular corners. Make sense? How's that feel, D? It's actually it's has a numbing effect. It feels better the longer you go. Feel less. Maybe it's the cold. Maybe it's the band. I don't know. Maybe it's Maybe it's all you can't take the band out of the bear, but it's not the size of the bear and the band. What? What? Anyway, we'll see you guys tomorrow.