Hey everyone, welcome back to the MAD Hangout. Uh we should just we this is a little bit different show. Typically we're we're interviewing amazing people and uh we are not going to break with that today. We've got some really good guests on. Uh I'm just going to just give you the cue. TJ Murphy, my coowriter and uh editor extraordinaire for Ready to Run, probably the most uh prolific writer about um running and and uh all things aerobic suffering. I'll put it that way. Um the other kid in the screen is of course you know as Glenn Cordoza who is the uh the other half behind um the success and the capacities of becoming a supple leopard. Now, Glenn is uh the coowwriter uh organizer extraordinaire genius behind helping uh me coordinate my brain to getting on the paper and I'll just say an expert MMA genius fighter mover in his own right. So, um what we what we wanted to do today was basically take a second and say, hey, look, becoming a supple leopard came out officially about two years ago nearly we're about what what we came out with the 20th April. Was that when it was? 22nd, 23rd, somewhere around 22nd. Oh, Juliet's point out it was her birthday, of course, like I forget that. And um so we've seen two years of the book out and what we've learned a lot since then and we've seen the application of it. We want to talk about some of the specifics and we're going to do a little uh like John Stewart when John Stewart did his own uh you know made his own movie and then he brought in John Oliver to interview people about the movie. That's sort of what we're going to do with DJ Murphy today. But the reason we're having this context and this conversation in the first place is that May 19th uh something special happens and something that uh Glenn has been killing himself on and we have been working on for uh ever since the first book came out. And that's we're addition we're we're letting out of the cage the second edition of of becoming a supple leopard. And we want to talk a little bit today about lessons learned and some of the things that you can see in the new book. And this is not by all means a book announcement. What we really wanted to do is get into the nitty-gritty of two years of experience of, you know, coming off the road and seeing where this thing has been and in the populations it's reached and some of the things that we've been able to clarify and advance in our own thinking. So that's the context. That's the setup. We've got we've got Glenn Cordo on one side, we've got TJ on the other side, probably the two guys who know the brain and the model better than anyone else. And what we wanted to do is again look at sort of retrospective where we've been because when Glenn and I started this thing it was like 2011 wasn't it? I mean Glenn what 2010 was really when you first called me about this and that's a lot of water under the bridge and a lot of a lot of rubber hits the road. So tell let me do this. Let me turn this over to TJ and uh TJ swing away like take some Glenn and I are here to answer and and I think uh in the background we've got our guy CJ who's running the the internet show. So, if you're if you're logging in, want to get some questions, go ahead and go to our YouTube channel, Mobilitywad. You can ask uh live hangout or you can go right there at Mobility Wad and ask a question. It'll get picked up and we'll we'll get reflected back. But in the meantime, two years in, lessons learned, hard lessons learned, easy lessons learned, and where we're going because uh I this is pretty exciting about this this next edition. And and frankly, just to clear off, it is a radically different book. It's a completely new book and uh I'm very very excited about. So TJ, why don't why don't you swing away, man? Hit me with an eye up. Well, thanks buddy. My pleasure. And uh I think um one of the questions that comes to my mind as someone I my personal collision with all this uh I've written about quite a bit and um so I've been riding this wave with you guys because of you guys. But uh I'm sort of curious about um the reaction uh the conversation that you started and may have had with um with your fellow physical therapists, those that are in the sports medicine community. Um what what what sort of uh reaction insight uh have they sparked any sort of additional growth in in your thinking along uh the mobility path? I tell let me take a swing at this Glenn that what we've seen is you know prior I think to uh mobility wad and supple leopard there was a real gap between um acute care and acute level rehab thinking and sort of what we were looking at as sports performance and to my feeling I mean I was only one guy in the strength conditioning world but there was not a lot of positional integrity maintenance that yes sometimes hey you needed to like flag on the barbell a little bit or you know get warmed up or someone would push your elbows up really hard when you front squatted. But what no one was doing was really saying hey look just because a range of motion is painfree we haven't sort of no one was really drilling down and saying that is a complete or normal range of motion. What we saw was that athletes were working with incomplete ranges, incomplete stability. And a lot of the master coaching around that was based on good compensatory coaching and training to solve a movement problem. And in the physio world, you know, the model had been let's wait till athletes break or have some pain and then let's try to resolve the tissue dysfunction with very little looking at what the the motor pattern was or the motor deficient issue was or the restriction that caused this this tissue problem and sort of working backwards. And then the other hole we saw was that people weren't really not taking a very systematic approach in the clinic. Certainly a systematic approach adjusting joint capsules, sliding surfaces, those tissues, even the neurodynamics of motor control at the at the lower level. But where we really saw the gap was that the physical therapists are not prepared to handle the volumes of niggling small pinch tweaks and it's actually inex it's expensive and not and timeconuming and not really efficient to be able to every time you just h dork your shoulder or tweak your shoulder or have a little kind of a hip tweak in a squat to go run off and see your physical therapist. What we saw was also that athletes had zero I mean like zero understanding of how their bodies worked or how to try to try to fix them if they had a tissue restriction. And what we tried to do was translate a new language into athletes being able to understand the components that were missing their restriction or causing their lack of of position or their position falting and be able to really take a crack at the high level tissue sort of resolution. And so, you know, I think prior to Supple Leopard, there was very few mobilizations out there that weren't like, hey, roll on a foam roller or maybe, you know, do some myofascial release on a on a trigger point ball or something like that. But we hadn't seen a real kind of cogent system that went in and empowered the athlete to be able to to model the the their own treatment and home into into their own sort of resolution and optimized performance. And the real I think pivot in physical therapy has been really to look at what is the the inter session change not the intraession change. And so what that means is I as a physical therapist can do a lot to resolve your own mechanics but how much are you doing between sessions to take a crack at your own mechanics. So what we've seen is this has created another language for athletes to be able to go home or or physical therapists to even apply these movement principles and the home mobilizations as a home exercise program. And so we really spun up and got a little bit more sophisticated about going after ribs and and and flossing and and restoring joint capsule restrictions. And we've come up with some very novel techniques. The generally the physios have been very receptive and the chyros have been extremely receptive. There are of course you know there are some haters out there but let haters hey the bottom line is what we've seen is that universally the physios that I've worked with have really come on board and said hey this is integrative and I really appreciate that you have empowered the person to take a crack at themselves so that they're not taking a day off from work and coming into the clinic so I can tell them they have stiff quads. That is not a good use of anyone's time. I mean do you need a doctor's diagnosis to say you have quad stiffness? No. So that has been I think where we've seen the tie change and the medical profession is slow to react. It's a big ship going in a certain direction and we've slowly started to see one degree of change on the horizon and physios and chyros and osteos and providers you know are becoming better coaches for one which has been a real revolution and two I think we're seeing that the athletes being a better pair and uh and that makes me wonder I know you've done some work uh within the NFL and and and other professional leagues and I'm curious to hear what Glenn has to say about the fighting world but this this whole to me uh from the journalistic perspect perspective is, as you just sort of mentioned, it's this shift of responsibility. In other words, I I have a problem uh in the gym or when I'm running or whatever, rather than just like limping into the PT's office or sports medicine clinic and go, I don't I hurt, fix me, I want to run tomorrow. You know, you're one of your primary messages is maybe the primary message has been, you know what, you're part of this. you know, it's you you've got to your investment in yourself is going to pay off not only in your own sort of personal maintenance program, but when you do have to go to the sports medicine clinic, you'll have tried so many things and you'll actually be speaking a language will help the PT, the chiropractor out in treating you. Um, I'm kind of curious, uh, where in in something like the NFL where there's so much money at stake and they're a little more progressive in these things, has have you seen some sort of changes, uh, in the conversation there? And and I I'd also wonder if Glenn has seen that uh, in his domain. Glenn, you want to take a shot first? Yeah, absolutely. So, in in fighting and in and in mixed martial arts especially, technique is paramount to everything. So most fighters, in other words, will take we'll focus on making sure that their technique is perfect, right? So what what I think the main principles in supple leopard help some of the fighters is understanding just the basics. Like you show me how to perform a proper guillotine show or you show me how to perform a proper kick or a punch, but no one ever teaches you how to organ or organize your spine in a in a neutral position, right? No one ever told tells you that you have to be in, you know, have your shoulder in neutral position when you're performing a choke to maximize power and prevent, you know, leaking force. And then there's the whole maintenance aspect, which, you know, fighting is is one of the most brutal sports. And it's not just the fighting, it's the training because in training, you're, you know, you're actually fighting, you're wrestling, you're you're taking hard shots. And people don't have a blueprint for taking care of their bodies, you know, and and I think this has helped you, you know, Forest Griffin, um, and a ton of fighters that I've worked with on, you know, on an amateur and professional level have been able to use the principles very effectively to recover and and and and I think not just recover, but going back to to the technical aspect of it, it's, you know, taking some of these principles of core midline stability have improved technique across the board. If you look at, for example, if someone's throwing a round kick, one of the most basic and and common techniques used in martial arts, it's commonly done from an overextended position. And as a result, most fighters, their low back is smoked. And they don't they don't have a clue why. They're just like, "Oh, it's just a consequence of fighting. It's not a consequence of fighting. It's a consequence of moving incorrectly." And that's and and that's something that a lot of people just don't understand. they just think, hey, this is just this is just, you know, a consequence of me playing my sport, but it's not. It's consequence of you not understanding how to move your body or how to treat your body. So, I mean, even for me in my practice and and and you know, I still train. I I don't compete anymore, but um it's it's it's just been crucial to understand, hey, this is how I need to move. this is and and and regardless of the contacts and this is how I need to this is the maintenance that I need to perform in order to avoid injury. So, it's it's been huge. It's been huge and it's and it's helped even my technique and understanding, oh, I can cultivate more power if my body's in this position versus another position. And so he's changed the way that I actually look and perform techniques because before when I thought I was doing it correctly, turns out I wasn't organized in the best position possible and that affected my technique and I didn't know that for you know 10 years of training. Had no idea. So we've seen you know one of the good news because we remain sort of program agnostic. you know, we really feel like it's the local strength and conditioning coach who really has the best feel and handle on how much squatting do I need to do, where's my conditioning needs, you know, do I need to do as much conditioning as I need to do, position, strength work, and what what we've been able to do is again by remaining sort of neutral in terms of how how much we should be, you know, training, you know. Um my uh I think the bottom line is that we have seen um a set of tools given to the strength coach and the athlete that's allowed them to really optimize and explain sort of compensatory patterns. So you know off the top of my head um you know George St. Pierre is a is a good friend of ours and you know we've had the great luck of sort of being able to hang it hang heaven you know and one of the one of the things that he saw was that you know he was missing some key ranges of his shoulder and that would leave him a little bit soft on his knockouts and he couldn't bring his hip all the way through and it means he was dumping some force out of that back foot and it would end up causing this twist and when he got really clean shots the shots weren't as powerful as they were. They should have been knockout shots and you made really clean contact. So being able to explain some of those positions to him helps him understand ah that's why that matters and why this has got to be because this this missing range this compensation is costing me power. when we work with some of our NFL athletes um you know when we express this language in terms of performance not injury prevention and the metrics are wattage speed time weight you know what we really see is that athletes start to understand hey I'm in a better position and I express you know more force effectively you know one of the things that's been given that's nice about the book is you know imagine I don't think people understand in the life of professional athlete there you're you don't have a a cadre of people massaging you and and stretching you and it's it's a really compressed really aesthetic life. It where there's a lot of meetings and a lot of grinding and it's it's a very cool life but it's not very sexy and there's not a lot of downtime for you to go ahead and maintain your positions and mechanics and injure in sports where we know the injury rate is nearly 100% like the NFL. You know, athletes need to be able to have a template to be able to solve their problems on their own within the context of helping out their sports performance staff. the sport performance staff can't handle all the things they're dealing with the real injuries which happen in sport. And the other thing is that we've created a model where we've systematically worked headto toe on helping athletes find their blind spots that they you know that's what one of the the coins from our friend Jill Miller says hey look you know we've we've systematically said you're responsible for everything underneath the hair to the feet and I know that your quads are stiff but you haven't touched your triceps or your t-spine and so what we've done is I think created a language where we've athletes cycling through archetypes cycling through looking for problems before they become come problems and that alone I think is really a paradigm shift especially in the in the pro community whose immaculate genetics really a lot of people don't feel pain or they just are living with it or they can perform in spite of it and giving people this set of tools has been profound and we have seen it in every major sport we have got our hands on every big league sport I mean just there's none out there that we haven't seen or get work with some team professionally or their athletes um and by the Thank everybody. Thanks everybody for joining us and uh we're getting your questions in and I'm going to relay one of them to you now, Kelly. Um and I I I'd like to tie this into uh into the next edition you have of the book and wonder if that will reflect some of this, but uh Mark Ripto has offered some criticisms and I I I know that you've engaged that some and uh if you'd like to take us through I any clarification you'd like to make or how you would answer what he has to say about uh your work. Well, it's I think it's important to understand that Ripto was a really important influence of mine and was a good friend. Um, you know, I had the good fortune of like literally listening to him coach, you know, I called him up as a young physio student coach and asked him some questions and he picked up the phone and and as as a model for uh it's been hugely hugely informative on my understanding of of work with the barbell. You know, I I think the problem is when you know, we're not advocating necessarily for a style of training. You know, Ripto's real contribution is saying, "Hey, let's establish some benchmarks around strength so that we can have a conversation about being strong enough that people were spinning their wheels in in conditioning and not making a systematic sort of evolvement towards uh you know, base strength, you know, and there and there's some old rules out there. bench three, you know, squat four, deadlift five. And and and in a in a in a big world, those are very reasonable gains and reasonable goals. And most of the, for example, all of the the top CrossFit athletes I know can do that. So when when when Mark early on without putting words in his mouth, you know, was really important for me about saying, "Hey, let's become systematic about the way we train so that we can be a little bit more, you know, contiguous and and and and see some some deficits come up." And what we've actually seen in the in the CrossFit world is that people are very skilled and very strong and now are going backwards into the aerobic conditioning like real generally aerobic capacity world you know around um you know my thinking about bas basic linear progression which is an old concept and certainly not marks you know I think I read about with uh with Pavl but you know that really remained the the cornerstone of our work around uh um rehabbing and and putting people under systematic load and really reasonable way and that basic linear progression we've seen is the fastest fastest way to take the slack out of someone. Do we differ on styles of weightlifting and how to move? Absolutely. You know, and one of the I think the key concepts of the way we think is we're not looking at barbell training as a means to fitness. We're saying that barbell training is a means to improve function and transfer function to other sports and in considerations. We see barbell training as a way of testing rigorousness of position and not just being worried about, hey, am I strong enough and doing this, you know, and for example, I think the big, you know, Mark really advocates turn the feet out because that allows athletes to get to depth and squat. And our contention is if you admire people out there and getting strong and practice thousands of reps, we're going to see that fa same foot turned out pattern when they jump and land, when they when they cut, and that ends up becoming a problem. And so if we don't end up sort of moving towards what we should be able to do and unless someone has some pathological injury and problem that I think that's that's where you know you'll see arguments about that sort of attenuate because you know to the point that you know it's great that we're we're systematic and working what we have seen is that athletes can't transfer skills and also set up that sets up a certain squella of problems that we we don't see when we train for positions as it relates to sport and world and best physiology. And uh um another little area I think it'd be fun to hear you guys talk about uh and I I can't imagine when you first put together uh self a leopard exactly what you imagine the response to be and and how well the book is clearly sold and is still selling today. Um, but uh I actually shared a message I received just yesterday from a good friend I go back a long ways with uh an old running buddy in the early 90s and he's a very good runner and his name is Mike McManis. He works for Adidas. Uh back in the day he was a two 220 marathoner 30 minute 10k guy and he just let me know that he came across uh mobility watt. read ready to run and and he just he basically said he called it fountain youth fountain of youth was his phrase and he's he's expecting to run a 31m minute 10k this October at the age of 49 and I think uh and I know I'd like to hear again maybe from the fighting side Forest Griffin who uh is on you know in the fighting world he's on the older side and obviously maybe one of the things that that the the messages that your your book is out there helping people extend their careers or enjoy being enjoying being an athlete longer and I wonder if you guys could talk about that a little bit. Well, you know what we've seen is sort of an a gross apologetics uh across sport that sport is somehow the domain of youth and windows and light switches start to turn off on your capacity. that means ah yeah you wore out your knee or that old labreum or that tweak that you had there's the bear by the way and what we've seen is you know that's not true that if we what we've what we've seen is that as people have aged their positions have become more fixed they've become stiffer you know they're not they're making these basic adaptation errors so at no point do we see tissues stop healing at no point do we see um you know you can't be bone on bone and miraculously grow bone There's some things like that that are problems, but but generally what we've seen is when we have positional capacity, we don't need a 100% of your window and effect to have a full life. What we've seen is that people are working at 50% or less of indigenous range of motion. That's literally, I mean, let me say that clear, 50% or less that they are so stiff and tacked down and they're still generating a lot of force for a long time in this little tiny window. And that's the problem. As soon as we give people an additional base of of of slop, of rotation, of of extensibility in their tissues, of how the the sliding surfaces slide, I think we've been able to see that athletes who are older are very very competitive and actually much harder to beat because they've been they have a history of competing and it's really hard to beat people who have been doing it at the highest level forever and ever. And the other issue is that we've seen that, you know, if we can extend the careers of some of our uh tactical athletes, you know, into their 30s, into their 40s, it really starts to say, hey, look, we have set the bar much lower. Plus, then and we can we can, you know, there's a lot we can do to extend the careers of a lot of our tactical athletes. And you know, at the same time, you know, there's millions of dollars of training and the cost of taking care of our broken athletes, broken soldiers afterwards. So, if we can capture some of this injury prevention, really keep our best assets, best athletes in the field, I think we're going to start to see that we don't suddenly just drop generations because right now the whole system is it's a young person's game and then at some point you stop training or being elite because you're too old. So we have seen profound profound changes when we have our athletes start focusing on the positional rigorousness. Can you do these normal baseline shapes? I don't think I can remember Glenn an age when you're stop you're supposed to be able to stop squatting to the ground to take a poo. Can you remember that? I there's you know the number one reason people end up in nursing homes they can't get up off the ground. And you know, there's revolutionary, you know, research that shows that if you can do a push-up, a push-up is a good indicator for your capacity and not end up in a nursing home because you can push up. And uh so what point do we stop training? I think that's really where we're going to we've seen a tide shift around capacity and health and pain and uh it has been profound especially working with athletes in their 40s, you know, 50s and even all the masters athletes we get our hands on crossfit. profound and and let's be honest, you just a lot of athletes, but particularly particularly in the world of MMA, just don't get interest. They're not interested in taking care of their body until something breaks down. And Kelly talks about this a lot and and it spans across all sports is I think once you reach your 30s, you start to think, well, you know, my body's starting to break down a little bit more. Um, but I don't have a blueprint to start to solve these problems. And I think that's what that was the magic of becoming a supple upper and ready to run is it gave people a model to start thinking about this stuff. And because and this goes back to kind of Ripto's um poo pooing on the whole like the squat open foot versus straight foot debate is like look we're taking a principle-based approach to performing these movements and these mobilization techniques. So that makes it ubiquitous across all sport planes. So all of a sudden, it doesn't matter if I'm training MMA, it doesn't matter if I play in the NFL, or if I'm um you know, your weekend warrior CrossFit athlete. Um it it works all the same. And if if I'm an older athlete, like I respond better to this stuff now because I have to do it. I understand that I'm I'm going to be able to train harder if I if I follow this blueprint. You know what I'm saying? Does that make sense? Yeah. And uh you know I think the the question is sort of we have been you know in the ex modern exercise physiology science is is has leaprogged in a quantum like in a crazy way uh in the last 10 years in terms of connecting the dots and the silos of information coming down and people connecting. Um what we haven't done a good job of or we're starting to is say what does physical practice mean? I have a physical practice and we've gotten really experts in nutrition and sleep and strength training and conditioning and stress and I do yoga and I meditate and you're like and I I'm really confused because all these components are the same part of the the physical practice and I think what we've been able to do with PSL is really make the case that it's part of an athletes physical practice or should be to maintain the health and integrity of their tissues. and maintain the integrity and robustness of their positions. And what we've done is in the last year I think we've you know I mean I I can just speak to my own experience for example in CrossFit is that we've seen the general fitness of people their ability to perform work go through the roof. what we expect. You know, when I first did Fight Gone Bad, for example, you know, there was a hundred people in the room, this is 11 years ago, 12 years ago, and uh you know, one person got over 300. One person and uh we thought that guy was a god, you know, and uh I think I was 10th at 280. Like this is 11 or 12 years ago. Now 300 is a score on FCON bat that we think is a JV varsity girls rowing score. So, I mean I mean I'm that clear that and not to poo poo the JB varsity girls because they can now kick some butt. My point is that we have radically seen the language and capacities change. You know, there was an old video of a CrossFit athlete um my the guy named Josh Everett and um you know he uh is a a strength coach with uh with the Navy. He was an you know high level Olympic. He cleaned and jerked 345. we were all mind blown and you know guys are snatching that now and running five minute miles and so I I just don't I don't think we can appreciate how far the bar has moved along this and I you know and that's that's very sort of important to this conversation because what we expect is possible has really radically changed. So, so maybe uh maybe you guys could talk a little bit about what your conversation has been over the last year or two years in terms you you uh you know you sent off uh becoming a supple leopard of the printer. Um, and I know how hard you guys worked on that. I was around and uh um and a word that kept on coming up every time that I interviewed you, Kelly, was we're having this discussion at a dinner at the dinner table and that you you kind of made the point that you wanted that to be kind of your model for how we where we go from here. What what has been the discussion? What what can we look forward to uh in the second edition? Well, I I tell you, um I think that um the second that book we we were really limited that you know, we we thought we couldn't do more than 400 pages the first time out. Uh you know, uh you know, the he the serious lifting in writing and editing and you know, I I first of all, I'll just say that no one should write a book. It's the worst idea ever and the least good use of your time all time. And uh and good thing you have a if you're going to write one, write one with your best friend who can live at your house and make it work. And you know, I think the second that book went off, we saw that we had opportunity. You know, our thinking had already advanced and our organization of our thinking. We didn't change fundamentally any of the principles. We we didn't backtrack on anything that we thought we were wrong on. we were able to sort of continue to evolve the nuances of our thinking around explaining our principles. But one of the biggest pieces and if you look at the new book, it's about 480 pages, right Glenn? Yeah. So we've added about a hundred pages and nearly we've added a full book to the book and and in that I you know some of the things we we've pulled out some of the old techniques that have just gotten stale and that we've found that better techniques forward replace them added another I think 50 techniques that are really sort of our current pallet of treatment and things that we're finding to be sort of our go-tos in the clinic. But in that I think the most salient conversation is that we um were starting to organize our thinking around some of these base archetypal shapes. We we were already talking about sort of what are the elemental fundamental positions in in terms of the archetypes. And if you follow in mobility w you hear me talk about the basic shapes that all the shoulder needs to be able to do in order to be normal. And what we found was that we we we pulled the book apart and sort of restructured it around um you know these these sort of fundamental archetypes so that it creates an even more simplified language for people to understand the start and finish components to all of their complex movements and then to mobilize those positions. So instead of saying shoulder sliding surfaces, now it's hey, here are the sliding surfaces treatments around restoring the front rack position. And that I think should make it easier. Plus, we've just added I mean two years of practice. We just have gotten, you know, we've been out there working with athletes, teaching our course, working at universities and institutions. And I really think that that brings to the second piece that I'll have Glenn talk about is that we have really because we put out our manifesto and then have seen it picked. You know, in two weeks I'm speaking at Stanford at the as the keynote for Shannon Turley's first strength conditioning conference. Stanford is doing one is one of the biggest universities most progressive universities around looking at position and taking much more organic view of health around their athletes. you know, Shan Turley was NCAA strength coach of the year and is extremely progressive and you know, as a testament that guys like Andrew Luck and still things come back and train with him in the offseason and um you know, he's really stood up and said, "Hey, I'm going to have to show the un other universities what we're doing if we're going to really improve the health and wellness of our athletes." So if what what's nice about leopard then is we've seen you know it been adopted at an institutional level and we've seen how coaches and work with coaches to refine how it fits into their already busy very robust very successful program and that also realized that we needed to add some basic templating and basic recipes and Glenn talk about that because we really we wanted to say like look there's no recipe but we realized that people needed a a place to start And Glenn, talk about like because I think this is one of the best parts of the new book. Yeah. And and that's just it. Like in the first book, we really just want to give people the tools so that they can create their own recipe. So here's the ingredients. Here's all here's all here's all the things that you need to know in order to develop your and construct your own individualized mobility program. We realize the shortcomings of that and we wanted to take some of the the thinking out of it because there are some prescriptions and some things that you can put together so that you have an immediate model. So instead of having to read for and as Kelly mentioned we reorganized the book so that so that all the principles all the all the information that you need to know is contained into one part part one. So if you if you read that you essentially you it's the system in a nutshell. you have all the tools that you need to go on and move move safely and effectively and start to perform, you know, uh start to start to maintain your body. Um but having a prescription, so if I have low back pain or if I'm missing overhead range of motion, you know, I'm going to give you a specific example. We actually had a question a little bit earlier from someone who had uh knee surgery um miniscus repair removal and and he or she was asking um okay I want to get into heavy squatting. I I believe that that's going to improve my athletic performance. That's what my coaches tell me. How would I use u the prescriptions you're talking about? How would that person how have you thought about that person in the context of of your rewriting? Well, in terms of the prescription or and addressing the the question specifically, I'm not I would have to turn that over to Kelly to to to to answer exactly. Let me jump in because what for around them, what's nice is that hey, the the question is specific. I'm I'm having a problem or I need to optimize my squat. Turns out that the squat shape is one of the archetypes that you have to be able to express. In fact, we think unless you can squat with your torso upright, really upright, then we're not going to see normal full capacity around the hip and the ankle. You can hide some of those problems and still get a lot of work done, become very strong with back squatting or front squatting, but the best expression is of function, not necessarily strength, is show me that you can squat with your torso up and down. And so, what's nice is that athlete can go to the section in the back and see, hey, this squat archetype, this is this is me. And can I hit these pieces around the performances around the archetype? Can I identify when my knee comes in that that's a broken archetypal position? Or if I'm turning my foot out and my arch collapsed, that's a broken archetypal position. You know, if I overextend in the bottom, that's a broken archetypal position. But then also, we've created a template of saying these are the mobilizations that we find most effective at improving the squat shape. Now, it doesn't mean that if your upper back is tight that that's not a contributing problem to your ability to squat. And certainly in those archetypal prescriptions, we've addressed upstream and downstream components to it. So, but now the person be like, squat problem shoot, you know, oh, hey, I have a problem in my press. Well, we've made it very clear that the press is the bottom position is the front rack archetype and the overhead position is the finish position. So gives an athlete a prescription saying, you know, can I get a start position? Can I get my finish position around the archetype? So it doesn't take a genius to say, hey, my overhead position, well, that looks like an overhead press. That's where I'm having pain in my shoulder. I should work on the overhead position. And I think that's what's been very it's going to be very useful and telling about helping people develop a pattern. And I, you know, some of it is that we ran out of room. Some of it is just that, you know, we had to put the book out. And but I can tell you is that, you know, one of the the hallmarks, I think, of Glenn's coaching and training and my coaching and training is that we watched a lot of masters work and then we're able to start to understand because we could emulate their work. That's what a beginner does, right? You follow a coach, you start to emulate thinking, you see the pattern. You know, I got to see Greg Glassman program. I got to see Ripto program. I got to see Mike Bergner program. I got to see Louis Simmons program and all the you know I got to see Brian McKenzie program and all of a sudden I start to understand what basic programming looks like and that we've done the same thing here. We've really tried to give people basic programs so that they can then start to figure out a language on their own. Yeah. And and not just programs this like Kelly said. So if if I'm having an issue in the squat specifically, you would go go into the squat archetype section and there you would see a list of all the mobilization techniques that would improve that particular uh position. And in addition to that, we provided sample prescriptions that deal with specific issues that you might be having. Are you struggling to keep uh are you are you missing hip flexion, for example? There'll be a sample prescription that will help improve that particular that particular restriction. If you're missing, you know, if you you're missing ankle dorsif flexion in the pistol, well, you can go to the pistol arc type and there you'll find all the mobilization techniques that will improve that particular position. So it just gives you a road map so that instead of just looking at it based on the body so you can navigate using the area map um because it's broken down into body regions or you can use the arc types to help navigate the mobilization techniques because we created these icons that you'll see throughout the book that that help you understand this is the arc type that's included in this movement and or and if you're in the mobility section you'll have uh the arc button will tell you what that mobility technique improves. So, so for example, if you're looking at, you know, the couch uh uh the couch stretch, you know, that that improves the squat, the lunge, you know, um and and all the archetypes be included in that in that in that section. So, it just it just improves the navigability to navigate the book and helps you understand what you need to do and when you need to do it. What we've realized is that people really needed they had no schema for understanding how to take a crack at fixing themselves at all. Zero. You know, and if you the number of emails, cold emails that we get from very high level professionals trying to solve their problems, found the technique book, found the videos, and you know, these are experts in their field who are miraculous movers and geniuses, but were having problems they couldn't solve. And what's nice about the book and the the concept is that a lot of the best athletes in the world are really good at getting prepared for their job. They know how to w do get in the NFL, but they don't understand sort of how they're working underneath that. So what's nice is that by giving people this set of tools, we've really seen them start to solve their own sets of problems and be able to make it very explicit for them. So we sort of have two issues. One is that we have people coming in who have had no formal training in movement at all. They're they're learning to squat for the first time. They're learning to del for the first time. They they've had back surgery. They never been athletes. They have no schema for this. And we have very very sophisticated athletes um you know who who are able to say, "Hey, I I've been training. I know how to get trained, but I don't understand the nuance of of maintaining positions or how to undo that." And and we've got to address both those. I think we have. I think we we really have. like this book, you know, I think Glenn will agree that, you know, we this thing can we we'll leave it. There's not a new one coming out. This is this thing is pretty tight and will last. I mean, at least I have I don't know when we're going to go back into it, but we have a lot of other work to do. But, I mean, I I think when people see it, it has a black cover. Um, it's very very different. The layout is different. Um, you know, one of the things I'm most proud about is the the illustrations. You know, we have about 60 illustrations illustrating some of the more complex concepts around sequencing the spine and getting organized around creating torque uh anatomy and physiology sort of diagrams so people can see specifically what we're trying to target. And I I think this is a much better, you know, blueprint and book and and that's a function of, you know, the phenomenal work of of Glenn and the team and and also we've been practicing and if you're, you know, if your system doesn't evolve and your sophistic you know and it doesn't show more nuance and understanding and simplicity, then you either nailed it the first time, which is very unlikely, or you are lying about sophistication and sort of evolution of what's going on. And it's okay to say we were less sophisticated four years ago or five years when we started this and here's our understanding today and here's the better expression of that. You know what uh a lot of times when we talk about all this stuff we end up talking about uh athletes who are struggling with uh perhaps injuries or past injuries or older athletes. But one of the things I think um you've underscored many times and it's it's worth mentioning here particularly if there's uh anyone new to CrossFit who might be listening in and I've got the feeling that's the case um that we're not just talking about injury prevention rehabilitation. We're talking about performance. That's something you say over and over and over and uh had this conversation. I'd like to hear your comments about it with Neil Maddox and uh former NFL player um top crossfitter now elite crossfitter and that's that's a world where they're pressing so many boundaries uh particularly in competition it's um I'm sure you've got a lot to say about that itself but in but what Neil was talking about was training and the comment he made was that a particular coach he ran into here he was he could do a heavy squat but the coach convinced him that forget the barbell, forget the weights, let's perfect your air squat. We're talking about a guy who was probably incredibly strong at the time and Neil told me that when he listed took that advice and went and mastered his air squat, the position, the mechanics, all all of that, the performance that flowed out of that just blew his mind and it's become like a a core principle of his approach to training and coaching. I just wonder because I think you've been a big part of that discussion. I wonder if you have any comments on that. Well, I think the comment is we are ego-driven people whether we like it or not. And and frankly, training should be the way to be able to suppress the ego to to come up against the limits of your positional quality, the limits of your conditioning, the limits of your strength every day and realize, boy, there's a lot of work to do. Um, you know, this is strength and conditioning is really and and a a physical practice is really about physical self-actualization. It's really what this is. and they integrate about breathing and stress and then regulation. You know what we see is traditionally we have only ever valued weight on the bar typically or load as a way of evaluating quality. And if because it was unloaded, we sort of poo pooed it. And and I'm not the first person to say, you know, you should be able to do these movements unloaded. I mean that's great cook, that's great glassman, that's the way we teach at level one, that's you know that's the way we teach children and progress. But I I think really understanding the principles underlying body weight movements because it's harder to express some of that. You know, we put children under load. We put our endurance athletes under load because it's a way of teaching some of the principles of maintaining stable positions and and we can hide a lot. If you can do that, move well, principally well with very little load and at speed, that also is a way of informing about sort of the rigorousness of your ability to then extrapolate up because what I can tell you is that if you have a squat problem, the first thing I'll do is watch you air squat. And what we can see is as as a diagnostic is a means the principles are the same. The issue is that it's just unloaded or your torso is in a slightly different position. And what we what we'll find is that the problems that you're making there, you can sort sometimes hide under a little bit of load because you're pushing against it or you're you're in a fixed position. But in those unloaded states, here's an example. Our good friend Carl Pi likes to take good athletes and throw them on the trampoline and in the air all of a sudden there's no load and people overextend and their shoulders come forward and their knees do crazy stuff. And you can really see their inability to stay integrated with when there's no connection to the ground. And what we've done with the air squad for example is in that iteration my understanding would be that you know Neil was really able to understand those positions and the efficiency of those low kind of load demands and that's that's why that's that those things will never go out of style that that refining your understanding of fundamental movements of archetypal start and finish position shapes pays dividends reverend and know and even with Neil I suspect that's a little bit of a moving target for him you know that you know he is very strong and what I can tell you is that one of the reasons we are always refining and going back and touching the corners and making sure that the box is fully colored in is that an athlete changes based on what's going on their life, what's going on with their family, what's going on with their children, what's going on with training loads, what's going on with injuries and tweaks, competitions. It's a moving target and you never achieve this perfect nirvana state. All you have to do is jump on a plane to South Africa and you have just undone your perfect spinal mechanics. So you better have a template to one identify the the the gaps in your system and be able to, you know, resolve those positions because it's constantly moving. And uh I've got uh I think we have time for one more question here. And uh this is uh this is in regards to uh um the San Jose women's swimming team who I know of you worked with and and I've had a chance to meet meet them and uh talk with the coaches. Really impressive crew and they're just they're talk about being open-minded and uh interested in experimenting in new ideas. I I know that injuries were part of their program kind of before they started working with you and Brian McKenzie and when they decided to adopt kind of some CrossFit into their program as well as mobility as well as um swimming technique with Brian uh they they came under criticism from colleagues and also basically threats like you know you're going to have a bunch of injured girls and uh but what happened is you meet these girls and they look incredible. They they they've got these uh they're bodies that are they're not the typical swimming body. They're not they look more like the cathletes as opposed to kind of some of the long-distance swimmers you tend to see and and they come out unharmed. They get out of the pool without injuries. Their injury rate went down. Their injury rate went down and um they took they also adopted diet principles. The question was, are they have they from your working with them, are you really seeing that team, uh, the coaches there kind of like embrace what you're talking about? Absolutely. In fact, uh, one of their senior graduating captains is on our staff at our gym right now at CrossFit and is now the assistant coach there. So, we in fact, you know, Sage and I text probably two or three times a week and are are deeper. What one of the the the things that I think you're seeing is that you know this this is not a construct where the where the book and the principles have gone is not a construct of our imagination or wishful thinking. We have seen profound profound uh effect with the institutional level change the individual you know we we are seeing more and more you know new young athlete coaches soldiers come in coaches come in physios come in where we we've made lots and lots of inroads and change. What we feel like is over the the long haul, it's the localized coach who's going to know how to integrate this program best into their system. And you know, one of the the tenants of what we try to do is not necessarily always shout about, hey, look at us, we're here and you know, we lectured at this place. One of the things we're trying to do is say we work for professional coaches and athletes and we really try to support their program and the integrity of their program. you know we I would never claim all I could claim is that we have optimized a lot of people's thinkings around recovering position and and optimizing the positional mechanics and explaining some of the phenomenon. A good example is the world athletic center. You know as we've worked more and more of those guys out in there they're in Phoenix that's headed by coach Dan FAF who's one of the supreme running coaches in track and field on the planet for the last gazillion years. I don't know how many national champions for the champions world records he works with but it's a lot like all of them and what I can tell you is that those guys you know their practice and the way of thinking looks a lot like our practice and we've been able to come in and say you know here are techniques that make your job easier and uh and that's where we're going to continue to see the boundaries pressed about what we think is best practice and how people are integrating this already into very very complex compressed in inst institutional level changes. So, you know, the one of the things that we're really proud of and and and feel like if you if you are serious about your program or your methodology, one be able to explain the principles behind it and how they integrate into the other issues. You can't just say anymore squatting just makes you a better person. Like that's we're beyond that, you know, everyone's squatting now. You know, the the second thing is you need to be able to explain all the phenomenon that you're seeing from injured athletes all the way up to Olympians, from moms and dads down to children. And if you can't draw a connect line between injury and the Olympic medal, then then there's a hole in your thinking somewhere. And what we've seen is we can apply these principles at child level, developmental level all the way up. And we and and subsequently, I think we're having good effect. Well, guys, I'm told that we need to uh wrap up a little bit. Um Kelly, I'll turn it back over to you. Thank you so much. Uh honor to be a part of this and uh appreciate all the good work you guys do. Uh, thanks TJ. Well, I tell you, um, you know, we we're we're unveiling some good stuff on the website soon. We're we're the first episode of of our diagnostic series is dropping today. And what we've realized is now that we've given people a chance at cracking themselves. We're showing our work and we're going to show how people are we're solving and continuing to solve, you know, very very simple problems. If you get a diagnosis, here's how you go. as we have worked our way around more elegant and more efficient straight to the to the issue problems, I think that we're we've realized that we have to continue to create better tools for all of the the coaches and athletes working out there. So, you know, kudos to Glenn for for driving this and, you know, his his, you know, his attention to detail and immacul. Um, I am very very proud of the first book and I'm proud of the the coaches and athletes and the effect it's had in the world and the the number of conversations that it started around things like icing or not icing, about daily maintenance, about what is full physiologic range and capacity. And I'm also even more proud about this next book because I think it's going to stand the test of time as one of the few books out there that actually explains principles behind the physiology, how they relate to different movements and how we can fix them. I I think it's very profound. Do anything you want to add about this new book because it is bad ass. No, just just want to emphasize that this is this is this is a new book. I think it's more of a new book than it is the second edition. And you know, I've just been, it's been such an honor to be a part of the process. And the principles that are outlined in the book have changed my life just as much as they've changed anybody else's lives. I I mean, I I can't say enough good things about the system and and I'm I'm very proud of the the second edition. I think it's it's going to make more sense to the lay reader and I think even people that have the first edition are going to extract a lot of new information um from from the new edition. I'm very proud of it and very excited for it to release and just extremely grateful to be involved in this process and to be working with you Kelly and uh you as well TJ. It's it's it's been it's been amazing. Well, we're going to see, you know, continue to hang out on mobilitywatch.com, you know, as we practice and learn a little bit more continues to be our open source that it's an emerging phenomenon and the amount of feedback we receive, I think people don't account for that the comments on YouTube, the comments on Twitter sphere, what you know, we the conversations we have with coaches and athletes, the our own work with coaches and athletes institutions, it's all expressed in our work and people I think are really uh should be feel like they have ownership ship because they've really driven sort of the the continued evolution of our thinking. So, Mwad Hangout, we're so glad to uh to spend some time with you and thanks so much. We'll see you guys tomorrow. All right. Thanks, guys. Thank you guys. Bye, Bear.