I guess you know one of the things I love about your work is how practical you are and that's one of the reasons I love following you on Instagram and you know tracking all the work you do and and again I know that you're not someone and we all I think are sort of critical of like this there is one protocol um but I think there's some basics we can all agree on um and I and I guess uh I guess my question to you is what are those basics? And and then I would also sort of add to that if there are some things we should be tracking on the regular, what would those things be? >> That's a great question. I like to think about the foundations and then the fun stuff as big levers and little levers. So if we think about the big levers, these are the obvious um kind of unsexy parts of >> make money with these. >> Yeah. [laughter] Is um you got to move your body. You have to eat a diet that is mostly healthy, mostly going to be unprocessed foods, sometimes M&M's because life must have joy. Okay, seriously, >> you need to get a sufficient amount of sleep in a pattern that makes sense for your body. You need to find a way to cope with stress in a way that works for you and your schedule. You need to surround yourself with people that are really supportive and loving and have uh relationships with others. We know that that's becoming such an important component to the human experience. And if you can start to really dial those big levers in, that's going to have the most what we call in science effect size. So when we think about the magnitude of the outcome, these big levers are going to make a huge difference. They're going to have, if we were to measure it statistically, a large effect size. Then you can start to sprinkle in the fun stuff, right? So once you got those big levers pulled, we're talking about perhaps some supplementation that might enhance your performance or your brain health or, you know, touch on some issues that you're dealing with. You could refine your exercise so that it is specific to training for a marathon or training for a powerlifting event or a high rocks event. Right? So when we think about the overall trajectory, if you can really focus on those big levers, get those under control and then have fun and play with those little levers, you're going to feel confident because you're actually coming back to those same patterns and behaviors over and over again, which is kind of soothing to the soul rather than sort of like responding to every shiny object and things that spin. And you're also allowing yourself the curiosity and the creativity to find those kind of um sprinkles on the cake that you have baked that work best for you and for your body. And so as we think about the sort of foundational pieces, that's the way that I like to frame it. And then as far as things that you want to test, a lot of these wellnessy tests, as we talked about, are kind of experimental at this point and not particularly repeatable. So the things that I really like are the basic blood work panels, right? Particularly around metabolic health. Check your A1c. Check your fasting glucose. Check your triglycerides and your cholesterol. And yes, without going down this rabbit hole, your LDL cholesterol matters. Please get it tested. It is an indicator of cardiovascular disease risk. Maybe more importantly, a low HDL is important for cardiovascular disease risk. So, please be careful in the, you know, biohacker broc science world. Please get your LDL checked. Um, and then on top of that, some really simple things that I like to measure are resting heart rate first thing in the morning. So, if you are consistently at a resting heart rate of, let's call it 55, when you wake up first thing in the morning, and three days in a row you wake up and you're at a 65 or a 68, something's going on there, right? It could be that your sleep is poor. It could be that you're overtrained. It could be that you're getting sick. That's a really good indication for you because it's a measure that is consistent and repeatable in your own body. These other metrics, things like HRV or we talked about the different sleep stages or the sleep zones, I'm not completely convinced that they are an indication of anything right now. If we look at HRV in particular, it changes a lot based upon a lot of inputs that you could manipulate. Like, did you have one extra glass of wine the night before? Did you, you know, stay up too late? Did you have a fight with your partner the day before? That's all going to affect your HRV. But what we don't know yet in the literature is whether that affects your future performance. that just doesn't exist in the literature right now. Like that data is it's an absolute absence of evidence. And in fact, in some cases, this is really fun. They looked at war fighters that were flying planes. And they actually showed that those that had a lower HRV, so poorer HRV, actually flew better the next day. And one of the hypothesises is that they were appropriately stressed out. that they knew that there was a really important and consequential event in their future. And so they had the butterflies in the war fighter set. I like to call it butterflies flying in formation, right? Like they were ready for it. Um but their body was stressed out and that's okay because we know that stress heightens arousal and they needed to be really on point when they were out flying their planes around. So stick with the basics even with the diagnostics. If you get those dialed in and you really learn your own body and you can follow trends over time, you can start to see very clearly where things go wrong. >> And I can I just Please go ahead. >> Well, I was just going to say this is more of a comment and then I'll let Kelly ask his question, but thank you for saying that about HRV because, you know, we actually coach real people. Um, and right and and that's also could be a whole other side conversation, you know, the intersection between like all this talk we do and then the reality of coaching actual humans. But I would say in our group, our START system program, the biggest source of anxiety when it comes to tracking is HRV. So many of our clients are have what they consider to be poor HRV. They can't seem to improve their HRV. Um, and it is this it actually becomes a source of anxiety for them because this wellness, you know, influencer world is telling them that like HRV is the thing. Um, and you know, again, this is not science. This is my instinct tells me that like from from what I see over all these years that you know there's not doesn't seem to be a ton people are able to do to really massively influence it. It seems to be very genetically based. Like I train with this woman Margaret. Her heart you she's 57. Her heart rate variability is like 100 every night. She's just like a mutant. And then you know I don't know. So it's just I thank you for saying that because I do really feel like it's this metric that we don't at least have good protocols for figuring out to improve or control. Um and it does actually cause people a ton the people who are tracking it is causing them a lot of anxiety that it's poor and it's poor in a lot of people because usually the people are tracking are people in their like 40s 50s 60s who are peak job raising kids stress busy life and you know it's just not awesome. >> I'll just tap in really quickly before I ask you a question if you don't mind. Um, when many of the groups and the athletes that I work with, we actually recommend to them, especially at peak performance times, that they stop wearing their wearables. And there was actually, I believe it was the WNBA, they said, "Don't like do not wear your wearable before big games, before championships." Um, because what happens is you wake up in the morning and you look down at your watch and you're like, "Oh god, I am not primed to do my thing today." Right? I'm not primed to to show up. And what it does is it before you even put a foot on the ground in the morning, it biases your brain to believe that you're not able to perform at your own peak at every, you know, the peak that you have been training for every single day. And so we actually recommend that you don't wear those wearables at times that it matters.