So much of our movement patterns, our eating patterns, we overlook the psychology behind it. We just sort of get 30-day plan and we go for it and then we wonder why can't we follow through on it? When we're psychologically inflexible, we're also avoiding discomfort. There's a lot of different types of movement that can meet some of these needs and there's a lot of different ways of distributing this movement because if you have this like inkling thought that it doesn't count, then how are you going to do it? To me, that's sort of one of a thousand examples of psychological flexibility, especially in this fitness space, of just saying, "Hey, you know, I can do something for 10 minutes or 20 minutes or I can do five times 10 minutes throughout my entire day, and that all counts." But that really is an extreme mind shift for people. These six processes of psychological flexibility have been shown to be the primary skills that are needed to make behavioral change happen and for it to be sustainable. Haiti and Diana, welcome to the Ready State podcast. Thanks for having us. Great to be here. Okay. Yeah. I'm going to jump right in here because everyone knows that uh I'm a Katy Bowman fan. Yeah. And this is your second appearance on the Ready State podcast, which we haven't had a lot of double headers. So, thank you for rarified movement nerd air. And uh Dr. Hill. Um, I have been recently feeling like that if I had to do it all over again, I would become a sports psychologist. Performance psychology, talking about how to have people believe in themselves, have resilience. And in this generation, in this time, we are drowning in tools and tactics. And yet somehow there's still all of these barriers to getting people to think differently about moving their bodies. and I am so thrilled to talk about your new book today. So, I mean, this is the perfect mashup of the things that I'm living right now, public health and the performance mindset of how do I come to shake all my family's beliefs about movement and my body so that I can go enjoy myself and be a member of my community. Fabulous. Well, I think so much of our movement patterns, our eating patterns, we overlook the psychology behind it. we just sort of get the 30-day plan and we go for it and then we wonder why can't we follow through on it. So that's what this book is all about and it's been such a pleasure to join with Katie because she has all the biomechanical nutritious movement angle and then I take the psychological angle and it's a perfect pairing when you have the two in your back pocket. So that that leads me to my next question before we start talking about the brass tax of this book. I'd love to hear a little bit about your partnership. How do you all know each other? What what what made you come together to write this book and now for either one of you? Well, Diana, I think had been following nutritious movement right after she had had a baby and I think a lifelong exerciser. Yeah. Lifelong exerciser and couldn't do it in the same way that I used to do it when I had a toddler and a newborn. And so she was incorporating these ideas, came to a live event, and like you, Kelly, I actually took quite a bit of sports psychology, but performance psychology is a little bit different than like what we would now call like fitness psychology. The idea of it's not necessarily about pushing yourself past what you're already doing. It's like, well, I guess it is, except what you're doing right now is maybe not moving as much. So, you're still having to overcome the either physical or the internal barriers to movement. And I had not really explored it from a for a long time. And then Diana and I were talking and she was just so fast with suggestions for like here's a question I keep getting. My big question that I had for her personally was little kids move so well with their older, you know, their adults, but then you get into that pre-teen time and teen time, it starts to fall off. And she had such good practical advice for me, which I love practical advice. Um, was like, maybe they don't need to come on to your page, maybe you need to get on to their page, or maybe you need a new page of movement. And it was just so helpful. I had her on my podcast and and she just time and time again had these really simple tools that made it easier for me to overcome these barriers. And then I was like, we we need to not only do a a book together, the book should be super practical where it's just what are the what are 45 44 actual scenarios that people cannot go through and let's just troubleshoot them one at a time. Like you would be getting coaching and then let's put them together in a book that people can use sort of as a field guide to their lack of motivation that day. But we wanted it also to be really complex and individualized like the way that someone would come into your practice, into my practice. They don't say things like, "Oh, how do I set up my exercise plan for the next uh week?" They say things like, "I have kids and I have a busy job and I want to get my teenager on board with me. How do I do that? It's getting in the way of my movement." So the questions that we have and we answer in this book are real questions from real people from our audience. But then I go at it from this model of psychological flexibility which is simp yes it's simple to apply but it's actually a quite complex model. It's the sort of cutting edge of psychological science right now in terms of our understanding of psychological barriers to anything. Psychological barriers to uh flexibility in your relationships. But now we're applying it to movement. This is really the first thing out there that's like that that's using this advanced psychology in this way. We so cool always are thinking we want to use high performance models, high performance environments to understand what's essential to really so that and and and transform trans transmute those lessons into things that are actionable for my family and my community, my household so that sport isn't just circus. And and certainly what's really interesting about this is that I picked this up and I literally was like, "Come on, right?" You know, like my hardcore cisero male self. I was like, "I didn't motivate. I go to the gym. I'm a bro. We bench." And I dog eared at least 10 things. I was like, "Well, that's me. That's my friends. That's it." And I think this is so important again with the the mindset that I'm working alongside in performance environments with people who are struggling to overcome depression, self-doubt. I had four really intense body composition conversations with some of the best athletes in America at a college recently. And you know, this is really the heart and soul of getting to a healthier community and to have a family and a household that likes to move and enjoys moving and isn't just like, "Hey, I'm doing my clinical prescription of taking my daily dose of exercise." Like Juliet and I have come to believe that we have sucked the joy out of moving our bodies. We have made it so clinical and so just about being shredded on Instagram that people have lost their minds of what the whole point of moving our DNA is. Uh there's the call back, you know, so that we can have a better society and better families. Well, and I think you can even take that concept of performance and be like sometimes in in the day when I was in school, I think performance and optimizing performance meant assuing all the other domains of your life so that you could just kick ass and and and you know and be and and per and be high performance. But performance is really across all domains of your life. You know, it's sort of like much more of an ecological approach. And when we wrote this book, I mean, yes, the cover of the book has like a treadmill covered with laundry, and you're going, "That's not me. I have no problem getting myself onto the treadmill every day." But then we're really asking like, how well are you distributing movement throughout your life? How how well is movement distributed throughout your community time and throughout your family time and and your work time and your nature time? And and to me, that is a more um 360 degree definition of performance. Love it. I like that. We like that. Can I jump in just real quick? Sure. Sure. You said an ecological approach and what I will tell you is that the longer Julian and I are working with people, the more we have to evaluate their beliefs about exercise, their beliefs about nutrition, their their families, you know, practice the learning that they've done, plus environment. Are they going outside? Do they play? In our new program, we've actually had to prescribe play for adults. We're like, you don't actually play. The treadmill is the shittiest form of play there is. Like, it's if you're going to call it play, I mean, that's pretty austere. And and I really recently we heard one of our favorite uh sprinting coaches on a well-known podcast and he was and he was saying, "Hey, we should stop thinking about the body in any other way than through like we're biologists. We're curious about how this organism, this vital, crazy, amazing, dynamic organism exists and relates to the environment and the people around it. Well, I would say play and community. Community is the other one. I just mentioned that I was moving yesterday. So, my whole exercise program is not on program, you know, when your when your weights are somewhere, your everything is somewhere. And so, I called up um my friends or I texted my friends, my group text, and said, "I'm moving. I need help. who can be here at 6:30 in the morning tomorrow to do some hit training and because I moved three three uh doors down. I had which are the hardest moves by the way. Moving close is the hardest part. Not with friends because I had friends show up. They got my coffee order on the way knowing my coffee machine was also in move right and they showed up and they in an hour's time I mean we just like booked it. I was sweaty. I was feeling so much better feeling the supportive community. I got my weightlifting and my sprinting and all of it done and I I mean I've trained for it, right? So we're we're we do our training for life. But we can also think about life is also another opportunity to move and how do we put community in our movement and part of that is looking at the ways in which moving enhances the domains of our life. So how could we add movement to our domains to uh bring out our values in those domains and then also how the values we want to bring to our movement because now I'm bringing community to my physical activity by asking my friends to join me. So it's it's really a fresh look at movement when we look at it this as Katie said the ecological way systemic way and looking at a systems model. I think I interrupted you. Go ahead. Oh no you're fine. I would just love to dig a little deeper on this concept of psychological flexibility um as it relates to movement and exercise in particular, you know, and maybe I'll just flip it on in in sort of the negative, you know, if why does not being psychologically flexible, you know, why why is someone who is not psychologically flexible less likely to move? Well, I think it helps first just to define what psychological flexibility is. It's a term that's used in a broader context of something called ACT, acceptance and commitment therapy or training. Uh ACT is used with everything from chronic pain to Olympic athletes. And psychological flexibility means your ability to stay present, engaged, aligned with your values, open, aware, do what matters most in the moment, even when obstacles show up. So when we are psychologically inflexible, we are caught up in our thoughts. We're believing everything our mind tells us like I don't want to go to the gym or everyone's gonna everyone's in better shape than me or uh this hurts, it's too hard or you all the all the thought barriers. When we're psychologically inflexible, we are motivated by things that aren't really aligned with what we care about and how we want to show up in the world. So, our motivation is off. Like maybe we're just motivated by a certain number, but we don't have a deeper why underneath that number, right? Uh, and when we're psychologically inflexible, we're also avoiding discomfort. Like that's our primary, like that's the thing that's pushing us around is that going to be uncomfortable? I don't want to do that. As opposed to being driven, behaviorally driven by what is truly rewarding and values aligned. So inflexibility can be a barrier for all sorts of things in life. Psychological inflexibility will be a barrier at work. It'll be a barrier in your marriage. It'll be a barrier in your parenting. But it does show up also as a barrier in terms of not only establishing um uh long-term you know sort of commitment to moving our bodies but also be being flexible as our bodies change. You know you get injured, you get uh you move, you travel, all these things that show up in life, you have bad air quality, whatever it is, how can you continue to move uh lifelong and and be mentally flexible enough to do so? One of the things I really adore about this book is as you say we take there are 44 sort of hypos in here and then you start to just deconstruct them. You ask why and really is just an interesting set of behaviors to just sort of untangle sort of how people come to be in this place. We view sport and I'm going to put sport as in movement sport framework physicalness as maybe the last framework for which we can really learn how to care and feed for the human being. We know that if you know we're going to play sports, we're going to have to talk about sleep and it's a framework to talk about nutrition and warm up and pain and communication. What I love about this book is that we're just saying, "Hey, sport is this really incredible framework, but let's just go ahead and reapply it to another set of things. Like we can expand the definition of this of the idea of using sport, using exercise, using play as a model to understand myself so that I can come back and be a little bit more intact." And I just want to give people an example of things that you know what I'm talking about. But um my job is not physical. So my body isn't tired after work. But my brain is so tired. I just can't convince myself to move despite knowing that if I go for a short walk or move in some other ways, I feel better and want to do more. I wanted to say that because anyone listening to this, this isn't about like, hey, I have body dysmorphia necessarily, which is real, but this is also the nuts and bolts of the things that keep people from doing what they need to do. This is real. Well, and I think everybody can relate to that. I mean you have kids and you have a busy job and you've come home and cooked dinner and done the homework and then you know should do these things. Yeah. You know you should take an after dinner walk or try to motivate to exercise and you cannot do it. I think there's you know everybody listening to that this has had that exact experience. Yeah. Do you think let me ask you all this one of the things that you talk about in here uh says hey I don't have a full hour to work out and this um you know this is one of the biggest pieces that Juliet and I are trying to deconstruct. We're like, "Hey, hey, hey, moving snacks are awesome. 10 minutes of workout is amazing. Why is it that we've worked in our head that I can go do this epic hour plus thing or not or fail? It's like I have to have a six course meal for my toddler otherwise I'm not a parent chef." You know what I mean? How how did we get into this all or nothing, Katie? Well, this was going to be my example of where I see psychological flexibility really being helpful for the populations that are following us. People who are already kind of, you know, they have regular movement diets, but they don't maybe not show up every single day exactly in the way that they want. is in their mind. What counts is this box around this 45 minute, 60 minute, whatever session of whatever mode that they love or they they really attached. This is exercise. This it this is what checks that box and they don't have equal flexibility around other types of movement checking that movement box. So one way to get flexible is to say first there's a lot of different types of movement that can meet some of these needs and there's a lot of different ways of distributing this movement to meet these particular needs. And that's to me the first level of psychological flexibility for people to then adhere, you know, to or to to be able to fit it into their life or or to prioritize it. Because if you have this like inkling thought that it doesn't count, then how are you going to do it? If you truly believe that it it does not count in the same way that this other thing counts, I think you're just going to keep me. It doesn't really. Yeah. I mean, we have our friend Dave Spitz who runs Cal Strength out here. We he developed this phrase that we love called never do nothing. Um which to me seems like a little micro form of psychological flexibility, right? This guy owns a gym, you know, he trains people for a living. He's got this beautiful, amazing gym. But like so many people, he is an Olympic coach. Yeah. So, like so many entrepreneurs and parents, you know, he got behind and felt like he gained weight and he lost track of his fitness and he sort of had this realization at one point and and part of that was his realization that he didn't have a whole hour often to exercise. Um, and so he created this phrase and he's I think actually writing a book about it called Never Do Nothing. Um, but we love that because to me that's sort of one of a thousand examples of psychological flexibility, especially in this fitness space of just saying, "Hey, you know, I can do something for 10 minutes or 20 minutes or I can do five times 10 minutes throughout my entire day and that all counts." But that really is a extreme mind shift for people. Well, I would just add that from a psychological perspective, the mind really hates ambiguity. The mind really hates um sort of this uncertainty. So, it likes to be dichomous. It likes to say either or. And it likes to put rules around things and that's very helpful. We can thank our mind for that because rules keep us, you know, sometimes safe like that's dangerous. Don't get go there ever. But when it comes to movement, those rules can really limit our activity because we think things spaces are certain spaces we won't move in because our mind tells us that's not an appropriate place to move. And some of this is our learning history. We get taught it at a very young age and then we keep those rules from, you know, grade school all the way through that I need to sit at a desk to study. I mean, who had that rule? Their parent told them or their teacher told them. And now it's like really sit at a desk. For me, my best ideas come when I'm out running along the beach. I'm like, brilliant. And then I come back home and I can't remember anything. Right? So, the this idea of getting more flexible mentally, cognitive flexibility is something you work on a lot in the book. It's a training and that we can all do it, but we have to practice it. Just like you practice, you know, strengthening your physical muscles in your body, you can practice strengthening your mind to be more comfortable with ambiguity, to be more comfortable with breaking rules. And those are some of the assignments that we encourage people to do is write down your exercise rules and then break some of them on purpose. So, if you have an exercise rule, if I need to whatever do my HIT training for 35 minutes because somebody told you at some point it's just stuck in there, why don't you do it for 29 or do it for 45 and see what happens? Nothing will happen. You'll just still be able to exercise and breaking those rules on purpose will make you a more flexible exerciser so you can exercise. Are you gonna tell the same story about exercising? But I just want to say that if this isn't just a handbook for people who are maybe have a barrier to ch a challenging belief about whether they should move or whether they should this is also if you're a coach I need you to get this book because it's going to give you a roadmap for literally every reason why people can't do it won't do it shouldn't do it aren't doing it really and to have the next conversation I just want to point that out how important that this is I think as a resource living resource like keep this in your gym because if you go through here and as a coach who's been coaching people for a long time I want you to ask how many of these have I heard and more importantly what was my solution to that how did I engage with this person to have a next conversation about helping them and the chances are you're going to fall flat on your face well and I excuse me I was just going to say as movement coaches I think we keep trying harder with that let me just show you one more piece of research of why it's good for you. Like you're trying to convince them harder that it's good for them. So much of our energy goes into that. And then I think on the flip side of that, the other person is like, "Wow, I just keep hearing how good it is for me. I must be lazy." So we're stuck in like sort of like being in this relationship and the same arguments keep coming out. It's like and the same response like nothing ever changes. This is our attempt to change one the way if if you are not motivated to move and I'm talking about not just getting your exercise but move more throughout life in different dynamic ways that it being good for you is not you don't need that you don't need to push that button harder. You don't need to ring that doorbell five more times. That's not the right portal for motivation for you. And it's not because you're lazy. That's not what's going on. So that's what this tool is all about. Yeah. I mean, I'd love to get into the specifics, but we talked about this a little bit in the pre-roll. We are in this era, this, you know, fitness and health information era. There is all the information available, maybe too much at this point. Um, and I think most people, especially people who are sort of inclined to move, like movers who are probably, you know, following you and following us, are really learning the why. Like we're learning the why and going deep on the why. You know, we can listen to hours and hours of podcasts about why we need to move and why we need to have certain health practices in our lives, why they're important. You know, we have lay people reading scientific studies about the why, but there's still seems to be this gigantic gap, and I know this is exactly what you you both are trying to fill in the how do I actually do it? Um, and obviously there's a variety of ways, but you know, before we get and I loved, you know, you guys I love how it's 44 reasons that we don't move. I love how practical this is. Um, I have to think in here there's some heavy hitters. The the there's some of them that are heavy hitters. Um, I imagine technology is is on the list, but you know, what are can you guys start to actually talk a little bit about some of the specifics of, you know, why are we you know, what really are the barriers to movement and sort of like what are the big ones that are probably common amongst all of us even if we have sort of different desires to move, different motivations to move. Well, I'll just say that we organize the 44 reasons into categories like chapters, so to speak, that are kind of the big heavy hitter collections. You know, they have to do with motivation. They have to do with technology being a big barrier, time, but then I think within those chapters, we don't all run up against the time barrier for the same reason. we're not all running up against the motivation reason for the like they're they're complex scenarios but you can sort of see this theme emerge and then Diana what do you want to say about yeah just piggybacking on that someone may tell you they don't have enough time but if you dig deeper for one person that I don't have enough time is really about priorities and not prior not having a deeper reason like the that they're spending a lot of time on other things that they think are more important and you want to know what's important to them and see how movement could enhance that. Like we for example, we have someone in there that's that's a grind. They call themselves a grinder. They just care so much about their work and so they don't want to leave their work to go for a walk midday because they're really into a project, right? And so we have to use that mo that's a motivator for them. How can you go with that resistance and use work as a motivator and get them seeing that actually if you take that walk you're more creative in your work or could you bring your work on on your walk? Right? For somebody else, not having enough time may just be a a thought that they have in there. And really, they're using their time um uh in ways that are sort of not they're just sort of following the um inflexible ideas about movement has to happen in a certain time frame. So, you would use a different different intervention for that. The way that we address that is we teach these six skills and we have the bonus of self-compassion. And these six skills, these six processes of psychological flexibility have been shown to be there's been a lot of research over 40 years of research on it at this point have to been shown to be the primary skills that are needed to make behavioral change happen and for it to be sustainable. So we teach these six skills. You as a practitioner or you as you're working on your own self have to kind of figure out what is my underlying barrier? Is it that I'm stuck in my thought? is that I don't is it that I'm not motivated is that I'm avoiding discomfort here and with each one of those you'll have a specific skill that you can use to p that you can use with it and I also think on heavy hititterter you're asking about what are the heavy hitters I think shame and embarrassment that chapter hits hits hard but one of the looking at the questions I mean these are real questions we got a ton of questions and we weeded through all of them a lot of them were sort of similar so every question is sort of standing in for maybe three or four sub questions that we kind of amagalated into one. But but um that shame and embarrassment chapter what I really um was schooled by was the range over which shame and embarrassment could occur because you would have that like I I've never exercised before so therefore it's really hard. I feel uncomfortable. I I'm uncomfortable in my own body. All the way to ex college athletes who who feel shame now because to go out and exercise is to admit I am no longer a 20-year-old college athlete. And I that is one of the ones I've just dog tagged because I know so many of those kids. Yeah. And that's shame, too. And and and I wouldn't have looked at it this way until working with Diana. Like I just feel like she was able to really pull up these things that everyone will read and just nod along. Yes, that's me. That's me. That I know this person. Like you were saying, Kelly, it's just a it's a book that you can really relate to. It has very little to do with whether or not you exercise regularly. It's it's much deeper than that. One of the things that you have done beautifully, Katie, over your now 10 books. Congratulations, you crazy person. um is that you really have done probably the most work by separating exercise from movement and helping people understand that hey movement is actually how we have a body that can do what it needs to do. And then and and I think of this all the time. We have we at one point Jul and none of them had jump roped, done high intensity exercise, never gone keto. Oh, I mean like they literally would drink wine and smoke a little cigarette and eat a little chocolate donut once in a while and they were but they were always engaged in their communities always in motion always had meaning and purpose and I think you've done a really wonderful job of helping people sort of differentiate that and and in here you do kind of talk about you know hey this book may be just about shifting our mindset a little bit away from hey it's got if I'm not going to some highintensity class or dead, then everything else is is lost. And you do talk about this and I I just want to call that out a little bit because if someone has an auntie or an uncle or a framework in here that a lot of the beliefs that they have that are I don't I'm not an exerciser could be applied to, hey, maybe I can go out and enjoy moving my body more. Am I Am I getting that right? Yeah. And I think that that's what Diana said when she first came to talk with me is you're already sort of doing psychological flexibility just by helping people deconstruct this very stiff concept of what exercise is. You're you're broadening it to say, well, there's movement and there's physical activity and there's exercise and there's labor. And guess what? They are all changing the geometry of your body. They all go into ultimately what we're trying to do maybe with exercises, you know, toggle that toggle these cells over here, straighten this fin over here. It's it's that sort of input. And you know, when you work with a broad range of cultures, you realize we've been getting it done for a long time in a way that doesn't involve the construct of exercise. So, let's just let's let that like ooze and melt a little bit. Let's let that box soften and get much more broad so we can realize that movement actually does fit in which you two are doing all the time as well, right? You're just saying here's all these opportunities and and they don't have to be in this rigid in this rigid box anymore. That box is the box has a purpose. It has a purpose for measure. It has a purpose for tracking. That box is pleasing and motivating to a lot of people, but it is also not pleasing and motivating probably to way more people. So, let's not use the tightest, most rigid uh cookie to put on the platter and be like, "Don't you want to eat this cookie?" And it's and it's just this one flavor instead of saying there's actually a whole buffet of ways you can get these nutrients. That's right. Dana, tell me kind of twofold. What surprised you most about writing this book on this topic? And then what was most surprising about working with Katie on this topic? I think what surprised me most about working on this book was I I am a lifetime long mover exerciser. Uh I'm I'm on the side of too much, not too little. And I've really had to um sort of relearn my relationship with movement. And that has been in part through Katie and other um practices, yoga practice in particular. But what surprised me was how when you take whatever reason that people are throwing at you underneath it, there's a there's a common humanity, right? And the common humanity is often things like people generally want to live well. People people want to do things in their lives, feel connected, feel like they they matter, feel like um they're growing at things. And what blocks us is more our what's going on inside of our heads and our avoidance of discomfort. So when we can see that sort of as a frame, we can apply it to all sorts of things, but in including moving too much or moving too little or you know in my in my work with Katie, yeah, maybe we're doing our treadmill but we're not doing our PT exercises or we're not engaging with our family. You know, our kids are swimming in the pool, but we don't want to get up and get cold and get wet and throw the ball, right? That's a form of movement that we're avoiding for a diff for a certain reason, even if we went to the gym earlier that day. Uh, I think for me working with Katie was was fabulous because she is as uh flexible and creative in her writing as she is as a person. You know, she midway through this book, Katie went on a 100mile walk and I'm kind of I mean I think we study the thing that we need to learn, right? So, I studied psychological flexibility because I'm quite inflexible by nature. So, here's my co-author leaving for a 100 mile walk. I'm like, "Give me my give me my edits back, Katie. I have a timeline here. And that was really eye opening to see how that how our collaboration um she got me a little more flexible around things. I appreciated how she really encouraged me just to answer each's question as if I were sitting across from a client. Not as in my you know I can get a little researchy sometimes but actually as a human if they were sitting in my office what would I say to them? Often it starts with a it's understandable that this is hard. It's hard for all of us, right? And that that opening door of validation, but then also giving them some real tools, problem solving, ideas that are tangible and actionable that they could do when they leave my office. I don't know if I'm ever going to see someone again. And so when they leave my office, I want them to go away feeling like something shifted. And that's how we thought of each and every one of these reasons. Like when you if you just read this one reason, that's all you got to in this book, you'd get something out of it that you could use and that would maybe shift your life in some way. This episode of the Ready State podcast is brought to you by Element and this time we're going to talk to you about sparkling element. We're just going to gush about it. So, it's starting to get warm. We had we had a few warm days. Spring is sprung. Um, one of the things that is amazing is I think when you're reaching for a coffee in the afternoon, don't do it. Reach for a sparking element. When you need a beer, don't do it. Reach for a sparking element. I think this behavior will profoundly change your life when you're like us and often you've just had coffee for too many hours in the morning and you realize you're behind from a hydration standpoint. Um sometimes I'm able to just sort of bump bump my hydration back up and go back to drinking water by just adding in sort of like a late morning sparkling element. I don't know if because we've been exercising for a thousand years, but I don't need a drink for an hour. Like we're train hard on the bike redlinining. Like during a workout? Yeah. Yeah. No, no. But I will tell you that I've been doing a lot of conditioning lately, getting ready for the summer, and I crack a sparkling element. Am I the only person who can drink a sparkling drink in the middle of like a brutal interval? But I have no problem. You probably are. And what I feel like is, oh, hey, I'm getting all the salts I need and I'm going to continue to stomp this thing because it's tasty. I'm drinking it. I'm hydrating. It's amazing. Yeah. And an ice cold one out of the fridge after your workout or in the afternoon when you just need a little bit of bump is like completely classic element goodness in a sparkling can do me like it is such a game changer. One of my athletes at a university recently come to me and was like, "Have you had sparkling element?" And you're like, "Yes, I have." Get in line, lady. Um right now, if you order through our link, you can get a free sample pack with all of Element's flavors. And of course, we love to party in our mouths. So that's all about sparkling. Um go to drinklnt.com/trs today. Literally drink it every day. Every day. This episode of the Ready State podcast is brought to you by Momentous. When we're talking about supplementation, I feel like there's just there's the stack. Like everyone should be on an omega. The big three, as Jeff says, everyone should be on creatine. And then probably adding in some protein to your diet is going to make a big difference. Yeah. And I mean, those three supplements are backed by like thousands and thousands of studies. What's showing that they are effective and healthy for you. whey protein isolate is the gold standard. Yeah. Right. We know that and and it's not always the same quality across. But so like good whey protein isolate um low lactose, low heavy metal, easy to digestible, but not only does momentous protein sort of is it first in class in terms of ingredients. Yeah. And it's NSF certified, right? NSF sport certified, which is important even earlier. Yep. But it's so tasty. And I want to just double click on the strawberry protein because it has been life-changing which is part of a suite of new flavors. There's strawberry chai, chocolate fudge, and chocolate mint. Yeah. Allegedly, there's one more secret flavor on Tik Tok. You have to All of which are so good, but strawberry is Yeah. It's not that fake strawberry. It is like I'm like, "Oh, this is I actually am looking forward to I am a veteran, as I've said before, of the like weight gainer 900." Yeah. And uh I I get a little queasy when shakes cuz there's so many ready to drink shakes. This strawberry protein is the best. Momentous doesn't make me feel sick. It is bomber. And if you happen to be a person who does not tolerate uh dairy, the Momentous vegetarian proteins are so good. And I would also like to say that I used the new dark fudge in my Ninja Creamy recipe. And it was really spectacular. So, these new flavors are just adding to what already is such an awesome protein lineup. If you want to learn more, go to livemus.com/trs and use code TRS for 35% off your first subscription to the tastiest protein in the world. Love it. So, I just did a post in our Starret system group and about what I think is honestly I've come to believe is like maybe the most important skill when it comes to a movement or fitness practice. And at the time I wrote it, I don't think I had this word psychological flexibility, but in my mind, but I think that's what I was talking about. And you know what I was trying to say is that you know what I see over running a gym for 20 years and working directly with people trying to help them move and keep moving is the ones who are able to to really be successful are the ones who, you know, get injured and somehow figure out how to keep moving despite the fact that they're injured or they do have children and they're willing to say, "Okay, well, I used to train for marathons and now I'm just going to need to run for 30 minutes on my treadmill because I have a baby." Um, but you know, I I really think it's that that ability to be flexible enough to say, okay, I used to do X, but now I need to do Y. I'm in a different season of my life. Um, and now, you know, of course, I realize that what that is is psychological flexibility, which I think is the most important skill in being able to have a lifelong movement practice. Let let me ask you this to tagle on that. One of the things that we think happens potentially from playing sport is that you're confronted with loss. You have to be flexible, have to be dynamic, like it just doesn't go according to plan, right? And have you found that a lot of the questions, there are some questions about, hey, I used to be a college athlete, etc. But did you find that there was a split that some of the people had some training and I don't mean good training just some exposure to some of these this concept of psychological flexibility even though they didn't have the language to people who maybe didn't have a framework for that and have come to a little bit later in life because we definitely have friends who are like I have never exercised a day in my life this is not my jam and I'm overwhelmed did you did you find that there was or is it everything for everyone I think that the underlying pieces of the question the underlying pieces of the questions can come from people who have zero exposure to movement who have negative exposure to movement. So negative exposure to movement is his own category which I think these show up quite a bit and that can be also through sports right. I had a bad coach or I had a parent who punished with movement or Oh yeah, I read that one. I was like, "Oh my god, the burpee." I was like, "Am I that dad?" Making no highlighter. Yeah. And then people had positive experiences. I I think that it kind of runs the gamut. And we didn't actually know. We didn't have any more details. These were just submitted questions. So we couldn't poke and prod. We couldn't ask for context. So in a lot of ways I think we had to imagine and you know as we were writing being like well if if this is the reason why then you know da da da da da. So I think I think you get I think you get all of it. And I think that our our mindset doesn't just isn't in a vacuum of just around movement. Our mindset our inflexible mindset we is part of our upbringing. It's part of our schooling. It's part of the culture that we're in. It's part of our friends group. And then we apply that mindset to to movement. Right? So, for example, if one of the skills that we work on a lot with is self-compassion. And there's there's been over 2,000 um randomized control trials now about self-compassion as a huge benefit to when if you fall off track on something, you're more likely to get back onto it if you have self-compassion. You're more likely to um stick with things long term. And that's not often the mindset that we have around exercise, but also around a whole lot of things, right? We're not we don't usually speak to ourselves in a way that is encouraging and kind and a tone of voice that is uh really on our own side. We tend to be a little more critical. We tend to be especially if we're trying something new or going outside of our comfort zone, that's when we're meanest to ourselves. So these these skill sets around exercise are often ones that we're using in other areas of our life too, right? So the way we are with ourselves at work, we're inflexible with certain things around work. the way we are with ourselves around dating what or parenting and that's where yes people are different in terms of um I do think that sport and I have two kids that are uh mountain bikers they're both on mountain bike teams it there's a lot of injury there's a lot of tackling difficult things there's so much flexibility that you learn from being an athlete in the right under the right conditions and then there's also inflexibility that you learn from being an athlete right because you learn about maybe not as much about the process and you're more focused on outcome rather than enjoying the ride. Right? So, it applies to sport but also outside of our lives. I think how can people and I love this self-compassion talk and I guess my question is how can people develop this skill because you know as you know I know so many women in particular this when when I'm talking about self-compassion I think about women and I think about sort of this like what what may be overstated like idea that you know women can just handle everything and do everything um and that that's the expectation and what I think you all need to stop handling everything. I think often what's underneath that though is sort of this lack of self-compassion and just saying it's okay if I take a rest day like I'm not going to lose my fitness or I mean there's a thousand ways we can express self-compassion but for people who don't have that as a skill set which I it seems to me like you guys are saying it is a skill almost how do you develop the skill well in the in the research self-compassion is defined as having sort of these three qualities to it so being kind to yourself being mindful being present acknowledging that something's challenging for you that's difficult. Self-compassion is different from self-care. Self-compassion, you don't need, you know, bath salts. You can do it in the here and now in this interview. Am I noticing that something's uncomfortable? Am I being kind to myself with that discomfort? And then the third component is common humanity. Understanding that everybody struggles sometimes. It's it's normal. It's human. And you can strengthen that in a lot of different ways. But I also want to say that self-compassion is also there's a whole um Kristen Nef has written about this fierce. So there's a whole there's letting oursel giving ourselves a chance to rest and there's also times when you push and that that fierce side of self-compassion is just as kind, right? So sometimes we need to say this is hard. My son just speaking of athletes and mountain bikers, he just broke his wrist midm move here. Um he broke his wrist on his bike and and and the compassionate thing that he did that I saw him do was I when I offered this morning to scoop the avocado out, he said, "Let me try it, mom. I want I want to do it because I know you're not going to be here like, you know, later so that I can I can learn how to scoop my own avocado." That's actually pushing yourself a little bit, but pushing yourself because it's a kind thing to do for yourself, not because you're pushing yourself to be um harsh and critical. I really love that. And I love that you said self-care because for some reason, and I know I'm an aggro person, but I hate the phrase self-care. It like somehow bothers me and feels selfish and um something about it has just never Watch this. Watch this. Tell me more about that. It just I don't know what it is. It has always bothered me. Um I see it used often in in ways that feel selfish and weird to me. Um, and I love what you're saying about self-compassion because it is seems to be striking this balance between being kind to yourself and saying, "Okay, maybe I need to rest, but maybe I do actually need to push. Maybe that's actually a way of self-compassion." Which I love that. I have a question for both of you. I feel like the heart of this, like this book is too late. If I'm getting this book as an adult, like I have missed a few steps and and it's never too late. Just so we're clear. just is never too late. Like this whole point is to become better people, to be better members of our households, better members of community. Like that's that's the highest promise of playing, having a body that allows me to do what I want to do. I was just at the American Physical Therapy Association annual convention, and the the keynote speaker was a former professor of mine, the dean of my school, and he said the highest calling of physical therapy is to move upstream and remove barriers to people moving in their communities and in their households and their families. Like that's the highest. Everything else he's like is It's really about how as physical therapists can we say, "Hey, why is this shoulder pain limiting your ability to move and interact?" And I love that this is moving upstream to the greater conversation. How can I what should I do with the people I'm working with, the people I live with to have this conversation earlier in the process? Because this is really important. But I'm running into all Americans, gold medalists who I'm like, "Hey, have you have you read this book yet?" because you are the best in the world and you suck at this. Like, you know, wouldn't it have been great if So, how how can we think about having these conversations maybe a little bit further upstream? I would say the best way to have the conversation isn't even having the conversation, it's to be the model of it. Um, I think that all the work that I've done with my own becoming more psychologically flexible is what allowed my kid to do that thing with the avocado, right? Because there the way in which we um make make the biggest change, I think, is we start with ourselves and we become models of psychological flexibility and movement in the way that Katie has been. You know, when when I go to an airport, I'm lifting the bag and going up the the stairs and I'm thinking of Katie the whole time and my kids are doing the airport, right? We're all we're all doing we're all squatting in our chairs, you know, like she taught me the perch pose on the on the um airplane where you get into the airplane seat and you, you know, get into a little perch position and must be nice. Yeah. And it's embarrassing. And let me tell you, if you have teenagers, you're extra embarrassing. And and that is psychological flexibility. It's not that you no longer feel embarrassed or you no longer have those barriers or the I don't want to, but you now have the ability to have those barriers show up and remember why it is that I want to do this. And for everybody, that is going to be different. For me, I get into perch pose on an airplane because I have scoliosis and I have severe back pain and I won't be able to sit with my clients the next day and I want to be able to be present and be with a client or I'll walk on a client session because I know for this particular client that walking and talking really helps with their ADHD so they can actually stay focused on our conversation. So, whatever it is, I see what you did there. You just you just answered why. You created a why. I say that that's so that's so clever. So, one of the things you guys have talked about multiple times, but I just want to double click on is that one one of the things people struggle to overcome is this sort of fear of discomfort. And when I hear that, I go immediately to like people don't know how or feel comfortable working hard and exercise. But I imagine that discomfort is massively more expansive than that. And if you could talk a little bit more about that particular barrier because I do think it's it's deep and it's you know as wide as it is deep when we're talking about discomfort. Well, let me I just want to say something about that too because I as Diana said I have no problem walking a 100 miles across the country. Um I have no problem pushing myself physically to do the workout that I want to do or the training or the competition that I want to do. My discomfort is doing things that I did not choose to do. So, an example of how I have used this book myself is like yesterday, you know, my my 14-year-old elite soccer player is like, "Yeah, you know, will you you uh come come out and do some shots with me?" Not not alcohol shots, soccer shots. And u and I'm and my first reaction is no, I don't want to do that. And it's I'm ashamed at how I'm not a skilled soccer player. I didn't have any exposure to athletics. So, it puts me in this very vulnerable headsp space of like I suck at this. And and yes, my 14-year-old is going to let me know every time that I suck at it. Like, I'm This is not, you know, therapist Diana. Only if you're lucky. Exactly. Right. Right. So, he's going to tell me that I'm terrible about it. And um and and also, it's not the type of movement that I like to do there. I have the movements that I feel comfortable doing. And this is not one of them. Having someone shoot soccer balls at you and and then there's multiple skills that I have gathered from just the editing process of going back and forth in this book. And I was like, well, can we start with an exercise ball, not a soccer ball, because I feel less threatened by an exercise ball flying at my head and and I just need to temper that physical. I need to be hit by something a little less flexible. And can you dial it down aggro dude just a little bit? And also instead of criticizing me, how about coaching me? And it can you give me what I can do better with each one? And and man, and he he flipped and and also this, you know, this leg is really hard for me. This this I feel like a little vulnerable with this old injury I have doing this type of movement that's not slow and controlled and the way that I like to do my movement. And it was so positive. I mean, it was an hour long session, but I had to ask I had to figure out what was actually bothering me. Like, I'm embarrassed. I don't like being yelled at. I, you know, what all the things. And I could ask for them to be a little bit different. And he wants me out there. He already said so because he said, "Would you come do this with me?" And then, okay, and I get to take shots on you. Okay. Now, let's bring out the soccer ball. All right. Now, just dial it down a little bit more because it's, you know, and and by working through the discomforts step-wise, which is a lot of what we do in this book is saying, how do you take this? This whole situation is uncomfortable. It's it's alerting me to all the reasons I don't want to do it. And I'm Katie Bowman. I love movement. I got people st crouching in airplanes and and throwing things overhead in airports, but I have plenty of spaces where movement is not the option for me because it makes me uncomfortable. So, I just work through these steps like everyone else does. And lo and behold, it was a great time and I'm getting, you know, I'm becoming better soccer player. I want to, that was my question was like, how have you evolved your I mean, you are a goat in this space. You're one of the masters in this space. Um, one of the things that you kind of hinted at is doing things that you're not very good at because it really does confront all of your limitations. I have this identity. I'm a 51-year-old man. I like I'm really good at these five things and I'm just if I step out, one of the things that happened to me about 15 years ago, maybe 20 years ago, is that when we started working with more and more elite players and more and more elite athletes, I was always the worst person in the room and always invited to come play. And there was no shame in being the fattest and the slowest and the biggest and the jackest and the strongest and the weakest. And it happens to me all the time where I really had a chance to confront my ego on these things and try to become curious and see if I could do this. One of the skills that I I want everyone to take who's a coach here is to I don't think a lot of our movement experts are very vulnerable anymore. They don't make themselves vulnerable. I have I am the queen of my domain. I own this space. You're coming to my space. I try to get coaches to work out with other coaches. And I'm like, you need to shut up and do whatever Diana says. And she's running the show today and you're going to go and if we're doing yoga, we're doing Pilates, we're doing something that you do, we're doing dance, I don't care. We're Olympic lifting. Go be a beginner and confront all those things. I think we have to have regular exposure to all of the things you're talking about in the book. And part of what one of the reasons we're exercising and I I know why people like CrossFit because initially they make all these gains and then it's just step aerobics with weights and I know why you like Ayangar because you memorize the or you know be brim you have the 10 steps I know what comes next I can practice these things and I don't end up looking like a fool and I think we need more opportunity to look like not only that when you allow yourself to look like a fool when you're in expert status people like you a little more. I mean, did you like Katie less or more from hearing her soccer story? You liked her a little a little more because we're all like, "Well, we can't be like Katie Bowman. She's like sleeping without a pillow. I'm sorry. I'm keeping my pillow." But when you hear her tell the story of she just sleeps on a board every night. But when you hear about the soccer story, all of a sudden it's like, "Oh, wait. So, if she's experiencing that, then I can experience that." And let I self-compassion is one component of three forms of compassion. There's self-compassion, but there's also compassion for other. When you have compassion for other and compassion for yourself, we're in a in a flow. And when you allow others, the third form is receiving compassion. Katie allowed herself to receive some compassion from her son. And in order to do that, to get help from her son, to get him to coach her, she had to show some vulnerability. and she's an authority in that dynamic, right? So, that's the power of this that all of a sudden we're strengthening our relationships. We're showing our vulnerability, but people like us a little bit more. And that's it's kind we we put up our walls, we put up our expertise because we think that that's what people like. As AI've been in practice for over 20 years, and I am in love with my clients because it's a space where they're not doing that. They're showing something else. What is the is the TV show Couples Therapy? Yeah, that's a great show. Where you watch Coup's Therapy and then you were like, "Okay, I'm going to be a better partner." You literally walk out of there. Do you um do you think people are clever? I I know people are clever. Are they clever enough to realize that we're not talking about exercise here? that we're talking about applying these using this as a model and a catalyst to actually lo and use those lessons in other aspects of my life because I really do sometimes when I teach a skill for example I'm like okay we're going to do this skill and then I apply it to a new novel task and if I don't connect the skills they are discrete unit like individual units existing in time and space I'm like we're going to do this we're going to do this we're do this and then I do this thing over here and people just black out and they forgot what we just did for the last 30 minutes and But if I say to them, hey, we're going to apply this skill to this new skill, then they get it and they transfer that skill over. This really is a book about having more meaningful relationships and and confronting you in being a better parent and, you know, being better at work and confronting all the reasons that we're we're fearful. Do people get that? That's really You've written a subversive book here. It's super subversive. I I think it is. I mean, I urge surfing is this one psychological tool that shows up in I keep wanting to pick up my phone and I can't get off my phone and that's sort of my barrier to take the morning walk that I said I was going to do. So Diana is laying out this really wonderful process of urge surfing. You got to ride the wave of that feeling like you just got to go do the thing that you've already decided is interfering with this other thing that you want to do that will have better payoff. And I have found myself since learning that using urge surfing in all other domains of my life. I did not need to learn urge surfing as it related to movement. I got the concept. I I feel this desire to go do this other thing that's taking me away from some other need in my life. So I think I don't know if they'll figure it out, but I I think I I don't I don't know that they won't figure it out either. I think it's just that once you start seeing the story that's laid out, you can be like, you know, I'm also I'm also like this around going to bed early. I I'm also another one, Diana, about an anchor. this I you get this bit of information that you read or heard or some friend told you and it acts like an anchor and you don't have any real experience with the situation but you've got this anchor thought and you make all decisions from this anchor thought and I've noticed all sorts of anchor thoughts in my head that have nothing to do with movement. So yeah, I I think it's um I think it's a snake attack. I do. I love it. Yeah. I mean, well, I would love to better understand urge surfing and especially because my next question was going to be about technology anyway. And I think um you know, everybody's talking about teenagers and technology and social media and what we're not talking about is we are all equally as addicted if not more and being terrible examples to our kids and I would include ourselves in that mix as well. Um and we can always couch it as oh it's our work. Um, but I think that that is a, you know, often a bad and not true excuse. Um, but how, you know, let's let's take technology, right? It's so nice to like sit on your phone in bed and surf the internet for an hour in the morning versus getting up and going to do a walk. Like, how does how does does urge surf is urge surfing like self-compassionately saying I'm going to sit in bed and look at my phone or tell tell me how that works. I didn't really understand. Urge surfing is surfing the urge to do something without acting on it. It comes from um smoking research from Alan Marlott. And what they taught in the smoking uh studies was having people notice the urge to smoke like you want to go pick up the cigarette. And the nature of an urge is it starts to rise and get stronger and stronger and stronger. So, if you can imagine, okay, I want to go grab my phone or I want to I want to stay on this phone a little bit longer. That urge increases, but we think it's just going to exponentially keep on going up and up and up. So, we give into it, right? We give into it when it's kind of getting towards its peak. Urge surfing is riding it all the way out so it comes back down again. Whether that's the urge to pick up your phone or the urge to go to the fridge and get something and the urge to smoke a cigarette, this is just addiction research, right? Addictions are addictions to some degree in terms of our dopamine system. And what you find is that if you surf that urge enough, two things will happen. One, you'll get better at surfing. You'll get better at tolerating that kind of itchy feeling without scratching it. You know, it's like poison oak. You can scratch it. You're saying don't eat the whole cake, but recognize that my brain is telling me to eat the whole cake. And then wait a second round it like a surfer would. Feel the wave of it. Be in it. Observe it. But don't give into it. Right? So it will you'll get better. You'll get better at surfing if you practice. You can get better at any kind of internal discomfort or being with discomfort. But then the other thing is that actually every time you give in, what you're doing is I mean Anna Lumpky talks a lot about this in terms of the dopamine system is that you are actually strengthening that urge connection. So the urge gets stronger, faster, sooner, right? And we've all experienced this with technology. And how many pe I mean it's not just on our phone. I don't just see it on the phones. I see it I see people on their phones at the gym. They're like sitting on the weight bench with the weights there and I'm like, "How long is your workout going to take you because you're on your phone for 50% of the time now?" Right? This is It is everywhere, right? Where you're waiting for a parking spot and their lights are on. You're like, "Can you get out of the parking spot so I can get in and get to the gym?" Right? So, if you can learn to deep cut, that's real. Yeah. No kidding. So, if you can learn to to be able to do that, we can surf the urge. I'm not going to pick up the phone. My kid just walked in. Or I'm not going to pick up the phone until after I'm done with this, you know, whatever this rep or this walk or whatever it is. So, I'm not going to stop on my or go or another thing I see people doing is running and and uh scrolling or biking and you know these things that um hard to say. I love that. I love We are just about to apply urge surfing to like 10,000 places in our life. I'm really excited about that. I think it's such a cool concept. There's like 5,000 ways that totally true. Um, look, this thing is great. I'm so thrilled. And Katie, I'm I'm so glad that, you know, I sometimes I'll talk about my friend uh who again was just recently in Huberman and his whole life of uh coaching, he's one of the best coaches in the world, has been reduced to skipping. He's like people are like, "Oh yeah, that that whole podcast about skipping." I was like, "That wasn't a podcast about skipping. You mentioned skipping for two seconds. Now he's the skipping guy. Um, you know, I I love if people understood and it's hard for them. They snap into Katie Bowman Land and you really are so competent and so adept at at talking about so many aspects of our our movement selves. This piece is part of it. It really is the brain. This is I feel like a big keystone that's been sort of missing from your body of work. And I'm really so pleased that the both of you have teamed up. The next thing though is there's got to be some courses on this. There's got to be like workshops. Tell us more because I really feel like you've delved into a really important aspect of our human psyches using this as sort of a lever. But there's not, as you said earlier, D there's not a lot like this out there right now. No, I think this was this is what's been missing. I think whether it's through public health or or personal training, coaching, even therapeutics is is what are the psycho what are the psychological reasons that someone cannot take that dose of movement medicine, you know, and so there's it is a public health issue. It's totally a public health issue because because we have not gone beyond it's good for you. It is really really good for you. No, wait. It's really really really good for you. Citation, citation, citation. like we just keep flexing the same muscle harder instead of recognizing that um uptaking behavior is a very complex phenomenon. And and before you can even get your physical muscles going, your mental muscle has got to maybe learn how to flex. So this sort of moves up to the the the first book of the cannon of the rest of them. And that's why Diana is so so I I think integral is because she has this wonderful ACT training which is such AI I love I love ACT and that psychological flexibility lens of of psychology but plus the practical movement stuff that people need to be able to um fit it into their lives. And we're all in our silos, right? So for me as a psychologist in in the world of psychology, they're just getting on to the idea that maybe movement really could really help with your depression and anxiety, right? And there's like so much research in that, right? Or maybe movement is is the thing, the missing ingredient in terms of your overall health and well-being. And so, you know, I I train therapists. That's one of the um practices that I do. I'm presenting at a huge conference, a world conference this summer in New Orleans and I'm presenting on I know I should exercise, but and these are all therapists that are that are now thinking about, oh wait, we do have a set of skills that we've been applying to anxiety and depression and a career and relationships. These skills could also support our clients in moving and oh wait, maybe movement is the key, nutrition is the key that we haven't unlocked in the psychological world. So that's what's exciting to me is when we have this sort of cross-pollination of disciplines and ideas and I get to learn from Katie and Katie, you know, we're we're in a much more, I think, integrative and network based sort of systems model when we do this type of work, when we integrate psychology and movement and nutrition and all the things that the two of you do as well. And um yeah, it's it's it's also exciting, I think, at this point in our careers to keep learning and keep growing and and that that frontier is is is um never ending when we collaborate on things. I just want to add that I think this is so important. We really are in this era of way too much information and not enough implementation and this is like implementation times 5,000. But what I love about it is it's so practical um and relatable. Um you know, all you have to do is like Kelly did was thumbming through this and thinking, "Okay, I'm elite." And then realizing that there are 10 chapters where he totally related to it. I mean, everything in here is totally relatable regardless of whether you're an elite athlete or, you know, a brand new mom or whoever you are. So, um I know you should exercise, but pick up this book, everybody listening to this. And um what's next for both of you? What are you what are you excited about? Well, I'm intrigued to hear. We haven't really talked about we've done a couple of courses about values, but trying to figure out how do people learn best. You can read a book, but then some sort of program to help coaches be able to like how would I use this as a tool to get ahead of it? You know, how can I get ahead of it a little bit? And I I'm not going to write any more books for a while. That's what's that's what's in front of me is not writing any books for whatever. There's probably four years. Totally a kids book in here, guys. You've got a streak going version of this book. I can't wait to hear all of the Well, I I'm having Irish twins. I have two books coming out in the same year. I'm sort of following Katie's footsteps here in terms of contagious. Uh so I I'm working in the area of wise effort which is a book about um really about energy and how we're using our energy finding more regenerative ways of living so that we're putting our energy out into into the world that not only benefits us but benefits others and that um doesn't deplete us. And that that type of that wise effort is what this book is about, right? It's about how are we using our energy with movement, but we can do that in a lot of other domains with our creativity, with our work, with our communities. Tell us where we all can follow more of your amazing brains. Uh, nutritiousmovement.com and and on all the socials. Yeah, that's where you can find me. I'm at drdiana.com and that's the same on all my socials, too. Well, thank you very very much so much and uh once again congratulations and kudos for just seeing a stinking hole in the world that we all been stepping over and being like, "Okay, we'll fill it." Thank you so much for being here, both of you.