Sit it here. Ready? Action. Hey, welcome back to Mobility Project. We want to do a little short companion follow-up piece on what we did yesterday talking about not being in a broken position. Now, you know, people are understanding, oh yeah, hey, there are a lot of systems that talk about trying to keep the head in neutral and we certainly want to minimize spinal movement under loading. But, uh, what about something like the kipping pull-up? You know, the question is, uh, you know, can you do this butterfly butterfly? Sorry, butterfly pull-up. How can you go for a high rep max effort kind of piece and still not surrender position? Well, I'm going to tell you that you're going to have better outcomes if you don't throw your neck over. You'll be able to be more connected. You'll have a more efficient position. And case in point, of course, is Chris Felip. Go ahead and watch that video of 106 pull-ups. What you'll notice is that even if we set position and we still prioritize out of and I'll probably do a video tomorrow about how we prioritize positions, but fixed extension is kind of the next best to brace neutral. And that if we get an athlete in braced extension a little bit, you know, that still works. And all you need to do is press a fire hydrant over your head and tell me you're not going to be in a little bit of fixed extension. Okay, brace not going to change position. What we want to do is minimize uh this the shearing movement and certainly the repetitive shearing movement. So watch Chris Spieler. He's a really excellent at this. But of course we have Carlos. Any ideas about this? Just go for it. I warmed up. No idea. Just go. But the same idea, you know, I don't necessarily should see change in position. So he doesn't have to throw his head back out of the way to create that same force. And that in fact by not throwing his head back he doesn't then create a translation moment that starts penduluming that puts that shoulder in a bad position. You know the the the the dynamics of the butterfly kip are such that he really stays connected the entire time. There's not a moment where he falls and if he breaks that and surrenders that shoulder that shoulder goes into neutral and that's when we see that person fall. Yeah, that's right. Yaka gymnast. I'll see you guys tomorrow.