 i was caught in two avalanches on avalanches on avalanches on avarice, you don't know how big they're gonna be, where were you, one of them i was at in the middle of kumbu icefall, which is worth saying that the season that i climbed was the deadliest season on avarice history to date, and the season started with, what year was it sorry, 2023, okay, so two and a half years ago, and the sherpas that are responsible for setting up the ropes are called the fixing team, the three sherpas that were the fixing team for that season died on the first day of the season, on the first ropes that they were setting, in the kumbu icefall, a huge serac fell off, fell on them, they couldn't even recover the bodies, and they had, one of the sherpas had been on the fixing team, I think for 20 years, it was a huge loss for the community, so the energy, the vibe on avarice space camp, even get goosebumps, it was really heavy on that year, so it wasn't this magical place to be, and wow, we're doing this, because the workers, the people that made this whole thing possible were grieving, before day one, because that was before anybody even got to base camp, because they were there setting things up, so, you know, it was a very stressful environment for everybody, because they realized how risky it is, in terms of it's getting worse every year, you know, it is true, like there's a lot less ice in the kumbu icefall, the ice is melting, their avalanche is happening more often, there's seracs detaching, and just rolling down, and you're talking about a building coming into your head, you know, there's nothing you can do, but when I was caught in an avalanche, luckily, there was a huge crevasse in front of us, so most of the snow came there, in terms of the snow that hit us, wasn't enough to bury us, you know, it was like, Right. I was on my knees and covered in snow, but not like, oh, I can't breathe, you know, and I need to be rescued, like I could, my shirt was started removing the snow, we stood up and we continued forward, but that was the mindset, that was the non-negotiable, it's like, okay, what else is possible? So, I'm breathing, I'm thinking clearly, I can move, I'm not injured, we're gonna continue, like, going back was never a question in my mind. So, there's two parts, because Kelly and I, as you know, are obsessed, and have, like, studied Everest, so we know everything about it. There's, to me, like, two parts of the climb that are the craziest, and I don't know if I'm correct on this, but one is the Khumbu Icefall, which you talked about, so I'd love if you could even elaborate more of what it was like, especially what it's like to go across the ladders with crampons on, because that is always just like, I've watched 100,000 videos of that, and I'm always like, that is so sketchy. And then it seems like the other crazy places, everything that happens at Camp 4 and above, right, it's crowded up there, it seems like that's where most of the injuries and deaths happen, is above Camp 4, and I would just love for you to talk about, like, your actual experience in those two spots, because I feel like that's where... What was surprising, the hardest. Yeah, and, like, that's where the shit goes down, in those, to me, and I don't know if I'm correct on that, but that's what I feel like. Yes, yes. The Khumbu Icefall is the most dangerous part of the mountain, because it's just this moving glacier where things can happen at any moment. There can be a Serac falling, there can be an avalanche there, and you don't have anywhere to run to, or there's no shield. And the most challenging thing is that the Khumbu Icefall never looks the same, because once you are climbing up, you cross the Khumbu Icefall to Camp 1 and 2 and 3 and 4 and summit push and then descent. But two things. One, you climb the mountain almost twice or three times. A lot of people do two rotations, and then the third rotation is the summit push. You crossed the Khumbu Icefall. How many times did you cross it? I crossed it four times, because I only did one rotation. I adapted really well to altitude. And my first rotation, I went up to Camp 3, up to the Lodze wall, because there was a massive windstorm, so we descended. And then my second turn, I already went for the summit. But the majority of people I know and that have talked to climbers, they have all done two rotations. They go to Camp 2 first, then Camp 3, and then they go for the full summit. And by that, I mean they go to Camp 2, then they go all the way back down to base camp, then they go to Camp 3, then they go all the way back down to base camp. I did only one rotation and then the summit, which means I crossed the Khumbu Icefall four times. But even, you know, on the rotation, you go to Camp 2, 3, however high you go, and then when you descend, that one ladder that you had connecting two sides, now it's four ladders tied up on this rope that don't really look that secure. And the ladder is bouncing as you're walking around and shifting from one side to another. And below you is 100 meters. You're not even on the mountain yet. You're just getting to the mountain. Yeah. So it's a good wake-up call on what's ahead. You know, there were a lot of people that were extremely unprepared when they were climbing. You know, some of those massive walls are just spinning around the ropes and their Sherpa had to climb to them to get them there. So there's definitely a level of safety of people who are unprepared. And that's where the line between experience and preparation is so thin, because you can have people who have been to several other 7,000 meter mountains and who has, you know, achieved things that technically in the mountaineering world, you would then be capable of attempting Everest. But you are totally unprepared and your Sherpa is putting your crampons on. So that's a very long discussion on the individual level on how prepared are you actually for this. And then from camp four on, you are literally in the death zone. And regardless of whether you're using supplemental oxygen or not, your cells are dying and your body knows it. And every single alarm in your body, especially if you're connected with yourself, is screaming and telling you, what are we doing here? Get us out of here right now. You know, you're getting... Yeah, are you like headaches or how does that like... What's the physical manifestation of that? Like slowly being choked out by a mountain? I didn't get headaches, not even once there, because the headache is something people get really heavy actually on base camp as well. Did you get headaches when you went to base camp? The person I was traveling with was miserable. When we got to base camp, there's a photo of us at Kalapatar, which means black rock. You can see the valley and that person I'm with is frowning. Yeah, I mean, there were people in my expedition, actually, that were ultra marathon runners. They were in their mid-20s. They were actually physically the people that looked like they were in the best shape. They didn't even make it. Do you think all the years of hypoxic training you've done, you have to be comfortable with that? Yeah, and I did 20 minutes of breath work every single day on that trip. So how did your body experience that slow death? You feel like you are getting weaker by the day, and you really are. You are. I mean, I lost 22 pounds on that trip, and that's a lot for my body. I think I put on five pounds of muscle from all the strength training, but also I was working out so many hours. I couldn't even eat enough. I was like, I'm tired of chewing. I can't get all these calories. I love that. It's so interesting, isn't it? Yeah. The first time you have to eat for like really eat, you're like, oh, this is really hard. Yeah, this is tiring, you know? And so I put as much weight as I could to create that little bit of a cushion, but your body is getting weaker, and the pressure is increasing. You have been living on the mountain, in my case, for 48 days by the time I got to Camp 4, and the environment is just taking a toll on you. It's super cold. You know, you forget what feeling cold is because you're cold all the time. You're sleeping in a tent outside. Right, and you're Brazilian. And I am Brazilian, thank you, and I'm facing like minus 40 Celsius, which is unheard of in Brazil. And you just, your survival mechanism that is innate, that is like born with us, knows that you're not meant to be there. And you need an immeasurable amount of mental strength to override that whole system and saying, hey, shoosh. Right, right. We're going up. One step in front of the other. Yeah. And actually, it's about to get worse. We're going to keep going higher, you know, and the pressure is going to increase. And then it just feels like at some moment, your body just follows your mind. And then it's about to get worse.