 dateraterater,whewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhewhe sexual assaults in their life. This is a reality that is horrifying and that needs to change. There cannot continue to be a society in which women feel scared every time they go for a run by themselves. Oh, what am I going to wear? Oh, it's kind of getting late. Maybe I shouldn't run today. Now I'm going to skip on my workout, but I work late. So this is the only time I have. And we are constantly paying the consequences for a world that doesn't provide safety for women to exist, period. Yeah. I mean, there's some crazy stuff I think about that. Like Kelly doesn't, you know, it's like every time I get in an Uber, I'm like, okay, well, putting my life in danger. You know, every time I walk into any parking lot, I'm always like, I need to be on high alert and prepared. Like Kelly doesn't think that when he walks, you know what I mean? There's just so many little ways in which you're like, oh, okay, well I maybe, you know, I can go for a hike up here, but there might be some sketchy person again, just that would never cross Kelly's mind. Right. And, and that's not even counting all of the gnarly sexual abuse data that you've, you know, stated here, which is really, and let me take that and just deescalate for a second, because there's a lot of times where I'm like asking these women to do extraordinary things in these moments of big competition. I'm like, why don't you believe in yourself? Like what's wrong with you? And it's because you're not a cis hetero white guy who has been bombed with, you know, affirmation that I'm the chosen one and I can be great and it's going to work out. And really you can see the difference in just upbringing exposure. And as you're talking about that, it really does manifest itself in so many ways. So many ways. And when you get in an Uber, when you're going to teach or speak at a conference differently than Juliet, you are not even worrying if the driver is going to ask you personal questions, if he's going to make a comment on how beautiful you are, or if he's going to ask you about your personal life. And these are little things that happen so often with women that become so stressful and it affects the decisions that we make in our daily lives, you know? Well, I think one of the, I would love if you could, because I feel like you have so many actual tools because I think, you know, we are in many ways very vulnerable and the data is not good, but I think there's so many skills and tools that we can employ to at least decrease the risk of some of these things happening to us. So I guess maybe if you could even give some examples of sort of scenarios, situations where you find women to be particularly vulnerable, where there's very specific and clear tools that you can share that women can do to be safer because you do this a ton on your Instagram. I'm a big fan of a follower. But you know, what are the sort of highlights? Yeah. So first and foremost is understanding how are you being perceived in the world? Because if you can position yourself in the world in a way where you don't look like a victim, you are a lot more, a lot less likely to become one. So distractions, eliminate all the distractions in your life. So for example, if you just went grocery shopping and you're headed to your car, absolutely do not be on your phone. But also don't be holding your phone and your keys and the coffee that you just got and all the bags all at once and looking super overwhelmed. You always want to have one hand free. So put your phone in your pocket or in your bag, carry the bags in one hand. If you can't, then put them in a cart and do take the car to your car. Stay aware, head on a swivel, posture. You know, when people are observing you in the world, if they feel like there's going to be any line of resistance, they're going to look for someone else. They're going to look for women who look vulnerable, who are distracted, because the element of surprise is really important for perpetrators. Unless we're talking about abusive relationships and domestic violence cases, which then it's the same thing. But now it's you detecting red flags because things do escalate from the small actions. You know, men don't kill women out of the blue. Darren Lee is right now being charged for murdering his girlfriend, his 29-year-old girlfriend. And he was, you know, caught because he was asking ChatGPT how to get rid of the body and how to make it look like it was an accident, even though she had stab wounds. And he was asking ChatGPT, can stab wounds be accidental? And how do I report this to the police once, you know, the body is recovered, basically. So that is a whole other area that is so important for us to talk about as well, because that is where the majority of violence happens with women. When they start raising their voice with you and slamming the door and starting to control you and isolate you from your friends and your family, those are all red flags to stay alert. But the things that you can control in your daily life is having strategies for getting the Uber, when you are in the elevator with somebody, loading groceries. Awareness is always first and foremost. Even if you feel scared, walk with a strong posture. Never be on your phone.