 permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently to do extraordinary things, why don't you believe in yourself? I was caught in two avalanches on Everest. You don't know how big they're going to be. Where were you? I was in the middle of Humboldt Icefall, which is worth saying that the season that I climbed was the deadliest season on Everest history. And I get emotional every time because she said it's not worth it. And at that moment, I felt like I was looking at self-tabotage embodied in a human being. How can you ask someone to bet on you if you're not willing to bet on yourself? I got to go all in on myself every time then. Hey, Dr. Kelly Starrett here. If you're listening to this podcast, you obviously care about health, performance, longevity. And you've probably heard us talk about the longevity triangle, strength, conditioning, and mobility. Let's be honest. Mobility is usually the piece that falls off the list and you think it's probably okay. Nothing could be further from the truth. Mobility isn't optional. Improving your movement choices, moving more effortlessly, and having less pain are huge drivers and actually having a body you can count on. That's exactly why I created the Mobility Coach app to make mobility simple, actionable. It's something you can actually do every day. A few minutes, the right inputs, and you keep your body doing what it's designed to. Go to thereadiestate.com slash free trial and try it free for a week. All right. Cicelina, welcome to the Ready State Podcast live in person. Thank you. So excited to be here with you guys. So you just drove up here in your self-driving car. Can you tell us a little? I mean, I know that has nothing to do with what we're going to talk about today, but I was like, you just like self-driving car up here to the Bay Area. I mean, it's truly incredible. I feel like I have a private driver with me at all times. It's pretty fancy. You know, it's interesting. Juliette always has a private driver with her. Yeah, it's true. Kelly's the driver in our family, and I'm a good driver, but he just is the driver. In the relationship, though, Juliette is master and navigator. Like, unbelievable sense of direction. Like, a homing pigeon, you could put her in her dark room and be like, hey, which way's north? She knows. Like, it's really, and my brain works where I memorize things and have kind of like a photographic memory. So I'm always 180 degrees off. So if we walked in and turned left, I'll walk out and turn left, and Juliette's like, actually. Yeah, I was like, we need to go the exact opposite direction. So anyway, I digress. I just thought I was impressed that you, you know, like, did the whole drive. You were up here teaching, which is a perfect segue into all the things we're going to talk about today. What were you doing up here? I was leading a women's workshop, women empowerment workshop. So it's a mix of self-defense, jiu-jitsu, safety tips. I also lead breath work, nervous system regulation. And then we end with a group discussion, a practice that I switch around what it is every time. But it's always around a theme. So some of the things are self-defense. Some of the things are setting boundaries. Yesterday, it was self-sabotage, which is something that women engage in a lot unconsciously, you know, as a consequence of patterns that are developed as we grow into the women that we have become. And a lot of times we are so far from realizing that it's just the final stretch into getting to where we really want to be that we constantly sabotage ourselves, put other people first, you know. And we approached that theme yesterday with an open heart. We did an exercise about writing a love letter to yourself and reframing the internal conversation that we have with ourselves. Because even women, sometimes they look in the mirror, they always go like, oh, the skin, oh, my satellite. Oh, you know. So that self-criticism actually ends up having a much bigger impact than we realize because the way you talk to yourself ends up becoming the things that you accept, the things you allow, the relationships you believe you deserve. So reframing that mindset into, no, you speak with yourself first, with kindness, with power, positively, you build yourself up. And then when you constantly live in that space, if someone else says otherwise or even criticizes, you don't take that to heart. You're like, what? No, that's not me. Versus looking for external validation because you're not doing the internal work. That's always the most impactful part of the workshops. We all cry, you know, but it's where I feel like I'm transformed as well because I get to hear from women from different walks of life, the things that they're grateful about themselves. You know, we start with like, thank you, body for everything that you, and then each one tells their story or I want to thank myself or I love myself. These are just prompts for all the listeners who wants to try this exercise. I highly encourage you that you do, especially if you have daughters, get your daughters to write that letter for themselves. And once you tell yourself the things you want to hear, you also live in a happier place because you're not expecting people to tell you or to appreciate you. And it starts coming from them because people mimic our behavior. So yeah, it was a great experience. It's amazing. I mean, everybody's so in their own head and I have about a thousand questions about that, but I have to, because my brain is more linear than Kelly's, I have to rewind. And as we talked about in the pre-roll, I bet 50% of our audience is familiar with the name Gracie and 50% is probably not. And you come from this amazing family legacy. You had a really unique upbringing. And I would just love it if you could tell our audience a little bit about who your family is and what it was like growing up as a Gracie. Yes, it was a very interesting experience, very unique. I come from the Gracie family, which is the largest martial arts dynasty in the world. And the reason why, because it's the largest is because my grandfather had a lot of children. And so it wasn't there like 21 children. So my mom actually grew up in a house with multiple floors. The second floor was where all the kids had their bedrooms. And the setup was every two bedrooms had a bathroom in between. So it was like 18 bedrooms, but sort of like nine little apartments of two bedrooms and one bath. And when my mom wanted to go to one of her siblings' bedrooms, she would ride her bike because the hallway was like never ending. And if you think I'm just running to my, you know, siblings' rooms all day, you're running a marathon in that house. But there was something really special and unique about it is because even though it was a big family, everyone chose to do the same thing. And the majority of the people in the family work with jujitsu. And I believe the reason why everyone really connected with that mission was because they realized that jujitsu was so much more about self-development than fighting. Fighting is a consequence. Like the things that you've learned when you develop those skills, which you guys are coaches, you know that the technique is a consequence of who you're becoming in the process of harnessing and sharpening that technique. So, you know, in a family of fighters, my grandfather had 21 kids and his youngest brother, Elio, had nine kids. And they're known as the Gracie brothers because they did everything together. The trust that they had in each other was unparalleled, something that really inspires me. The bond that they created was unwavering. And as, you know, Elio's son moved to the U.S., started the UFC, which is a fighting organization now that millions of fans follow around the world. It was sold for $4.2 billion. It was already in someone else's hands. So that money didn't come to my family. Probably wouldn't be here today if you had. But yeah. You'd be like on a yacht somewhere if it had. Yeah. We would be having this conversation in Monaco, but it's been amazing to watch, you know, what my family built. And I feel truly honored to be able to continue that legacy in my own way and in the way that I feel I can contribute the most. But I do see many generations living a life of service in their own way. You came through, just did a course up here. You get to the end of the day and you get to have a conversation about vulnerability. People's defenses are down. That's one of the things that we have found through training and through sport and self-exploration through physical art that it creates this window of opportunity of shared experience. Like we've done this thing. I've died. If I do jujitsu, I probably died multiple times. I got tapped out by a 90-year-old 80-pound woman, right, who was just a master. That sets up a really unique framework. Do you think we can always get to a really meaningful conversation without a physical practice? Because I feel like it's a lot harder to get there, but it's almost like you guys have figured this thing out that if we play, we roll, we show respect, we interact, we have this really vulnerable conversation with another human. And you are. There's nothing more vulnerable than rolling with someone. You really are going to be vulnerable. That sets up an opportunity for self-reflection. Am I in the right place there? I totally agree with you. We are somatic beings. And science proves that. Your nervous system, how you think, how you feel is going to impact your physiological responses, your heart rate, your blood pressure. And trying to detach your physicality from everything else is unrealistic because we exist in this body. We're not just mind. We're mind-body. And the mind-body connection is the most powerful connection you'll ever have, especially the one with yourself. And I think that what we found in the practice of jujitsu is that we are able to really build on the community because you are developing connection. And the type of connection that we have is very unique because even if you think about how many times throughout the day you're actually touching people and people are touching you. Zero. Zero. Unless you, you know, Julie and I, we try to hug each other multiple times during the day just to be like, hey, we actually, we like each other, right? And this is a reminder. But otherwise, I think people could go days without touch. Yeah. And I love that because I can clearly see you guys are best friends and like you have that bond and you're so lucky that you found each other in life. Like you're the loves of each other's lives. And I love your love story. I'm lucky for sure. Yeah. You would never get told if you wanted for Juliet because she's the GPS, right? That's right. I'm the GPS. Not only in the car. That's why you forgot to mention. She saved my life many times. Many times. You would be 180 degrees off and everything else. That is absolutely true. But yeah. So having that physical connection is something so needed for us human beings, especially in an encouraging environment where like we are kind of guiding each other and discovering these new moves, these ways of moving that we've never practiced before. And then another thing, how often do we lay down on the ground and roll around as grownups? Never. You know, it's so rare. So I think it brings this playfulness. Jiu-Jitsu brings this exploration of different movement that we forgot about. And it brings that trust because there's this invisible contract where I'm trying to pull all your limbs in the opposite direction. And I'm going to stop as soon as you tap, even though we didn't even verbally say it. But because we are in this environment, we both know that we are respectful of each other's limits. But I respect you so much that I'm going to challenge you to get there and vice versa. So how are we navigating that in the world? I feel like we constantly don't trust each other. Everyone is so skeptical nowadays. And to your point, I think because we are disconnected from our own bodies and that physicality, that exchange with other people, we actually try to avoid it. We're like, oh, you know. And once you get in that space, even with kids, I mean, kids come to my class, especially the mother-daughter program is so powerful because when we do push defense, you know, the moms never really push, fight playfully with the kids. And then it's like the kids also have permission, like, wait, I get to push my mom now. And then they realize, oh, yeah, but you're pushing her to learn and she's pushing you to teach you. So now you have a completely different bond. And now you're finding playfulness in this physicality that a lot of times kids have with dads, but they don't have out with moms. And it's crucial that moms also have that with their kids. Go ahead. Well, do you think there's something because obviously there's a lot of amazing martial art traditions, but do you think that there's something uniquely special and effective about jujitsu? And I'm curious about that because I do feel like, at least in my own community, jujitsu is kind of having a moment. Like a lot of people I know seem to be turning to jujitsu. Um, many of them are longtime athletes in tons of different sports. And I think part of it is they're like, I'm tired of just going to the gym. I want to do a thing, but I don't know what, what do you think is unique and special about jujitsu? Because there's obviously something about it versus other martial arts. When people say jujitsu is human chess is really true because it's a strategic game. So it feels like a game. Every action has a reaction. And then you have the opportunity of actually trying one thing when you know they're going to react a certain way, but then you want two steps ahead. That's what you were planning. So it's kind of like moving the pieces around the table, but you and your opponent are the pieces in that moment. So there is the whole strategic thing. And then you tried something that didn't work. Like, oh, you defended what I was trying to do. So, and then you try something else, not a single class is the same. The moves, you know, even though the moves repeat themselves, the way they're set up and paired don't. And I think there's also an aspect of leverage that is really unique. I would say leverage and what jujitsu revolutionized was also the distance in which we fight because we create full connection or we stay out of reach and you're trying to get to each other. So there's so much involved in that. But the leverage part is something that is universal because regardless of your size, you get to be successful in what you're attempting. You know, what else can you and Kelly practice together where you'll feel like, oh, this actually worked. That's amazing. And it's not about you overpowering him. You are strategically applying leverage and timing and distance. So if you control all these elements, you will have a positive outcome as long as you have more knowledge than him. And we're not talking about violence. So he came, you know, trying to kill me or punch me in the face. You will learn the self-defense moves for that. And again, it's something that is so empowering because now you realize you have options when most people are navigating the world without having the same options because they don't have the skills. I love that. It seems like it's just a case of infinite learning. Like I always think, you know, when Kelly and I first started doing CrossFit, one of the things we like so much about it was that we sucked at everything. Right? Is that fair to say? Fair. But what that meant was... No, no. We were not fit, weak, and unskilled. Is that what I mean? Like, yeah, that's great. I think what turned us on so much... And you were already a world champion. It was fine. Yeah, it was like we were... But we were starting as beginners and we... On this thing where there was like an infinite amount of skills and learning to do. And it seems like the same is true in jujitsu. And I think anytime you can always be learning and, you know, and practicing in different ways, it keeps people engaged. Like there's got to be something to why people fall so in love with jujitsu and then continue practicing it for their whole lives. Yeah, it's a never-ending journey, truly. I got promoted to black belt and this whole movie went through my head and it really felt like, oh, today is the first day of my journey because now it's my first day as a black belt. And there's so much ahead. And you always feel like there's so much you can improve on. There's so much you don't know. There are always new things coming up. And there are infinite ways that your body can move and that you can counter things. And the more you realize that and also as you change, as, you know, your understanding of your body changes, as you don't recover as quickly from things, you know, now you're like, oh, okay, I can adapt. And that process of never-ending learning and continuous adaptation is also part of why it's so addictive and so important for us to be in a journey where we feel that. I think we need as human beings to realize that there's always more to what we're doing because if you're not growing, you're dying. And you want to be excited about things. You want to be curious. You want to be inspired. And I think that jiu-jitsu brings that to a lot of people. It certainly does for me. If you're in good places and training under good instructors. Right, right, right. Really is, you know, we see, I think we have talked about this. We mention this all the time. We're beginning this thing we're calling the third wave of fitness and self-development. The first wave is really like first generation, high performance. It's very rudimentary. It's not very sophisticated. And then the last 20 years, we've seen the proliferation of much more sophistication, how we train, how we tool, like all of those things. But it got really cluttered. And it's hard to see inputs and outputs. And one of the things that Juliet and I comment all the time on is like, you don't actually do a sport. You don't have a fit. You don't have a practice. You don't have to react. Like what you've done is you've gotten real good at this capacity game. It's, which has become a little bit like step aerobics with weights. Like, you know how many watts you can do this thing. You can measure everything. Juliet and I are both river guides. And we both paddled, you know, at a high level. And it's very scary rivers professionally. And one of the things about the water is you can't win. There's never a perfect run. It's always in the moment. Who am I? What's happening? What's reading? And it's very, very dynamic. When I went climbing, for example, I really didn't like climbing. It felt like I do this move. It's very like building some furniture, like a carpenter. It didn't feel reactive. In football, I really had a relationship with defense. And because I had to take and interpret and react. And I feel like that's what a lot of jujitsu is. This really dynamic form that you continue to bring a new body to, a new awareness to. When I am around our friends with jujitsu for the first time, they start improving their range of motion. Their breath is way better. They can continue to do it as they get old. Like it's a sport that grows with you. Because you maybe take a little more rest. You're not jumping right back in. But it's not striking. It's not hard on your body necessarily. And I just feel like, to your point, J-Star, we're seeing that this practice really does give people a lot of context for the rest of their life. And a great humility. My friends who have gone into jujitsu learn really quickly that you cannot go in there with ego. Otherwise, you will die again and again and again. Which is also important to have in life. You know, a little check-in where it's like there's always someone better. Always. There's all, you know. Always. And then you understand that sometimes you just had a good day and sometimes you're having a bad day. And that's when it really matters. The days that you're tired and that you don't want to train. Because jujitsu is playful, you know you have your friends that you're going to see. You're like, oh, I'm going to go and I'm going to take it easy. And then you go and it's your best training day ever. Like, even the days where I had a minor injury that didn't stop me from training. That I was like, I'm going to go and I'm just going to work on defense today. I left amazed. I was like, I've learned so much more than any of the other days. And I've improved in my defense. Like, nobody could submit me. So, now I don't panic anymore if somebody gets the mount. Who cares that they're on the mount? Now I know. So, there's always finessing parts of your game that regardless of how you feel on the day. Which is hard when you're always just hitting those hard workouts. Because the day you are exhausted or they have a little bit of a headache, you're like, there's no way I'm going to do that. Can't do that. Yeah. The reason I mention that is that it does create a framework of conscientiousness, of teaching. There's a formality to it. A structure that comes out of martial arts traditions of respecting elders and respecting people who've done this for a long time. That framework has to be really useful to go apply it to the world. And one of the reasons we're such fans of sports, especially for young people, is we feel like it creates a potential framework to talk about mindset and loss. Because, you know, I think one of the cool things about jiu-jitsu is that you get beat how many times in a single day? Like, you lost a lot and you failed a lot. And it's constantly part of the process is that you have to like, oh, that didn't work. Now let me try something else. Oh, that didn't work again. I don't think we get that a lot. But that framework that you describe and I've experienced really does create a template then to go do other interesting things. How have you felt jiu-jitsu in that sort of tradition of this is the way I see the world interact with people in the world? How has that influenced you as an adult being an entrepreneur or climbing? It has influenced absolutely everything I do. And I think the biggest thing in jiu-jitsu that I would even say a lot of the sports have is jiu-jitsu makes you experience the full spectrum of emotions. And you are put in positions where you can't just exit right away. You can say, oh, I'm uncomfortable. Let's just start over because someone is on the mount or on the side mount and, you know, putting a lot of pressure on you. And you can barely breathe, but you have to figure out and wait for the right time. And there are a lot of days you leave frustrated. There are a lot of days that you feel excited. And we as human beings, especially as kids in development, which was so important for me to do that as a kid. I didn't start training when I was a grown up, you know. I started in my living room on the mats before I could even, like, crawl. I was just rolling around. So having somewhere that you experience challenging emotions in a safe environment is really important. Often. Often, yes. So you're being challenged, but you're not actually under serious threat. And that is where most of the growth happens. And I think kids can experience that in a lot of different sports. We have to be mindful with kids that play team sports when parents constantly defer to, oh, the team sucked, you know, and it's never the kid's fault. So the kid never takes ownership of their participation in, you know, that result, which is not winning. But what happened? You know, maybe you won, but one of the kids on the team didn't even touch on the ball. So then they don't, they feel like an imposter. It's like, my team won, but I literally didn't contribute at all. And I'm celebrating, but I don't know. So I think that can be very confusing for kids. So for as much as possible, if you can put them in individual sports, which is the beauty of jujitsu, it's a team sport because you have a team that you're playing with, but your results are attributed to you. And you are performing individually. So you have no one else to blame. And when you transfer that into the world, that is the mindset of someone who becomes successful. And when I say successful, I mean someone who lives a fulfilled and happy life. When you are truly your most authentic self, when you know the life you built is what you wanted. And you are the only one paying for the consequences of your choices. It's not because you went to this college because your dad wanted you to be a lawyer or because your mom said you should do this. You know, okay, all these emotions I'm experiencing, I'm prepared to respond to them because I am the master of my choices. So living in this empowered state is the only way to truly find happiness because nobody else can make those decisions for you. Nobody else can fix your problems for you. Otherwise, you get into like a victimized mindset where, you know, oh, poor me and nobody else understands me. Nobody helps me. I've never had a mentor. I never had this. Well, you have yourself like right now, today. And if you develop these things as a kid, you are more likely to face bigger challenges. And that was a big part of why I decided to climb Mount Everest. I wanted to show the world that the skills that I've developed through jujitsu, not the physical ones, but the mindset that I developed in the process can be transferable anywhere. And regardless, you know, we talked about the waves and fitness, regardless of what you choose to do as a workout, like as long as you're doing something that challenges you, those skills will be transferable. And were they? Oh, yeah. Well, wait, wait. There's so many people. Don't even try to cut me off that. I was like, oh, no, no, no, no. No, no, no. I mean, I will just, I have a couple of sub comments because I'm so excited to talk about Everest, as you know. But a couple of sub comments, just a few points back, you said, you know, how you showed up for a training and you didn't feel good, but you did it anyway. And then you had this amazing experience. And I love hearing that because we talk so often in our coaching groups with our athletes that, you know, there's many days where you just don't feel it. You don't have it. And we're always like, show up for the warmup. Like, go there, do the warmup, and then see how you feel. Like, if you've done the warmup and you're like, I'm not in it, then it's okay to bail. But, like, give yourself a chance because oftentimes those days where you actually don't think you're going to perform well, you can surprise yourself by having these amazing experiences. So our philosophy is always like, show up for the warmup. So I love that you had just talked about that experience. And then secondarily, Kelly and I are working on our next book project, which is about kids and youth sports. And so I love what you said because, you know, we are coming from the position that sports are amazing and all physical activity for kids is amazing. And perhaps the most amazing thing that can come out of being involved in sports or martial arts or any kind of physical practice as a kid is the mindset piece. I mean, yes, we hope our kids all love to move their bodies and train, but it seems to me that the absolute biggest benefit is this mindset piece. So that's the perfect segue into tell us more about, like, how did climbing Everest even pop into your life and come up? And then what made you think, okay, I can do this? And did you have to do any different special training or did you just rely on this lifelong amount of fitness you have, an amazing mindset to be like, I got this? And let me start by saying I did some ice climbing in Boulder with my friends in college and ripped my pants, split my face open, got crushed by ice, froze my butt off, and then stood at Everest space camp, called a tar after walking to Everest space camp across and looked up and was like, no way. So I'm really interested in what Juliet's asking and why, like, because for me, I was like, no way. Yeah, and you know, we're obsessed with Everest, but like we're obsessed with Everest as viewers. And we like suffering too. Not like as attendees of Everest. Adventure outdoor suffering. We're in. Let's hear it. Comma. All right. You're obsessed with Everest and obsessed with suffering. You should just climb it. So that's the whole experience. I'll tell you right now. So climbing Everest was by far the hardest thing I've ever done in my life. Nothing comes even close to it. And the mindset is definitely the hardest part. And I have a lot of stories from that climb that illustrate that. However, I did dedicate myself to learning mountaineering skills because that's what I didn't have. And like for how long? I had seven weeks to prepare. I thought you're going to be like seven years. Yeah. Well, there were people with 25 years of experience in my expedition that didn't make it. And for as much as I don't recommend people to take the route that I did, I knew myself really well. And this episode of the Ready State podcast is brought to you by Element. It is hot as Hades. It is hot here. And you know what's happened is that all the athletes we're working with are outside training hard and sweating. And you know what they're not replacing? Electrolytes. That's right. So I do think number one is that most people are dehydrated or hypohydrated. They're not drinking enough water, right? Yeah. I think that that's fair to say. It's like – Well, and I think especially – I think if you're just like a desk jockey, you're probably drinking enough water. Drinking you're thirsty. It's plenty. Yeah. But I think for those of us who are training hard, training long and doing that now in weather that is especially unseasonably hot. Like we've been used to training in the cool and now all of a sudden it's 85 degrees. Yeah. It's a different story. That's right. And replacing those electrolytes is really about performance. We went for a ride and it was hot. And I'm telling you I didn't even notice that my water had element in it. I was like, oh my gosh. Yeah. Our ice melted after like two minutes. And we – again, just to lean into this a little bit more, sometimes we see that people who are eating more whole foods maybe aren't salty in their food enough. So look, we don't need to be obsessive but I do think this is an opportunity when you're outside exercising, moving, walking in the heat. Don't forget that this salt is a gigantic limiter. Yeah. And I think the other thing that we've been saying forever is that having an awesome flavor in your water just helps you drink more water. Like the reality is water is boring. We're all less likely to drink it and just having a little flavor in there of which I am a fan of all the element flavors. So there's so many to choose from. But it just helps us all drink more water. You know who I know that it works really well? I always bring boxes to Cal Women's Water Polo and they're all gone. Yeah. Like the element is gone. Yeah. Look, right now if you order through our link, you can get a free sample pack of elements, most popular drink mixed flavors. And if you want a party in your mouth, try sparkling. Of course. Go to drinklmnt.com slash TRS. We literally drink it every day. Every day. This episode of the Ready State Podcast is brought to you by Momentus. They have changed the game again. Fiber. Fiber. And in partnership with Arnold, do we need the Arnold? The Arnold. There's only one. One of the things that I know that we were talking about for a long time with them is, hey, we have this fourth macronutrient we really need to talk about, which is fiber. I mean, you and I have been on the EC Sinkowski 800-gram challenge forever. Forever. And I still think adults struggle in the fiber. Yeah. I mean, the recommended amount of fiber is like 28 to 30 grams per day of fiber. And I think people are, I think the data shows people are getting like less than a third of the recommended amount. I think it's only 95% of people don't get fiber. Yeah. The key here is it's got to be tasty. It's got to be easy. And once again, let me point out that the cinnamon fiber is being consumed by my 17-year-old daughter. She just likes to drink it. She actually drinks it with milk. She's like, I love this like horchata. It's so tasty. And I literally like. And my pro tip is chocolate protein powder, a little bit of peanut butter powder, and cinnamon fiber. And it makes like this like Mexican chocolate smoothie that is so tasty. Hot fiber mixes into like an oatmeal-like thing that you like fill up. I'm also noticing that I'm starting the day with this gigantic 20 ounces of water because of the fiber. I just feel better. Yeah. And I think for us, you know, we've always really doubled down on the momentous three, which is protein, creatine, and omegas. And if we were to add a fourth and make it a momentous fourth, fiber would definitely be part of that program for us. Because, you know, it really immediately just defaulted into a thing that we're taking and using every single day. Yeah. And we, of course, are still endeavoring to get as many fruits and vegetables and diverse fruits and vegetables in our diet as we can. But it's like, it's almost just like a little extra fiber insurance policy. And if you're that person, it's time to go get that colonoscopy. Get on your fiber, people. If you want to learn more, go to livemomentous.com slash TRS and use code TRS to save up to 35% on your first order. First, I reached out to the best coach in the world. He trains Colin O'Brady, a lot of really high performance. Prior podcast guest. Oh, awesome. He actually just came from an expedition in Antarctica that my coach, Mike McCaswell, trained him for. And he was successful. Yeah, I followed his whole expedition. Anyway, sorry, subtext. Yeah. So he was actually the reason why I found out about Mike McCaswell. I listened to Colin O'Brady at the Joe Rogan Experience. And when he was talking about his training and how specific his coach was, I realized, oh, this guy is going to be able to prepare me for this because he has all the knowledge that I don't. And by ignorance, I would fail in this expedition. So I reached out to him and he took me on as a client. Last minute, I literally had a call with him at 9 p.m. I woke up at 7 a.m. with my first training in my email and I was like, oh, my gosh, I'm doing this. It's real. And he said, you know, physical strength. We just need to prepare you for the specific challenges in the mountain for the continuous long endurance days that you're going to have for the climbing portion. So he compounded 20 weeks of training, which would be the minimum window in terms of the strength and conditioning for Everest in seven weeks, six and a half. So he said, your training sessions are going to be really long. So my strength training sessions were like three and a half hours long. I never knew I could work out for that long and actually make it, you know, because in one hour I'm like, I'm done. Yeah. And then get up the next day and do it again. Yeah. Yes. Yeah, exactly. Who is sore? Like, I don't feel anything, you know, you're just doing. And I remember we did a training camp in Portland to simulate high altitude because this gym had high altitude rooms. And for our training camp, we were training for nine hours a day consecutively. There was no like, let's stop and have lunch and get back to it. He was like, you need to know what it's like to perform for nine hours because your summit push is going to be longer than that. And there were moments where my legs were shaking. I was on the Stairmaster for hour two with weight vests and bands around my waist where he's pulling me back, simulating wind, whatever he was thinking. And my legs were shaking and I would ask him, I was like, I'm going to fall. Like, I can't keep going. I can't feel my legs. It was like, if you fall, I'll catch you. And I truly believe. Yeah, but like if you fall on Everest, less good. Yeah, exactly. That was his mindset. You guys would get along really well. And after going through that camp, that's when we truly made the decision. We were talking about Everest and he said, I'm going to make your assessment and then I'll let you know. And he tests everything. You know, he tests even your nervous system capabilities. Are you still making decisions under stress? I mean, at hour eight and a half, we were doing a circuit where on top of the low oxygen environment, he also put the mask on me. And he has me doing wall sits with plates on my lap and he brings out this whole Lego thing. And he's like, now you have to put this Lego together here in the instructions while I am on wall sit. My legs are shaking. I'm shot. It's like eight and a half hours in. And then he grabs a flashlight and he starts blinding me with those lights. And now I can't even see those tiny little pieces. And there's no time to complain or he's, you know, he's assessing how you respond under extreme stress. What if you get snow blindness? And then I complete the Lego. Then he brings out eight ropes and he's like, now do all of the three safety ropes that you have to perform. And he's blinding me the whole time. And right before that, he put my hands on ice because I'm have to do ropes without feeling my fingers. So that's the level of training that I got with him. It was really amazing what we did in seven weeks. That's what I was doing for 24 hours. Did you think to yourself, why are we doing all these things? I'm hiking Everest. And I use hike as it, right? Yeah. Because at some point you're like, I know it's going to be mentally tough. I know these are long, grueling physical days where you just step, step, breathe, step, step, breathe. But then simultaneously, you know, there are all of these things. How prepared were you for that? Because we do train. When we accidentally put these constraints on our experiences. Like if you go to jujitsu class, it has a start and a finish. And you're like, I can hang out. Oh, it's 90 minutes. I got this, right? Oh, maybe I'm going to go back later on, but I'll have a snack and a nap. And, you know, I can rest when I need because I'm not feeling it. But you can't. And nature and nature experiences. Was this your first time sort of taking this machine, which was, it is. I want to just tell everyone you have a lifetime of preparation for this. That is very true. Your tissues, your joints, how you load. Mindset. Right. Mindset, the whole thing. How does that work? And when it compares to actually the realities of, you know, exposure. Tell us about the actual climb. Yeah. The technical skills don't transfer, right? So that's something you have to learn. And that became my world and my life for 24 hours. I was doing. And to that point, your dedication and your full commitment to something a lot of times will put you ahead of people that have been doing the same thing so-so for 10 years. I mean, I was shocked when I was on Everest Base Camp with all the other climbers in my expedition that had been climbing literally for decades. There were women there with multiple world records in the mountain. There was a climber that climbed K2 and she didn't know how to put on her crampons. Her Sherpa was putting her crampons for her. I mean, I made sure that everything that was under my control, I would be an absolute, absolute beast. And that was all Mike McCastle's training. He was like, I want you to know literally how to do all these knots with your eyes closed. Like, if you lose your rappel device, you're going to know how to rappel yourself with your own rope. If something happens, like you need to know how to put your crampons, how to adjust them. If they break, what to do. You need to know all of the survival skills, self-rescuing the mountain. I did a three-day course at Everest Base Camp before my climb even started, climbing on the beginning of Kumbu Icefall. So I would know how to cross ladders. Like, I trained for everything. And when I got there and I saw other people in my expedition, they didn't know what to do. Like, they didn't know what I knew. Like, I was so familiar with my gear. I knew exactly, like, what I needed. It's almost like the time pressure you had, right? Because I could see it's like over 10 years, you're like, oh, I'll just sort of slowly develop the skills. And maybe you can get a little bit lax because you have some successes. But you're like, this is so completely new to me. I don't know anything about this. I'm a complete beginner. So you're just like, I have to learn it all. Like, it is interesting, right? The difference between, like, that you have seven weeks to learn it all and start climbing the mountain versus, or at least start acclimating. And how important is that process? We talked about jiu-jitsu and the training where failure and learning is a feature, not like, oh, I just didn't eat enough carbs, so I'll do the next triathlon in three months. Like, you know, the feedback loop is very closed and very tight when you are in this kind of, you know, martial arts training. How did that serve you in, like, when you're like, oh, I don't know any of this? Because, you know, we met first time at Laird and Gabby's, right, in the sauna, as we do. As we do. Suffering in the pool. You know, one of the, I think, the things that, you know, comes up sometimes is that you, I lost my train of thought. Keep going. Okay, I've got questions. I have a question. I'll jump in and I'll just say something because I think it'll be helpful. The biggest thing that I took from jiu-jitsu that I transfer there that I think people can use right away without training jiu-jitsu is to ask yourself the question, what else is possible? Because in jiu-jitsu, you have somebody who took your back and they have you on a rear naked choke, which means they have their arms around your throat and they're squeezing with all their might. And before you just quit, this is a huge problem that you have, but you go into the mindset of what else is possible? How can I get out of here? It's always forward. Never full stop and definitely never retreat. So when you're in the mountain and you hear an avalanche coming, you're like, okay, what else is possible? So you're just in a solution-based mindset instead of a quitting-based mindset. So that is something that if you never do jiu-jitsu, you can ask yourself right away every day of your life, what else is possible? With any problem that you're facing, instead of what is the mindset that we engage in? Oh, I knew I wasn't good enough for this. Oh, I shouldn't even have come. Oh, I, you know, and then you're always telling yourself otherwise. You're telling yourself you shouldn't be there or, oh, I knew this was going to be hard. I told you. And then you're fighting with people and you're like, okay, why don't you look at each other then and go, okay, what else is possible from here? Because then there will always be something. There is always something else you can do. And, you know, the mindset is the most important thing because it's the only thing you can control. About like when you're on Everest or in any extreme environment, or if you're leaving your home and getting in your car, I mean, how many things are actually under your control? Just think about your life. How many things turned out exactly the way you imagined? Like probably zero, you know? And if you are under the mindset that everything is supposed to be a certain way, this is the perfect self-sabotage setup, you know? Because every time something doesn't go your way, how are you going to respond? Are you going to throw a tantrum? Are you going to shut down? Are you going to talk yourself down? Or are you going to ask yourself what else is possible? And I was caught in two avalanches on Everest. You don't know how big they're going to be. Where were you? One of them I was at in the middle of Kumbu Icefall, which is worth saying that the season that I climbed was the deadliest season on Everest history to date. And the season started with... What year was it? Sorry. 2023. Okay. So two and a half years ago. And the Sherpas that are responsible for setting up the ropes are called the fixing team. The three Sherpas that were the fixing team for that season died on the first day of the season on the first ropes that they were setting in the Kumbu Icefall. A huge Serac fell off, fell on them. They couldn't even recover the bodies. And they had one of the Sherpas had been on the fixing team, I think, for 20 years. It was a huge loss for the community. So the energy, the vibe on Everest Base Camp, I even get goosebumps. Yeah, yeah. It must have been... It was really heavy on that year. So it wasn't this magical place to be and wow, we're doing this because the workers, the people that made this whole thing possible were grieving before day one. Because that was before anybody even got to Base Camp. Yeah. Because they were there setting things up. So, you know, it was a very stressful environment for everybody because they realize how risky it is in terms of it's getting worse every year. You know, it is true. Like there's a lot less ice in the Kumbu Icefall. The ice is melting. Their avalanche is happening more often. There's the racks detaching and just rolling down and you're talking about a building coming into your head. You know, there's nothing you can do. But when I was caught in an avalanche, luckily, there was a huge crevasse in front of us. So most of the snow came there in terms of the snow that hit us wasn't enough to bury us. You know, it was like... Right. I was on my knees and covered in snow, but not like, oh, I can't breathe, you know, and I need to be rescued. Like I could, my Sherpa started removing the snow. We stood up and we continued forward. But that was the mindset. That was the non-negotiable. It's like, okay, what else is possible? I'm breathing. I'm thinking clearly. I can move. I'm not injured. We're going to continue. Like going back was never a question in my mind. So there's two parts because Kelly and I, as you know, are obsessed and have like studied Everest. So we know everything about it. There's to me like two parts of the climb that are the craziest. And I don't know if I'm correct on this, but one is the Kumbu Icefall, which you talked about. So I'd love if you could even elaborate more of what it was like, especially what it's like to go across the ladders with crampons on. Because that is always just like, I've watched 100,000 videos of that. And I'm always like, that is so sketchy. And then it seems like the other crazy places, everything that happens at camp four and above, right? It's crowded up there. It seems like that's where most of the injuries and deaths happen is above camp four. And I would just love for you to talk about like your actual experience in those two spots, because I feel like that's where... What was surprising the hardest. And like that's where the shit goes down in those to me. And I don't know if I'm correct on that, but that's where I, what I feel like. Yes. Yes. The Kumbu Icefall is the most dangerous part of the mountain because it's just this moving glacier where things can happen at any moment. There can be a Serac falling. There can be an avalanche there and you don't have anywhere to run to or there's no shield. And the most challenging thing is that the Kumbu Icefall never looks the same. Because once you are climbing up, you cross the Kumbu Icefall to the camp one and two and three and four and summit push and then descent. But two things. One, you climb the mountain almost twice or three times. A lot of people do two rotations. And then the third rotation is the summit push. You crossed the Kumbu Icefall. How many times did you cross it? I crossed it four times because I only did one rotation. I adapted really well to altitude. And my first rotation, I went up to Camp 3, up to the Lodse Wall because there was a massive windstorm. So we descended. And then my second turn, I already went for the summit. But the majority of people I know and that have talked to climbers, they have all done two rotations. They go to Camp 2 first, then Camp 3, and then they go for the full summit. And by that, I mean they go to Camp 2, then they go all the way back down to base camp. Then they go to Camp 3, then they go all the way back down to base camp. I did only one rotation and then the summit, which means I crossed the Kumbu Icefall four times. But even, you know, on the rotation, you go to Camp 2, 3, however high you go. And then when you descend, that one ladder that you had connecting two sides, now it's four ladders tied up on this rope that don't really look that secure. And the ladder is bouncing as you're walking around and shifting from one side to another. And below you is 100 meters. You're not even climbing it. You're not even like on the mountain yet. You're just getting to the mountain. Yeah. So it's a good wake-up call on what's ahead. You know, there were a lot of people that were extremely unprepared when they were climbing. You know, some of those massive walls are just spinning around the ropes and their Sherpa had to climb to them to get them there. So there is definitely a level of safety of people who are unprepared. And that's where the line between experience and preparation is so thin. Because you can have people who have been to several other 7,000-meter mountains and who has, you know, achieved things that technically in the mountaineering world, you would then be capable of attempting Everest. But you are totally unprepared and you're Sherpa's putting your crampons on. So that's a very long discussion on the individual level on how prepared are you actually for this. And then from camp four on, you are literally in the death zone. And regardless of whether you're using supplemental oxygen or not, your cells are dying. And your body knows it. And every single alarm in your body, especially if you're connected with yourself, is screaming and telling you, what are we doing here? Get us out of here right now. You know, you're getting... Yeah, are you like headaches or how does it like... What's the physical manifestation of that? Like slowly being choked out by a mountain? I didn't get headaches, not even once there. Because the headache is something people get really heavy actually on base camp as well. Did you get headaches when you went to base camp? The person I was traveling with was miserable. When we got to base camp, there's a photo of us at Kalapatar, which means black rock. You can see the valley. And that person I'm with is frowning. Yeah, I mean, there were people in my expedition actually that were ultra marathon runners. They were in their mid-20s. They were actually physically the people that looked like they were in the best shape. They didn't even make it. Do you think all the years of hypoxic training you've done, you have to be comfortable with that? Yeah, and I did 20 minutes of breath work every single day on that trip. So how did your body experience that slow death? You feel like you are getting weaker by the day. And you really, you are. I mean, I lost 22 pounds on that trip. And that's a lot for my body. I think I put on five pounds of muscle from all the strength training. But also, I was working out so many hours. I couldn't even eat enough. I was like, I'm tired of chewing. I can't get all these calories. I love that. It's so interesting, isn't it? The first time you have to eat for like really eat, you're like, oh, this is really hard. Yeah, this is tiring, you know. So I put as much weight as I could to create that little bit of a cushion. But your body is getting weaker. And the pressure is increasing. You have been living on the mountain, in my case, for 48 days by the time I got to camp four. And the environment is just taking a toll on you. It's super cold. You know, you forget what feeling cold is because you're cold all the time. You're sleeping in a tent outside. Right. And you're Brazilian. And I am Brazilian. Thank you. And I'm facing like minus 40 Celsius, which is unheard of in Brazil. And you just, your survival mechanism that is innate, that is like born with us, knows that you're not meant to be there. And you need an immeasurable amount of mental strength to override that whole system and say, hey, shush. Right, right. We're going up. One step in front of the other. Yeah. And actually, it's about to get worse. We're going to keep going higher, you know, and the pressure is going to increase. And then it just feels like at some moment, your body just follows your mind. And so getting in that place is so magical. I've never experienced that, even in training in jujitsu. It's a connection where now it's like, okay, we'll do whatever it takes. But at the same time, you know, there are people that do die because of summit fever, because they're so obsessed with reaching the summit that their body is literally breaking down. They don't listen to that. And they have a heart attack. And their organs fail. And they never make it down, unfortunately. And that's why there are dead bodies up there as well. And the majority of deaths happen on the descent. That was going to be my next question, because I feel like there's always this, you know, people make it. But, you know, did you go in with sort of a heavy. Congratulations, 50%. Did you get to the summit with a sort of, okay, this is awesome. But like now maybe the work begins, like the most maybe important part of the climb is like you go to the summit back to camp four. Like to me, that's where all of the shit goes down. Yeah. And it's crowded. And, you know, it can be like beautiful bluebird summit on the summit. You know, you've seen so many cases where it's like bluebird on the summit. Everyone's so happy. And then like five minutes later, it's a gnarly storm and everyone loses visibility. So did you have, I mean, I don't know if your mind is right at that point, but did you have like a feeling of acknowledgement and heaviness in the summit? Like, of course you were excited, but you're like, let's not get real excited because like the biggest part of my climb right now is now. Or were you just kind of in a mental zone where you couldn't think that way? Yeah. I give full credit to my coach, Mike McCasso for that because he prepared me for that since day one. He said, Seth, the summit is only 50% of the climb. And I want you to have that self-assessment the whole time. So I did have that understanding of I need to be feeling great as I'm approaching the summit. But also your Sherpa is assessing you at all times. He's watching you, your decision-making abilities, your level of consciousness, and you are operating your own equipment. You're carrying your oxygen in your back. You know, you are the one who is placing the safety. They are also struggling. I mean, Sherpas are human beings with incredible capabilities. It's truly amazing to see what they do in the mountain. But they are still human. It's not easy for them. They're still human, you know, and they struggle. I mean, my Sherpa was, he was having a hard time. You know, he actually climbed twice. I was his second summit, which is a crazy story. But ultimately, you have to have that mindset that if something happens, you are able to be on your own. And when you are in such extreme environments, that line is very thin. So I had an agreement with myself that I needed to be conscious. I needed to be able to move and breathe at all times. Like if something was off with my system, I wouldn't even hesitate to cancel that trip. But if it was just, you know, the stress from everything happening around me, I would keep moving forward. And it's important to say that because also having a strategy with your team. I had a very unique experience on Everest. I was by myself on the summit for 40 minutes. Wow. Wow. Yeah. I have 360. Which isn't what you see at all. Like normally you just see a billion people in a line and you just like basically, it seems like people just go like touch and turn. Yeah. Yeah. So I had a very risky strategy with my Sherpa, which first of all, we submitted on the second summit window. So usually those lines that you see are the people who want to be the first one to summit on the season, which is a crazy competition because who cares, you know? And the risk is a lot of times there is not a second summit window. And the summit window is just the few days where the winds die down enough where you can actually reach the summit because at that height, you know, the wind will just blow you off the mountain. And that's why you can only climb Everest on a certain time of the year. However, when you take on the summit push, you don't know. Conditions can change at any moment. So with my Sherpa, we had the strategy of leaving Camp 4 over two hours after everyone else because you have other expeditions as well in Camp 4. And he didn't want me to get stuck on lines. So based on his assessment, he was like, you're climbing really well. You're climbing fast. You know, people on our expedition from Camp 3 to Camp 4, they took 11 hours, 12 hours. I think we did six and a half hours. So he was like, let everyone go so we don't get stuck behind them. So we don't run out of oxygen. So you don't get frostbite. So we don't take just unnecessary risk, basically. So everyone left around 8 p.m. Some people left at 8.30. We left at 10.40 p.m. And when you start climbing for your summit push, we climb at night and you don't see anything. It's pitch black. And the only thing you can see are the little lights, which are the headlamps from the climbers. And because they all started before me, they looked like little stars because they were two hours ahead in the mountain. And that's the only thing you see, like these little lights. And I was like, wow, am I hallucinating? Like, are these stars? This is so beautiful. But it was also the best strategy because for me, they served as inspiration. So every time I was tired, every time I was struggling, every time I was cold, I would look up and I would see those climbers. And I was like, wow, they're still going. I can do this. And then at 4.30 a.m., right before dawn, this huge windstorm strikes everyone in the mountain. It was like 120 kilometers per hour. I was standing on this ridge with my Sherpa at the time, which made it super dangerous. So we crouched down, like literally trying to hold on to the mountain with all our might and holding on to the rope. And then when the wind died down, I looked at him like, what do we do? You know, and he's like, let's go. Get up and let's go. So we keep climbing. And as I look up this time, I see one of the lights coming down. And then all the thoughts come through your mind. Like, what happened? Are the ropes caught? Was there an avalanche there? Was that a fall? Like, did somebody get hurt? Like, what is happening? You know, is that going to affect my summit? And as that light was coming closer and I saw who it was, it was a woman from my own expedition who had been climbing for 25 years. She had been to base camp 20 times. Wow. She climbed other 8,000 meter mountains, which means she's been in the death zone. She's experienced this. She was an ice climbing instructor, very technical climber. She actually taught me a lot of things at base camp and I got close with her. So when I saw her, I was like, what happened? Are you okay? I thought something happened. And I'll never forget these three things she tells me. She told me. And I get emotional every time because she said, it's too cold. It's too dangerous. It's not worth it. And at that moment, I felt like I was looking at self-sabotage embodied in a human being. This episode of the Ready State Podcast is brought to you by Vitality Blueprint. And here's what I want to start with today. You know, there are so many conversations around longevity these days. And I think it's a topic about which we all care and share curiosity and desire to live long. It's their amuse. It's how they're like, hey, this is my hobby. But I think one of the things that is not discussed often enough in the longevity space is the need for regular medical screenings and like not smoking. Right. We talk about all this other stuff, you know, sleep and nutrition and all the other sort of basics as well as all the bells and whistles we talk about in longevity. But like a key part of actually living longer is making sure that you're looking under the hood. Yeah. And you cannot cheat your blood panel. No. You can't. And, you know, what we love about Vitality Blueprint is it's comprehensive. All in one too. It's extremely easy to get done. You can either have someone come to your house and take your blood or go to a nearby Quest or other blood workplace. You get a very comprehensive panel. And then you get this amazing dashboard that not only has all your results, but it has your results interpreted in terms of what is optimal versus sort of what is like, are you still alive kind of results. And then there's a protocol about how to actually improve. And I want to be clear. It's a protocol about supplementation if you need it, about your greatest opportunities. I think that's what's amazing. You know, I keep saying that, man, once I did this, I just changed two things. I jumped on some irons up my ferritin and I got on my omegas and my recovery went through the roof because those were my biggest opportunities. So like, I'm like, oh, feel better, work harder. Yeah. And you immediately saw positive results from the, you know, the recommendations you got on the dashboard. I need to take more omegas and add some iron. And I was like, okay. Yeah. Done. Cut off my hand. It's growing back. If you want to learn more, go to vitalityblueprint.com slash TRS and use code TRS for 50 bucks off any vitality plan. Hey, if you're enjoying the show, make sure you're subscribed wherever you get your podcasts. That way you won't miss any of the new episodes we drop. Plus, it really helps other people find the show. So hit that follow button now and let's get back to it. Because it's too cold. She knew it. She knew it was cold. It's Everest. You're a climber. It's too dangerous. Yeah, it's Everest. It's the highest mountain in the world. But it's not worth it part that made that story stuck with me this whole time. Because all I could think was if I had met this woman a week before and I had taken her through my program, she would have made it. Because she is just telling herself that it's not worth it. When if it was, you know, something physical, she would say, I don't feel well. So for people wondering, oh, how much is self-sabotage or how much is it like her not getting summit fever or not, you know, pushing beyond. Because that was not the first thing. So when we are actually facing a problem that at the moment the smartest thing is to preserve our life, we'd go like, oh my gosh, like I hurt my ankle. Or I don't feel great. Like I can't even think I'm going back down. You're like, oh, great. Yeah, go before you get haste or hape. But with her, it was the conversation which happens so often with women is we work our whole lives for something. And when we are the closest we've ever gotten to getting what we wanted, we let somebody else take it. We talk ourselves out of it. We give up. Because something in us tells us that we are not worthy of that thing that we've dreamed our whole lives for. And when she told me it's not worth it, in that moment I didn't have, you know, enough time to work with her. But I promised myself and it just gave me such a renewed sense of purpose to every single girl that crosses my path. I'm going to do everything in my power to give her tools to always believe in herself beyond anything else that anybody else tells her. Because that self-belief is the difference between me, who trained for seven weeks, having reached the summit on the same day under the same conditions, and someone who was in her mid-50s who prepared that for her whole life and has dreamed about Everest for decades, decide to turn around 300 meters from getting there. Was there any part of you in that moment, especially because you're probably not in your own right mind, like you obviously had so much resolve and so much actually work around this self-sabotage concept, but at the same time, you know, like we're communal beings. Was there any part of what she said that gave you pause that said, oh, shoot, like, should I be reevaluating this? Or were you able to really clearly see this is a moment of self-sabotage? This is actually the work I do with women and I'm not going to let this change my journey at all. Or was there anything that went on in your head around that moment for you? Yeah, it was very clear. I was in a great place. I'll show you my videos at base camp. I was fully conscious, you know, I was... And that's the only way for you to be because that's 50% of the climb and you have, you know, another 50% to go. And I had no doubt. I knew through her expression, the way she communicated, her state, she looked great. She was physically ready. And to your point, there is another story from another climber who was in my expedition. And coincidentally, starting at Camp 2, we were put together on the same tent. And that woman, she had a paralyzed arm. And she was attempting to climb Everest because her dad was a climber and he had just passed away. And she wanted to pay homage to him. And at Camp 2, she told me she was going to descend. She was really scared. She was super experienced as well. And I held her hand on the tent and I said a prayer out loud. And she started crying. And she fell asleep actually holding my hand. And I told her, let's just go to Camp 3 together today and we'll see how you feel. And then when we got to Camp 3, she woke up before me and she actually told her Sherpa that she was descending. And that was the summit push. So if you make that call that you're going to go back to base camp, you don't have a second attempt. And then she started getting ready and she's like, I'm not going, I'm not going. And I held her hand and I said, Christy, just one step at a time. And we submitted on the same day. So you're talking about a woman with a paralyzed arm and a woman who was in perfect health. What's the difference? You know, of course, she did it for herself. Like she believed in her. But she was open and we were together and we were in a moment where when she was having those thoughts of giving up, she had somebody that held her hand and was like, believe in yourself and don't worry about the summit now. Just take one step at a time. Just promise yourself one step at a time, one step at a time. And she did it. And we were thrilled. We were thrilled because we summited on the same day. And, you know, I'm not saying that I was responsible for her submitting, but I have been in moments where I wasn't sure if I should battle myself. And one of them was Everest. You know, I called Gabby, actually, because my climb was so last minute that I didn't even have time to reach out to sponsors and brands. And Everest is an expensive expedition. And I had to make that call, you know, after I did the training camp and my coach told me, I've been training forever since day one. We're going to do this. I called Gabby and I was like, Gabby, I don't know what to do. Do I go into my savings and get all of my money and pay for this? And anything can happen. You know, the same Serac that took down the fixing team could have shut down the mountain and there goes my money and the climb hasn't even started. It's such a huge risk, you know. And I've been working since I was 17 years old, living in London by myself, saving every penny, you know, not buying Chanel bags and like buying expensive trips and always investing in experiences and in courses and qualifications. So to me, like money has value because it all came from my sweat. Like my dad didn't pay for anything. And I've always invested in things that I knew were going to make me a better human being. And that was like the scariest investment I've ever made on myself in a lump sum. And I called Gabby and she said, Seth, how can you ask someone to bet on you if you're not willing to bet on yourself? And I hung up with her and I was like, wow, I guess I got to go all in on myself every time then. And I did it, you know. So I'm glad that Gabby was there for me because I might have hesitated. And I'm glad I was there for Christy in the moment where she might have hesitated. And nobody does it for us. But we all get to a point sometimes where we need just a little push from people that truly love us and sees us for who we are. And I'm like, you know, you got this. Like, you know. And that's the difference. You know, it's the difference between already having that self-belief because then that push is something that you're prepared to take on because you have the foundation to back that up. And asking for that kind of support is actually not weakness and it doesn't – it's not a sign that you have a poor mindset. Like, we all need that. And you can both have a mindset that is, like, perfectly prepared to climb Everest and you also need some support. Like, those two things can coexist, I think. Yeah. You absolutely need training partners or a toe partner or a climbing partner or, you know, like you just – to think you can do it by yourself. Jiu-jitsu is a lonely sport by yourself. You always need a partner. Yeah. They say, like, all the grace and everything that you find, mysticism at the top of the mountain is what you brought with you. You know, you descend. How does that experience change you teaching, thinking about your day-to-day life? Because it can be transcendent. It's rare to have a few moments where you're so in flow. Like, you can chase that the rest of your life, almost like an addiction for sure. But it's hard to do these hard things. Do you find that you are a different person after that experience? I'm the same person with a lot more faith. And I think that was the greatest gift that Everest gave me was to have faith in what I do and in my mission on this planet. You know, because I put myself in the harshest and most extreme environment with the pure belief that if we provide the tools for girls as they're growing up, they will become women who can achieve anything. And that the skills that we develop, if you invest in yourself, they are transferable to anything. And when I got there, I think I just shut down all of the noise from all the people who don't believe in me, from all of the, you know, controversy around women training. And which is not just jujitsu so much more than that, but about what I really wanted to do. And it just gave me this renewed sense of purpose that like nothing else matters. And because I have faith that there's something much bigger than me being here in this moment. And I think that it just gave me so much faith to push on this path. Because, I mean, we were even talking about before we started recording how you guys said if we ever started a new gym, we would do a gym just for girls and women. I asked you why, you know. And I think that was the same feeling that I've always had that now it's like unwavering. It's so clear to me that it is life-changing. It can be applied to anything you do in life. And there's also no way around it. Like you have to develop skills. You need to have tools. But we don't, we're not gifted them. You know, like you're not born knowing anything. But the experiences and the realities that we go through as women and men in the world is so different. So I'm even going to ask you guys a question. And why would you start, you know, a studio just for girls or women? Or why is that even like an idea? I mean, I guess I'll start that. But I feel like there's such a hole. You know, even when you were talking about having a mat in your living room and rolling around with your family and that that was just like part of what you did. Just that kind of experience of getting in touch with your body and movement at such a young age. I feel like there still is this weird thing where like dads go out and play with their sons and they throw balls. And that kind of thing isn't, you know, that kind of play. And it's sort of this thing where it's like, oh, you know, dads have this idea they should roughhouse with their sons because sons really need to have roughhousing. But a lot of that isn't for girls. Like that's not sort of culturally considered something you should do with girls. And so it's not done. It's just not like we've raised two daughters and it's like we don't we didn't see lots of dads out, you know, throwing a football with their daughters in the street or roughhousing with them. Or you just kind of don't see that. And then now that we have especially one daughter who's like heavily into athletics, you start to see these giant movement holes in girls just because they didn't do that kind of playful stuff as kids. And, you know, and obviously there's also this this is across all kids, not just girls, but huge hole in just youth athletic development because kids aren't free playing and they're not playing outside and everything they're doing is structured. So I don't know how a gym would help with that, but I just think there's a huge hole. And I think that also has is there's a huge hole in women as well, especially in my generation. You know, I come from the generation of women who are told like be skinny like Kate Moss. You've got to run for cardio. Running is how you say thin. Run, run, run, run, run. So most of the women I know in their 50s, like even though they know like the Internet has told them and they know they should be strength training, like they really just can't. And I can't do it because it's like, oh, I might get a muscle that might not look as good in clothes or something. So I just think there's a lot of challenges for women. So I think that would to me. What would you say? You work with a lot of girls and women. Yeah. You know, I think number one is raising these two daughters and recognize that everyone's going to become a rec athlete eventually. I think, you know, you're going to retire from your sport, maybe in high school, maybe, maybe a little later. But, you know, there's we have I have so many women in my life who derive so much power from being athletes or training for athletics or the values of being in a world championship or, you know, competing in the Olympics. And there's those tools where you're like, if we could apply these in a formal way, we could make a race of superhumans. We could just solve a lot of the internal chatter, a lot of the confidence and just also make them more robust because we feel like the hits are going to come for you. You're going to, you know, break up with someone, someone in your family is going to die. You're going to get sick. You're going to get injured. And we just don't have a lot of places where we get to practice those skills and then test those skills against the moment. And, you know, I'm so fortunate to coach with these, you know, incredible women at Cal Berkeley. And I work with these women and I feel like confidence for a lot of the women I work with in women's teams is like a brick at a time. It's just these little small wins over and over and over. And you just we need to we need a place where we can repeat that success and those micro failures a lot so that by the time the big moment comes, we have enough experience and enough sort of self-belief. And I just feel like this is one of the places to do that, plus injury prevention, plus all the things we just don't treat young women the same way physically that we treat young men in terms of exposure to the weight room, exposure to nutrition, exposure to mindset. It just doesn't happen as much. Well, I think this is the perfect segue into going back to the very beginning of this conversation when you talked about your workshop that you're up here in the Bay you just finished yesterday. And I would love it if you could tell our audience just a little more detail about what you're doing day to day in your work with women and girls. And I think also just going back in time, what inspired you to want to work specifically? And I think you have a program coming out, which we want to talk about. Yeah. The mindset aspect and the training and the preparation that we talked about for women is really important. But the truth is there is a whole reality that we didn't address, which is the level of harassment, sexual assault, danger and vulnerabilities that women go through in the world. And we are the vulnerable gender, period. You know, and you just look at statistics. When one in three women is suffering rape or attempted rape in their lifetime and sexual assaults, when you have at least one in five girls in college being raped, when you have 83% of women saying that they suffered sexual assaults in their life, this is a reality that is horrifying and that needs to change. There cannot continue to be a society in which women feel scared every time they go for a run by themselves. Oh, what am I going to wear? Oh, it's kind of getting late. Maybe I shouldn't run today. Now I'm going to skip on my workout. But I work late. So this is the only time I have. And we are constantly paying the consequences for a world that doesn't provide safety for women to exist, period. Yeah. I mean, there's some crazy stuff I think about that like Kelly doesn't, you know, it's like every time I get in an Uber, I'm like, okay, well, putting my life in danger. You know, every time I walk into any parking lot, I'm always like, I need to be on high alert and prepared. Like Kelly doesn't think that when he walks. You know what I mean? There's just so many little ways in which you're like, oh, okay, well, I maybe, you know, I can go for a hike up here, but there might be some sketchy person. Again, just that would never cross Kelly's mind. Right. And that's not even counting all of the gnarly sexual abuse data that you've, you know, stated here, which is really funny. And let me take that and just deescalate for a second, because there's a lot of times where I'm like asking these women to do extraordinary things in these moments of big competition. I'm like, why don't you believe in yourself? Like, what's wrong with you? And it's because you're not a cis hetero white guy who's been bombed with, you know, affirmation that I'm the chosen one and I can be great and it's going to work out. And really, you can see the difference in just upbringing exposure. And as you're talking about that, it really does manifest itself in so many ways. So many ways. And when you get in an Uber, when you're going to teach or speak at a conference differently than Juliet, you are not even worrying if the driver is going to ask you personal questions. If he's going to make a comment on how beautiful you are or if he's going to ask you about your personal life. And these are little things that happen so often with women that become so stressful and it affects the decisions that we make in our daily lives, you know. Well, I think one of the I would love if you could because I feel like you have so many actual tools because I think, you know, we are in many ways very vulnerable and the data is not good. But I think there's so many skills and tools that we can employ to at least decrease the risk of some of these things happening to us. So I guess maybe if you could even give some examples of sort of scenarios, situations where you find women to be particularly vulnerable, where there's very specific and clear tools that you can share that women can do to be safer. Because you do this a ton on your Instagram. I'm a big fan of my follower. But, you know, what are the sort of highlights? Yeah. So first and foremost is understanding how are you being perceived in the world? Because if you can position yourself in the world in a way where you don't look like a victim, you are a lot more, a lot less likely to become one. So distractions, eliminate all the distractions in your life. So, for example, if you just went grocery shopping and you're headed to your car, absolutely do not be on your phone. But also don't be holding your phone and your keys and the coffee that you just got and all the bags all at once and looking super overwhelmed. You always want to have one hand free. So put your phone in your pocket or in your bag. Carry the bags in one hand. And if you can't, then put them in a cart and do take the car to your car. Stay aware. Head on a swivel. Posture. You know, when people are observing you in the world, if they feel like there's going to be any line of resistance, they're going to look for someone else. They're going to look for women who look vulnerable, who are distracted because the element of surprise is really important for perpetrators. Unless we're talking about abusive relationships and domestic violence cases, which then it's the same thing. But now it's you detecting red flags because things do escalate from the small actions. You know, men don't kill women out of the blue. Darren Lee is right now being charged for murdering his girlfriend, his 29-year-old girlfriend. And he was, you know, caught because he was asking ChatGPT how to get rid of the body and how to make it look like it was an accident, even though she had stab wounds. And he was asking ChatGPT, can stab wounds be accidental? And how do I report this to the police once, you know, the body is recovered, basically? So that is a whole other area that is so important for us to talk about as well, because that is where the majority of violence happens with women. When they start raising their voice with you and slamming the door and starting to control you and isolate you from your friends and your family, those are all red flags to stay alert. But the things that you can control in your daily life is having strategies for getting the Uber when you are in the elevator with somebody, loading groceries. Awareness is always first and foremost. Even if you feel scared, walk with a strong posture. Never be on your phone. Having the awareness that your car is supposed to take you from one location to the other. This is not your safe haven where you get in your car and now you're going to scroll on your phone and you're going to answer emails. Your mindset, whenever you're approaching your car, getting in and out and heading to a location is I'm going to get in and I'm going to leave this place immediately. Then on top of our posture is our voice. And a question I love to ask on my workshops for women is how can you tell if someone is good or bad intentioned? So I'll ask you guys that. How can you tell if someone is good or bad intentioned? You mean like if it were someone approaching me or like... Let's say you're putting gas in your car, you're in the gas station and you're putting gas and you see somebody just, yeah, walking towards... Like clearly he's kind of coming towards you. How can you tell if he's good or bad intentioned? I mean, I guess I would rely on some kind of vibe that I couldn't put a word to or just sort of like, you know, I feel like I would have some instinct if someone was creepy. But that's probably not a great strategy. I assume that everyone has bad intentions and someone is not allowed to approach. So there's many times where I'm pumping gas in a sketchy place and someone's coming up and I'm like, you need to stop right there. So there's immediately... And remember, I'm 6'2", 225, actually have fought a little bit, like dangerous enough to be dangerous to myself, but still never want to even be in that situation in the first place. So I, you know, sorry, and this is not the place for us to, you know, for me to interact with this person. So I'm like, hey, you need to stop right there. I love both of your answers. And it shows so clearly that women rely on their intuition for safety. However, we are the only species that talks our way out of the information that we've collected. So women will have that gut instinct about someone approaching them. You're walking on the street. They're kind of walking. But then they're like, I need to be nice or I need to be polite. Yeah, I've done that a lot too. I've definitely been like, okay, this creep vibe, creep vibe. But then I have this weird feeling that I need to be accommodating or something. Yeah. Yeah. Because we put their comfort above our safety all the time. But we were taught that. So when women come to my studio and they start beating themselves up like, oh, I know I should have done this. And I was like, you shouldn't have done anything because you weren't given any tools. And society actually teaches women to put other people's comfort above our safety. It's like, don't make them feel bad, you know? So then we talk ourselves out of it. We're like, oh, maybe I'm being judgmental. Oh, just because he's homeless or just like whatever it is. But that's not the reason. The truth is we have over 30,000 expressions, facial expressions as human beings. And before your brain can even process what you read about that person that made you feel unease, your gut is like firing off every alarm. And the best thing you can do is every time you feel those alarms going off, you act on it. I don't care what it is. If you were getting into the elevator and then a guy approached and you're kind of like something about it, doesn't matter what they're wearing, they can be a handsome dude in a suit, you know? But something about it, you're like, I don't know, I'm in this hotel in this conference on myself. But then you're like, oh, you're not even in the elevator yet. But then you get in with the guy and the whole time you're sweating. And then what you do, you make yourself smaller. You go right in the corner, you look down, you kind of pull your phone and like you completely shut down your peripheral vision. And if that person actually had ill intentions, you would have put yourself in a really difficult position right now to get out versus, oh, you can go ahead. I'm actually waiting for a friend. Don't get in. You know, I just had a little experience. I didn't even mention it to Kelly. We were just on a trip in Hawaii and I was taking the elevator by myself and a guy got in and I don't know if like he creeped me out or anything, but we were going to the, he was like, it was kind of weird because he was like just two of us, but he was going to the same floor as me and I was like, weird, there's 11 stories in this building. And like, why is this guy going to the same floor? And our hotel room door was like right by the elevator. So I actually got off the elevator and went over to a different direction because I was like, where's this guy going? And so I didn't want to like be going to my room and opening the door and having him be able to like follow me in. So I just betoured to the right for a second and then waited until he went way down the hall and then I went back to my room. Yeah. And that's something that we go through all the time as women that doesn't even cross a man's mind. Yeah. Like, oh, there's another dude in the elevator who's going to follow me to my room and sexually assault me. Yeah. That's not even a possibility, you know, and that is a true possibility for women because that happens all the time. I mean, I have friends in law enforcement that send me all of the security cameras in Vegas and the amount of women that get followed into the room. I've actually saved women from dudes that follow them into the elevator when I wasn't even going in the elevator. I was literally waiting for a friend that I was like, oh, I got into the elevator because they were totally drunk. And they actually they just hang around the elevator to see who are the women. They're so drunk. And then this guy was like these two women couldn't even press the floor to their own hotel room. So and the guy's like, I got it. I got it. Yeah. Oh, hey, do you need help? I'll walk you to your room, you know, and I've had friends that had people walk into the room with them. But to your point, you know, the best thing every time you get into the elevator for some reason, always stand by the buttons so that you are in control. So if the guy comes in and he feels a little sketchy, but not enough where you feel like I'm going to walk out, which you can you're like, oh, actually, I forgot something and just leave. I mean, you don't need to explain yourself. But the truth is, we live in society. So a lot of women realistically go like I would die if I had to just leave the person there. I'm afraid he's going to like yell at me and call me a bitch. This episode of the Ready State podcast is brought to you by Creatures of Habit. And Creatures of Habit was born with one simple goal in mind, and that's to give people the power to harness healthy habits from wake up to wind down. And what we want to talk about today is their amazing, awesome daily bar. Yeah. So full disclosure, everyone, I got the daily bar like fresh off the press back in November, and I've been running these as sometimes I'm like, I'm a little bit busy. I don't have time. And I really like this bar with a cup of coffee. Yeah. And here's a couple of things I like about it. Yes, it has some creatine, 10 grams of fiber. No sketchy sugar alcohol. No sketchy like fake fats. 20 grams of plant-based protein. Yeah. And that's a big deal because I have a lot of athletes who have, don't tolerate, whey. So this is like the bar that meets everyone's sort of needs. Yeah. And our whole thing with bars is that they're sort of like, we almost treat them like a supplement. Like we're not trying to live off of bars all the time in our life. We're trying to eat. We tried that. But we're trying to eat regular meals. But sometimes we get a little busy and our schedule gets crazy. And if we are going to put in some kind of bar, this is so tasty. It's so filled with amazing high-quality ingredients. It goes amazingly well with a cup of coffee. And it's just like the perfect go-to like snack slash mini meal we can have when we're busy. When I'm trying to get enough protein in for like, if I grab a yogurt and a, you know, KOH bar, it's, I'm there. Like, I'm like, okay, I'm fed. And I really just, it's been, these have been traveling with me. They're good cold. They're good smashed. It's fantastic. Look, if you want to learn more, go to CreaturesOfHabit.com slash TRS. That's Creatures with a K. So CreaturesOfHabit.com. And use code TRS for 15% off your first purchase. So you can just lie if you have to. But in the case that you stay in there, now you're in charge and you can say, which floor? And to Kelly's point, you know, you actually feel like nobody's allowed to get to a certain proximity to you, but women hesitate. So women wait until that guy in the gas station got so closed that you don't know if he's going to pull a knife, if he's going to say, hey, can you help me with some money? Or if he's going to say, hey, forgot your sunglasses in the bathroom. And we wait because we don't know what to do. Because truthfully, women are not either physically, emotionally, or mentally equipped to handle situations. So they're afraid to set a boundary because if this escalates, then I can't physically defend myself. So I'm just not going to say anything. But then you live with that constant anxiety. So the best way to tell if someone is good or bad intentioned is to use your voice. You know, however, we don't want to escalate. So just asking a question. But the sooner we act, the better. So if you see somebody approaching you in the gas station, hi, good morning. Can I help you? So you're standing in strong posture. Place your hand out. So my body is speaking regardless of what I'm saying. And 58% of our communication is nonverbal. So now I'm standing in strong posture. I'm telling you that you need to stop. And for those who are not watching on the camera, I have my arms straight out. And I'm signaling a stop sign. And I'm saying, good morning. Can I help you? Hi, sir. Do you need anything? So now before I'm showing you that you come any closer, you just need to tell me what are your intentions. Which if you then say, oh, I was just wondering if you could, if you have a dollar. Not today, sir. Have a great day. And if he keeps approaching, then I will escalate to Kelly's level. Hey, do not come near me. And if he keeps coming, now I know I can just circle around my car because whoever controls the distance controls the damage. And if he can't get to you, he can't hurt you. So don't let that person get too close before you act. You're safe. Use your voice. Ask a question. Can I help you? Do you need anything? And by their response, you will know. If they start acting a little weird, hovering around, if they don't answer, if they keep approaching you, now you escalate to a voice of command. Step back. Do not come near me. Hey, do not come any closer. And now you know, either circle around your car, go into the convenience store where there's more people, or start getting bystanders attention. And instead of yelling for help, yell fire. And that is because when you ask for help, people will tippy toe and lock their door because they don't want problems. They don't want if that person is armed, if they have a knife, they don't want to put their lives at risk for someone they don't know. But when you yell fire, regardless of where you are, everyone will run. Wait, is my building catching on fire? Is that going to affect my car? So everyone will come because of their survival instinct. And all you need is enough people to come to where you are to dissolve a situation because perpetrators don't want attention. You are, I mean, I'm fortunate enough that I have a lot of friends in law enforcement and you know, I have actually practiced these things. That's why I can actually, I have a script that when something happens, it doesn't just like, oh, what was I supposed to do? I'm like, oh, I know what to do. Right. That, you know, that's handout, keeping away. Do you, is this where we're going? Like we just need a place to sort of formally practice some of these things so that it becomes like, Julia doesn't have to be like, oh yeah, I have this podcast. What did she say? You know, I think that's the missing gap. I think people say, okay, I want to be, but we need that practice. Is that, is that where we would get this? Yeah. We need tools and we need strategies. So I'm launching a course and it's going to be out as soon as this podcast is out with everything that women need. It's seven modules. You know, you're going to learn all of the mentalities, which are a posture of a champion, the importance of eye contact. When you set boundaries, the importance of using your voice, what is the tone and volume of your voice when you set boundaries? Because if that person who's approaching you, if you ask, hi, do you need anything? Right. They're going to be like easy victim. You know, it's like speaking with conviction and using your voice with the same conviction as you would use your physical skills to protect yourself. And all of the things that are attached to the mindsets when it comes to being able to put these things in practice. Then I have a module on all the principles of jujitsu on connection, on foundation, how to build a base leverage. So you understand how that works for the worst case scenarios. Then I have all of the techniques for the most common scenarios from a guy trying to force a kiss on you to someone just grabbing you by the wrist to call your attention, like all of the day-to-day scenarios, because men do feel entitled that in order to get our attention, they can grab our wrist or they can put their hands on our thighs or on our shoulders from photo defenses. Like if somebody asks to take a photo with you or if you're speaking at a conference and people are like, oh, can we take a photo? With men, you don't care. But with women all the time, guys come like with the hand on our waist and like pull us a little bit closer. And then we have like that yellow smile and the guy's like super tight, squeezing us on a hug. And we're like, this is necessary. And we're super uncomfortable. So social scenarios all the way to the most extreme scenarios of domestic violence. If you get trapped, you know, if one day your partner is an alcoholic, is going through something and tries to do something with you that you don't want, like how do you protect yourself and save your life essentially? So and then I have a whole module on nervous system regulation, how to breathe in these situations so you can have clarity of thought, you know. And then I have one module that is all about day to day life. So all of the safety tools that you need for elevators. And it's literally just a roadmap. You know, you're going to know what to do every time you get in an elevator. So once you're equipped, you don't need to think about it. So loading groceries. I have all of the safety tips for Uber rides, everything from what to do before you get in the car, where to sit once you're in the car, what to say to the driver, all the way to the point of if you notice he's not taking the route. That is on the map. How do you set a boundary then? If he tries to touch you, if he offers you anything, a water bottle, mint, don't take it. You don't know if it's been tempered with. So I have safety strategies for all of the scenarios that women go through. If you're at a gas station, you're pumping gas, what do you do? And I think that once you've learned those things, you can live in a much more relaxed state. Because what is the most overwhelming feeling is being in the elevator and realizing the guy is going to your floor and then not knowing what to do. Versus if you have just that blueprint, you're like, okay, so I know I should press a different floor right now because I don't want to go to the same floor as him. Or I'm going to go back to the reception. And just knowing that even what you did, I'm going to go to a different direction because what you're testing is, is he following me? I don't want him to know where I'm staying. To then once you are in that hotel, do you check the room? And how do you do a safety check to know that somebody is not there? I'm pretty sure this is not on the how to parent your kids checklist. Well, you know, what's super interesting is I follow a couple other folks who have done some safety videos in addition to you. And one of the things that I always was a little bit like cavalier about is like not that worried in hotel rooms. I was kind of like, whatever, I put the lock over and I'm fine. And I just wasn't that worried. And then last summer, we were at a big water polo tournament with our daughter called J.O.'s down in Irvine. And so, you know, every hotel in like, you know, a 10 mile radius is just filled with girls playing water polo and their parents, right? Like, you know, everybody, every hotel. And there was actually a video that went out on the news where there was a room of three water polo girls and there was someone trying to, you know, the girls got a video of it, you know, put a wire underneath to unlock the door. And that like really freaked me out because I was like, to me, there's this weird false sense of safety in a hotel room, especially when you've got like, there were like three or four girls in the room. Their parents, I think were in the next room. And so to me, there was like this sort of, we're all here. We've overtaken this hotel. Like nothing weird could happen. And like that definitely freaked me out seeing that happen because I think that just the scenario of it was not, I guess I always think it's like a woman, a businesswoman who's like traveling alone and she's in a hotel room. And I don't know, somehow the, um, that sort of shook me a little bit. Yeah. And I'm glad you're sharing this because people think nothing happens until something happens with them. Right. Until they hear that their best friend just went through a situation where a guy has a wire that's trying to pull down the door handle so he can get in. And I have a friend that she, her job is to travel and you know, she's a travel blogger and she had so many situations in hotel rooms of leaving the room and coming back. And even the hotel staff having left a note with his phone number and like a sexual comment in her bedside table. And she's like, how am I even going to sleep in this hotel? Because this guy has access to the key. So, you know, I'm staying at a hotel because I came here to see you guys and I moved a piece of furniture to block the door. And it's just little things that will buy you time. And then also being equipped and knowing what to do. If somebody comes in, you know, yell fire. And if there are three girls in the room, you know, they can have each other's back. But the problem is when you don't have these tools, you freeze. Right. And that's why, you know, I really wanted to create something that's online so everyone can reach. Because if you have these... Everyone can't come work with you specifically. But yeah. But even like if your friend is sending her daughter to, you know, spend six months in London or your daughter is in London right now. And you're like, you know what, watch these videos and put these practices into place. Like this is what you do if you're followed. Because then when you know what to do, you don't hesitate. And it's the hesitation that makes us freeze because we have no idea what to do. And freezing puts us in an even worse place. And I mean, truly, there's nothing like it. Like you said, I've looked around to see if there was any horse that would teach that. And I realized that I really had to do something about it because this is life-saving information. And the stories that I hear from my students, the women I meet at workshops in real life are horrific. It's what you said. Can you imagine three girls in a hotel with a guy trying to break in? And those are the scenarios where they are the most vulnerable. Is when you have your guard down because you think we've... Right, right. I've got three girls in here. Yeah. Yeah. We have the whole hotel. It's, you know, it's a conference. Parents are right there. The whole thing. Yeah. And what does that bring? Distraction, which brings opportunity. But if you have strategies, then you're able to respond soon enough and to take precautionary measures to then really decrease the odds of anything ever happening to you. And if I might just say, you've set this up. What's next? Like there's always a solution. What's next? But you have to practice and be prepared. There are so many stories and so many fun things to talk about. This comes out. What is the name of this course? How would we find it? Yes. And where do we find you online? It's called the Modern Woman Safety System. And it truly is a safety system for a woman who is navigating the world, traveling by herself, getting into relationships, having work commitments, and, you know, chasing her dreams and not holding herself back or being afraid to exist in the world. And fully tapping into your full authenticity, not changing the way you dress, the way you speak, the way you show up in the world, because you don't feel safe in a lot of environments. The Modern Woman Safety System. And where do people find that? So it's on my website, cecelina.com, C-E-C-E-C-A-L-I-N-A. And you can find me across all social medias. There's not another Cecelina. And there's definitely not another Cecelina Gracie. So I have the same name. You're pretty easy to find. Yeah. And also just to all our listeners, like highly recommend your tips and stuff on Instagram, because they're really practical and just useful and practical. So it's super helpful. Yeah, the micro learning is great. Micro learning, yeah. I watch them all. Okay, so we have one question we ask all of our guests, and it's called The Infinite Shelf. And would you add a book or a TV show or a piece of music you're listening to to our Infinite Shelf that you're excited about? I would love to recommend all of these things. And I actually had a book in mind. But now that you ask that, I think that we are in such an overstimulating era that I would recommend people to listen to binaural beats or classical music, or just to be more aware of creating an environment where their nervous system can downregulate without you having to engage in breath work or any practice. But it's something that really helped me and that I do every day. There are yoga nidra practices and different binaural songs. But I think we underestimate the power of just having that little practice. Maybe if you're driving home after work, you know, just put some binaural beats in your car and you're going to get home under a completely different state. And that feeling is going to help you sleep better, recover better. And if you sleep better, then your life gets much better. So I think that's my recommendation for today. I love that because we're all just overwhelmed by information and we're just like constantly adding more and more and more. So I love that recommendation. I'm just connecting the dots too. I think Laird is always listening to some like Buddha chill lounge. And you show up at the house and it's always chill. It's because the rest of it is not chill. So how do we un-chill? Amazing. Thank you so much. Thank you so much for being here. It was such a pleasure. Thank you so much. Thanks for climbing Everest for us. Because we're never doing it. We're never doing it. So we did it through you. Amazing. Thank you. Thank you. That was so fun. So fun. Thank you.