Hey, welcome back to the Mobility Project. Special guest, Adrian, Canadian Cobra Bosman. Do you think it's time to unleash the uh shake in the world? Man shake. The man shake. That is how you can tell a Canadian from a fake Canadian right there. Genuine Canadian. And if you saw in there, you can actually see the fangs coming to the chest. All right, here's what we're talking about today. the two first workout for the CrossFit opened uh regional qualifier is up, which is a kind of a 75 lb light snatch, a higher up snatch and double unders. It's a big aerobic effort, but how do we improve the efficiency? So, here's we're going to give you a couple examples today. Adrian and I just did that workout. And here's what we're thinking about. Number one, Adrian, we're talking about getting overhead and being able to externally rotate and finish in a good position so you don't have to struggle to have that rep count and be able to come to full extension. So, here's number one. Adrian's going to go and do the band exercise. You'll notice that he defaults into external rotation. He's not internally rotated. We're trying to bring that all all the way through and then he can do that two ways. He can camp out and then he can also take his other hand and actually cue some of that extra rotation. The further he can get his shoulder back in the socket and press out, it becomes a very efficient press out movement. And so now he's tying that in, working on his overhead positioning, but also it's not just straight overhead. It's being able to externally rotate and put that barbell overhead. I definitely spent spend a couple minutes doing this. Second piece, working on that thoracic positioning. If you're a little bit stiff, you're going to be front. Slows down your time. One of the reasons Adrian's so competent, didn't you? Uh, well, we won't talk about that. But the idea is that, you know, if you're short and round, it's going to slow your rotation down. This is about being efficient. So, I would say double the cross pull the upper back. Let's show what this looks like. Again, just improving that overhead positioning, but instead of taking kind of an arm joint approach, and now he's just going to work on basic extension first, I would spend two or three, four minutes, only hit the spots that feel super stiff. Adrian's, you see, he's going quickly. If he's got a section that feels good, he hustles to the next section because he knows where he's tight. And then, so kind of work out the tight bits. This is totally appropriate to do before you work out. Second thing is that he's going to go ahead and grab his arms straight and then go up and overhead and tie that overhead extension into the thoracic spine. And so he can kind of hang out in those corners and look and uh especially near those topper segments. So the higher he goes with that double ball, the more that's probably those segments are going to limit that overhead positioning. But certainly kind of toying around with this piece for two or three minutes is is worthwhile. And Adrian see being the flexible circus monkey Canadian that he is doesn't have a problem. But here's what we're also thinking. Two things that could get into trouble. Being short in the front of the hip, which means because I'm going to have to double under. Most of us are piking double under. Most of us are not in a great position. We're a little bit piked, which means then I have to end up being short again when I go overhead. So something for the open the hips. So I think we put the band over here. Oh, we do with the blue, you know. So he's going to put that right in his ghoulie. Right in there. Walk it back. keep some good tension and then camp out. And once again, working on keeps the thoracic spine pretty tight. His butt is engaged to support the hip joint. And then he can squeeze, contract, relax, open up the quad all the way through. He's going up and down. But then also Adrian can go ahead and just turn his hip a little bit in and out and find that section. This TFL flexor wad mass ends up being usually the tight piece that's going to limit. And then he just by turning in, he's actually creating internal rotation of his whole leg in extension, which is that limiting piece of that capsule. The more you can improve this, it really kind of unlocks your triple extension. Makes those dumbbell is more effective, especially for pulling. The last thing I would do is flip Adrian up into some flexion. Now, Adrian does a good job when he pulls. He's really efficient. Legs aren't like this. If I just pull with a straight leg, then I'm going to have to compensate with my back. And you'll see the best athletes do a good job of keeping their torso upright by externally rotating the leg. So, we can do go ahead and do a flexion piece. And let's pull that. Have that band pull you out laterally over. Just stick that in. Have it kind of hook on the inside there. And then go ahead and turn 180°. There you go. So, the band is pulling his hip out laterally. Put a little tension that band. And then he's just going to go ahead and either work on letting the foot fall out in flexion. Just working on keeping that hip open. So it gives him some some uh some opportunities. Now you can do it with the foot straight with the foot down. Turn out. Adrian went ahead and dropped into the place where he was feeling tightest in his butt certainly. And it doesn't matter. But all that you're working on is being able to kind of re reload and get that knee out into a good position. Few ideas. This is the probably what the biggest sporting event in the history of human being. Oh, at least I think 15,000. I mean, what's bigger than that? Se the Olympics? I don't know. Be part of uh world history. Get this thing done and uh good luck. We'll see you guys tomorrow. See you guys to what?