Hey, welcome back. We're at San Francisco CrossFit. There's a lot going on. People are taking a crack at the workout. I'm here with my personal Olympic lifting coach. You have to say the word Dian Fu like you say the word kung fu. Dian fu. Uh, also over here you'll notice Brian McKenzie. We're going to do our little take. Uh, Carl will join us shortly. Our take on this workout. Now, we start off by talking about what we just saw. Graham Holbert, good friend, good dancer. Little little known fact about Graham Holbert, but inefficient positioning, big engine looking against Chris. And I think that really once again was the story. Yeah. I I But he started in a good position, but inevitably as they got more metabolically induced, uh, things started to change for them and and we saw that engine kind of it wasn't even able to keep up with that position that he was getting into. 7 minutes, pretty sustained effort, high reps, 90 plus reps of this workout of global positioning. We'll talk about kind of the keys performance. Uh, one of the things that I saw that uh, you know, Graham has his hands close. He's got to travel further for the lockout. A little bit more upright position makes that an easier lockout, doesn't it? I agree. Um, what I saw with Graham kind of right off the bat, he was super high hip hingy, kind of roll through almost like a stiff-legged deadlift. No, didn't round his back. Just kept his hips high. Just kept his hips super high. Shoulders were a little bit soft where if you watch Spieler, he was super upright. He thought about leading with his knees on the way down, keeping his chest up, and as he pull through, that bar was kept super close. And I'll talk about in a second on how to add some value into the movement to make those corners a little bit cleaner. You know, one of the things we see early on, uh, Chris saving his triceps, right? The load in this chain of overhead triceps, lat piece, pull to push piece, right? It's expensive. And so, if I can start efficiency, you know, what we're queuing our athletes for is, hey, we're clearly going to be able to receive this and maybe kind of viper press it or viper jerk it, but can we viper and just sneak underneath it? is that as I get it's early on it's so light that it feels like I want to lock out but that starts to become expensive doesn't it you think efficiency early yes efficiency super early what I would definitely do is try to catch that clean not release the grip and so here is where I would think releasing the triceps and lats early allows you to keep that hook grip on the bar as you turn over and as you mark your position in that clean you can pop right out of that and sneak into that jerk and make sure as you're standing up You're marking that position again so you don't lose that rep we talked about early before extension. And Diane really talks about an important piece here that we're asking you to try to keep your torso upright. This is an expensive metabolic position. This is a less expensive position. Just a little knees out allows me torso upright earlier, right? Even if it's light, but then also I'm able to go knees out for second push even in a knee out position over the hip and then go back out. And so I don't have to spend a lot of time reorganizing into this dump and drive which is cooker. I just get to go from knee out to knee out. Yeah. That chest up position really allows you to be able to save time in that transitional piece. So you don't make that lever against the low back too big. End up smoking out the back which you need your trunk later to the toes to bottom. That's it's key that it like what Kelly was alluding to and Diane just articulated is that it is a cooker to be in a lever position like this versus being here. Okay. So if you can catch yourself in this workout knowing that you are getting your hips are high you know you are in a very inefficient metabolic position. And w with that said we know that this is actually going to this this workout is not going to favor the women. The 95 lbs is going to be a little bit heavier as compared to the 135 for the guys. So, we're going to see these higher reps. I think we're going to see a lot of higher reps with the guys in this workout. And I just watched Julie Fuche go through this with a little bit of a different approach than what Spieler and Graham did in going out in a blaze of glory after each other. And then we saw the kind of a little bit of an implosion hit when they when they hit that, you know, around that 3 minute mark. But with Julie, we saw a more uh relaxed start and and her getting through about just close to about 100 reps, okay? And being very very uh well paced out in the beginning and thinking about position. You could see her think about position each time and use that to her advantage. Right? So you're always saying, "Hey, how do I extend in that last bit?" And if I'm blowing up, I'm not going to be able to extend. I'm just hanging on versus, hey, I can let my positions really carry me. So, I'm really thinking knees out, this, you know, it's a power clean. I need to make sure my hip is open enough to be able to be in this position. I'm really spending a lot of time also thinking that if I'm stiff receiving with a this internally rotated stiff position, Graham had his hands really close, like my seven-year-old daughter grabs the bar that close, right? Sorry. Is he that close? It just even looks weird if you look at it. like a T-Rex. Whose hands are these? How are you supposed to breathe through, right? So, and and one of the things I think is that Chris receives the bar every time and then uses the efficiency of his chest to put it up instead of receiving here cuz it's faster, but those big sets of 15, I don't know work sets of 18, it gets expensive, right? This is going to be a very very expensive and I know we've talked about this and we've hammered this before about technique and skill coming into play in this but like you said global extension and then going into global flexion to a complete toes to bar. This is going to be very very costly costly workout if you are not ingraining this pattern. I know Carl's going to talk about head position trying to keep the head neutral as I go toes to bar. This clearly is not a shape that allows me to close very well. I'm definitely thinking I want to make sure that I'm o have full overhead and easily overhead. If I'm going to spend any time rolling, smashing, working on my thoracic position so I can back swing without efficiency, without being blown up, and definitely so that I can easily get out overhead because if I start getting tired and I start pulling into tire, that's going to be tricky and expensive. We're going to see mis reps. Well, not only that, if your shoulders are forward and in a soft position, you're going to start pulling early with your arms. You pull early with your arms, you're going to close up on that grip and that's going to smoke its worms by the time you get to the ball. And that's something I like to talk about is, you know, if you go to grip failure, you're going to be cooked and it's going to be reclaiming. You know, make sure you are really warm, you know, for your forearm stuff. I mean, like, you're going to I I think that we're going to see a mistake where people are warmed up, but they haven't done anything for their grip or they haven't been open enough or spent some time just taking themselves to some full range, making sure that the tissues are soft. Even having a friend like the Chinese Olympic lifters just quickly mash out your forearms. The stiffness in this thing as you're getting ready the night before I would have someone stand on my hand my forearms and just mash me out because if I'm stiff and stiff and gripped I'm going to cook out. Which is just another point in going to that point of failure with that grip is once you've cooked that grip, once that failure sets in, boom, you are going to be coming you are going to be letting go of the bar sooner. You going to be coming off the guard and you're going to be coming off top bar a lot sooner. One of the things that Spieler uh has done a great job on and as I've had the pleasure of working with him over time is he's really gotten better about being here because it saves his low back for when he needs it. Right. So what you saw was that his his torso is really upright. He's receiving in a shallow version of his best position and then jumping up and starting to jerk overhead. Same same iteration overhead. And again, my give my big points of performance are let's see you knees out, receive knees out, jerk with knees out. Make sure you're taking that grip as wide as you're comfortable. And then as you're coming back down, you're trying to do reclaim a good shoulder position, reclaim a good knee position so it doesn't float because this is such an expensive position. You can get away with it for 2 minutes, 7 minutes, it starts to get expensive. My other performance are, hey, I really want to open this overhead position, right? We know you're going to be hooked from pulling. So, let's see if we can keep you off of your quads as early as we can. Use those for to close bars. Let's get back into the hamstrings. Let's make sure we're opening the triceps. Quick forearm smash night before feeling like you're ready to go. And definitely spend some time on the T-spine. That would be my kind of way as I'm thinking about the limiters for some of this overhead stuff. So, other areas to kind of add value. Kelly spoke a lot about position to add value to the movement itself. Number one, make sure you hook grip. Hook gripping is going to allow you to release a little tension so you can hang on to the bar with a little less tone and save that grip strength by the time you get to the toes to bar. Other thing to add value is make sure try to turn your knuckles down a little bit. Have the back of your hand, if I put a big X there with a marker, I should try to have that hand stay away from me. I should never see that X until I flip over and flip that bar onto my shoulders. Oo, like the praying mantis and come forward. Hey. And so what that's going to do is that's going to allow me to keep that bar path a little bit closer and that's going to add a little momentum as I drive that bar to my shoulders. Another point of performance, make sure you keep your hands and feet in the same place at all times for this. If you want it to cycle fast, don't spend time going in and out. Find something that's somewhere in between your receiving position and your pulling position. And from there, hands, same thing. Keep it in place. Try not to move that hand around or move that feet around if you want to be precise. I uh the one thing I would add to all of this with with the movement standards is in those toes to bar and I know Carl's going to really get into that, but is is really is squeezing that butt and thinking about squeezing that butt in the bottom of that toes to bar so that you're not kicking on those hip flexors too hard and getting into that overextended position and working to get that up. But, uh, you see how almost vertical Chris's torso is in the back swing. Nice and tight. Really, those guys are really trying to limit how much extension they are. Even Graham does a good job of trying to pull pull his feet together. So, I I think definitely uh for for like a warm up for this thing, you only need about, you know, maybe 7 to 10 minutes aerobically. Then get into the skill of the movement. Take care of the mobility and the tissue smashing exactly what these guys are going over. Um, spend the time getting up to the intensity that you believe you're going to visit within that first three minutes. Okay? If you don't think you're going to be hitting it extremely hard in the first three minutes, going out in a blaze of glory, which I don't I do not think is a very good idea, I think pacing this thing out and knowing your position in the beginning and letting it get more and more intense as it goes is going to be to your benefit so that you have something on that back end. But I feel so good in the first three. in the first three and then smack, boom. You aren't moving at all and you're doing these things in singles, not only on the toes to bar, but you're also doing the clean and jerk, which you do not want. Okay? So, spend that time. Take care of yourself. Any other thing? Any other thing? Any other thing? No. Good luck. You guys go fast. Take chances. Get it. 13.4 is on and we have a clean and jerk and toast the bar ascending ladder. It's going to be awesome. It's going to be a Popeye workout. Forearms, I think, are going to get a little tight, especially if you don't know how to hold on to the bar while doing the toast to bar. We've seen uh Brian, Kelly, and Diane talk about the clean and jerk and efficiency and warm-up. We're going to talk about basic prep for the toes to bar and how we can a hold onto the bar, basic hang position, uh head position, and then a progression to just build up to it, and then different variations that you can use depending on what problems you have specifically. So, number one thing is how are we going to hold on to the bar? I have a PVC pipe here. Um, this is a little thinner than a regular Rogue bar that we would see on any kind of pull-up rack. But what we're going to see is the following. When we hold on to a barbell that we're using for Olympic weightlifting, we're going to see a hook grip happen with the thumb under the index and middle finger. But when I'm hanging from a bar, it looks the opposite. It's thumb above. And this could get confusing at first, but this is how you measure it out. If you have a bar that allows you to wrap the thumb around, put the thumb over the index finger, middle finger, then do it. If you have a bar that doesn't allow you to reach over, what you need to do and think about is, can you get that pinky knuckle over the bar? The reason I want that pinky knuckle over the bar is because it's going to position my shoulder in a better position. And that's redundant. But what we're looking for there is external rotation. external rotation with just a better shoulder position that will allow you to last longer. So when you get into the clean and jerk, you're going to be already preset. The other thing when we're hanging from a bar, it's extremely important that the shoulders are not pulled back and down. I don't want to be here. Why is that? Because we want to be able to swing. If my shoulders are back and down, that's a very safe position to be in. But when I'm kipping and I'm looking for this swing, I'm going to want to make my body one unit, one system, and I want that system to be elastic. So, I want to think about it as one rubber band that's fully extended. What's going to save me there is how I'm holding on to the bar. So, thumb over the index finger, middle finger, super important for hook gripping, pinky knuckle over the bar. If the bar is too fat, go thumb over for you, but always pinky knuckle. That's your savior. And then hanging. Now, head position. As I'm swinging, very important. Don't look at the bar. As soon as you look at the bar, what happens? I am completely broken. My shoulders are here. My chest is out. Rib cage is out. I can't pull with my legs. I have no access to this piece, which is where I need to be strong for this movement. So, always exaggerating a little bit. Can I hang? And I'm going to look down. Super important. Now, into the skill piece of this. I need to be able to kip and swing. Everyone knows how to do that in one way or another. We've done many warm-ups before. So, super important is that you mobilize overhead, that you mobilize thoracic spine, that you mobilize anterior hip, that you can squeeze your butt as you do this movement. The reason is because I want you to be nice and fluid. Now, like any lift, you need to progressively load it up. This is a toes to bar. So, we're going to be going from a full hang with feet behind the hips to a complete compression where the feet are touching the hands, but in this case, it's the bar. So, you're not going to go into full range of motion right away. It's going to look like a partial movement. And I've talked about this before, but this is what I'm saying. Small movement, small pike, just right there. And eventually, that will start building into a full range of motion toes to bar. As I was speaking there, I was already getting a little fatigued. And what I was noticing is that I started pulling. This pulling is going to be not so good for you because it's going to make your grip get lost. And here's a little thing that I always talk about. Any kind of rotational component that's met at shoulder, elbow, or wrist level is going to have some sort of showcase during that grabbing of the bar. It's going to make you let go, and you're going to feel like you fatigue. And what are you going to do to compensate? You're going to pull yourself into this mid-range. And now you're going to blow your arms out, your shoulders out. You're not going to have access to that toes to bar. So, very progressive building up. Start with 90° angle. Build it up slowly until you are full 180° turnover where we're looking down, shoulders are up, and it's just a full flexion of the hip. If you want to give it a little leg kick, that's fine. Give it a little leg kick if that's easier for you. But notice that when we do that, we are adding more variables. More variables, the more complex the movement, the harder it is to get the work done sometimes. But if you trained it and practiced it, fantastic. If not, I would say mobilize a lot. Stick to a little straighter leg. Don't do the double kick. It will save you in some cases. If you haven't practiced that, it's not going to happen in competition. But these are a couple things to think about. Super important. Hang. Pinky knuckle over. Swing. Feet behind. Butt tight. I'm just going to think about compressing by flexing the hips. It's not a pull. It's almost like I'm pushing. If you need to add in the little knee kick, go ahead. But the more simple you maintain the position, the more efficient you will be throughout the workout. Good luck. We'll see you next week. Yeah.