Hey, good morning. Welcome back to Mobility Wad. Uh today's a little different kind of test. One of the things that uh we're going to try to work on today is how to try to become aware of how much time you actually spend sitting in a chair every day. Um the sitting in a chair is akin to the slow death. We kind of talked earlier in the mobility week uh maybe was last week where we talked about how tight in the hips usually means that I tend to overextend. But this is kind of this unactive hip position. Hip capsule just gets short. If you imagine that I just grab that skin here in the front and just that thing got short during the course of the day. I'd stand up and I'd be short and stiff and overextended and it' be hard to get going again. And that's what happens when we sit. These chairs were designed for someone, I don't know, in the like ninth century who was like 5'8, right? I'm six foot three. My hip crease is below my knee. I mean, this is like a dwarf seat. So, here's what you want to do today. I want you to be hyper aware of how long you're sitting in the chair. Okay? And this is how we're going to score this game. You get one point when you're sitting longer than five minutes in a chair and you stretch your hip for one minute. So, I'm going to bring the hip across like a a business meeting kind of thing. Remember, I'm never going to sacrifice my back. I'm always reinforcing neutral spine, belly tight. My load is to stick the butt back. And then I'm just going to fold forward with the tensioner. It's very simple. It's kind of a modified fake pigeon pose. Man, this is like Rodney Yeo 101 in the chair for the athlete. There's a lot of things we could tweak. We can wind that thing up a little further. Bias that hip. I just want you to kind of explore some of the corners. If this destroys your knee on the outside, ah, my lateral collateral. You just support the knee and fold forward. No big deal. Easily with good mobility. You should be able to sit straight tall and be able to have your hip at 90 neutral. Leg is all squared away. When we see athletes like this, that's a dead giveaway. We've got a problem. It's called favors test. It's a kind of a modified favors test. Flexion, abduction, external rotation. What you care about is, man, this is a way for me to work on something while I'm kind of sitting, you know, going through the course of my day. So, one point, it doesn't matter how you stretch. One point for side per minute. So, if I worked on this hip, I could get another point. That's all I can score for that sitting session. Later on the day, I'm like, "Oh, I'm sitting again." Your goal is to be aware of how many how much time you actually spend sitting in your life in the slow death position of sitting in a chair. And two, can you score some points? All right, does that make sense to you guys? And be creative. Look, if I bring this hip across, bam. And then that's internally rotating the thigh. The thigh is rotating in. I'm just going to wind up everything back here. I hook the leg and I still can be getting some work. I can contract relax here. It doesn't matter. But, uh, every chance you get for one minute to stretch in the chair, you get one point. Below this video is another video that we're going to show you the worst case scenario because sometimes you just can't make time to stretch. Sometimes you find yourself in a situation it's a little bit socially awkward to try to get some stretching in. But I'm just going to show you that there's no excuse. All right? You can make this mobility wad happen whether you want to or not. You just gonna have to decide the kind of person you're going to be and that your mobility and performance is more important than say something like dancing. Okay, check out this video. Good luck today. Post your number of uh points to to comments and then uh watch the video afterwards. See you tomorrow.