Hey, welcome back to Mobility Wad. Today we have a special guest and a topic about a recent um phenomenon we witnessed. So, we just came back from the CrossFit games where Carson was hot. It was very hot and the field was hot. Now, what we noticed was that uh there were many great athletes there um many great athletes maybe didn't have a history of competing in the heat. And what we saw was nearly 11 athletes I think had IVs. We had saw a lot of heat stress. I think we saw people lose compression. Now the thing about this is not putting any any onus on anyone. But to try to explain away or try to talk about best practice around heat preparation. Now you know these are not the first athletes who've ever competed in a very very hot event or multiple day hot event. And what we want to do is bring on a couple of our expert friends who have significant experience training in heat and significant experience training athletes in heat and prefering those athletes for those heat conditions. So ladies and gentlemen, this is Brian McKenzie of Unscared Inc. uh the founder of CrossFit Endurance. You can see him on Athlete Cell. He was my programmer for my recent uh excursion on uh the Machai. He's a good friend of mine. And more importantly, I think before all this, Brian was and still is, I would say, an extremely impressive endurance runner and also a runner who has gone very long in some very hot conditions, including the bad water racing himself and pacing people, which is a marathon or an ultramarathon through the hottest place in the in the continental United States. So, Brian, welcome. Thank you so much. We just want to pick your brain about not necessarily what we saw a little bit maybe, but just to an afteraction report and to say, hey, how do I as an athlete prepare for the heat? So, Brian McKenzie, welcome. Thank you for having me. Of course. So, let's start with um I saw athletes shirts off and um I have to be honest, I've never seen anyone run the bad water with a shirt off. I've never seen I don't see people compete multiple stages shirts off. I didn't see hats. I didn't see towels ripped over the head. I just I saw sort of a a casual approach to um to the heat and especially the aggregated heat over several days. Did you see the same? Yeah. Yeah. And um and and you're not going to you know it's interesting but uh in let's just back up a second for what you just did. Um, you know, you did the Machai, which was, you know, you went from Mokai to Aahu, it was 32 32 miles or so, 50 kilometers roughly, 52 kilometers. Um, that was not a cold event. Um, and although you were in the ocean, it was something that a lot of people don't realize. Well, just cuz you're on water doesn't mean you have water, you know. Um, so there are hydration factors that were involved with what you did. And were you ever uh completely exposed to the elements? No, no, no. I in fact, if I just look at you guys on the boat, you had head to toe a white like, you know, cover up just exposing your face. I wore I wore a shirt and a hat backwards so that I could protect myself from the sun. Yeah. and you know and and and so and and sunscreen can fall into these categories. Although I'm I'm not a big proponent of sunscreen any longer, but covering up is very important because the radiation from the sun and everything that's happening with the heat, you literally your body absorbs. So if you can get the clothing on top to cut that absorption process, that's a very important thing. But it's not something that's thought of, especially in an event with CrossFit and what we saw. you know what what what I and and this has nothing to do like you said with what with with with CrossFit. It's more or less the preparation and I think because we're still in the infancy of this sport and it's evolving um that we're starting to figure out these best practices, you know, like we hit walls with certain things and you know like like a few years ago it was swimming. like we hit some serious walls and now everybody knows they're gonna have to swim when they get to the CrossFit games regardless of what that swim is going to entail whether it's in the ocean in a pool or whatever they're going to have to do it. That's you know um so so we're going to see an evolution but I think that what we what would what's been missed is the the not understanding that you know 100 degrees can really affect you in in a very bad way. Well, in tradition, I think, you know, I've been maybe 200 CrossFit gyms, 300 gyms at least, right? I know you've been to just as many. And I see people engage in a short intense bout, even going 20 or 30 minutes, shirt off, sweating, but then it's done. You know, I a lot of people said, hey, you know, they were talking about should we do this extra this workout called MURF in the in the heat, which was a mile, you know, some calisthenics and then another mile, which is about 30 40 minute effort only. And I know that people had a a you know a weight vest on, but I that doesn't seem unreasonable to me. Like it, you know, it doesn't I want to I want to be clear. I don't think that that's a programming problem at all. I think it was athletes not recognizing the implications of the heat on that and what that potentially would do to them. So that's an interesting point and you know, Dr. Rhonda Patrick has talked about this because of daily practices that she does and and one of those things is she gets in the sauna and she gets in there and she's talked about the heat shock proteins that occur in the sauna and anybody who's been in the heat or a sauna and that moment where you start to get claustrophobic or it's almost too much that's when those heat shock proteins are are really getting active and it becomes that uncomfortable place. Ironically, that same thing occurs within aerobic training or endurance and that these places that we hit along that way. So, the better aerobically inclined you can be, the easier it is for you to adapt to heat. Okay. So, let me just I want to I want to parse that out. So, two things. One is that you're just I just heard you say constant and regular exposure to high temperatures when I know I'm going to be in high temperatures is acts as a prophylaxis. It does protect me. Two, that the more I can shift my workload to an aerobic workload, not an anorobic workload, not a super lactic workload, that's the other piece that I'm hearing you say. Is that true? Yes, sir. Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. because it's within that anorobic or the aerobic structure where you where you're on the higher end of that aerobic threshold where we see the uncomfortability. Like we could start you for 10 minutes or 15 minutes and you're fine. But it's right past that which is right where you're switching out of like slow glycolysis into that 20 minute range into beta oxidation where we start to have to develop these points to where we can handle the ability to be out there at those efforts. that is the same th a lot of that same stuff that's going on physiologically is happening within just doing some heat training. So if you've got an athlete who's doing some endurance training but they haven't been exposed to heat enough then the the idea is and there's simple ways get there there are saunas everywhere and there you know you could start off if you know it really only takes about two weeks to adapt to the heat whereas it takes about 3 months to adapt to the cold. Ironically though, once you've adapted to cold, you can adapt to heat. Very, very easy. It It's an easy switch over from I I know for a fact you spend a lot of time in an ice tub and you spend a lot you even have an ice tank at home and you also have an infrared sauna at home. I mean, this is not a practice that you're just saying, hey, casually, you know, theoretically you should expose yourself to some heat, but you're saying, look, if you know you're going to compete, you there are ways for you to have this exposure so that you're your body is not freaked out. very those athletes were wearing a plate in front of them and a plate behind them which means that you know they didn't even consider that they were also making it more difficult to block heat. What would you have done with your athletes? What could have been done? Could we I mean talk about just some just some easy steps for someone to say, "Hey, I'm running or I'm going to be exposed to this heat and I'm not prepared because I don't have a sauna." There are there steps we could take to cool our temperatures down as we train. Yeah. Uh, one, I think that the the the acclamation period is probably off with a lot of these a athletes. Um, you know, a simple way to do it is to figure go sit in a sauna and when you find that breaking point, which is the place where you're super uncomfortable and want to get out that it's it's that simple. That's where that is. Find out where that is, get out and then the next day get back in and see if you can push for five more minutes and just continue that that process for about two weeks. And within that that twoe period, you will see a massive change in physiology. And do yourself a favor, wear a heart rate monitor and watch what happens. As the heat goes up and the and the stress goes up, the heart rate will go up. And then you'll hit a point when you get into that two week range somewhere right in there where that heart rate will just literally drop out and your body just goes, "Okay." And that's where the sweat rate starts to pick up. hydration, you know, you start to become more aware that you're going to probably need to start hydrating a little further because of the heat. Um, you know, th those are suggestions for athletes that don't or can't get out soon enough into California. You know, another idea is that, you know, hey, you should probably be headed out to somewhere that's pretty hot. um several weeks in advance, get very comfortable at being uncomfortable in the heat, then bring yourself into a situation where you're you're at 90 or 100° versus 100 or 110. Would you have you know, it seems to me, my understanding of, you know, a lot of the the the the gear or the lot of the apparel that people are wearing is that, you know, that gets a little bit wet and then it causes some evaporation and so it actually can cool myself down. Like I think I is is that a significant aspect? Obviously blocking UV is a big deal and blocking just the direct infrared. I mean maybe I can block that, maybe I can't. But yeah, there's actually I can cool off through some evaporation. Seems like that's what all these wicking things are for. It's about moving water out and then also just creating an environment where I can and dump. I mean, even cold water on top of that. I mean, you would I'd paddle up to you, you'd hand me some cold water that would change my life. Yes. And then I'd be able to just cool myself down a little bit. you know, my shirt would stay wet and then I would just be able to motor. And motoring in a wet shirt was really amazing. The the rumor was when Scott Jerich broke the record uh for Bad Water, which I think was in the 24-hour realm, that he figured out the his little super secret was the fact he had this coffin that had ice in it, and he would dose himself in that several times throughout the day. just literally go crash into it and sit there for 3 minutes and then or or whatever and then come out and go. Um, so so that is exactly those types of things you do want, but you you also have to keep in mind that if you have wicking clothing on and you're not, you know, and you're in a desert environment or something where it's not humid, but fortunately it was humid enough in California at the time, you don't pay attention to things like that. And you think because you don't see the sweat, you're not losing water. that that is the difference between a desert or and a tropical environment where we actually have a more tropical environment going on here right now which is something that you it's just something I'm very aware of because of watching surf and stuff like that but that you're going to sweat a ton and know it in a humid environment. You are not going to sweat a ton or wick things. You're going to things will evaporate very quickly in a dry environment. So you can't you can't even tell if you're Yeah. You can't even tell like like things like going through Death Valley in the middle of summer. You don't really realize how bad you're sweating. Gone. Gone. You could, you know, we've talked about, you know, cooling athletes, a water bottle under the arm. Yes. You know, some holding a frozen water ball in your palms. Seems like those are things you could have done, much less if I was engaged. Yep. Cold towel in the neck full of ice. If I had, it seemed like if I was doing 300 air squats, I could have put a towel on my head, soaked it, and just done air squats with a towel on my head. Am I am I missing that? Is that is that uh something that could have been done? Spot on. You know, the holding on to things in your hand will literally change everything because that cold water or cold thing you're holding on to that that blood that is getting cold is being shot straight to the core. So, or even under the armpits because we've got the big arteries underneath the armpit and and we've got all this stuff underneath the rib on the rib cage or around the neck. You've got you've got the big arteries and veins going through the neck, which you cool those off, those send to the core to cool it down versus where it's getting heat exposure, especially with something like a vest on. So, these are just, you know, simple things that can be fixed um for for athletes that that that aren't really thinking about stuff like this. It's, you know, it's trial and error and and we've been doing this for quite a while, you know, for a little over a decade. So, it's uh it's not new to us, but, you know, maybe some things we should have gotten out a little earlier. Last last idea. Um, if I know I can push two or three hours, I don't have to drink necessarily much, right? Maybe it's hot. I don't have to push multiple events, does that change my hydration idea or having to extend? Because I think we can sometimes we get confused that hey look you know the research is that my you know if I if I'm blowing it out for a single event I don't necessarily have to monitor the hydration two hours around two hours if I'm an elite marathon or all all the reasons that people were drinking way too much water but if I'm not paying attention isn't it how did you guys or manage the hydration at plus 20 hours in the desert? What what is the protocol around that? Uh it's it h it's literally setting up a protocol for understanding somebody's sweat rate or the amount that they're they're dumping. Uh but tr what you said the single event under you know four hours there look if you think you need to drink a gallon of water in that you're just ruining yourself. That's ridiculous. the multiple events throughout a day. You're sweating, you're needing to recover, you know, you're going through whatever you're going through between workouts trying to recover and and you've got to get things back. And you've also got to replace those electrolytes. So, that's the key where you're getting those things. It literally makes, you know, the electrolytes are the glue of of the water. If you don't have the electrolytes, you don't have glue. The water just goes through you. There's no cellular hydration. it dumps out, you pee it out or you sweat it out immediately. Okay, so the the idea is that you understand what that is. And so setting up protocols for things like that where somebody's out there for 30 plus hours is understanding that, okay, we've gone about an hour and he's barely drink. I mean, I had guys I I had a guy who literally would tell me he wasn't thirsty or and and he didn't need any water and we were literally going on 90 minutes to two hours. Um, and he's, you know, probably 15 hours into the race. Uh, you know, and we started at 6:00 a.m. or 8:00 a.m. in the morning in bad water where the the epicenter of Death Valley and you just get to a point when you get dehydrated where you just actually you're no longer thirsty. No thirsty. You're hungry. You're no longer thirsty and you start to hallucinate. And this is where things get bad. Um, and I want to point out it's hot that so hot that you ran on the white lines because your shoes would melt. I mean, that's that hot. Yeah, that's what they do out there. Uh because you know at 130 degrees, 120, 130 degrees, the radiating heat coming off of the asphalt is roughly around 180 to 200. So madness. This is why, you know, you know, I feel like best practices have been set up in other sports, especially some of these, you know, big runs, you know, plus some calisthenics, you know, it's like, you know, roughly maybe 20 minutes of running, 20 minutes of 20 plus minutes of calisthenics. I mean, that's not true. 15 minutes running probably. But you know the the issue is that you know I think there were just opportunities there that we have to incorporate this into this this nation sport where people are really really good and very very competent and skilled and have big aerobic engines but weren't used to competing in that heat and I I want to make clear that you know I don't think this is a programming problem on the heat. I thought this was a athlete preparedness problem. It's it's absolutely an athlete preparedness problem. Um, especially with CrossFit, that's, you know, whatever that I mean, the definition of CrossFit is throwing whatever they can throw at you at any time. And you need to adapt and figure that out. And, uh, so being an athlete, you should probably figure, you know, knowing you're going to be in California, I'd probably be watching, you know, the uh the weather patterns prior to coming out and saying, "Okay, you know, or if I've been out before, I do know it's hot in California in July." Let me ask you this. Do you think do you think wearing a hat while running is a bad idea? A white reflective hat? No. Uh, in fact, they make clothing that actually is UV perfected so that literally this the the sun's exposure does not get through the clothing. That's the stuff you'll see out in Badwater. Um, there it is, Brian. Sounds like, you know, I need to make sure I'm watching my electrolytes, that I'm getting some regular heat exposure. I mean that if that's part of my deal and uh you know taking taking those opportunities to cool my body down um you know making sure that you know there there are places where I can drop my core temperature you know that seems like it's a it's not a single event or single factor but it's a multiffactorial and uh that you know sometimes people are called a little flatfooted and remember this is the same problem we have with our soldiers in austere environments who have to go tomorrow and tomorrow and tomorrow and tomorrow and this is why we can't just put a single effort blow it out. Use the marathon as the example. We have to use the heptathlon as the example. Yes. 100% right. It's not just about a marathon. It's about multiple multiple marathons. Hey Brian McKenzie, where can we find out about your writing and your thinking about all this? Where where is that? Uh go to unscared.com. That that'll that'll direct you to everything that's going on. We've we've now got a landing page for it and that kind of pushes out everything whether it's going to be three fuel related or it's going to be uh CrossFit endurance related or it's going to be, you know, athlete cell related. It'll all be off of unscared.com. You have a you have a New York Times bestselling book talking about your training programs and protocols. What's that called? Unbreakable Runner. And then the uh the first one I wrote was uh project or power speed endurance. Hey, love you. Thanks very much, boy. Thanks, dude. Talk to you soon. All right, brother.