Please welcome to the stage three times New York Times bestseller, worldrenowned performance coach, co-founder of the Ready State, and good dancer, Dr. Kelly Starret. Kelly Starret's one of the best known physical therapists in the world. He works with the New Orleans Saints, the United States Air Force, and weekend warriors like me. Kelly's teaching style is fun. He's engaging, um, relatable, tells good stories. It's personable, you know, he's not sitting here trying to be an instructor, trying to be a professor, and he's outgoing. He's loose and just kind of makes everybody feel comfortable and feel like he's talk, you're talking to a friend, not talking to an instructor or professor. How can we expand into this performance realm where our care and the the treatments that we're doing and the teaching that we're doing is actually improving performance? I spent my whole career helping organizations and individuals simplify complex training and lifestyle practices. I empower people of all fitness levels to take care of their own bodies to eliminate pain and enhance performance. I make the invisible visible. I help professional teams, tier one military groups, and corporations rethink their siloed approach to health and performance. And also, I'm funny. We're just looking at range. This is normative range. things that we every human being should be able to do. Put your feet together. And if you can do this in a way where you don't die, that'd be great. Look around. I am strapped to uh let's be a Navy jet. F-18 Hornet. Is that right? Correct. This is a B F-18B. Delta. Delta. Sorry. My bad. Squeeze your butt as hard as you can. I'm talking one rep max butt squeeze right here. Squeeze it. Squeeze it and do it in a way that's like I'm not really squeezing my butt, but maybe I am. Squeeze it harder. Okay, perfect. Everyone can understand the concept of a vital sign. So, if we can give people objective measurements, objective ideas about from the morning they wake up till the time they go to bed, how can they start to shape their environment so they feel a little bit better? And this gives us sort of the biggest hinges that open the largest doors. He makes everything so practical and simplifies a lot of complex concepts so that it applies to everybody across the board. You know, as a participant that there's a 99.9% chance that he's the smartest person in the room, but he never presents in that fashion in a way that makes you feel like the dumbest person in the room. Competition happens at the bottom and collaboration happens at the top. And I think Kelly is one of these people who's at the top of the game and interested in collaborating. He wants everyone to know the information. He's not hiding it for himself so he can be better than everyone else. He's giving it out so everyone gets better. All right, I'll let you go. Thank you so much.