Hey, welcome back to Mobility Project uh elephant leopard edition. Uh I'm Mark Bell, Kelly Star. What we're talking about today is kind of just improving basic capsule range in some of our strong athletes. It's a little bit tricky sometimes as these guys get a little stiff maybe. Let me show you. Land yourself something. So go ahead and jump this leg off the table. So I've got his leg up here and this is why why in the couch stretch we put the other leg up to prevent him from overextending. So put that foot up here. Hey look, I'm going internally rotate the leg so I can really see what looks like the capsule. Mark goes on tension here and he continues to build tension until end range. So it looks like, you know, is this a knee problem? Is this a hip problem? What's going on? But he's under so much load so early in range that it really causes his hip to kind of come anterior to deal with that and lose a lot of mechanical advantage. As a therapist, it's quite tricky actually because I have to bring his leg all the way up on my leg. That was a PR. Bring your foot back on my foot. And look, can you can you put that other foot back on my foot a little bit? Okay, there you go. So, I got him wound up. I get into this hip, protect his back, but what I've noticed is I just don't have any mechanical advantage. So, at this point, I'm like Wonder Twin. I tap in Jesse Berdick and oh hey just takes another oh double supper leopard team and I'm not going to say that this is uncomfortable in any way but Marcus sweating profusely now and then uh suddenly we've got enough leverage you know it's strange that you're so close to his butt but that's fine. What the key is that um it takes tremendous loads and this is why we've got to use that the big band and the you know to get into the capsule. You know what? What's your best like I don't know best press? You're pressing right now. What's your best best press? 600. 600. Not you. You're nothing. You're not. What was this going to do? So, we have 600 lb force magnifier. I'm holding his leg into a good position. We're still barely making a dent. And the issue here is that uh can you just give him a Charlie horse? Oh, he's a trap. Oh. Anyway, want to show you that, you know, when we're dealing with the with the hip capsules of really good strength athletes, we got to have a better strategy than, hey, just what are you a professional wrestler or something? Just stretching out. Can you just put your leg up without uh prepping? I don't have any salts, but that look at that. And uh so do that without like a 45minute warm-up, and and uh a suit, right? Unless your squads are better than worse or pull your pulls, whatever. Go pull this right now. Do it. Do us What is it? 8 lbs. What we got? It looks like a lot of weight. Prostate weights. Oh, dude. Was that That's the first time you've ever done that much better. Feels a lot feels a lot better. In what way? Why does it feel better? The hips aren't aren't on lock down. They're not impinged at all. More freedom. I can throw my knees out a lot better. Position is power. Wonder. I'm Mark Bell. We'll see you guys later.