All right, good morning. Welcome to Thursday uh mobility wad. Uh yesterday's homework was to talk about the soaz and hopefully your calves are feeling better, your knee is feeling better. Um today we are going to talk about uh kind of how to open one of the deep hip flexors and then thinking a little bit differently about the hip flexor. The soaz is functionally uh the filet minion of the human being. It's a little known fact. Um something that I certainly appreciated when uh as an you know a junior anatomy student at a PT school. I uh took a guy apart for a year and uh I found out that my special talent is that I was the best face skinner in the class. It's actually a little little known little known fact. But um when I got to the Soaz, I realized that if I ever crashed landed in the Andes and uh and had to do uh eat someone, I would definitely start with the Soaz. I mean soccer team. So, it's an invitation to be on my soccer team. You get into the uh the position. Um, one of the things we don't think about with the SOAZ very much is uh, you know, it's effect. And it's one of those muscles that crosses about 17 joints. Starts kind of the top of the the lumbar, maybe even has some fibers going a little bit higher, runs across all those joints, bow strings, the pelvis, and then attaches deep into the leg down here. And we'll show you that in a second. But uh if you're awesome, you have this sort of uh you know hip range of motion and that requires a great deal of uh soaz integrity or lack of soaz integrity depending how you look at it. But uh what I want to show you today is uh one of the stretches that for kind of hitting this soaz piece that um Adrian loves very much and uh so I give full credit to him. Um basically we're always going to try to mobilize not a muscle but we're always mobilizing a movement. So, don't get caught in the fact that we may be biasing a particular structure unless I'm pushing on that structure. I'm not really going to have full access to it. I'm going to be catching anything that's tight in that range, which is an important distinction because we don't really care about what's tight. We care about what's restricting the movement. So, if I get myself into the right movement, then I will always be kind of catching the physiologic pieces that are limiting that movement. And so in this case, we know that we can bias the soaz a little bit, but we're still we're still going to mobilize everything that's short. So one way that uh I want you guys to start thinking about the soaz is a little bit different before we show the mobilization is this. Soaz is one of your big hip flexors and that's typically how we describe it. Attaches on the inside of the pelvis here, kind of on the inside of the femur, runs across the pelvic bowl. You have some, you know, iliacis that blends. It's kind of an ilio soaz complex. you've done your research on I'm talking about, but it really starts kind of the bottom of the rib cage and then blends. One of the things that we think about is it pulls up. Most of the exercises we do are with a fixed leg. We're squatting, we're deadlifting, we have a fixed femur, and then that soaz really isn't pulling the knee to the chest as much as it ends up pulling the the hip forward. When we do glute ham sit-ups, we definitely want to make sure that we're firing the quads so that we use the quads to pull the pelvis and then let the abs be in an isometric position. One of the things that happens is that when we lose hip flexion, and the reason we worked on that hip flexion is that if you're rigid in the hips, then you're stopping by the kind of the the hip getting tight and then the soaz works to go ahead and bridge the distance. So, we end up in this position. So that tight hip position where you're you're struggling to get that knee to chest like we're working on the squat is made worse by or is compounding this kind of overextension position. And what happens is the soass doesn't attach to the to the hip bones. It attaches to the spine. So as it pulls to create tension in that distance or to close kind of ultimately spine complex, it always overextends the athlete a little bit and then it tends to get a little bit short. So that's one of the reasons we look at hip flexion when we know we're actually having back problems that we want to create. And if you're sitting at your desk all day and your hips are tight, then the way that you lean forward is always done. You're basically leaving the pelvis behind and you're just overextending and you end up with the man belly. So it's no good. So we want to be straight up and down. If anything goes, you're limited by the hip capsule, not man belly. That's not cool. All right. So banish the man belly or girl belly as it was. You know, it's equal opportunity. Here's Adrian's stretch. We like to do this on the uh through a wall, you know, down here at the uh the gym. We just we have all these poles. So Adrian sticks his leg through behind him. He winds that up. And this could easily be a door frame. So he's starting by just sticking the foot back. He's really working on extension here. And so that's hip extension. He's as far as he can. And Adrian's a little bit of a circus monkey of a human being. But what I want you to notice is that he bridges his back and he's still remaining flat here as a rigid kind of integrated piece and he's bridging this whole system off the uh fulcruming off the uh pole and he ends up stretching the bias in the front of the hip here. So you know that spot and so you might feel this across the belly and into the back as it gets tight but you also may feel it more at this distal insertion. And I'm not poke pushing or uh pointing to anything of reference here because you can't see it on the camera anyway. It's too small. So the idea here is that uh he's got he's got he's leveraging and that's the key that makes this work. So he's in this kind of extended position. He's leveraging and then he's taking his arm up over his head to really wind up and bias this issue. If this arm comes down, he doesn't get the kind of same level and commitment of the stretch. That's it. I want you to try to accumulate four minutes to both sides. That's an 8 minute piece and then you have two minutes to try to go do something else that you know you suck at. So it's a 10-minute wad today. Four minutes each side hanging out. If this causes you back pain, stop, reposition, take a break, come back in. Um the your face shouldn't go numb, your legs shouldn't tingle, but uh this is a big important one. We'll come back to it, but this is where we're going to get started. Okay, great.