Hey, welcome back to Mobility Wad. Uh we're continuing our program about our programming talking about kind of getting ready for fight. Many of you guys have been emailing and asking for some help about uh some what you think is patellar tendinitis or feeling kind of pain in the front of the knee. Okay, usually it's under kneecap. It's classically called jumper's knee. Um remember that an itis is usually an acute inflammatory condition that's lasting 8 to 13 days. It usually results from kind of an overstretch of the tendon sheath or around it. I like to think of it as a lot of translational loading where I have a system under lots of tension and then the knee translates forward through that system. We see a lot of like repetitive jumping that's not very supported by the glutes. So when we do push press, when I go for fight compat, I usually start from box jump, which can potentially make your knees hot if you're not in a good position, overextend, for example. Then I go right to push press because I think it's the best way to score the most points. Um, usually if you're cranking, you get to between 60 and 70 push presses in a minute, which is a lot of suddenly repetitive loading, which means that as we kind of end up in a position, if you are m minding the bar, you should be dipping and driving, keeping the torso as upright as possible and not dipping out of plane. One of the problems is that if I try to keep the torso completely upright and dip with have the knees coming forward, then I potentially end up in a pretty quad ccentric position. I don't know if you can see this on the on the vid, Juliet, but my knee's in a pretty bad position where my butt is pretty off. So, what's happening is I'm not very supported. The knee is in a bad angle and I'm getting a lot of translational loading versus having a lot of flexion happen this way. If you look at how the Olympic lifters solve it, they really shove their knees out to the side and even turn their feet out a little bit and allow the knees to track out, keeping that kind of minimizing how much forward translation happens in the knee. So when we see lots of forward translation, we can end up with a really hot kneecap. Or secondarily, if we see people jumping and dipping and they drive that knee in, what ends up happening instead of a patellar tracking problem, we have a mechanical falting where now suddenly this tendon is pulling off axis or off angle. And uh we often see that athletes who have knee pain tend to have a little bit of a tibial torsion, which means that the femur is going in one direction and the leg is going the the lower leg is going the other direction. So, I'm going to show you a couple quick tricks. One, if your knee is hot, you need to ice it. You can take a ice cube, put it on there for 5 minutes, and get it ice cold. If you have knee pain or a little hot what you think is a hot itis, and remember, it's a cellular level thing. Can only be diagnosed by a physician. Who cares? What we think is, hey, I have knee pain here. I need to take care of that. Create some blood flow in that area. I'm going to get some ice on it. Okay? We're not going to get caught up in that. Shouldn't last more than two weeks if it's an itis, right? If you're any concerned, you think you have knee cancer, go get it checked out by your doctor. Go see a professional person. But in the meantime, let's get an ice cube on there and get that thing flaming cold. Try to create some blood flow and get the swelling off. Okay. Number two, if you think you're that person who uh I don't know if you can spin around. If you think you're that person and it looks down, it looks like your tip is going this way and your femur is going this way, they're out of phase in this f. You can see how I'm out of phase here. This is going this direction. If I get everything lined up, I can actually grab the meat of my leg and I can just rotate interiorly. This is a mulligan technique from the the physio from New Zealand. And all I'm doing is roll rolling my leg back in, making sure that and wh it's just a uh soft tissue uh movement. I'm diagnosing a movement problem. I'm not making other thing. I'm saying, "Hey, that doesn't look right." And then I can just twist in. You're not going to wreck yourself. If it hurts, stop. But what's happening is I'm resetting that kind of resting relationship between kind of the bump here on the shin and the kneecap. Okay. So that's an easy fix. See if that makes you feel better. Get some ice on now to treat it. And then for the rest of the M1 one is you can take your quad baller and what we want to do is trap the tissue right above the kneecap. Look, it's difficult once the kneecap is inflamed or this tendon is inflamed to actually do something about that unless you're going to inject it with lidocaine or or put uh you know some kind of steroid on or some kind of topical, your options are how do I unload that tissue? So the model here is what's right above and below. So if you're thinking you're having a problem with this kneecap, it's very simple. want one of the things I can do is buy some slack in by kind of a super patellar pouch right above the knee and I can either tack it with my ball or a quad baller or quad roller and I get it right above the kneecap and then I'm just going to pull that leg past and I'm just trying to create some space and some slack in the tissues right above the kneecap which is going to feed that slack downstream into the kneecap below. So, that's a very simple way. And I can just roll up around and if I find a sticky spot, I'm going to pull, get some pressure on there. Pull hard. Get that thing rolling. We're trying to open up that super patellar pouch. That's one way. Number two, the musculature that crosses right here behind the knee can cause all of this, and that's your calves. So, let's do work. Let's throw calves back in. We haven't talked to those bad boys for a while. Roll that foot up. We're really interested in the gas rock. So, let's make sure that the knee is straight and I'm driving that hip up and through and I'm looking for those corners. If my leg is staying bent all the time because my calf is straight, then the quads are working hard to extend the uh and they're working the the calf the short gas rock is like having short hamstrings. That means my quads are working hard to hyperextend or get into full kind of lockout and then it's an extra plane or push out of position. So, that's an easy way to get that that uh feeling better. You got to hit the couch stretch if that's one of the issues. But today, obviously, we can think about hamstrings, you know, that crosses behind the knee. And then uh we're going to look up top TFL, this upper hip, and we're going to do that by getting in this position, blocking the foot, letting the foot fall out, either in this position or out to the side. And then I'm just going to work myself back and forth through the hip capsule here. So, let's open up here. Two minutes each side, two minutes on the calf, and then we need to do some classic hamstring stuff. And today, I want to show you how I would go about doing it with a straight leg. So, it's going to be straight, belly tight, and I'm going to fold straight forward over, drive my heel into the ground, and then contractor. We'll actually do that. Don't round the back. So, we're really working on opening up the hip here, and then focusing on the tissues behind the calf or in the calf and behind the knee. Okay? That's what's going on. Don't be this guy ending up in the dog turd position. Don't be that guy. You want to jump and compress to the heel, keeping the torso upright. Turn your feet out and jump. See you tomorrow.