Hey, welcome back mobility wad. We are at the project reebok crossfit one hanging out with the cool kids. I don't know if you know this kid Spencer Hendle. Uh you know we're walking some of strength every day. He's young still got he's got potential. We're going to get there. We're going to get there. There's ways to improve. We want to talk about some ideas about improving the front and you know it's a it's a common mistake. So set up one real quick. One of the things that we talk about is usually when we demo front rack, we demo in this position. What's happening is that he's internally rotating here and he's doing this on purpose, but his hand, you see that if I put him into an externally rotated shoulder position here and then brought the hand up, how that's actually externally rotated in this position. His wrist is in neutral. It's going straight. And it's because his arm doesn't actually work straight this way. It's on axis out this way. This is why you have a carrying angle so you don't hit yourself in the leg. So weird, right? So it's easier to feed yourself. So in this position, this is externally rotated and this is a stronger position. If he's here and that hand is in, he's going to be pressing from this anterior shoulder into the rotate position. It never generates much force. And then when you're jumping overhead, you end up in a receiving position that looks like a bad shoulder position. You can't enter that tunnel of movement from a good pos bad position and reclaim it. Here it's an easy lock out, right? because he's already externally rotated. The shoulder is already stable in the joint. So, here's a couple options to work on this, right? Totally. Totally. So, first thing we do is I just want to show you one idea is that one of the things we try to do is get pre-torrque in our athletes. The more we can torque prior to movement, the stronger and more wound up we're going to be. You can't reclaim torque later on. You can't kind of get that. So, do our classic open up your lat stretch for me. We're not doing this today, but I want to show you some back that up. Now, what he's done here is he's loaded up the arm and he's playing along, but do you see how the palm is down? He's got no torque. The stable position is to actually rotate, but he can't reclaim that full extra rotation once he's under load. We need to preload. So, come out of tension. Preload the extra rotation now back down. And that has a very different feel that maximizes the kind of joint convers torque and I'll never be able to get into that perfect position. And that's why we talk about setup is kind of king. I've got to enter that tunnel in good position. So, here's a couple ideas about setting up pre-torrque. And this is why we've got to have that range of motion. So, first, go ahead and stick an elbow in and going come to that position. So, look what's happening here. So, we've got it. Go ahead and walk towards me and we'll just try to open up. So, come this way. Now, look at this. Go ahead and squeeze your butt. There you go. Hold that position. Now, look. I can see that when he put his arm over his head, how he naturally wants to rotate there. Because I'm a super friend, I can turn that wrist over and block the elbow. And then now, go ahead and keep walking away from the band. Tighten up. Then walk towards the blue wall. Now he really starts to wind that up. And does that feel different to you? Why you making that face? Why is he making that face? All I'm doing though is creating places. All of the torque should be generated by him so you can rotate yourself into a tighter position. Ah, see I just figured that out. And this look, this would be a sweet rack position, wouldn't it? I mean, this would be way behind the head. And all I'm doing again is making sure he can externally rotate forward. Otherwise, there's so many torqus on the shoulder that he tries to get out of that position. So, pop out real quick and then go ahead and get you to rewrap and see what the sides look like from each side. Turn. Show us which side we just do. We do this side. Yes. And if you shoot from this from the back, you should see an easier way about getting this elbow up and actually rotating. So, one way to improve that front rack. Another idea about front rack is that when we get limited in this bottom position, it's easy to go ahead and hook this up down below. And this thing, I think, is another nasty way to do the same thing we just did. See if you can't load that wrist up the same way. So, go grab that band. Go up over. Go ahead and hook it. and then go up and over. Boom. So now, oh, morning. Now I can externally rotate, trying not to break. And then I can be pulling him out and really get into those tight corners. And then he can contract. Relax. All I'm doing is encouraging. And you can see why we have athletes come around here. You can see why athletes have wrist problems in some of these rack positions. This is an exaggerated position, but the wrist is working off angle. It's not until he gets all the way out here. Now look up. His wrist doesn't have a kink in it anymore. Kink in the wrist. Big load. No kink in the wrist. So now he can walk back and I all I'm doing is just as a super friend is encouraging that position and then he can load contract. Relax here if you need. Hang out. Let's say that that's a minute. And you can see he's trying not to break. Don't break. Don't break. Hold. Go ahead and dismount. Such a loss. I got weird. Go ahead and try that again. Do do we see it? He's able to turn this wrist much flatter now. Now the shoulder starts to be in a have a better congruency by the back in the socket and into much more kind of extra rotated position which gives him better force production, right? Because you're transmitting more force more effective. Does it feel different? Standing. Yeah. Jerk like 350 tomorrow. Bam. Last idea. Go ahead and grab that. Hook up. Elbows together on the table. As a super friend, I just lock the elbows together. Good. Go ahead and straighten up your arms towards me. Straight out forward towards me. Towards you. Yeah. And then back up and try to put your try to put your head through your elbows. Keep going back. Keep scoot. No. No. Sorry. Scoot your legs back and try to extend your arms over your headong. Keep going. There you go. Now I'm I'm trying to keep his elbows together. Put your head up. There we go. Now straighten your arms out a little bit, which is how we increase the external rotation. Bring the arms back. The further the hands go apart, the more he rotation. Look, one easy way to do it, you spread his hands apart, then reload. Ah, so wait, come back out there. There's that position. Oh, set him up. Now you can add that torque. You know what's funny about mobilization? Nothing. Everything's This is how you crush the ninth fittest man in the world. What's working on that extra rotation in flashing? Couple ideas. Always take the best athletes in the world, master yourself. How can I torture them on camera? That's that's really what's up. Spencer handle cross reblock one. We'll see you guys tomorrow.