back mobility project. Uh, recently on the Ask the Leopard, someone's like, "Dude, my arm is stuck bent and I can't straighten it out, bro. Straightening out elbow is a tricky bit." Um, typically a physical therapist will tell you, "Well, you know, let's go after extension postsurgery, post injury right away." Reclaiming extension is a son of a leopard. What I will tell you though is that usually we can get flexion, no problem. You go after flexion a ton. So, we're going to give you some ideas about kind of opening this up. Now, typically we think, okay, maybe I have tight short biceps, that's what's limiting. That's kind of conventional thinking. Uh, for flexion, certainly if I'm tight on the kind of insertion of the triceps here, and that would kind of correlate with what we know about the knee, tacking at that super patellar pouch, anchoring and trying to create space in the joint here. So, we got a couple ideas today for you. The first one is uh two different ways. Now, it's complicated because even though I need to be able to over press in all these corners, I need to be able to over press with the hand fully externally rotated and fully internally rotated or pro fully supernated and pronated. And uh I am not going to have a normal healthy elbow unless I can account for that. And I got to be able to account for the joint capsule there. I also need to be able to fully extend the elbow in all these different corners, my hand open and my hand closed with the radius being in different positions. While technically that doesn't affect the kind of the joint, this elacrron on here and what's going on with the the as it articulates, it does still make a difference. So, here's what we've got going for you. First setup is that I'm going to go ahead and kind of anchor the hand towards the uh towards where I'm going. And I'm going to press this up right above my elbow. I'm going to get some tension in this. And I'm going to wind that up. And this band's going to go. Now, look, I can block my hand here. And that gets me really clean motion. And then what I need to be able to do is extend. And then I can do two things. One, I can work on some muscle stiffness and control through end range. So I got flossing in that elbow joint. I can actually rotate here the hand in that direction. And then just keep pressing into the corners. And so let that band just guide me. And ultimately I if I have a healthy normal capsule, I should just be able to kind of tick end range and press in there. For those of you guys, this aonurosis, this kind of part of the capsule here, this insertion of the lot, it's going to be really ropey and stiff. It's matted down. You're going to be a matted down warrior leopard there. And what we need to do is be able to really press into those corners. Everyone should have a little hyperextension, not as much as I do in this elbow, but some. Now, that's setup number one. Setup number two then is I'm going to rotate my hand the opposite direction. Then I'm going to put some tension in. And then I am going to twist and go ahead and face where I'm going. And that puts an enormous load through here. Then I can press and and head back. And what's happening now is that I'm a little bit more in a fully externally rotated position, but I can still control those end ranges. I start to tax the wrist in a different system. And now I've tied in the wrist musculature and all that fascia into what's limiting that extension. So, I press hit those corners at least a twominut uh kind of minimum therapeutic dose. Hang out, contract, relax, take yourself fully through those ranges under control, and then even do some of that kind of endrain oscillation. So, that's homework number one. And man, that is that spot that I can never get because I'm never accounting for the capsule. I'm always thinking, oh, I'll just magically stretch this soft tissue here. Never happens. Now, I can get that full end range without freaking out. Second idea then is to work on some flexion here. And know normally we can again put a ball here and tack which is a good model for improving that position. Um you know just lay on my stomach. Let me show you. Lay on my stomach and then I can just go ahead and really try to get into that end range, load that thing up and try to tack through all those different corners and rays and just destroy that. A barbell works beautifully, too. But check this out. I'm going to go ahead and get some traction in the elbow. This is like acting like a gapping force like we do with the knee. I'm going to wind that up. And in here, I've got my leg. And then I can start to press into those different corners. The band creates a distraction at the elbow, giving me a little bit more room and allowing that normal passive accessory motion a little bit. So, this is one of the things that your physical therapist will be doing manually to you, but allows you to kind of get into these different corners. And look, I press out. I press in and where I'm really thinking I need to be is fully externally rotate because that's where my most functional is. And then I rotate and then go ahead and press into those different corners. Add a lot of tension here. I have several probably 150 lbs of band tension. And that really just allows me to camp out and over press into some corners that I normally would be very uncomfortable with since my elbows get a little bit hot sometimes since all the paddling. So there you go. Couple ideas about improving elbow range. that side seem to improve and uh ways to kind of get normal motion back. This is the mobility project. We'll see you tomorrow.