Zoom in. Hey, welcome back mobility project. You'll see that we're in the torture position. And you know what we've been talking about a lot lately is ways to address the soft tissue dysfunction. We prioritize stretching that normal muscular stretching last. We want to try to do is get the joint into a good position. We Jesse is sitting here in extension. He's got his butt on to support the joint. Hip back and extension. Then Yami, this is kind of our classic setup. Instead of Jesse flossing, kind of pressing in, he stays in one position. What Yami is doing is oscillating in and out. This is the role of the super friend or super fin as we like to say. He's the fa superfinja. And what's happening now is that Jesse experiences that tissue comes under strain and unloads. And what's happened is we've been able to bias a correct position and then load those tissues systematically under under time. And so thinking, you know, kind of treating you may change over time. Yami's he'll feel the the band tension change and then he can also change the direction you know in a nice little concert here. What do you feel? Um I can actually feel rotation my hip actually opening up kind of moving and almost like when we're getting worked on my Kelly actually the uh hip loss when it's able to open up and move and catch the corners and the back posterior back. And one of the important things is that the whole time he's not overextended. He's spending a lot of time mapping new range with the butt being supported. And this is what's so important about kind of thinking about putting together smart programming and that we can bias the tissues we want to get. We can keep the butt and the back supported. We're not overextended and tissue under time. So Tony, let's let's flip on your dismount. Dismount. And then uh you know try your squatting position. See if it feels better. What do you squat roughly? Uh 909. 909. just that wasn't a blip. That was this 99 lbs. And having this a little bit of range and what happens in so much in the powerlifting in any lifting sport is that we these guys are supporting enormous loads with a really upright torso. Yeah. And so what the tendency is to break a little bit here. And if I'm a little bit short, then I'm going to get pulled anteriorly. I'm not going to be able to experience that or withstand that shear. Torso comes forward and I miss. So being able to differentiate especially those last few distances of range in the hip makes a big big difference. Make sense? And for you athletes who are starting to kind of get out of this overextended model, what's happened is here you've been short. Here you've been overextended. Now you're starting to pull back which a lot more of this anterior hip kind of becomes on tension and becomes a limiter. So this is a really nice way to deal with that. Flossing. It's the new black. We'll see you tomorrow.