ility project on the east coast. Are we in Boston? No, we're in Wurn. Right. And is that Did I get it right? No. Mostly close. Wurn. We're in Wilburn. Uh the Mike Mike Bo strength and conditioning uh gym strength conditioning center. And uh we're working through a problem with an athlete. Now, pause. One of the things we want to see is try to understand why an athletes moving the way they're moving. You can see in this position, his foot is pretty collapsed. And that his if he if he relaxes, we do we say, "Bro, you dropped your nvicular." Right? that that that bone in the part of the foot is on the ground here. And you can see he's pretty collapsed. Fully extra rotate for me. Go with Keep that foot straight. Good. Great. Oh, he's got So, we know there's something going on, but because he can do it actively. So, go ahead and jump and land for me. You're talking about No, from the bottom. So, we use this jump and land test to try to understand what's going with our athletes. Oh, that was good. You freeze that one again. Pause. All right. So, we want to try to understand what's happening. Why is the athlete going around this position? Typically, we say, "Hey, knee over ankle. We know he can do that and land potentially that position, but this is one of the kind of more subtle issues." On your back real quick, we typically see huge range of motion issues on our athletes. Look, he's hip crease below the knee. That certainly is enough. The hip's a little proud here, but we we'd like to see a little bit further back. and he's got a little bit of tightness. Extra rotation enough into rotation definitely enough, especially when I hit put that hip to the back of the socket. So, what's going on here? So, stand back up and let's do that test against the wall on that foot. This is an easy test. Now, go ahead and do it the way you did it and showed me earlier, right? You knew your range. So, he presses in and what we want to see is heel is on the ground. Ah, there it is. Foot is completely collapsed here. And so, what you've seen is that this athlete has correctly or incorrectly solved his mechanical range of motion issues. Olympic lifting, jumping, landing by going around and through the joint. So now if we put him in neutral position good and oh it gets worse. So now drive that foot closer. Let's see what true range is. That foot has got to not be collapsed. So that's probably closer to the truth. And so maybe an easy fix for this athlete is to mobilize that ankle, right? So what would you guys suggest? What do we work on? What do you what do what do you guys do? What's your what's your favorite ankle range? We do ankle right where he's doing right what he's doing. So, you know, doing that physiologic range is is is definitely effective. And then can we do we have a a band handy we can grab not set up. This is live TV right here. Like oil. Uh well, we can we can do that. Oh, here it is. Thank you, coach. So, take a look at this. Not something we can hook it to. We can do we can make that more effective by accounting for that that ankle range. The only rule is I'm not want swept off your feet. Stand on that ankle. So I like that they're mobilizing in low because that really tells me what's going on instead of just kind of with the the leg flopping. That ankle joint really says what's going on. So with a partner, take a look at this. Got kind of a partner mobilization here. Now we can start to account for that ankle range. He keeps that ankle in a good position as we drive in. What's happening now is that we've got ankle kind of moving. We're accounting for that passive accessory motion. We can get that the further we can get the band down near the heel is the better off we are. Good. I got you right here. Excellent. How many How long would we do this? Maybe 2 minutes or until we make change. Keep winding it up. He's got to stay in that corner. I can fully externally rotate the leg and press into those tight corners. And then after maybe a minute and a half, minute or so, go ahead and flip, let's do the Whoa. Let's do the same thing. So we have lots of band pressure. And this way now I'm accounting for that kind of lack of impinge or when often times that ankle just fulcrums over on itself. And this way we can get in this kind of double range. So let's say magically that was a minute or so dismount. Let's test retest. See if it's any different. That look better to you guys? Yeah, I think we can test it. The only thing that matters is do we see change? We get a little bit more ankle excursion without that collapse. One way to kind of juice up your ankle range. And then let's see jump land. Make him proud. At least that right leg slide better. Hard to say. There's a lot. That's a complex thing. There you go. Oh yeah. That's the phenomenon. She's done it four times, but you get the idea. The test retest on the ankle is good. And then uh you guys tried the gauntlet, the single leg squat to you tried that one. The pistol to uh jump and land. We'll we'll turn the camera off for that one. Thank you guys.