Hey, welcome back. Mobility Project. I'm having dinner at my in-laws house. And uh this is I want to introduce you to Gongong, which is of course Chinese for maternal grandfather. Is that correct? Hi, Gong. Um you know, they were standing on a leopard print rug. And of course, you know, that makes me think, hey, Mwatt opportunity. Now, one of the things we're talking about is we've been working with Gong on his talking about his feet and uh Ed spent a long time with pretty collapsed feet. Show us your real foot position. So you can see that his nvicular bone is on the ground here. Get out of the shade. And you can see that he's pretty flat. And you're actually go ahead and be who you really are. Totally collapsed. There you go. Now you're collapsed and flat. And you can see that he's he he rolls in and it's really flat. Now one of the things that we've been talking about with him is I said, "Hey," he was like, "How do we create a better, more stable arch and a more stable foot so that I don't roll my ankle a little bit?" And one of the ways we do that, of course, is by creating torque. And so create some torque for us. Going. So he creates torque at the hip. And he does that by creating external rotation. Straighten your legs out and creates torque. And now we have a beautiful arch again and a foot that was pretty collapsed. And now he's in a strong position. Now watch this. Because by externally rotating, the knee becomes in a more stable position. His foot becomes uh in a more stable position. Now as we squatted before, put go ahead and go flat again. No external rotation torque. And then squat for me. Knee comes forward first. I get some crepiness and ugly noise. He's comfortable in this position, but this is not a very stable position. Stand back up. Now watch this cue. This time I said, "Gong, go ahead and squat." But this time, don't squat and collapse your arch. Go ahead and squat. And look, the knee automatically goes out. And he creates a stable surface. And one of the things that this is a useful teaching tool for is that when I tell athletes, hey, I don't want you to destroy your joint that during a squat that you end up with a stable foot. They automatically will maintain this position. And now his knee is well out. He maintains the stable position. Go and stand back up. Keeping the arch. Boom. And all we've done is Q for creating torque. This foot is in a more stable position. And now you've been a slipper wear a long time, haven't you? And are you still wearing slippers? No. Even Gong Gong can change. Mobility W. We'll see you guys tomorrow. Look at