do our CrossFit 808, Elis Ma, who's personally one of my daughter's uh superstar action figure heroes. I'm not I don't know if it's because she's tan, because she's badass, whatever it is, but uh here we are at her gym working on some issues today. One of the things that we have been uh spending a lot of time on is um your knee came in as a squad just so you know, is that uh we've been working and talking about the mysteries of the human body. One of the reasons that the high five is so offensive, we've talked about this before, is that it's internally rotated. Such a bad position, just doesn't look good. The Hawaiian slap makes total sense because you're externally rotated. It's not an accident that you're so like that has so much soul to it because it isn't offensive and it doesn't violate the laws of nature. The other thing we were noticing today is that the shaka also works because it's also externally rotated. I'm not going to say, but no one ever does. It's like, hey, right? That's awful, right? It's always like, what's up? I mean, everyone, even turtle does full extra rotation, bro. Okay, so a couple ideas why there's so much aloha in Hawaii because they're all climbing in the apartment. Leap that. All right, it's first time I've sworn w in a long time. Okay, so check it out. Here's what we're doing now. Working with Elise. And one of the issues with Elise is that we're working on her internal rotation. She knows this is a problem for her. In fact, on this side is a telltale that she's was in a bad position one time in her life. Right. What happened to that? Inferior capsular shift from a dislocation in basketball. Bam. I know what that means. Shing. It sounds like she dislocated her shoulder and they had to go reef up the capsule. So, is that correct? Yep. There you go. On your back real quick. So, we we mobilized her before and one of the things that I want to show you guys today is that and I'm going to show her other arm is the impact on intern rotation on efficiency. So, I'm going to pin her shoulder down. And that's about 30% more internal rotation than she had on her right side. Her right side locked up and about 100%. We know that the compensation is forward. And so, when we came over and tested this earlier, her full end range of external rotation was right here. Stop. And it was like a hard end field. So, watch what we're going to do is I'm going to show you the impact when we clean her up. So, let me pop it real quick. I'm going to show you quick in rotation mode. So, we're going to go ahead and just voodoo floss this thing real quick. And I'm just going to run this around about 50% band tension. I don't go real tight around the armpit. Mainly just around this kind of common ainosis deltoid business here really quick. Super fun, right? Oh, yeah. It's her favorite. Thinking about the my ties. Thinking about the my back. And then my personal favorite rotation move is that I'll stand on her shoulder and then she internally rotates past and then she does it actively and that can just help a little bit. I'm just smashing that thing down. I'm not saying you should do this but uh this is one way to work on. She can do it herself. We call it pressing the gas. Just step on the gas. Since I'm a licensed physical therapist, I'm going to internally rotate here, but she can be doing this herself but for the just to make it a little faster. And I'm just ungluing this tissue. Two minutes is our minimum dose. If she starts to get tingly at all, we stop. You doing okay? Yep. She's doing a good job making Zen face, right? No big deal. Very, very good. Quick unload. Just want to show you what it looks like through the full smashing session. Two minutes of of good hell on the shoulder. Unbluing this quickly. Okay, pop it up. It's about a minute. We've got it on the camera. Hopefully we don't lose the end. The unveiling on your back. So when we test retest, we should see big changes and we basically able to recapture about 100% of your internal rotation. Go ahead and push back for me. Push. And then I can uh little contract relax just to take off the last little bits. Go and push help map this range. Now what we did earlier is we had her jump up on the rings and just jump to support. We know full range of motion means I need to have my elbows straight. We know that if your elbows are bent, you're not in a good shoulder position. And when she achieved that, when she was fresh, she could lock out. Her shoulders were forward in that compensate position. But after a while, she would bend back into that internal rotate position. Now we've cleaned up this central rotation, but watch what happens when she jumps up to support. Now, now what we're seeing, good position, butt is squeezed, toes are pointed, and this side turns out and locks out. Turn that side out. What's wrong with you? What's wrong with that side? What's the difference? What's going on? And so, you're going to see that this side is actually going to decay. She's weak in this position, but we can actually get full range of motion. And then when she starts, can you do a slow dip for us? No, no, don't don't surrender that. Come back to neutral and capture that torque on the way down. You can see the difference even this shoulder is way further back than this shoulder in terms of range, which means that it's much more set in position. She presses back up. Reclaim position. And can you get that thing straight? Does that feel different than that side? Oh yeah. In what way? I can. It's just not as stable. What's not stable? A, why are you breathing hard? Come on down. There you go. Tor torching the girl. Full range of motion means that I need to be able to lock out and work on this. We see that this position is is crucial, especially when I start Olympic lifting, be able to end up kind of being able to control that corner. And when we start seeing high rep dips, as I start to fatigue, I devolve into these in unstable kind of opencircuited position. So, quick idea about fixing that. One of the things other thing today we want to put up is that uh someone crushes the M1 woman test. Will you do that for us real quick? Now she did Got to put her on camera for this cuz it's so legit. You don't have to do with 44s. Do with 35s. She was doing with 44s today. Two spent now. You got it. So go ahead and throw those up and we're going to take a look at your your end range. Now, this is a side with voodoo floss. Does this feel different side to side? Yeah, I can feel my left arm bent and my right arm able to. We didn't work at this. One of the things that we say in physical therapy is test something you changed. You know you changed something you didn't know you changed. Well, it turns out you need that full rotation. So, go ahead and squat for us on camera for the point for the win. Leg. What's up? No problem. Lisa Ma, ladies and gentlemen, 808. What's that shirt say, man? What's your shirt say? K. What's up? See you guys tomorrow.