Hey, welcome back mobility project. We are talking about today this kind of notion of head position and being organized. And when we talk about thoracic positioning or spinal positioning or bracing, we're really talking about the system from the top of your head, nervous system all the way down to your sacrum. This is really, you know, our two-hand rule kind of captures the the relationship of the pubic bone and the thoracic spine. And I can see what's going on with the lumbar spine, but it doesn't really talk about head position. We've done enough episodes we're talking about getting into a good head position. If I'm rounded, I lose my shoulder positioning. Part of this is the phenomenon of having this big sheet of connective tissue called the thoracal dorsal fascia from the back of the neck down into my lats. It pulls tight. All of my spinus processes stick through that. I have to create tension there. And this is the way that I can create most tension in that sheet. It's the other way that I create a stable and neutral position that allows me to create a rigid platform. If I let the head go, then the shoulders round, etc., center. We've seen a lot of pulling in this position. Now, we know that to treat this neck position, we've got to hammer the thoracic spine. It's like if I'm stuck as a cobra, then it's really tough to fix my cobra head out of my flex position. So, we hammer thoracic positioning and thoracic mobility to be able to adjust for head. We talk about tongue to the roof of the mouth. And this is why the best powerlters in the world when they load, they pulling down. They talk about trying to bring the head back, not throw the head back, but bring the neck back so that we don't see this broken position. So, I want to show you guys, we got Carl here, and I want to show you something that Carl's been talking about with a lot of his freestyle athletes. I think one of the things that we were just addressing was uh kind of comparisoning comparing mobility from a global standpoint and a local standpoint. And then what does movement or position look like from a global standpoint and a local standpoint? So when we're talking about global, like Kelly was just saying about mobilizing the thoracic spine. For me, for example, my thoracic spine is like an 80-year-old uh woman that's in a wheelchair and uh so I'm suffering. Check, right? And then uh of course, I'm lacking a lot of these things, which is internal rotation, of course, when I go into that extension. So what we see is a a direct effect that happens from lacking local movement or positioning to global uh movement and positioning. Then from that global movement and positioning to that local thing. So what we're talking about here right now is going back to that loading order. We talked about getting to a good position where we're getting into that external rotation trying to get that chin into a good position rib cage down butt tight one piece. But as soon as I initiate the movement, if I'm lacking, for example, global positioning because I have lack of thoracic mobility, for example, I can't get into a proper position that will allow me to locally move well. So on the on the Ps for example, the example is this. If I jump up and I get into a strong position in my shoulders, I externally rotate, get my chin into a good position, and I try to move. Most of our athletes won't be able to do that without having some kind of default and that default usually is that neck position which kind of translates into the same thing of overextending and that lower back when we're squatting or deadlifting. So So you what you're saying that because I can't don't have the motor control or the space to create the rotational stability, I have to cheat. Yes. And one of the ways that I cheat this is do do what with my neck? Broken the chicken neck. Right. So, one of the things that we try to teach our athletes is how do we compress into that good position, and just allow ourselves to move locally, which in this case is the shoulder, and just allow the body to go wherever it is it has to go. So, usually when we talk about a dip, we like to think about it as this kind of vertical body position, but in the beginning, we most likely don't have that capacity. So, what we look for is external rotation, chin in, belly tight, butt tight, and I let my whole body go into almost this kind of 45° angle, which is kind of the natural hanging angle for my current shoulder position and movement. And I think that's one of those things that what is ideal positioning that we're going for and where am I standing today? And how do we kind of tie those things in so we can translate into bigger things? So, if I'm a coach or an athlete, what do I need to be thinking about with my head? Because the cue is I don't need to understand all these complex mechanics. I just need to keep my head in line, right? Yes. You have to think chin in, belly tight, butt tight. Just let it be one piece and allow the movement, proper movement or loading orders take you where it has to go. And eventually as you go through more of Kelly Superstar mobility stuff and some movement, it will all kind of fall into place. But that's once again, you can get better at everything, but you have to pick your battles. If today's a position day, you allow yourself to get into more of that angle. If today is a performance day and you want to see execution done a certain way, you can allow yourself to, you know, let the wheels fall off a little bit and break, but that doesn't mean that you won't come back and always work on that foundation. Can you show us an example of a good one and a bad one with your head? So, just focus on the head, peoples. So, head position in, organized, pressing, nothing, no changes. Beautiful. And that looks like a deadlift. Do that one more time. As he loads up the pec, you notice that his chest, head all rigid position. And you could almost say throw your head back. And that's exactly what Mark Bell's talking about. Now show us broken chicken neck. Oh, broken chicken neck. And that allows that overextension or is a function of that overextension. Any fault in changing spinal position under load is a primary spinal position fault. And uh you're leaking power. You know what's funny? You know what's funny about leaking power? It's dirty. It's dirty. Mobility wad pocket gymnast. See you. See you.