mobility project talking about recovering your low back after lots and lots of loaded extension. What am I talking about? Jumping up and down repeatedly, long runs, having to just be in overextended position, lose my concentration, come off the box jump a few times too many, little bit overextended. We start to see a wave of pattern of kind of how you end up dealing your body compensates for that. So, here would be a simple recipe. Number one, we're going to have to open up the hips. So, I'm going to go ahead and take myself into a good flex box position. I'm going to drop that hip out. What I'm going to try to do is open up this lateral unit, hip flexor, TFL, the whole kind of glute me bit. This stuff gets really, really tight. So, I'm start by here. I could certainly add a band, but I'm going to keep the foot straight, drop out, and just see if I can't open up this corner. So, if you're feeling it in the top here, that's a good spot. I can wind up to my different corners and different aspects. Do that in form freestyling. If I find a tight section, hang out there, contract, relax through it. But main thing is I want to try to get over that hip and let that leg drop out. So let's go for a minute or two working on this deep flexion. Just open up this piece. Second aspect, got to take a roller, take a ball, take a whatever one of these tools that you like. And I want to do is seessaw back and forth across this kind of this big complex. So, I'm going to get some pressure right on that TFL, right in this this area. And I'm going to roll back and forth through it. Hang out. And when I find a spot, I can bend my leg through there. Try to get some motion. Internally rotate the leg. If I turn the foot up. So, tack something down. Internally rotate the leg. But I've just got to open up those tissues. A lot of lateral stuff starts to light up. You can end up getting kind of referral pain to the knee, even down the outside of the foot. You could also take a ball. I talk about this a lot. Drive that into the wall here in that same region, especially around the top of the glute. Think about how that musculature had to kind of stabilize and react. And then I can swing that leg like I'm jumping back and forth. Internally rotating to the back. So toes in to up, internally rotate to up. I'll stay on one spot until I make change. So make sure you're hammering those things. Then I'm thinking to myself, hm, I've noticed that when I'm overextended, rectus gets tight. So, I could certainly uh do couch stretch kind of things, but usually we see tightness in the quadratus lumboreum uh area of the back. All of the parispinals get tight. So, this would be a good time to take your ball, throw your feet up on the box, and then let's go ahead and just unglue myself in this this position. So, I'm not going to be extended in doing it. I'm going to be in a little bit of flex position and I'm going to start near my spine and roll out across my back in big kind of pancaking uh rolling fibers. So, remember the best way to delaminate a cheese sandwich is not to stick a nail through it. So, don't stick a nail through your tissues. Think about shearing through there and just recover that stiffness. This is an easy way to get those tissues just to unlock. A lot of times when that low back locks up and so as gets tight, that's because you've been overextended. You'll notice that we pulled out our trusty steak. Many of you are super super hot. The rule of thumb is four by numb. So if you feel like you're overextended, you got a little bit of a hot joint. Ice until you're numb. That's all. Plus one minute, four times a day. So four by numb is the way. So hang out on there. I've just got a steak. Remember, this thing will freeze to your back. Be cool. Last thing, if I'm feeling super hot and I've been overextended, but I know my soass is going to be tight. So, I can pull. I got a little pressure. I can do the ball. I can use my kettle bell. I am loving this weight because it's heavy enough and it's blocky enough that I can get find those little tack down sections. It feels like my soaz is kind of adhered those abdominal layers and then I can pull my leg through and extend and try to get some sliding surfaces. Here's a great kind of instance of tack and stretch. And I'll stay there until the feelings of a honey badger gnawing at my bits goes away. So, banish the honey badger. There's some ideas about how to kind of get your low back kind of debanked. And sometimes you just need to get cross-legged and just fold forward a little bit. Little little flexion. We're usually not big on stretching out the back. Usually we try to create stiffness, but after such a big effort where your low back's been working hard, it's about kind of getting those tissues moving again. Have a go at that. Be ready to go. I'll see you tomorrow.