Hey, welcome back to Mobility Wad special interview today. The Matt Vincent. Now, those of you who are at home who are experts in cable tossing, what the heck is that thing you throw over the What's that called? We throw a weight over bar. So, it's just weight over. Yeah. What's it has a big name? You You call one of your events the cber and the other event is the weight over the bar. Yeah. They got real real uh real specific stuff. The point is right now you're the best in the world. I am. just won the world championship for uh for uh Highlands which is amazing. Yeah, it was a great time being over in, you know, to to not only win a world title, but to do it in Scotland in front of, you know, this big giant abbey and church where King Barussa Scotland's buried, big field, green mountains. It's pretty great moment in the strength career. Well, when you let the camera go, you looked around, you could like see it. Birds flew off. We were texting and um true f true or false, Haggus is awesome. Haggus is not that bad. I face deliver. Well, what's interesting is that it's the it's the sheep stomach. You don't actually have to eat. It's the rice thing inside. That's amazing. Yeah. Crispy haggus. I We ate it. You get it. Crappy haggus at the airport. You get it? Oh, it's like a It comes in like a haggus puck. Anyway, and one of the guys we travel with, he loved it in a can. He would get canned haggus and like basically go through Scotland and eat that for the two months he I'm not I'm not doing that. Well, I have to say that I could I see it. I see the truth of it. All right. So we have Hackit, we have world champion. You're also traveling around with your new sort of web project. What's going on? What's going on? Yeah, so I'm putting together I had a a blog for a while doing the drift to lift up and so now that has turned into this web series. Let me just translate drift lift. I had a training partner a couple years ago that really thick New Orleans accent and so he's like a you like to drift a lift. And so it it has just stuck. And so I've been really fortunate enough to to travel a lot whether with work or with with sport and and and get to meet the people firsthand that are that are pushing strength sports and pushing athletes. You do about 20 competitions a year. I do. Yeah. It's a lot of flying. You do a lot of driving for your work as well. I do uh about 70,000 mi every 12 months. Now you we're a competitive powerlifter among other athletes, right? Powerlifter weight about a 700 lb squad. Just want just reference in there, right? and 1,000 lb in gear gear squat which is you know still just 1,000 lb in whatever and uh the point I know I know like all these,000 lb squatters so I'm not even impressed anymore right that's true it's I'm impressed but the issue is I've still seen pictures of you full cleaning over 400 right which is a big deal I mean that sort of speaks one of the things we talk about is you and I love you to talk for our athletes because you're a strength athlete who's doing all these explosive sports how do you manage the lifestyle problems, the the the heavy training. How are you doing those positions? Cuz your positions are good. You know, it it it's a lot of work and it's and it's the decision to commit to doing it. I mean, when I get off the road, if I'm if I'm on the road for 8 hours a day, I'm still going to go home and decide to train instead of just sit on my ass. I'm going to decide to do, you know, the proper recovery stuff that I'm doing, the proper stretching, and treat myself as an athlete. You know, it's one thing I I've really You have great skin. Thank you. Thank you. And if you ever go to Louisiana, I won't say his dress. Mid-century modern geek. Like Yeah. Like we were comparing fixtures and uh I'm impressed. I'm saying I'm like he's the consmate man. I'm not going not going to lie. I like that. So in that consmate man stuff, how much do do you have a practice? Do you take care of your tissue? What do you do? I do a lot of rolling. I do a lot of flossing. Um lacrosse ball work. Uh flossing like flossing. Yes, absolutely. Um lacrosse ball work. um digging with a foam roller, digging with a PVC pipe, and then a lot of uh I do a lot of band supported stuff to try to sit in that bottom of that squat position and push through whatever corners I'm trying to find. Um you know, that grab a hold of a barbell and really lean back and get the shoulders moving, dig into different spots. I'm also seeing chiropractor uh for soft tissue work three times a month and I'm seeing a good massage therapist that does, you know, work on athletes with art. I'm not listening to Ana India in the background and waterfall I need someone that's going to fix what I'm breaking. But to your point though, see you see you have a practitioner and we recommend that all our top athletes have a practitioner cuz you're under some amazing loads training volumes. You describe your like weather's good friend of yours. You describe your train sort of 531ish periodization for the Olympics. Yeah. You know, it it was tough when I wrote the first book to think about, well, you know, it does come out a lot like 531, but it's not broke. I'm not going to fix it. And and Winler and it and it's great. And I wanted to have the Olympic lifting stuff and train more for a strength athlete, not just for, you know, your beginner guy coming to the gym. The thing is, I'll never write a beginner gym lift book because he did. I mean, it's perfect. But what? So, we have a lot we have a really sort of popular Olympic looking club here. Cal Strength was here yesterday, for example. We got a lot of athletes coming in. What are the biggest mistakes that young strength athletes cuz you're in a power sport that they're making? What What are the some some of the things you're like, "Don't do this." I think there's not enough time spent working on the technical side of whatever lift it is you're going to do. You know, it getting stronger is very easy and you don't have to hammer it in there by doing for for me doing 10 squat sessions a week, you know, or or front squatting 10 times a week or trying to hit a max in the cleanage or a max in the, you know, snatch every day. Instead, working a little bit submaximal weight and that way you're building the work volume and that's what's going to build the strength over time. It's going to be and the tissue robustness, right? There's been a lot of people lately talking about, hey, let's just do some bodybuilding because we just need to get our connective tissues to be able to handle the loads and sometimes we get strong fast, but we're just don't have two decades of old man strength to lean on, right? And you know, seeing guys do do stuff where you tear a bicep or you break a tendon. I mean, you got to prepare for those type of things just as well as anything else by doing some tendon strengthening and a little bit of hypertrophy work and some high volume. You know, I like that. And I spend a big, you know, my offseason, the first thing I do is I do 10 weeks of German volume training. That would be 10 sets of 10 for those of you for 10 weeks. 10 sets of 10. You know, the weights aren't heavy. I I start at uh squatting. Squat, deadlift, overhead press, and uh and bench and use the Olympic lifts during that time as basically an accessory. Keep them really light just so the movement pattern stays in and out. That's how I think about heavy clean jerks. It's an accessory. Yeah. Well, they're not heavy. world championship. No, they're they're really light. And so, you know, I I stick around for that as like a restorative period for me where I'm trying to regain what I've destroyed throughout the season of traveling now that I have time to spend it in the gym again. How hard is it to, you know, we work with a lot of professional teams and really made a switch to, hey, we're going to train through the season. Do you find are you your freshest best self in the beginning of the season? How do you manage that 20w week which is not it's longer than 20 weeks. How do you manage that for throwing for sure with a season that long? You've got to make a decision and commit to when do you want to be your best? Cuz I can't be my best for 20. I've got to decide that what's important. I need to be my best at the world championships in August. So, I'm not going to be 100% in April. I need to be getting stronger in April and working technique. And then as it switches more to this part of the season, the heavy weights have got to go away and it's got to be more sports specific where I'm going to push throwing technique, throwing volume to where those things become the muscle memory to where I can really push being able to go out at that competition and know that A, B, and C are going to happen when I throw and I can just address the one Q to hit what I need to hit. That's right. Do and I think that applies to weightlifting or or any other, you know, highly technical sport. I mean, same with powerlifting. Do do is there do you have a down period? You cuz you train by yourself in the garage, but yet, and this is crucial, you have a community of coaches that you lean on all time. Yeah, for sure. And they're they're all over you guys. the you know Jesse and Mark um Jim Wler guys you know the a lot of guys that I really Mark Bell and Jesse Bick that I that I really pull against for help with diet nutrition and trying to stay more more you know as a better athlete as a whole. You've lost a lot of weight in the last couple years. How's competing a little bit lighter? What are you weigh right now? Uh 2 265 270 right now in the last last year at this time I was probably 290 295. yet 25 pounds lighter in a power sport. Yeah. And yet still came out with a world championship. Yeah, I did. I did. And I was uh you know fought through a couple injury issues throughout the season and then getting used to trying to find the recounter balance and all the weights and got smart enough at some point in the season to say you're strong enough get out of the weight room and go throw so you can find all your leverages and points of when you need to hit the ball, you know, hit the be able to apply force. There's uh there's sometimes people get confused about sports sports for their training and what you we always are advocating for is you need to go do your sport. Yep. Do not forget you have to be a sport. You can clean up reclaim function like you've been traveling some squatting really opens up your hips, gets you ironing, some heavy deadlifts even even pulling like just 50% to get things working again, right? So that allows you to go to your sport. You know, as an athlete who competes in a sport that's not dependent on my total, all strength training is GPP work. And so, my goal is to be the best I can be on the field. And if I need to go throw, it doesn't make any sense for me to spend all my time building my squat heavier if I'm a thrower. I need to be able to apply the force of a good squat into that. And that comes from efficient technique. How uh do do you feel Michelle trainer? How do you know if you're a good position? I definitely feel myself training quite a bit and I, you know, can sit and there's great apps out there. The coach's eye app, you can break stuff down and slow it and take a look at positions and overlay and those have been a huge help, especially training by myself without a coach. There's not a lot of Highland games coaching, right? And the reason I I brought it up is we were talking about the fact that we are always looking for our athletes tendencies, right? And that we're cultivating these good positions so that they become your default under stress, right? But sometimes it takes 4 or 500 lb before you can really see what's going on for our best athletes, right? And the only way you're going to do that is if you film that and actually go back and and develop in that practice, we have talked ad nauseium about, hey, you need to see what you look like in competition so you can really find out what's going on, right? All right. So, getting back to some recommendations, eras, things you do, young Matt Vincent, what would you change? Oh, man. Um, would have stuck with the mobility a lot longer. would have not gotten really gross and fat after college for a while. Uh spending too many years working in bars and bouncing. Well, you didn't know. You didn't know any better. I didn't know any better. You just you just keep eating. You keep getting stronger. Goldman. Was it Narcissus Goldman? You got to do both. You're both guys at the same time. Now, that was a Herman Hess reference on the uh mobility wide. I usually drop those, but uh you know what's happening. Um plans for the future. Going to keep training hard, keep throwing, and uh working on the the web series and keep writing. Where will we find this web series? It's going to be on mattvincent.net as long as that's as well as uh the books are there. Strength lab is uh my general strength book for athletes and then throwing lab and training lab are both for the Highland games. How much time I know you're training heavy. You got a compet you just won. Yep. Got a competition next weekend. Yeah. Saturday coming up two days. So is this like the tour to France where you win the tour to France and you got to go compete the next weekend? I guess. Yeah. I got this one. I got another one next weekend in Colorado. A week off and two more. Now do you feel like there's pressure now cuz you're the man? No. Is that is that a big bullseye? Yeah. As much as anything else, you know, there's four guys from the World Championship that are going to be there and so it's going to be a fight this weekend. So, we're gonna we're going to give it help. Are you going to train this week? Oh, yeah. For sure. Love it. Hey, uh thank you very much. Pleasure. Mattvincson.net for the info. World champ. Uh I can't wait to watch your your series because uh you've got some some characters that I'm not Should be interesting. See you guys tomorrow. by an awesome brother.