Look, if you've got low back pain, it can be a daunting task to begin to know what to start with. Is it my spine? Do I have a herniation? Is it my is it my the bones? Is it what is it? And what we're trying to do when we have sort of common athletic induced back pain is start to think how can I simplify the system in terms of the language that I know as an athlete, as a coach, as a mover. And one of the things we can think about is how readily able am I to dissociate my femur from my pelvis or my low spine. So we kind of a couple relationship here. We have the spine pelvis relationship and pelvis femur relationship. Now one of the things we can be thinking about is yeah there are structures that physically attach to the spine attached to the femur and can be the tail wagging the dog. That could be the driver. Really ultimately there are some forces on the back. Is it an extension force? Is it a flexion force? Am I rotating in a way? Do I have control? It's rarely a strength issue. When people coming in for low back pain, one of the things that we can start with is by and by all means, this is not an exhaustive list, but a place to start and that is do you have full hip flexion? So, can you bring your knee to your chest? And often as we start to bring that knee up and what we see is that about 90°, which is where most people are sitting, well, you start to get stiff. That leg should easily travel to 120 to 130 degrees of flexion. So that's important to know because what we're trying to say is, hey, if this hip can be like an old car where I don't know where first or third is, right? I'm moving around on this on the old stick, then I know that's confusing for those of you who uh you know have all these electric cars, but there's a thing called a stick shift. And what we start to see is that if I'm stiff in these ranges, then I either have to make up for some of that range because as I get stiff, I'm going to have to use some of the other features of hip flexion to bring the knee to the chest. But the other thing we're going to start to see is that all of that connective tissue system starts to be restricted in a way where the tail is wagging the dog. And so again, what we can start to say is, well, hey, I have low back pain. Let me check my hip flexion. Again, I should be able to get to 20 to 30, 120, 130° also without my knee flying out to the side. What you tend to see is that when people are missing this range, they make up for it out here. And then that means they have to squat super wide, etc., etc. But in the meantime, when the leg is out here, yeah, we can solve that movement problem, but we aren't loading the tissues in a specific way that may improve their function and may decrease my sensitivity or lack. if this is or lack of sort of freedom of motion if this is a component to that. So we have I don't know we've been doing this for almost 20 years. We've got books out there becoming a supple leopard with lots of mobilizations in there. We've got apps etc. But often times when we're starting we want to make sure that you are actually loading your hip specifically in hip flexion in your movement practice. And if you go to yoga or Pilates, you're going to be on the ground. That knee is going to come to chest and you're going to do a lot of things that expose that hip flexion with the knee a lot closer to the midline. And what we're going to see is that most of us who are exercising, maybe if I'm on the bike, I'm only ever really to here or if I'm squatting, I'm out a little bit wider. And I may not be chasing this range ever or this range. So, what I want to show you is a couple ways that we tend to work on it. And what we can think of is number one, hey, during my warm-up, if I have squats planned for the day, maybe I or deadlifting or hinging, I need to spend some time in this end range flexion position. And that might be on the ground doing some kind of hip flow warm-up, something like the ready state hip spin-up, where at some point I'm going to have that knee not only up, but I'm going to try to bring it sort of into maximum flexion. And I know that's not in this position, but it is in sort of a deeper flex position. So, I'm going to have to spend some time doing that. The other thing that we'll start to see is that uh there are two movements I really like and program a lot and I can tell if you're doing these things if you're going to have a hip flexion problem. And number one is do you have some kind of stepup? When I have a loaded step up onto a box, this is a way where I'm going to not be able to squat with my leg out. I have to bring that knee much closer to my midline in order to stand up on that box. I'm also going to have to close the hip down in order for that to work. And that twopoint combination of being able to bring the knee forced to bring the knee closer to the midline is chasing that range. And by having to lean forward to stand up, I'm going to automatically be chasing that more sort of complete hip flexion position. So, I like to see hip step or single leg step ups in that programming piece that you're doing at least once a week just to keep an eye on this range. Another option, of course, is something that looks like a step back lunge. And this is different than a step forward lunge, which is really going to challenge the rear leg. In this position with the step forward lunge where it's really challenging the squat pattern. Notice that with my knee touches the ground ultimately I'm not going to get as much depth as I would like necessarily from a deeper movement. But I can elevate this foot of course. But even this, just this exposure of having to step backwards and be more along the lines of knee over belly button versus, hey, I'm squatting wide here and I may not be going past parallel very much means that I'm going to have this swath of my hip range that ends up being deficient in my movement exposure. Aka, I don't touch it ever. My brain doesn't think it's important. my tissues don't reflect the need to be in those shapes regularly. So, you're going to have to say, well, I'm either going to have to mobilize, pull out a band, touch those things, do some kind of hip capsule mobe. I'm going to have to warm up in those positions or hit some isometrics in those positions, or I'm going to have to make sure at least have some kind of exposure to those things. If people can squat all the way down with their knees together, this is a pretty good indicator that they've probably got access. My legs want to go apart. I'm running out. I'm running into room of quads and and hips at this point. But that's something I'm always chasing is can I bring this knee in? And it may be that I'm touching some pers in my warm-up that brings that knee closer to midline, but it's still not sufficient in terms of loading the tissues at that light kind of play body weight. We have to load those things in these shapes if we want to have access to them. If not, we're going to need to mobilize and spend more time in isometrics managing that shape. So, if you're missing hip flexion and you're getting a pinch in your hip or some low back dysfunction or you're a cyclist or your job involves running, there's a reason why we're doing so many hip flexion drills, right? All those running drills where the knees up against the wall, all the a skips, all of those things, those are all ways of maintaining that position. For the average athlete exercising in the gym, let's make sure we're doing something that looks like a rolling pistol, double foot rolling pistol, some kind of heavy step up, rear foot elevated split squat onto the front leg or stepping onto that front leg in a lunge. At some point, I have to have this exposure if I want my femur to articulate well with my hip. Some ideas about untangling common low back pain.