 If you don't get the right light stimulations, the right inputs, then your building of melatonin or melanopathy, entrainment is impaired, which means you're not going to sleep and recover well. Any humans in a box under a light can be made better, healthier with kind of the natural stuff that happens outside, which we're not doing ourselves in place. Kyle Harris. Kyle is a veteran CEO with over 30 years of experience across biotech, technology and digital media. He serves as global CEO of BrainLit AB, helping companies scale through growth, partnerships and strategic expansion. If we put this in sort of health and performance context, how do you sort of rank this light piece? Historically, it should have been light for sight. And now you're making that contribution to the performance. We're just not getting those right stimulations or triggers that your body is best suited for. We're not spending a lot of time in these natural lit environments. It just doesn't happen. Hey, Dr. Kelly Starrett here. If you're listening to this podcast, you obviously care about health, performance, longevity. And you've probably heard us talk about the longevity triangle, strength, conditioning and mobility. Let's be honest. Mobility is usually the piece that falls off the list and you think it's probably OK. Nothing could be further from the truth. Mobility is an optional. Improving your movement choices, moving more effortlessly and having less pain are huge drivers and actually having a body you can count on. That's exactly why I created the Mobility Coach app to make mobility simple, actionable and something you can actually do every day. A few minutes, the right inputs and you keep your body doing what it's designed to. Go to thereadystate.com slash free trial and try it free for a week. Kyle, welcome to the Ready State podcast. Thanks. Good to see you guys. Yeah, great to see you. I'm going to set this up for us all. I think we, in the last few years, are really starting to get the message that light exposure matters for circadian rhythm, for sleep. We're hearing it on the internet. Our experts are telling us when you get early light and late night, late light, people are looking at the sun when it rises and sets. Could I just interrupt really quickly too? And also, we've had so many sleep experts on the podcast. And if we've asked them to sort of dial back, like, what is the most important thing about getting good sleep? And it's like going to sleep and waking up at the same time. Like, they all seem to agree that like that may, there's a lot of things you can do, but like that may be the most important thing. And so, by extension, signaling those processes in our brain that where we are, because we've only been around, let's be honest, like two and a half million years, right? We haven't had electrical lighting that long. So, we sort of are catching up a little bit with the environment. The environment has changed around us a little bit. But we met you at a really interesting conference around human performance and integration of technology. And immediately, when we started talking, I was like, oh, I can't wait to have this conversation. And it turns out we had a lot of friends in common who were also all about this conversation we're about to have. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to talk about lighting today, the most exciting thing possibly. But it's one of those things that's really important to me because it's part of this built environment, that it's this rigid, sort of structured environment. It has a big impact on us. And potentially, it's a place where we can make ourselves feel better. So, welcome. Tell us why light should be, you know, we think light is visual, but why should we think about light as a biological signal? I mean, you get really technical very quickly here. But if you look at just the structure of the eye, the suprachiasmatic nucleus, which is the body clock, there are things in certain spectrums of sunlight which your body reacts to. And if it's done, if you were coming out of the cave to go hunting, the sun would energize you, keep you focused, keep you energized. And when the sun sets, it tells your body to go home, back into the cave, and go to sleep. And if you look at where we are as a office, you know, in a building behind glass kind of existence, we're just not getting those right stimulations or triggers that your body is best suited for. So, we're very much diurnal. Light keeps us awake. Dark tells us to go to sleep. And if you start screwing that up, then there's a whole cascading set of negative effects that come from that. And it can be environmental. It can be social. It can be things you do with devices, before bed, when you wake up. And so, light is pervasive. You know, it's everywhere. It's a decision that every facility makes, guaranteed, that it's going to be in the building, unless for some reason they don't need light, but I don't know where that would be. And so, it's something that we think can be addressed in a way that any humans in a box under a light can be made better, healthier, with kind of the natural stuff that happens outside, which we're not doing ourselves inside. So, if we put this in sort of a, like, health and performance context, everybody listening to this podcast and everybody who's curious about their health online knows that sleep and nutrition and movement are important. How do you sort of rank this light piece among that? I mean, I realize it's deeply connected to sleep and probably movement and those other things. But, like, how do you think about it in terms of ranking? Like, does it live at the same level as, like, a pillar of health? Is it a sub-level? Like, how do you think about it in terms of its influence on health and performance? It's definitely a pillar of health because it drives so much of your sleep and recovery. If you don't get the right light stimulation, the right inputs, then your building of melatonin or melanopic entrainment is impaired, which means you're not going to sleep or recover well. So, if you're not getting good sleep, then your recovery factor is much lower. And it's one of those things that is absolutely in every gym you work out in. You know, it's always above you. And it's something that is very passive that can be done to the users of the space very easily if understood how to design it and deliver it correctly. So, it's very achievable if you go out looking to achieve that capability of health and wellness through life. And we are seeing that the research is indicating that people are going out about 20 minutes a day. Oh, sorry. 20 minutes a week. That was outside 20 minutes a week. We're just – we're not spending a lot of time in these natural lit environments. It just doesn't happen. And it's not someone's – it's not nefarious. I mean it just happens that that's where most people are living their lives indoors. When we talk about lighting, isn't all light the same? I mean I sometimes don't feel great after spending days and days in underground government facilities under incandescent lighting. But can you explain to us what the problem is? I mean what if I had like a light bulb from the 70s? I mean how should I be thinking about this? Because what I don't want people to walk away from this conversation is yet another thing we get to put on our listicle of things to like that are killing me or messing me. Toxic. Right. Yeah. Right. So – but help us understand the – how you are thinking about it, what a person can do about it, and some potential upsides to this thing. Because it's not just about, hey, I'm going to – like you guys – and you'll – I hope you'll talk about some of the places that are using your light and some of the applications of it, surgery centers, et cetera, et cetera. But this is a performance offense approach where we can actually get more out of our brains if we're thinking differently. So set up this light conversation with us because I think most of us are like, well, they put lights in my house. What's wrong with those lights? Right. And light – lighting is like saying car. What does a car mean? And what's the range of cars? And what's the performance that comes out of a car? You described incandescent. That's a type of light source. There's fluorescent. There's LED. They each have different performance attributes that comes out of it. That's the visual portion of it. And they all have relatively good – each of them has kind of a good foundation of okay things. When you start talking about dealing with the biological side or the photoreceptor side to create an environment of health and wellness, you need the proper light source with the right spectrum. And then you need to be able to modulate it throughout the course of the day so that – Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. You're saying that it's not enough to go on-off? And on-off is a very – if you – I mean, I don't know if you can actually see it on the screen. So I've got a brain-lit lamp, which is kind of blue. Then in my ceiling, I've got commercial lighting because I rent an office space that has commercial lighting. They're two different colors. And because my brain-lit light is modulating throughout the course of the day, I'm getting a different spectrum from when I come in at 7, 738. And by the time I leave in the evening, it will go on through a full daylight spectrum. Other versions of lighting are more static. So at some point in the day, it's giving you the wrong type of light. If you then look at how – think of a hotel lobby that are very warm and comfortable feeling. You kind of walk in and you relax. Well, that's not great at 2 o'clock in the afternoon when you're trying to go into a big meeting. That color is not energizing you, helping you focus. It's telling you to relax and get ready for sleep. So lighting is a type of source. What do you need it to do? Pre-game energize, post-game decompression, middle-of-the-night patient room where you don't want to energize the patient you're waking up by putting a lot of blue light energy into the space. But you need enough light for sight so the nurse can do a quick exam or their quick observation. So that's all understanding of what the light is doing, who's in it, what are you trying to achieve from it. And that's outside of the source of the light. It's understanding the design capabilities of what lighting can do and then understanding that depending on who's doing what in a room, the light can be tailored to their best health and wellness, sleep and recovery. And those are kind of different phases of the day. You know, health and wellness and focus and energy is keeping you awake, keeping you energized, making less mistakes. And when you do the right downtrend of spectrum and color change, that creates melatonin, allows for melatonin creation, which is then better sleep and recover. So one of the things I think is really cool about this, because Kelly mentioned this sort of listicle thing. And we always at the Ready State try to be conscious of, you know, appreciating that people are busy and have lives and jobs and are raising kids. And like the last thing they need is like the 900th wellness hack to add to their list. But I would sort of put this lighting thing in like the same category as a standing desk of which we are fans, that it is sort of this like one time investment that just sort of passively, if it's doing what it's supposed to be doing, it passively sits there in the background and can sort of change your interaction with your environment. But it's not something that you actually you do have to do it once because you have to, you know, choose the right lights and invest in it. But then if they're doing what they're supposed to be doing, it really does actually become this sort of passive thing. And I'm all about like what more passive things can we add that are helpful to our health that don't add one more thing that we actually have to do. So so to me, I think this is pretty awesome. What I'd love to learn a little bit more about the use cases. I think we both mentioned a little bit and you, I think, alluded to using these in a hospital setting. Can you talk a little bit about that and what kind of outcomes you're seeing and what's going on there? Yeah, you described like when we met, you described surgeons using these in surgery centers. So you have if you think about the constituencies in a hospital or you have the patient which has a particular need use case. You have the nurses, nurses that are running some number of long shifts, multiple shifts per day. And then you have normal office people that kind of come in nine to five, but they're all working in the same building. So they have different needs to support their best humanity. I guess you could kind of put it. How do you help them do what they're supposed to be doing? So if from a patient room, if you can put the right early morning energizing light to help them be focused and awake when they're supposed to be awake and then change the spectrum in the evening, taking the blue light out of the space to help them sleep where they'll get good energy, therefore good melanopic entrainment, which means they'll sleep well through the night. That will help their length of stay because they're sleeping better. Their recovery is going to be better. And that's kind of a small subset of a patient room. You then go out to a nursing station, depending on how the hospital is operated. Are they stacking three eight hour shifts or two 12 hour shifts? Then you've got people that are sleeping during the day and working at night. How do you give them the healthiest version of light in their environment, the nursing station in spaces like that? And then you have the regular nine to five worker. That's the administration, the administration and other people. And then you just need to give them a perfect daylight curve. Come in in the morning, let the sun, let your office rise and set while you're there. That's the best thing that you can deliver in the space. And then they go home because they've been on that, you know, eight hour curve. They're going to sleep better because they've been exposed to the right types of light. So our system, biocentric light, is very tailored to understanding what is happening in the space, looking at the building as a whole, breaking it into zones and making sure that the users of each of the zones is being given the thing that best suits their requirements. Do people notice that like the light has changed? Like what what's the subjective, non rigorous scientific feedback? Because I'll read you a piece. This is from one of our friends, Ian McCown, who was a former director of performance for the Philadelphia Flyers. He's gone back to Australia and just he and when I you said, hey, I work in the Flyers. I was like, oh, my God, I'm going to ask my boy, Ian. And, you know, who is no bullshit. And he said, I said, what do you think about this? And he's like, the concept is great. And especially how they work. It's low lift and subtle change to the ecosystem. And he says also, I love this nice vehicle for intentional change to practices. He's looking at the whole system. How do we have brains that feel safe? How do we have, you know, people that feel more engaged? Is that the experience that people have when this has come in? Is this just like have this cool light? And I believe it's a belief effects. Like, what is the what is your experience and subjective and even the research say about this tech when it goes into these places? So the the subjective is you have to educate or you have to teach someone that something's changed because when they walk into their office one day over the next, it's still light coming out of the roof or the ceiling. So when we do incremental implementations where we do a couple of offices and have not done the upgrades to the other spaces, you start to see the difference in light quality. And people are like, I want more of that. And why am I getting this? You know, so it's so extreme and visual in delivery. But once it's installed, unless you sit there and time, you know, time lapse your day, you won't notice 6 a.m. to noon to 6 p.m. But if you're there, you'll kind of see it. I don't want to notice. But it's but it's smooth, right? It's natural. You don't necessarily you can sit and say, I mean, my window looks due east. And if I'm here early, it comes a very nice orange sunrise. And then by two o'clock in the afternoon, I don't see the sun anymore. But I can tell you what, you know, it's changing color throughout the course of the day. That's how a natural daylight mimicking environment looks like. So you educate the people that the organization has invested in a passive enhancement to their health and wellness longevity, you know, because you're delivering day over day quality inputs to their environment. And then when you start getting into and oh, by the way, pregame, we can do a pregame boost and we can do a postgame decompression cycle. You know, we can do these things that bring 53 football players to a common focal energy point before kickoff. Or we can elevate all the hockey players between periods. Right. So the what you're doing to the environment is you're leveraging a piece of real estate that is guaranteed to have light in it. And now you're making that a contribution to the performance where historically it's just been light for sight. This episode of the Ready State Podcast is brought to you by Momentus. And what we wanted to talk about today is I think the thing we think is most critical in this supplement game, and that is the Momentus standard. Yeah. Right now we're seeing company after company. Shoe companies are launching nutrition and everyone's like third party tested, clean ingredients. Yeah. But what does that actually mean? Yeah. What I'm going to call is crap is that people are trying to get into the game late and they're not playing the game right. The Momentus standard is that it's got to be NSF for sport certified, which means it's purity tested, quality tested, and the sourcing is transparent. You can go on there and you got to figure out who made this, when was it made, where did it come from, and can I give it to my kids? Yeah. Yeah. And every single batch is tested. So it's not like this thing where they test once and then they're just, these companies are set free. It's a really rigorous process. And apart from all these new people getting into the supplement game, it's been years and years where supplements aren't regulated. It's always been the wild west. How many people do we know who've tested positive or had a weird test? Yeah. Like professional athletes? From some weird supplement. From a weird supplement. This is like mixing a bathtub in some sketchy place. Yeah. So, I mean, look, again, we always maintain that you should get your nutrition from whole food and that supplements should do exactly what the word says, which is supplement. But if you are going to invest in supplements because you have a deficiency or you're trying to optimize something in your life, you want to make sure you get something that is high quality and NSF for sport certified, which is why we are such fans of and lovers of Momentus products. And we just want people to create this line. So wherever you're getting supplements, make sure that it says NSF for sports certified. You can feel good about it. It's safe and it's safe for you and your family and it's going to work. If you want to learn more, go to live Momentus dot com slash TRS and use code TRS and save up to 35% on your first order. And is it if you're going in and installing this lighting in spaces, is it I just sort of think about like a huge space. Like how do you tailor it? Right. Like you have an office that's facing this way with this light. So is the system set up so that like your office has a different change of light throughout the day versus your neighbor who's across the building with a different window facing? Can it be that customized? It can be, but it doesn't. Windows don't look more like general principles of circadian biology and lighting. So windows are the windows are great for openness and airiness and kind of the psychological benefits of design. They really don't contribute too much to the biological response due to the glass and any filters that are on the glass or where the building's facing. If you're I happen to be high enough in my office that I'm not blocked by a building across the way. So that's not really going to be a conflict. You know, it's kind of like just assume that if everyone's on the outsides with windows, we're still going to make it better because it's not much is getting through to actually help. And then depending on where your window is, a lot of people close the shades because it's too bright, too glary. It's reflecting off their monitor. So you, you do things manually that limits even the value of a window for whatever value there might be. So I wouldn't say windows is really the key. I think it's understanding that we can, even with a window, it's still not going to be healthy enough and we can contribute to being better. Um, when you talk about the teams, uh, you know, for as many locker rooms or club clubhouses, you've been in, there are no windows. So these guys are showing up two, three, four, five hours before a game, depending on their schedule on, on a phone. Right. They're in some like stadium basement. The stadium basement, you know, and there's no, there's so they're, they're taking all of those light triggers out of their system and basically try kind of being told to go to bed. And then depending on the design of the space, if it's overly brand lit with neons and other stuff, you're really not contributing to that rising focus and energy and that you want to be bringing the team together. So we address a lot of that. We can be complimentary to the brand design, but we also, at some point want to take charge of the energizing capability of the lighting to make it contribute to winning, winning championships. And then let it revert back to winning design awards. So, uh, so one thing that's back to the hospital question, one thing I was thinking about, and I know from having, again, many sleep experts on our podcast that like one of the most detrimental things you can do for your health is be a shift worker. Like it just does not seem like being a shift worker, you know, people can do their level best to sort of manage it, but it's generally bad for you being a shift worker. And I'm wondering, does having this, um, more intentional light situation set up for a shift worker kind of person, um, can it, and I don't know whether there's research on this or whether there's just, you know, curiosity, but can it sort of improve health outcomes and shift workers, um, if it, you know, creates an environment where when they're awake all night, their body truly thinks maybe it's, you know, they're able to sort of switch schedules. Is there anything to that? Yeah, there, there's definitely an ability to, I can't say we can risk mitigate all of it, but what you can do in conjunction with how the shifts are designed, understanding, are you doing seven, are you working every single day overnight or are you doing five threes or four threes? You know, if you understand kind of the schedule of the people and are they all on the same kind of on off schedule so that there's actually a sleep and recovery period. Once you got to understand how the organization is operating, then you can design the right schedule or recipe for that particular space. It's not great. I mean, there's no perfect answer for someone that works from seven to seven, goes home, gets a boost of morning light for that 20 minutes of their outside access point. And then goes home, walks into the blacked out room and tries to sleep. Never going to quite be insane, but we can do more to make that space more accommodating to that shift with the right spectrum being delivered and the right modulation. Let me ask a question. Please, please. One of the things that we tend to see in professional sports, and again, I've had the privilege of being in lots and lots and lots and lots of locker rooms. We tend to, Juliette and I, love the idea that we use high performance environments to really see inputs and outputs because these little margins do matter, right? High risk, high load, high psychological demand, like these little hinges open up big doors. You hinted at or I've hinted at that you are in a lot of these professional locker rooms or these buildings. And I set this up because I know that sometimes people get on a bandwagon like, oh, the Patriots are doing that. But we should do that. But will you just explain just for a second some of those environments? Where are you in the NBA? Are you in the NFL? Are you just give people a taste? We have everything NBA, NHL, MLB, EPL. I mean, we've got some very noticeable announced partnership. The Twins have their facility done. Phillies just did their clubhouse. The Flyers are announced with us. Comcast as a corporate entity that owns the Flyers have just converted a big portion of Xfinity Arena for their front of house people. Let's call it, you know, partnership sales and marketing to be biocentric. So we've done the jump from locker room for the Flyers to the corporate space in Comcast. So, yeah, I would say we probably have anywhere from 35 to 40 percent of every one of the major leagues at some lamp level or facility renovation. Sacramento Kings, L.A. Clippers. We've got some where, you know, I probably will be early on this one, but we've done some with the Pacers and Fever. We've got some we've got three different professional sports team in L.A. You know, so we're some of them don't want to talk about it. Some of us just won't let us talk about it. Other ones are very proud to say, like the Phillies are out in front saying, no, no, this was the fastest way that we could get the most people the greatest benefit from a decision that we're guaranteed to buy, which is lighting. So you're not just doing a. Right. Go ahead. You're buying lighting anyway as an organization, whether it's for an office. You're guaranteed to buy lighting. There's very few places. You're guaranteed to buy lighting. And if you can, you know, and I know every corporation and organization is motivated to improve the health and well-being of their employees. And, man, if it's just this like this light versus that light and you can make a big difference, like it seems obvious to me. And. But think about the force multiplier effect, right? You have let's just use the players, but whatever sport you choose, there's so many players and you have all of this coaching and staff. Focused on those, that number of players. Well, they get the best supplements. They get the best equipment. They get the best observations, the best physio, the best massage. You know, you name all the things that are being inputted into that single player. But the coaches are there 16 hours a day and the staff is there 16 hours a day. And then they're traveling with the players and they're not necessarily getting that benefit of going home and taking a nap from 10 to two. You know, so if you look at taking the building and making it a wellness center for every single person, player, coach and staff. That then is supporting the human capital asset, which is the player. If you look at all the people in the building as a human capital asset that can be benefited by making the lighting more contributory or a higher contribution to success. That's what we're trying to get at is it's great that you focus all of your energies on the best recovery tool, the best, you know, hammer, the best chair on a player. But why not make it everyone that supports them as well? And that's where you start seeing the real interest is on a price per square foot basis. If I'm making the same decision or something, how do I benefit two, three, four hundred people at a time in a facility? And that's what we can actually contribute to. So I want to tell you what I think is kind of a funny story and a little bit of insight into how Kelly becomes obsessed with certain things in our life and implements wholesale home changes. So we happen to be at a friend's house for dinner who has gotten really interested in this lighting piece. And this was actually some years ago. And maybe the first time we really saw this implemented like at a home scale. And we went to their house for dinner and it became dark and every single light in their house was red. And it was so dim and maybe we just were so not used to it that, you know, they served me dinner and I actually wasn't sure like is this steak or chicken or what is it I'm eating? I think this looks like broccoli. My fire that I cook on is brighter. It was real dim in there. Every single light bathroom, I mean every light. And, you know, they were very focused on light and phones off. You could develop film in that house. Yeah. And I, you know, I thought it was funny and entertaining but was, you know, curious. And Kelly was like, okay, this is a thing. So maybe not like three weeks later I come home and Kelly has swapped out like 95% of the lights in our living room and like main room of our house to being red. Just in the evening. And everyone start whispering too when the lights change. Yeah. And it's funny because I was like, sorry, kids, your dad's kind of a weirdo. And so I would say that we didn't stick with that. Newsflash. That was the first time they'd ever heard that. Yeah. We didn't stick with the all red light plan. But I will say that what it did do for us is sort of double down on having this really dim light in our house at night. And so our whole. It's shocking to people. Like our house, it feels like. Very dim. Yeah. It's dim and it feels like in the color of fire. Yeah. And so we made this shift. And again, it's probably not perfect. But we sort of what we took from the red Kelly's red light experiment was like, hey, having actually a dim, dim house in the night does actually make us all feel more relaxed and prepared for bed and and whatever. So with that story. So you have a point. I have a point. I do have a point. There's two things which is interesting. You're talking about the red light color. And then you're talking about dim, which is let's call it the volume of light in the space. You have pretty reasonably bright color in the space and still feel like you can go to sleep. So it's understanding how to modulate between the color you want that red fireplace, but not being so dark that you're still tripping over the furniture. So you can't see what meat you're eating or what you know, what person you're sitting across the table from. And, you know, so it's it's that's what happens when you when the system is set up correctly is that you don't have to go to extremes and be changing a light bulb to get to the you know, I need blue light and I change the bulb. Now I got a red light. If the system is designed correctly and you can tell it what you're doing. You know, and maybe you have, you know, we there's environments where fire stations like, you know, they're sleeping and then all of a sudden a call goes out and you want to wake up the fireman to get on the truck that you can change the environment very quickly. Bring them up to a high energy level. It's a very short input cycle, but you're taking a space that is probably dark because they're sleeping, bringing them up to bright and then bring them back post call into an environment where they can start to kind of decompress and go back to sleep. Versus having one static fluorescent or LED light, which is one color and it's kind of you got on or off or dim and that's too much. So you went at it correctly. The color choice was a little extreme and the volume is probably gone too far. But that's the problem, right? If you can't turn the levers easily or the knobs, the turning levers, if you can't pull the lever or turn the dials easily, you're not able to create the outcome that you want. And if you don't understand the melanopic equivalency daylight illuminance, M-E-D-I, which is the measured amount of measurable light into the eye to get the response you're looking for, if you don't touch on that, it's just color and light for sight. So you have to put the right amount in to get the outcome you want. And the design or global building standards are finally moving towards really pushing for more healthy in the spaces that hasn't existed before. They did a lot for light for sight. And now you're starting to see a lot of requirements or specificity on how light for health and light for physiology needs to be addressed. And that's what Biosyncrick has been built to do on a very turnkey, easy to deploy manner for enterprise. But at the same time, you can go down to an individual user's office and make it best suited to their personal needs as well. So I know that at BrainLit, you guys are mostly working at an enterprise level. But to the extent you're a listener listening to this podcast and you're curious and you're – I'd love to know, like, what is a night – like, regular person? Like, you get up, make your kids breakfast, work out, go to work, come home at night, just sort of a regular person's day. Like, two questions here. What is sort of the ideal light day for sort of your regular person? And I realize it's – this may be complex because of, you know, daylight savings and winter and summer and all sorts of things. But, like, generally speaking, what's sort of an ideal light day for people to sort of best, like, honor their circadian biology in this tech-driven world? And, two, how do people – you know, are there simple things people could do in their household just to make some micro changes to the type of lighting or color of lighting or something that might already make a difference? I mean, I think the broadest recommendation is get up and take that morning walk in bright – like, kind of walking at the sun for 20 minutes. You know, if you can get that first light of the morning into your routine, that is probably the most beneficial and easiest thing to do that is very hard to get done in this day and age. So, check off impossible because you just can't do it. Too cold, too – wrong time. You know, I got to be at work. I got to keep my kids to school. It just doesn't work out. The next thing from an environmental perspective is, in the earliest part of the day, try to get it as bright and blue. Um, less warm, less browns, less lamps, less incandescent colored. You want to be putting more, you know, kind of brighter into your body, into your eyes in the morning, I mean, up through noon, one o'clock. And then as you move towards the afternoon and evening, if you have the ability to turn off the overhead and put on a lamp that's a little bit more warmer, brown, buttery color, then that will kind of do that sunrise, sunset. The problem is, is that the fixtures you're using probably aren't putting out the right spectrum. So, you're kind of getting close, but you're not actually going to be delivering the greatest focus and energy and decompression and melanopic entrainment that's possible. But it's better than nothing, right? So, it's one of those things of, do you not do anything or you try to do the mechanical things you can do with a couple of thoughtful actions each day? Um, and then from my most self-serving perspective is tell your owner that you want biocentric light in your office so that it, you show up and it gives you the best day, which means your best night and then your best immune system. And then the, the, the ramifications of a good, healthy environment for workers is you come to work more often, you work harder, you have fewer sick days, you know, and that's something that is not really being elevated or leveraged right now across commercial real estate, because it's hard to do in very manual, um, you know, historical or legacy approaches. And we address that very easily. I love that, uh, ultimately we're, we're all just talking about like, how do we make the outside the inside, right? I mean, like, this is really not that complicated. How do we make the outside the inside? Um, I want to come back to, you know, again, I think it makes sense in terms of day night cycling, right? I, that, I think we get bright light in the morning. People get that, you know, we've been sitting around fires and it starts to get dim long, long, long time. Um, there have to be some performance gains that we can track. Have those things been tracked reaction time? Like how, where, where does this be? I think we can make this logic step that it makes sense that our brains are wired around light in the morning, dim light in the evening. There's a lot of signaling to our biology. But when we start to look at that besides, Hey, I feel better and maybe I sleep better. And obviously there are huge benefits to sleeping more effectively. Have you all noticed or tracked or is there data that shows that there's an improvement in reaction time, et cetera, fewer mistakes, things like that. This episode of the Ready State Podcast is brought to you by Element. And today you want to talk about, don't even interrupt me. I'm going to be straight up. I am the real Slim Salty. It's Slim and Salty. And you are both Slim and Salty. Look, uh, we love the sparkling Element cans. Oh my God, so much. But I don't know if, do you remember in college? Look, maybe, maybe I went to a different college than you, but, uh, there was this thing called Edward. You think? Edward, oh my gosh. Edward Forty Hands where they would tape like two forties people's hands. Sometimes the big element is too much, right? And what they figured out was half an element is perfect. And that's what these are. Great flavors, the right size. Yeah, and I'm embarrassed to admit this, but sometimes I go about my morning and I fail to have enough water. I drink a lot of coffee and then I get to about noon and I realize that I'm behind. And one of my favorite ways to just catch up pretty quickly is to have a can of Element. It's, it's cold out of the fridge. I can power the whole thing down. It's a party in my mouth. And I literally feel like it takes my like dehydration meter back up to normal. Do you remember in college you, uh, went to South America and you put a succulent in like a storage unit? Yeah, for like a whole year. And it survived. And then you came back. And then you came back. That's like you after an element. That's true. Exactly. Element resurrection. Uh, look everyone right now. If you want to order through our link, you can get a free sample pack of elements, most popular drink flavors. And of course, if you want to party your mouth, definitely try the sparkling or half sparkling, slim and salty. Slim and salty. Uh, go to drink L M N T.com slash T R S. We literally drink it every day. Heard that. Hey, if you're enjoying the show, make sure you're subscribed wherever you get your podcasts. That way you won't miss any of the new episodes we drop. Plus, it really helps other people find the show. So hit that follow button now and let's get back to it. So depending on once again, what audience you're looking at, we've done studies with swimmers that have shown because they, you know, if you think about a swimmer, they can, they can have three peak requirements in a day and starts at eight noon and four. And they have to go and swim their best race. So how do you, so we've done, we've done, and other people have done studies around that type of how do you keep them elevated and how do you allow them to get up to their peak? Um, there's been studies done on kids in school that have shown a better retention and focus. So when they're doing the same repetitive tasks, they do them better and more efficiently when you're in an environment of high stimulation, biocentric lighting. Um, there's studies that show batting, you know, people in good lighting with the right lighting that's being supportive of their pre batting practice, um, workout hit better. So there's a lot of studies across the spectrum that have been done, not necessarily only on our particular product, but on the use of the right spectrum to create outcomes. And then we've done a lot of studies against the multiple biosensors that are in the market. If I put this lamp over your desk and you wear a sensor, can you see a readiness sleep pattern latency change in your sleep in seven to 10 days? Yes, that is possible. Some people have very large percentage changes and other people have lesser. So depending on how they are naturally wired, how much time they're actually around the lamp. But at the same time, we consistently show very good high single digits and double digit increases in the different metrics across the biosensors. So just introducing it into the space has a lot of impact. You know, I don't, I always try to figure out ways to put this in context here. If you ever move that plant away from the corner, that's kind of brown and crumpily and you put it by the window, it kind of turns green and comes back to life. That's a little bit of what you see around biocentric light against the biosensor. And then once you've kind of put it into as being a consistent part of your environment, everything you do, whether working out or working, is on an elevated platform. And we're not going to put you to sleep for 24 hours. We're not going to give you a 100% readiness score, but we're going to elevate you to the extent that your body can be more enhanced than what you're doing right now. It's going to cancel out the six bang energies I have. And when I'm in this dim light, I love it. I see the funny part, right? I just had four call, I have four espressos at 6 p.m. And I wonder why I don't go to sleep at 6 p.m. I'm pretty sure my biocentric light with no blue light is going to negate that. So they're 100% slightly integrated in what you do. Yeah. So speaking of integration, I don't think we can have this conversation about light without talking about phone use specifically before bed. And the context I'll give here is that we and everybody who's in the health and wellness space have suggested to people that maybe their phones shouldn't be by their bed. They should get off their phone an hour before. Well, nobody does that and nobody is going to do that. Like the data has come in that people have their phones by their bed. They want to have their phones by their bed to be able to be reachable and use it an alarm. And, you know, nobody's rushing to Walgreens to buy their alarm clock. And, you know, I've heard mixed things. You know, I've heard I recently just saw some headline pass that maybe the blue light isn't as bad as we thought. And it's other things about being on your phone that are bad. And I guess my question for you is assuming 95% of the people listening to this podcast have their phone by their bed and may even be looking at it within the last 10 minutes before bed. 94 and not me. What is there a way to mitigate the light experience on your phone? So living in reality, knowing that people are using it before bed. Living in the reality is I can't make it not do dumb things. We'll live with that. If you are able to create a better daytime version of lighting to where you're energizing yourself and then changing the spectrum and allowing your body to create a good, let's call it momentum into melanopic entrainment, which is building melatonin. You can almost overcome some of the bad actions of phone before bed, TV before bed, laptop before bed. So you kind of you get the waves going correctly. You can build momentum. It's kind of, you know, muscle memory or endocrine memories. I'm sure some doctor will tell me that's not the perfect way of describing it. But if you get the energy levels going correctly, you you get some of that benefit. But if you're under energized during the day, then your ability to build it in the evening is low. And then you're doing that thing. We've all agreed it's not the thing to be doing, but you can kind of overcome it if you build a good energizing curve in the earlier part of the day, change the spectrum, allow melanopic entrainment to kick in. So there are ways to defeat it. If you're not going to do the thing that, you know, you're being told you shouldn't do, then all right, well. Is there any benefit to like, you know, you can turn your phone red or turn it black and white or, you know, does that does that make any difference whatsoever? Or is it still just. Once again, it's kind of a weird tradeoff that we see. And we're we're doing some really interesting stuff in that space against some of our patent portfolio is how do you make the experience the same and then deliver a better environment? Right now, the experience is kind of not great. So people are like, well, I can put on my whatever shift and I don't like it. I can't really get the experience that I'm expecting from my, you know, very expensive device. So there's there's yeah, you can. And yes, it does probably help. But the better the better recommendation is for a lot of reasons, not just the not just the light input, but letting your brain decompress, letting your brain unwind, stop, take all that dopamine. Stimulation out of your brain as you're trying to unwind. That's why you really want the phone away. It's not, you know, mostly driven by the light problem. Let me ask you, listen to this. We we did our kitchen a few years ago and they automatically by code put in these gnarly LED lights. And I just mean gnarly as in I don't know if they're good or bad for me, but they're really ugly and the light is really just harsh. Right. We changed those. Yeah. Right. We were like passcode and then we just put in a different kind of bulb. As you say that quietly for the inspector. That's right. That's right. That's right. It's my house. It's my house. I believe in house sovereignty. One of the things that I'd love to hear is if I'm interested in change, making some of the changes in my lighting choices, just in my kitchen or in my living room. How do I know that I'm choosing a light that's better? Let's say that for the most people, maybe I can't change from bright, but I get a lot of natural light in the morning. Don't really need lights on that much, but it's really more in the evening. Are there wavelengths I can look at? Are there besides, you know, because I know you were on the, you guys are in the manufacture, you know, this built space, but how would as a person, how could I go to Lowe's or Home Depot and make a choice? Could I do that? Yeah, like there's also those lights we have where you can buy this bulb and you can actually change. It has like five colors. You can change the color. You can change the color or dimmers. You're poking around the edges of what our solution does in total, right? You can go find a bulb that has a decent range from warm brown colors to that red color you like to a bright blue. The problem is, is that most of those bulbs, as you described them, have lesser quality because they're not designed and can't really handle the broad spectrum, the color chains that you're looking for. So you may create a different flicker effect or a problem by the quality of the bulb. So, and then you have to then figure out, well, how are you going to define if you've got, let's call it three settings in that bulb, how do you get to them? And when do you define, is it 9 a.m., noon, and 6 p.m.? And are you going to change them? So our approach would be call us and we'll help you design a biocentric home to where all those spaces. And so you get up at three o'clock in the morning to use the restroom. It's a nice orange color. Great for seeing you're doing your business, but not going to energize you. You go back and go to sleep. 7 a.m., your kitchen's more in that, I wouldn't call it harsh, but more in that bright blue energizing phase. And then as you're cooking dinner, 6, 7 o'clock at night, it's into that warm. But with enough volume of delight, you don't cut your finger off. So those are the things that you want to be able to do in the space. So ultimately there are, and once again, I recognize this is self-serving and then I'm trying to sell the platform that biocentric light is. But you can do small things in terms of the bulbs you choose. If you have a space that you would call your evening living room, that space needs to be more in that orange warm color that you're talking about. Maybe leave your kitchen a little bit harsher because that's usually morning and daytime. And don't worry so much because you're really not cooking 8, 9, 10 o'clock at night when you just kind of go in and grab ice or whatever. But you're not in that bright space. So you can kind of zone out with, zone your spaces with bulbs if that's the best, if that's the best alternative. And just choose what are you doing? When are you in that space? If it's more morning and afternoon, go brighter, whiter. If it's more evening, late afternoon and evening, go more warmer. And then just kind of move through the spaces as you use them. And that's about as close as you can get until you get into really controls and light recipes and bulbs that have broad spectrum capability. Never thought I heard the word light recipe. TM. So in your enterprise-level lighting, like you have an example. Those listening can't see it, but we can see it here on video of one of your lights. And just so I understand the technology, I mean, once this is installed, it's going to be changing. I don't know. Maybe the color isn't even the right word. And you can insert the right light words. But what's that lamp doing all day? And is it automatically changing based on some pre-setting? Or just tell me a little bit about how the actual technology works. And when you go away from that light back to the light that the rest of the mortals use, do you notice? Yes. And that's so, you know, when you go to a space where the full floor is built out in biocentric light, it's really fun in Sweden where we have our corporate headquarters built out. And you bring in a guest. And everyone's used to that after-lunch kind of pizza, you know, pizza dullness. I mean, pizza in Sweden. And everyone comes out of our meetings going, why do I feel different? Well, because that's biocentric light. You're not getting that afternoon lull because the lighting is energizing you. But to your question, it's if you come into this light at 7 o'clock in the morning when it automatically turns on because that's just the start time, it's a more warmer color. And then through the course of the day, we'll get more bright blue energizing. And then it will set and then ultimately turn off at 11 o'clock at night. That's the single perfect day auto-lit schedule. So it's changing spectrum. It's changing intensity and volume of light. So it's kind of moving much like sunrise sunset. As the sun rises, it's orange and it gets brighter and brighter and brighter. It turns blue and then it turns orange and it gets lesser and lesser and lesser. That's how the environment works. Whether it's the Alvin lamp or the Enterprise Elvin solution, that same thing can happen. And then depending on what time your operation starts, if you're a donut shop and you're open at 3 a.m., well, then you want to shift that morning light a little bit earlier. You don't want to wait till 7 if you're trying to work all. And if it's a restaurant, you can shift it a little bit later and still have the attributes of best definition of lighting for the space as it's being used. And that's why understanding the zone or what's being done in the space and how you deliver, in essence, the best attributes of daylight into the space, that's where the biocentric recipe becomes really powerful is that that's using our bioclock theory, understanding, chronotype, circadian rhythms, inputs and outputs, and being able to design something that is holistically addressing the most people on the broadest possibility, which is lighting in the ceiling. So I don't know if I'm feeling crazy right now, but I feel like just looking at you, it looks darker than when we started this podcast. And I'm not sure if it's because you're on the East Coast or Middle Country and it's actually dark outside, but it might just be like an optical illusion. The window in my face is actually setting, so we got the sun setting here, but this has probably changed some degree over time. And it's actually starting to slowly dim, but it also is going from a more blue color to a more warm. If you stood here long enough, ultimately, this would match the ceiling. And then ultimately this. Are you, can you smell burned feathers too, Chad? Well, yeah, I don't know. I just was like, maybe I'm just imagining this because we were talking about lighting and I see it getting dark where you are. Had I known that I was doing that, that's a pretty good plan. I should think about making that happen. Kyle, real quick, we're talking about light here and we're trying to not just deep dive and lose people. How do you become interested in lighting? Because it really is like, let's be honest. I mean, you and I were at a human performance conference and I sat down next to you and you're like, I'm the light guy. You know, like I put in industrial lighting. I'm like, wow. I mean, I knew what we were dealing with because my friends had talked about this and I ran into. And you did your red light experiment. I did my red light experiment. I mean, I did. My mom did take me to the red light district in Amsterdam when I was 12. There you go. That's a whole different, that's that word we were going to not use. That's right. But what I want to know is, has this been surprising to you that just the applications and the adoption? Because it seems initially like, hey, we're running this building and it's really expensive to build a building and it's expensive to put these things in. But there seems to be a tide shift. And you said that you are real busy these days. Are people starting to realize that this is a place where we can create healthier, happier people? This episode of the Ready State Podcast is brought to you by Vitality Blueprint. You know what's super cool about this company? What? We have two rock star nerdy friends, Dan Garner, not the third, just the regular Dan Garner, and Dr. Andy Galpin. Yeah. And they have been able to take all of their experience, all of their learnings, and integrate it into a platform that makes sense of your blood work. Now, single blood marker is independent from all the other systems. It's a system. Finally, we have someone looking and taking a systems approach to this thing. So you can take your blood work, put it in there, and then it will make sense of where you should start and the things you can do to start. It gives you an actual protocol. Oh, my gosh. Let me tell you a little story about how I've been sort of mind boggled by my recent Vitality Blueprint. This is true. And for my entire life, as you well know, I have suffered from iron deficiency anemia so bad to the point where I actually have been going to the doctor for the last many years to get actual iron infusions, like bags of iron pumped into my veins. Yeah, made worse by a traumatic birth experience where you got a lot of blood. And but since then, in the last couple of years, I have become a menopausal woman. I've heard. And all of a sudden, for the first time in my life, I am getting this blood work showing that I actually have an iron surplus and I should be donating blood and limiting iron-rich foods, which is like totally, completely blown my mind. Like I just had no idea that I could sort of like bounce back so quickly from an iron perspective. I don't know if you bounce back quickly. I'm just going to go and register you, Matt. But I will say that I love this idea that our nutrition changes. Yeah. Our blood chemistry changes. Our needs changes. We age and being able to. Yeah, in our seasons of life. Yeah. And being able to track that and see how that trains. I mean, you would not have known that. No. And it's why we, if you're an adult, get a blood panel, ask your, and then take those, that blood panel and drop it into Vitality Blueprint. Yeah. Or get theirs. Get their whole package. Do the whole thing. If you want to learn more, go to vitalityblueprint.com slash TRS and use code TRS for 50 bucks off any Vitality plan. Oh, absolutely. Absolutely. I mean, I, I've always been a technology guy, right? But I've kind of come into different organizations with different tech, learned it and basically helped them scale it. So I'm not a light guy by trade. I knew nothing about lighting per se. I knew nothing about biocentric light as what we do. But then once I learned about it, and I've been with Brainlit five years. When I came in, we had almost no customers in the U.S. market. Now we have half of the leagues in some, you know, form factor. So we've been interestingly and kind of aggressively successful in sports. Um, but when, you know, one of the first things I ever listened to was Andrew Hubberman's podcast, which is like his second or third one he ever did. And he's talking about light, you know, the 20 minute walk and, you know, and then you talk about Kevin Walker and his book on light. So you look at the experts that were five years ago, trying to put that in there in kind of discussion format. And then you look at the ISO standard and the well standard and the brain standard and the new IES standard for recommended practices for physiological, you know, that's just stuff that is kind of catching up with what we were doing. Cause Brainlit's been well in front of the market and the technology didn't actually meet what we needed to do. Light panels weren't able to do the colors and spectrum and delivery that we needed on a stable basis for a long time. So now it kind of comes together. So I get, I mean, I get the benefit of working with really fun sports organizations, which is always kind of cool. And you get to meet great people and they're really passionate and really the top of their game. But I look at it more passionately about, you know, schools and long-term care facilities, people, elderly care, dementia, you know, all of those places that are light can actually benefit people that don't get the benefit of being a $25 million. And if you're a player with the best of the best, that's where I get really excited about. So I learned the tech became reasonably, you know, uh, competent in how to explain it. And then the market kind of supported everything that we knew it could do between the biosensor tests and the league tests we've gotten in the team tests that we've done. So we have a, you know, we've got a lot of momentum and it's, you know, it's fun. Get to meet great people like you that I probably would never have met you if I wasn't selling this. Um, and you know, it's, it's just a, I've been, I would say kind of blessed to have found this opportunity. And I know at this point you guys are working with, you know, large buildings and organizations and teams at the enterprise level. Is it on the horizon that you all will be doing more like, you know, one to one home type solutions? Is that in the future? Yes. Um, I mean, if you look at what the controls need to do, that's the, that's probably the hardest thing about one to one is that it's not, you need a decent volume of light to make the impact. I mean, if you look at this thing, it's not a bulb and it needs to be able to push volume to make the response. So when you talk about these little cute little cubes that sit on your desk, they're not really putting out a nice light volume. So we have to approach it in a way that if we promise that there's a biocentric outcome with an MEDI impact, can we deliver on that promise? And single user formats don't quite doing it. And that's probably one of the reasons that the broader market has a skepticism is that people have promised things that don't, don't deliver in small form factors. And then people say, I don't feel anything. I don't sleep any better. My bios, my, you know, my biosensor hasn't changed. So we're coming at it, trying to be very respectful of the science, very rigorous in what we allow underneath the banner of biocentric. And we will have some really interesting products coming to the market. And we'll also have a very interesting residential product. So Kelly, your kitchen can be less harsh and your living room can be nice and red, you know, at the same time. And you don't do anything but walk into the space. And hopefully one day, depending on where you're traveling to, your house will change because you're going on a trip. It will shift you one way and bring you back from a trip. So you've got jet lag. Stop it. I mean, seriously, anything we can do to help with jet lag is we're here for it. I'm so fragile. Yeah. Kyle, one of the things that we do here is we love to ask our guests to contribute something to our infinite bookshelf. Something reading that's interesting to you or in your field or around or something that's inspiring. Even a TV show. Something that you're kind of noodling on or thinking about. Like help blow up our minds here. I read so many scientific papers. That's just so I can say get smarter because I'm not in a lot of this area. So I wouldn't point to any of those because they'd be very boring. My reading, my kids say I don't read smart enough because I use reading as a way to just read anything to fill time. I think the funniest thing, the one thing I find a lot of enjoyment right now is the TV show Landman. I was in the oil business for a while. I understand. I mean, I was the New York, you know, Wall Street guy in Midland, Texas. So I totally understand that. And so to me, it's like, wow, that was me at 28 kind of bumping into. I heard that that was really like it's an homage to being Gen X. It like explains the entire Gen X experience of taking care of elderly parents and your life is blowing up and work and you're in control. I love it. Yeah. So that's a fun one for me. So that's probably my. We'll take it. It's not as simple. Kyle, where can people learn more about lighting? Learn more about brainlit? Like where do people go? So brainlit.com. You know, brainlit.com. We have a lot of white papers. We've got a lot of case studies on places we've done stuff. We've got a lot of cool photos of the installations we've done. So, you know, whether you're just looking for information about it, I think that's great. And Kevin Walker's book on sleep talks a lot about it. But yeah, I mean, I think we have to do a lot of education still. So brainlit.com is a very powerful place to find out a lot of stuff and, you know, follow us. We've got to cross all of the social channels so you can see the different installations, people that are using it. You know, we just did a big pop-up for jet lag mitigation with the Orlando Magic in Berlin for their week there. We ended up on, you know, the NBA.com Instagram page. So, you know, I think it's the first time we've had a million plus views on our product in the marketplace. So that's kind of fun. So keep an eye out for that. Congratulations. That's amazing. Hey, I wish I could say we did anything other than be in the right place at the right time, but that's what happened. But yeah, so keep an eye out for the big white lamp. And if you're at work and you're feeling not supported by your lighting, tell your boss you want Biocentric. Love it. Well, Kyle, thank you so much. This has been so awesome. And again, I just, anytime we can add things into our, to change our environments, I'm here for it. One less thing to worry about. I just want it running in the background. Yep, running in the background. Or I'm going to have to just live outside and work outside. Kyle, thank you so much. Can we just see you again? Thanks so much.