Hey, welcome back to mobility project. Simple concept today. Lateral movement. Man, I'll tell you what, we do so much in this plane. Sometimes we don't do a lot in this plane. I know you're keeping up on your gymnastics. I know you're throwing the ball a lot. You're doing some medicine ball twist right with that light Dynamax ball. But it's easy to kind of get stuck in this mode where we don't we're not doing a lot of twisting. We're not doing a lot of lateral opening. Couple ideas. The other day I was sitting on the sitting down in front of the computer with kind of butt tight and all I did was start to open up the hip to the side and I was like, "Oh my god, I'm so tight." Where my obliques were tying in. Felt like it was stuck down. So, let's go ahead and uh priority number one today is you're kind as you're opening up the hip. Don't think about soaz and pressing forward, opening up this kind of anterior hip. Think about pressing laterally and just rainbow over. Remember, we're never ever shortening anything. We're always going to try to lengthen. So, I'm going up and over. Tie that arm in and just press the be Jesus out of that thing and see if you can't feel how tight and short. And you'll find that corner, you know, there's nothing there. And you can see me skipping around. I'm good, good, good. Whoa. There's the oblique. And then I'm past it. I'm just going to hang out and press. So, the example is just to really think about opening up this lateral hip. That's one idea. You can tie that into your hip opener. Number two, when you're in this position, I like a two for one here. So, this is an easy way to be opening up the hip. Take a look at this. Right ankle anchors the leg down. And I'm going to again drop this to the side, press over, and really be able to pull all the way through this lateral tissue and into the back here. Um, this is one of my favorites. I think I saw this on the Olympics like seven years ago. One of the figure skaters was opening up with this. And you'll notice that if I as soon as I close off, nothing. As soon as I open up and kind of just drop into this lateral plane. Oh, that's so ugly through there. And I capture some of this quadras lorum, some of this posterior flank that I'm not usually having access to. So, you know, this is one of those things that, you know, you can be talking about and messing around with your friends afterwards. You can see why if I was about to do cartwheels and felt like I was going to tear, you know who you are. Um, this would be an excellent thing to do if I was afraid of going laterally. A great use of a physio ball, you know, which we don't have in our gym because they're pretty silly mostly, unless they're filled with water or concrete. But I can take this Dynamax ball, drop it up on a plate, and I can do that same thing. I can just lift over and just open up that hip. So, I'm using the tools I have in the gym, and I'm just going to let this hip drop. And oh, good lord. I suddenly have access to this high TFL glute piece as it relates to to the trunk. Usually, we're working about hip down. This is going to be a relationship of anchoring the the trunk or anchoring the the hip and then just extending over through the trunk to the side. And this thing is amazing. And then I can just roll side to side. I can contract, relax, and just keep opening up that hip. I can drop that leg down and he can even hook that foot here in that kind of figure four. This is the lateral release people are looking for a lot of times when they do that kind of TFL stretch tension fascelatada trying to open up the IT band. But this piece, man, I'm telling you, this is solid solid gold. Like pure melted gold if you know what I'm talking about. Open up those lateral bits. Oh man, such a big difference side to side. and that it's going to free up give you some better movement options in the bottom. We'll see you guys tomorrow.