Dude, In and Out in Thursday nights, coaching legs, double double protein style, the dream. There may or may not be a paleo shake involved. I'm not going to lie. Here's what we're going to do today. Come back to sitting. It's Friday. We're traveling around. We're going to work on the hips. Remember that every minute you can open the hip, cross the legs that it's going to be one, one minute. Every time you get to stretch, we're going to go for as many as we can. Give some bang. Look at this. I can hook my leg under the table and I can lean away. Open up my hip in a different way. All right. It's very effective. So, it's a very different stimulus than just fold forward and catch the hip. You can combine the two knee underneath the desk, twist, and then come forward. Gnarly, gnarly, gnarly. Okay, so that's one. Two is if you just get your foot up on the chair, cradle that thing, twist into it. So why read your emails? Pull your knee to your chest. This looks like yoga, but it's not because we'll be tight. Pull that thing across. You can even cross the leg. Pull it across. And either way, you're going to just bias a little different position. All right. So, here's what you got to do. Collect as many points as you can in this flex knee position. Cross. Pull forward. Hook the knee. Toy with that position. Opens up and really hits that part of the TFL you can't get otherwise. Cross the leg. Pull that in your chest high. Both sides. And then finally, you're super stealth. I get questions a lot about what do I do? I get at school. I do study study. Get that foot up into the back of the chair and then sit in the back of the class like this. It's very effective. So, I can get in that couch position while I'm in the desk and answer emails. Good thing you can do So you can drop your foot off the table and kind of sit in the chair and just drop the leg down and open up the chair as you're sitting there. Still getting some open hip opening. Still sitting chair waves to the teacher away from the box. All right. In and out. Get mobility. Pocket gym is filming. It's the trifecta. I'll talk to you later.