I can see you, buddy. All right. Hey. Hey, guys. Guess what? We're live. I see the live button. Yeah. Uh, you are here at the MAD First Google Hangout. We've got Jason Khalipa online. And And who cares about Jason Kipa? Because more importantly, we've got Helena Woo. Uh, where are you, Helena? Um, I'm in New Jersey. And of course, we love New Jersey. We go there all the time. But uh you entered our ready to run cool kid hangout and uh you snatched the great prize of getting to spend time with the Jason Cleip online. So look, we want to turn this over. Now's your chance to get to the burning question. Are those Jason Kipas real calves? Yes, they are. Is he Is he really six feet tall and six feet wide? Yes, he is. You can ask all those questions. So dude, let's turn it over to you. What do you got? Wait to me. Yeah. What do you want to talk about? Um, well, one of the questions I did want to ask you was like about pain and they comes when I'm like working out. It's pain that comes in my legs and it also is like inconvenient for me because I'm a runner. I I do track and field at school. So, Excellent. Yeah. Are you wearing Just real quick, is that an underground strength initiative shirt? Is that our boy dude representing Zack? Zack Aanesh is in the conversation. That's great. Yeah. Well, well, I tell you what, you know, first of all, let's let's talk about to Jason because I think this is interesting. You know, it is training at the intensities we're doing, especially track athletes. And I have seen Jason swallow more hate and pain than any other athlete I've ever met. So, Jason, what how do you know what's good pain, what's bad pain? How do you deal with that? Well, are you referring to pain? Like what type of pain you're referring to? You type of pain like like soreness pain or like like fatigue pain? Are we talking like you know literally my hip is in pain all the time? I can't sleep. I'm you like what type of pain are we talking about? Um I'm talking about it's sort of like soreness but it's more like it really is burning and then I feel like I can't go all out like I want to. So like when when you're hitting like 100 meter sprints or something like that just that kind of stuff. Yeah. Yeah. I mean to answer your question, I mean to me if it's what I think it is, I mean it's just completely normal. And I mean it's like a great example would be like if you're running 400 meters as fast as you can, do you ever run the 400 meter? Yeah. It's hard. If you run the 400, I mean there's two things you need to keep in consideration is just proper pacing. But at at the end of the day, regardless of how fit you are, if you're going an all-out effort, it's going to be challenging and you're going to feel some type of leg pain, you know. So for me, you know, the big takeaway I'd say is trying to learn your paces that could appropriately get you where you want to be. So a great example is like a 400 meter run. If my 400 time is one minute flat, but I start my first, you know, um, let's just say 100 meters at a at a 45 second 400 meter pace, I'm going to burn out and my legs are going to burn much quicker than they would if I kept a good consistent pace the entire time and waited to that last 50 100 meter stretch to kick it up. So to answer what I think it is, it's two things. It's developing capacity and how do you do that? just by training. You know, ultimately the more you train, the more effective you train, the better your your muscle stamina is going to be, but also justly pacing things. You know, if you go out there and you hit it too hard, too quick, you're going to burn off. But if you learn how to pace yourself, that's going to be a huge beneficial tool. Well, and then the other thing is, you know, I'm I'm assuming you're engaged in some strength and conditioning. So, does this pain in your legs happen all the time? Does it happen when you squat? Does it happen when you deadlift? Does it happen when you box jump? Does it happen when you do push-ups? Is it the same pain? Because remember the running exposes a lot of end range motion in extension. So when that hip comes behind you, we're seeing that that is basically the greatest end range challenge of the hip in extension. And because you're going fast, you can suddenly start to load some of those tissues that you're maybe not seeing any other place. Do you get the same sort of feelings just doing walking lunges, for example? Yeah. Yeah. Well then then what I suspect is that we have two things. What one of the things that Jason's talking about is that, you know, certainly if you're missing cardinal ranges of motion, especially when the hip is in extension and your tissues are stiff, then when you, you know, are hitting it hard, those tissues are working end range and they are going to start screaming early on, you know, and so I guess the questions are what have you done to make it feel better? Because if if it's not a training issue, if if it's a tightness issue and you're feeling, does it go down the sort of the middle of your leg? The the middle of my leg, like what do you mean? Like when you feel your when you feel your symptoms, what does it feel like? Where does it feel? Where does it hurt? It hurts like pretty much everywhere in my legs. Like Well, let me ask you, how what what do you do dayto-day? Are you are you a high school student? Are you a college student? What do you do? I'm I'm in high school right now. Okay. Okay. So, how many hours a day do you sit? A lot. Yeah, that's that's I really hate. So, what you're what you're noticing is that you've become viciously viciously stiff and I'm sure you're missing I know that I mean when you you do the couch stretch once in a while, right? Yeah. How does that feel? It's like really painful. Okay. Yeah. There it is. So, I I think what you're discovering is that hey, I have stiff quads. I sit all day. They're trying to kill my hips during high school and shorten the hip. And then when I go train, that stiffness comes up and I feel it generally all over my quads. That's a dead giveaway that we just have high intramuscular stiffness. Jason's also right that if you go out too hard and blow up fast, then you know those problems become even worse. But you know if you the different differential diagnosis means when I engage in a sport or an activity and then I'm having a problem I can tell a lot about how the severity of the problem based on what happens in the gym. So for example let's use Jason. Jason came and saw us after you had a pretty good games. I think you were what did you second in the games that when when you saw me after that shoulder stuff Jason third I don't remember. Uh second. So Jason does second in the games and he comes and sees me maybe a month after the games. He's like, "Kelly, I think I've injured my shoulder." And I'm like, "Well, what are you talking about?" He's like, "Well, I'm having this shoulder pain when I train." And I was like, "Well, did you just do the CrossFit games?" He's like, "Yeah." I'm like, "Did it hurt?" And he's like, "No, no, my shoulders don't hurt at all when I do the games." The differential diagnosis then was that we know there's nothing wrong with him because of how sort of what's going on when he does all these different movements. His shoulder pain happened because he was stiff afterwards. So, what's nice is it's the opposite for you. Basically, we can say, "Hey, I'm having a problem when I'm doing this high-end sport like running." And then when I train, I'm also getting that similar feeling. The training is sort of the the tool that allows us to figure out what's going on. And that is when we can start dealing down. So, I mean, it's simple. It's couch stretch. It's working on the front of the hip. It's dealing with the muscular stiffness. And then the test retest is what happens when I lunge. What happens when I run again? Yeah. And Helena, do you do you uh do you warm up before you go out for your workouts? Yeah, I usually do. Zach makes sure like we all do that. So, like for me, you know, when I first start warming up generally because I'm always pretty sore, uh it takes me through my warmup to start feeling normal. So, like generally I'm pretty tight and sore because I train a lot, but after I'm done warming up, my body's primed. I feel ready. I I feel good to go. And uh I think I think that's a good question is you know are you warming up properly? Are you getting everything primed and ready before you go out there and try and execute on something relatively aggressive? I think a lot of people they try and you know put out performances without properly kind of getting the engine prepped if you know what I mean. So that's just something else to think about. Yeah. And you know, one of the things that I think is amazing, especially in our high school athletes now, is you we're seeing high school athletes training at levels and intensities that just a few years ago we would have all considered elite. I mean, we're seeing high school athletes do things that 10 years ago in CrossFit would have been, you know, mind-blowing. When I went through my level one, um, we had a hundred people do Fight on Bad and one person was over 300 out of a 100 people. Like I had I was in like the eighth highest score and I was at like 280 was my Fight on Bad score. And now we consider 300 to be the baseline for like JV rowing, you know, and like you know what I'm saying is like the the world has changed a lot and you're working at very very significant intensities and and Zach is a fantastic coach, but your job is to make sure that you have a a practice of taking care of your tissues. And you know what we honestly see is that our some of our high school athletes are our stiffest athletes because the load that you've got going on at school is crushing you. You know, if you're not religiously spending like you should be spending 10 minutes a day in something that looks like a lunge for you to undo the damage of kind of the the sitting. Does that make sense? Yeah. Because like your hips are flexed all day when you're sitting and you want That's right. Yeah. It's it's crushing. So what we've done is that at my daughter's uh elementary school, we have a hundred kids at standup desks right now. And we think that literally you should ask your teachers as an experiment, hey, can I sit in the back or stand in the back of the classroom? I mean, be that nerd. You're already a nerd. You work out with Zach, so you're a nerd. And uh but I think if you could um you know, see if that would make a difference or you know, kneel next to the chair. But it is devastating what happens to our athletes. We were working with some uh some big university teams and their athletes were sitting 12 to 14 hours a day and I easily believe that you're spending 12 to 14 hours a day sitting and you cannot that is going to blow up in your face if you're trying to run 100 meter sprints. It's such a disaster. Yeah, it kind of makes me like upset that I I know that sitting is bad for you if you do it too much, but I'm in high school. I still have like a year to go, then I have to go through college and stuff and sitting whole time. That's right. Well, what you've got to do is one is think, okay, well, I know I'm going to be compromised, so I have to deal with it. And that means, look, if you're going to be an athlete, you know, one of the things we know about Jason, for example, is that Jason was a freakish workhorse. Like, it used to be for Jason about how much volume he could do. You know, he could out train everyone. I mean, this is the truth. In terms of volume of training, I'd never seen anyone who could handle what Jason can handle. And in the 10 years that he's evolved, you're seeing much more sophistication about his his positions and how he preps for things and how he deals with just some of the soft tissue stiffness because you can't do what we're doing anymore and play the old game. So, you're just going to have to be like, well, I'm either going to try to sit stand in the back of the classroom because I'm an athlete or and I tell people that I'm just tell coach, hey, I'm an athlete. You're trying to ruin me. Or B, you're going to have to just roll and stretch like it's your job after when you get home. Yeah, I agree with that. So, Helena, like I have a lot of travel coming up and it is what it is. You know, even if you're flying business class, whatever, you're still sitting in a chair for a 12-h hour flight to Asia or whatever. And you know what I try and do is just take uh you know every like hour or so I just get up, go to a little galley, stretch out, get back and and just that alone is already helping me to not get so so stiff. So I when you're in college it is what it is. You got to sit in a desk. It happens. I mean I get it. But I mean if you could try and just get up and move around a little bit that helps me a lot. And also we look at things of like there's optional sitting and then there's required sitting. Right now you're sitting down on this this call right? Yeah, because I don't have a standing desk. But so, but you could kick you can put a box on the desk and put your computer on the box. You can be kneeling next to uh next to the chair. I mean, right now I'm standing and uh you know, and then I've got my foot up on this this stool over here and anything I can do to avoid or tweak my life, especially so one of one of the things we want to do is just create a ready state where you get to just train, right? We take as much variables off the table as we can around nutrition, around sleep, around hydration, and then then just let the training work because Jason's right. Sometimes you just need some training volume, and you just got to you just need like six months of hard training, but in the meantime, you're always thinking, what can I control? And and your environment, even little tweaks to the environment is radical radical changes. I have um another question. It's kind of a little abstract, I guess. But, um, the reason that I'm like a sprinter at track and school is because, you know, sprinters, they're like like the perfect athlete. You know, they're really fast, explosive, and they have all those athletic qualities. So, that's what I want to have. But, I also like in CrossFit, everyone's in shape. Everyone's just ready for like anything. and they do a lot more conditioning work, I guess. And I want to be like athletic like that, but I also want to be like a fast sprinter. Like, what are your thoughts on that? Well, I I think first is that we're we should always be keeping an eye on sort of our power and our strength abilities. And I I guarantee you, you have yet to begin to scratch the surface of of what you can do physically. One of the things that I think Jason will agree on is that we see Hey, by the way, look, there's Diane Fu. Hey, Diane. Oh, hey, Jason. We're just doing We're just doing a Google Hangout with Elena there. Is that a Google? Yeah. Like, why does Kelly looking at himself? That's right. So, what what we're seeing is um you know, I think that there's a lot of athletes who are worried about being fast and powerful and being fresh enough to do that, you know, and I know you have a legit deadlift, but the issue is we still see that you can raise your base conditioning and be much fitter than you think and still be powerful, explosive. Would you agree to that, Jason? Oh, yeah, for sure. You know, Helena, one thing to think about is that you're talking about CrossFit versus a sprint athlete. And I think what's interesting is that we do work with sprint athletes and what we find is that is that if we can raise their GPP or like their overall abilities, they're going to get gains in their specific sport. So like here's an example. You take a guy who runs, you know, 100 meter sprints all the time, you know, stays in like that short time domain, all of a sudden you start working a little bit longer time domains and they start seeing gains. And also like having different types of stimuluses. So like for example for you if you want to sprint hard I mean why can't you use sled work right forward sled backward sled doing all different types of explosive box jumps and there's so much we could do I mean power cleaning snatching I mean all you're doing is just explosive lifts I mean there's so much carryover for that into the explosive uh sprints in my opinion what I would say is if you find that the general physical training that we're doing cross remember one of the things about crossfit that's so important is that we're finding all your blind spots. We're finding all the tissue restrictions, all the range of motion problems that you can't see at speed or at load. And one of the things that's happening is we're we're always reclaiming sort of a ready state. So like for example, I have we one of our one of our athletes is one of the best female cyclists in America. And our idea is, hey, look, we're squatting. As a side effect, you may get stronger, but we're just trying to make your hips work well so that you can bike. And the only thing that we talk a lot about is if the strength and conditioning gets in the way of your actual sport at your actual sport specific training, then we have a problem. So if you're doing 30 minute beatdown metcons, well, you know, that was never the intention of the CrossFit. It's short and intense. And I guarantee you everyone has enough conditioning for a 6 to 8 minute hardcore kick-ass piece. It's when we start to see the drifting go up and the volume goes through the roof that we see the demands on the sport start to come into play where athletes suddenly are like, "Hey, I can't run because I'm blown out." Well, what you're doing too much in the gym. So, you know, keep that in mind. Would you agree, Jay? Yeah. Yeah, I mean I think what it goes in this whole thing, Helena, like when I work with an athlete, you know, so for example, if I'm working with a guy who's going to go play uh, you know, college basketball or when I'm working with football players, I want to start matching time domains, making them more explosive, doing different stuff, but I'm not trying to wreck them so hard specifically during season that it'll negatively uh impact their game because ultimately, right, they're trying to they're trying to use CrossFit as a as a additional supplemental tool. to get them better at their sport. But if I wreck them so hard they they can't perform, that's a problem. But that's why you also got to look at like season versus out of season. So when you're in season, you know, for example, if I'm working with a football team and they're in season, the training I'm going to provide is going to be a little bit different than when they're in offseason. Because in offseason, you're really thinking about their overall fitness. You want them to go into season being strong, being fast, being accurate. And then all of a sudden when they get into the season, you might downplay that a little bit. keep a keep it up a little bit but let them focus more on their sport in particular. Well, and the good news is that you know the work that you may be doing with like Zach for example is you know like let me know when you flip the tires too many times. You know what I mean? Like what we've seen is that traditionally athletes who have been coming to us their base fitness is actually pretty low and that we can get them much fitter and they can still have a a good life. I think one of my critiques of a lot of Olympic lifters and a lot of strength athletes is they don't like to do any conditioning because they're afraid it'll affect their lifts. And I'm like, what you mean? You don't you don't think you can push the sled or do some swings? And Diane's nodding her head because we see that there are a lot of athletes that, you know, could really raise their conditioning. Remember, we can we can make the CrossFit, you know, it it can just be accessory work. So, hey, I'm going to do some my primary lifts today. And then the CrossFit 2159 or whatever, you know, whatever rep scheme you're going to do can just be accessory work, conditioning to support the main lifts. And, you know, that's what's so amazing about this model is that it's so infinitely kind of variable, but it's got to always lead to that blackbox concept that I should see the, you know, the outputs, you know, match. So, I should be coming becoming a much better sprinter. And if I'm just blown out all the time because I'm doing crazy crazy volume, that's no good. And that and that's between you and your coach, you know? Yeah. So, just to give you a real world example for me, you know, like I uh because I do so much volume doing CrossFit, I found that when I was doing high volume, heavy squats, it was taking my power away from pretty much everything else I was doing the next day or two. Or even when I go to the track, if I go to the track and I and I run over a certain intensity for over a certain duration, I'm so wrecked for the next day or two that I can't get in the other training I need for my sport, which is CrossFit. And so I just dialed it back a little bit and now my overall performances are better. So it's just listening to your body, too, and knowing what's going on. That's true. And you know, also there's something that's vital that you're keeping in mind is how old are you? 16, 17? Um, I'm 16. 16. your training age is this long. And what it what we forget sometimes is because you're looking at sort of the athletes who are maybe 10 years ahead of you or even seven years ahead of you. You can't underestimate sort of the implication of training age is that you guys that what ends up happening is that you've got to just realize that it takes time to set. So, for example, my wife and I were running the stairs the other day, and there was this young football player kid who was a stud, but he's just 17. And Julia's like, "Man, watching the you and next to him, he's like, she's like, "You're 40. You've got all these years of training." And and keep in mind that there is no substitution for just time in the boat that you just need to lift and lift and lift and run and run and run and work on your positions and and over time it adds into freakish amounts. I don't think sometimes when you see someone like Jason compete or some of our other athletes, it's really difficult for you to imagine or conceive how long they've been training and how long they've been training that hard. You can't see all that. You just see the instantaneous piece. And at 17, I mean, I'm guessing you were not Olympic lifting and deadlifting and sprinting when you were 14. So, I mean, you're probably newish to this. And that means that you've only gotten training hard for like two or three years. And it's going to get better. Does that make sense? Yeah. I mean, I'll guarantee you if you could ask Jason, would you go back in time and switch places with you? He would be like, heck yeah, we weren't doing what you're doing when I was 17. There's no way. I mean, you you are the future of the sport, but you just you can't you can't imagine or keep in your head that there is a training age effect and there's no substitution for lifting and training for 10 years. You just can't get around that. Yep. What else you got? Um, another thing is like when I run, my foot strike is always like on my heel. Even when I'm sprinting, like I know when you're sprinting, your feet shouldn't be in contact with the ground too long. I don't know if I'm like bad at it or something, but I always heel strike. if I'm jogging or if I'm swimming, I'm still like feel striking all the same. Maybe that leads to some of my pain, but I don't know. Like I try to correct it. It's kind of hard. Well, you know, this is interesting that you we have uh two of the largest runners on the planet on the on the phone right now. You know, I would say unequivocally that Jason Khalipa was one of the worst runners I have ever seen, ever. And there was this You're welcome. There's this CrossFit games where we had to run a 7K. They, not we, they had to run a 7K up the hill and it almost killed Jason and uh he came back. I think you won like Spear of the Games and battled. It was amazing watching you battle back. And what I want you to understand is that Jason realized this wasn't about how hard he was working anymore. It was about technique and made a huge investment in the technique and working with as a track coach and a signific serious running coach and putting that emphasis on the technique is crucial. I think what's understanding in what you said first is, you know, if you've got these restricted tissues, it's not allowing you to to to kind of correctly apply the right technique. And what's happening is if you feel like you're heel striking, you're heel striking. Go take your shoes off and run on the track a little bit and tell me how you automatically correct. If you're short through that anterior hip, you the hip won't extend very far. That means you're going to overstride when that foot comes through. And you the only position you can overstride is heel striking. So I I think you've already kind of nailed it. Yeah. A couple things for that I that I use is obviously there's you know warm-up drills that remind you of your foot positioning. Uh couple things like you know there's just like some pose running techniques you can kind of watch and and use those prior to your your workout to kind of remind your yourself of where you need to strike. Um also the shoe you use. Um, I wouldn't recommend immediately going to like a Vibram or something like that. I'd recommend slowly integrating from a, you know, you right now, I don't know if you have a big cushion shoe. I'm not quite sure, but if you have a large heel on your shoe, it kind of um blunts your your ability to feel you yourself heel strike. And so, you do it more frequently. But if you have a little bit less of a heel on the shoe, you kind of become more aware. So, like for example, what Kelly was saying, one of the things that I do when I warm up is I'll go on the track. So on on turf, which I don't know if you have a turf track, but or even on the grass, and just run with just my socks on just as a little bit of a warm-up to remind myself where am I going? Where are my feet going to be? Now, I'm not recommending that for long durations, of course, because you kind of can put some strain on your legs if you haven't ran like that in a while. But just as a nice little warm-up tool, kind of reminds me, okay, be light on my feet. be, you know, like I kind of remind myself like if I was running in the dark and I was going like on the road, you you don't necessarily know what's in the roads. You kind of run light. You run you run kind of like you're going through the forest, you know, kind of light on your feet. All of a sudden, when you when you start running and you start getting tired, you just start slamming the floor and you need to continuously remind yourself to just touch, back up, touch, back up. And so those are drills that I like to think about is like I visualize myself, you know, if I'm running at night or if I was running in an area where there's a lot of rocks, how would I run? I'd run light. I wouldn't run pounding. And then also just warming up those tools. I I love that. And you know, one of the things that I my daughter Georgia made a commitment to try to run a 100 miles this year. She's nine and that's one mile at a time. And when she runs, because it's hard for her to run a mile without wanting to stop, right? And but I run barefoot and I know I have my tissues are strong enough but one I run them couple miles a week barefoot just because it really cleans up my technique. I realize man I I sort of slip into not perfect mechanics. My turnover like Jason is saying sometimes gets slow because I'm so strong. I can get away with it. But barefoot I am light and quick and uh you know I didn't start obviously running a mile barefoot but just spending any time I think you're going to really pick up on that you know and then if you go to CrossFit endurance there are so many good running drills out there if you go to pose and look at the kind of what Romanoff was done I think it's okay for you to be sophisticated about this and kind of monkey around on your own but you know the running technique is tricky and I'll tell you the sitting that you're doing is making your running much much much worse. Yeah. Yeah. Start start start in short distances, Liam. You know, make sure you're kind of, you know, I think a lot of people because they watch the CrossFit games and different stuff, they want to go out there and do so much crazy stuff. Instead, just remind yourself it's a simple charter. Make sure you do it right, then start adding a little bit more volume, and then finally adding a little bit more intensity. You know, it's like mechanics, consistency, intensity. It's like, can you do it right? Can you do it over and over again, right? and then and then start dosing yourself. But I think, you know, people in CrossFit, they they they forget that sometimes and they don't build that foundation. So, if you know that when you're running, you have this, you know, issue coming, no problem. Just fix it. Take a step back to take a step forward. I think that's the most beneficial thing that people could realize through CrossFit is sometimes you just got to stop yourself and be like, you know what, I got to go back to a barbell. I I this is not working for me. or maybe I need to go back to, you know, running a 100 meters with good technique and then go 150 and then go 200, etc. I completely agree with that. And, you know, one of the things is that we're seeing is that, you know, young athletes in the track program, you maybe do some running drills, but it's really the coach is standing there with a with a stopwatch and we're running everything by the stopwatch. And our experience has been, you know, watching traditional coaching is done. It's all driven by how fast you went and how many times you went. people are, you know, not necessarily looking at at the way we're doing things because we still got to we got to go compete and I got to get you fit enough to do it and I know you can do it wrongly and be fit, but just, you know, always be obsessed with technique. I mean, it's not an accident, you know, that we've seen Jason's evolution as a as a CrossFit athlete correspond with also his obsession with technique and understanding of position and and you know, the ability in all of the top athletes to continue to get better. I mean, if we look at Sam Briggs this year, Briggsy has just made a tremendous, tremendous commitment to improving her mechanics. And mechanics plus a big engine, you can't be beat. It really is shocking. Wait, you want anything else you want to talk about? Um, uh, like I my first question that I asked you guys was about like pain because like that's the thing that's most bothering me right now. And I mean, I rule out I I have like Jill Miller's yoga tuneup balls and I those. Who are you? You are You are not a 17-year-old girl. You're freaking me out. Wait, how? Like cuz I have all this stuff. Yes, cuz you're a badass. Oh, thanks. Well, I was saying like I mean I roll out and like I stretch and stuff, but this leg pain that I have like I'm not sure if it's just me. Maybe I'm not recovering. No, no, no, no, no. If if you feel like you've taken a crack at it and you're not it's not getting better and you notice it all the time when you're training then now it's time to go get some help. I suspect my feeling is I'm see probably seeing some overextension in your patterning and some sometimes you're and a lot of times we can see stiffness in the legs resulting from loss of lumbar control and as you are getting dragged into this forward kind of extension position from sitting from being short and then going being explosive that can cause some of those downstream symptoms. So you know if you're working on your quads it's not working upstream. If you're working on, you've got Jill Miller stuff in there, look at her gut smashing. Go get a princess ball from like Walgreens. Start doing some gut smashing. Look at our stuff that we do for the soaz and above the hip and see if you can't make a make a change yourself. And if you can't, go talk to a physical therapist. I mean, this is why, like, you know, there's no reason why just because you're young doesn't mean that you don't have the same sets of of of issues that some of our other athletes are doing. And if you've taken a crack at it yourself and really it's not getting any better, go get some help on this because if you feel like you're injuring yourself or you're not resolving it, time to go get professional help. I actually do go to um this chiropractor and he's um he has rock tape like I I only used that a few times. I didn't really feel like it helped. He also uses like grasping and stuff. And what he told me is like I should just stop training for a week or so and then see like how it goes. Like maybe I'm not letting my body recover or something. Well, what do you think? Is that true? Um I mean I can see what he means. I think it actually might be true, but you know like I I love to work out. So just the thought of like recovering for a week, not doing anything, like I don't know about that. I could attest to that. So Helena, you know, I probably like working out more than probably most people on this planet. And I don't I don't compete because I like to compete. I compete because it's an expression of my want to work out. I love it. But just like anything in life, sometimes your body just needs a break. And taking a week off is one of the hardest things I could possibly do. And I think in probably the last 10 years, I've probably taken the most rest days I've taken in a row ever was probably four without doing anything. And then I tried to do a few more with just like light work. But my body needed it like mentally and physically. I needed that. Um but but if it's not a week, you know, you don't have to put a number on it, but like sometimes for me, especially as I'm getting older and as I train more, I need to um you know, just listen listen to your body. Maybe you need to take a rest day where you just don't train like how like what are you doing right now? What's your training schedule look like? I go to Zach's gym about three or four days a week. And I mean the track season is going on right now, but I had a feeling like with all the volume the coaches make us do cuz they make us like go two miles or like four miles every day even for the sprinters. So like I felt my legs would be in pain. So even though I wanted to join the track season for winter, I I didn't. So now right now what I'm doing is just going to Zach's gym three or four times a week. Well, okay. I think you know there's a couple things want going on is one is that we don't see enough non exercise activity. One of the things I can't recommend enough is just more generalized movement through the course of the day and sometimes that means you know like we my wife and I walk our daughters to school. You know I you know Jason you you can't believe how much or just base a roadbook work Jason does like he's spending a lot of time rowing. He's just on the walk bike. He's going to the track. There's just a lot of I take most conference calls. Yeah. On my on my on my spin bike, I take most conference calls. That's right. And I I think what some of the problems that we're seeing and could be around you is that you're basically not moving all day long and then you're boom hitting it hard and then you're not moving again. So, you know, you know, I anytime your physician is like, "Hey, if you just feel like you're overtrained, you know, that doesn't mean you have to stop being active. You can walk. You can ride a bike easily. you know, there's nothing there's no law against a few air squats during the day. If you think it's an issue of that you just have overreached and you need to back off, I don't think that's the problem, though. I think training three or four days a week with Zach and Zach's programming is reasonable and responsible and he's so smart and conscientious about it. I suspect that there is a underlying pathology around stiffness or you've just you know you've gotten stiff you're you're missing full range of motion in your hip and or above that and you're overextending and there's a for me this sounds like it's mechanical it doesn't sound like a overtraining issue so you mean that like my mechanics could be better so when I'm moving it's causing me pain like how much of it is mechanical versus like soft tissue same same. You're just not you're just not looking at the uh not looking at this sort of this is a stiffness issue. So think think you've got to sort of address the soft tissue and the joint mechanics. You know, Jill Miller stuff is great, but it doesn't change anything about the way your hip works necessarily. You know, it addresses the soft tissue around it. So that's why we're using so much of the bands, why we spend so much time sort of addressing the capsules on that level. And I suspect honestly that this is this is mechanical. Helena, we I've got to jump off and go rescue my girls, but I wanted to thank you so much for spending time with us. We appreciate it. And Jason, thank you so much for uh for lending your help, man. You you're amazing. This is like the coolest hangout thing I've ever done. So, thanks for being it. Thank you both. All right. All right. Good luck, Elena. Enjoy your uh enjoy it. Enjoy what you're doing. We'll see you, Jason. Thank you so much, Elena. We'll see you soon. Okay. Okay. All right, brother. Take care. Bye, guys.