Hey, stack of 45 lb plates. That can only mean one thing. Here at the mobility wad, but of course it's the goddard space flight center with the largest centrifuge on the planet. Uh we can create uh we the royal we of course uh subzero temperatures under high spinning conditions. Sounds a lot like torque. You know, we're big fans of torque here. Here's what's on tap today at the mobility wad. You're going to do two things. One, we're going to end up with a game today. And the game is I want you to stretch your calf. each calf 10 minutes. You got to get one minute section. So, anytime you get a chance today, your goal is to put your foot up on something. Oh, like uh I don't know space centrifuge for example. So, what you're going to find is that during the course of your day, there's lots of opportunities to put your foot up on something and try to mobilize. What I want you to do is really pay attention. Lately, in my clinical practice and my athletes, I've seen lots of short ankles. What we're going to do, remember, is that as we mobilize that ankle, we can't let that ankle collapse into that pronated, collapsed kind of nasty position. We've got to actually rotate and then press the ankle. So, you're going to do this, make sure all day long, every chance you get, pop that foot up. Don't let that ankle collapse. Stay in a strong position. Drive that knee forward. We're going to really camp out on this position and this position. The goal is to try to get 10 one minute sessions. All right, 10 one minute sessions. See if you can't open up that thing. You only get full credit if you literally collected 20 minutes. Your calf, your feet connection to the ground. This causes so many knee problems and so many hip problems. These any foot problem, Achilles problem we're seeing, you've got to take care of that ankle range of motion first. Largest centrifuge in the world. Go create some torque. You're going to need all your joints and all your bits to create as much torque as possible. We'll see you tomorrow.