Hey, welcome back to Mobility Wad. We're in the van store and basically we're shopping for our kids shoes here and here's what's up. Remember we talked about some kind of type one errors that we make all the time and thinking about our bodies, thinking about the right equipment for them. So, Georgia, turn around. So, look, we've been evolving for 2 and a half million years and you're evolved to have your heel flat on the ground. Turn around face camera. So, for our kids, Georgia knows her feet need to be straight. She's got a nice little arch in here in this foot and that when we're when we're standing moving, we want to basically not systematically shorten that heel cord. Hang on a second. Now, take a look at this. If one of the reasons we're in this shop is that we're looking for flat shoes and that really shoes that don't have a lot of compression so that she gets good ground reaction force, but that I don't start to systematically shorten her heel cil. Now, George is about to finish the first grade and we just started to see her age cohort this year start to heel strike. So the first time about December is when we started noticing kids start to heel strike in our class. Kindergarten, no one heel strikes. First grade people start to heel strike, which is consistent with what we see in terms of devel development. Sitting kind of bad mechanics. So when you're choosing shoes for your kids, one of the things we want to do is say, hey, is this shoe flat? I'm not saying padding. We're looking for zero differential where we can start getting the kids heel and keep it on the ground so we don't start to shorten that heel cord. Because if we start to systematically shorten that heel cord now, it gets shorter and shorter and shorter. And then what we start to see is that we lose dorsif flexion. Kids have to solve this problem mechanically by turning the foot out. This is a real problem. The other thing that happens is when you start to jack that foot up, we start to tip the whole system forward. Knee bends. Kids have to start to overextend to compensate for that. So look, unfortunately, we're still rocking the shoes technology based on 1950s technology. These are George's old cons. These are uh Caroline's old fans. We're looking for a really soft forefoot. enough protection they can be kids, but that uh we can systematically keep their heels on the ground. Now, when Georgia is, you know, going to prom, wants to jack her shoes up and wear a cute heel, she understands that. But in the meantime, look how flexible it is. It needs to be soft and flexible and, uh, it needs to be flat. And so, uh, you know, when you're looking around, unfortunately, skates kids shoes are some of the best out there, but still heavy. Now, look for an adult shoe, every 500 g on the feet translates to 10 lbs on your back. So, one of the things we're always was after is what's the lightest, strongest shoe we can get away with? Because 500 g on the foot, 10 lbs on the back, that ain't no good, is it? So, uh, when you look at your kids, get your feet straight. Make sure that you're getting heels flat on the ground. And look, Bear's got flat shoes. Flat shoes. Flat shoes. Everyone's got flat shoes. Ability to walk. See you guys tomorrow. Women.