Hey, welcome back to MAD. We are doing a unusual hangout today. We are doing the first fireside hangout with fire with our Papa Bear chairs. Real fire. Real fire. We've got glasses of wine. This is this is this happening live. And uh really excited to introduce to the MAD community Rachel Balovic. And um you may have run into her uh jackness, her brainness um because about a year ago, a year and a half ago, there's some some uh some some energy got caught up in the interwebs on the TV about becoming the first ever woman strength and conditioning coach for Major League Baseball. Yes, that's right. So, that seems like uh the elephant in the room that we need to talk about first because first and foremost, you guys know I'm married to Juliet Starret, two-time world champion um attorney, CEO. She's badass. And all of the women in my life are amazing. Like each one of my daughters has their own private gold medal with their one of their aunties. And all the we have a lot of women in our gym who are badass. Um and so in my life, I have a lot of very powerful coach women with with strong voices. But when I go to a lot of these international coaching colloquial uh uh seminars and groups and and and meetings, there are very few women there. What is up with being the first? And I mean, does that does that even cuz on the one hand I'm like, this is amazing. My daughters can, you know, aspire to this and it's possible and you're a groundbreaker. On the other hand, I'm like, you're just a coach just like all the other women coaches I know. And yet it really is special. Okay. So, you asked me like 10 questions. I know. I know. Let's talk here. Here's the first. Um, did you think it would be an anomalous or such a big deal to become the first woman's recognition coach? Um, I mean, I knew it was a a big deal, I guess you could say, but I always I never questioned that it would happen. Like, I think that's the one thing that I that women or anyone anyone that is trying to achieve a goal, it's like people ask me all the time like, "Did you ever think that you would do this?" And I'm like, "Yes, every day I dreamed about it. But I I obsessed over it. I I was hustling all the time. I was thinking about non-stop. I was completely obsessed with doing it. Um and I knew that it was going to be a big deal just cuz I was the first. But that doesn't mean that there can't be more. And that and that definitely didn't mean that it wasn't going to happen. Like I I didn't even didn't even cross my mind that it wasn't going to happen for me. Especially since it feels like we have a little bit of a double standard because I seem to think in my head there are a lot of men who coach women's teams. Yeah. But it doesn't necessarily go the other way around. In fact, I can't think of a single woman head coach of a men's organization. Can you? Um head coach? No. Not that I not off the top of my head, but I I could be wrong. I mean, do you think um something has changed in the last, let's say, 10 years that just the the internet has democratized, women are are coming through serious strength conditioning programs now in earnest and you were at the sort of the end result of that? Yeah, I think that I think you could date it back to title nine with, you know, women's athletics becoming bigger and it even helped me. I mean, it really helped me with the players. People always think like, oh, do the players, they give you problems, they hit on you, like what's the big and and nobody ever hits on me. And the reason is because they usually go to a college typically they they get drafted out of college and they're around all these female athletes and they're around female coaches and they're around female strength coaches sometimes and female athletic trainers. So they're like, "Oh yeah, like you're just like you know, like you're different cuz you're the only one here, but I've seen a bunch of you before and oh, by the way, my sister played college softball or whatever it might be." Like they're kind of used to that. The older generation is what really I want I don't want to say kept me out of baseball for a while, but the older generation are the people who it made it a little tough with them cuz they grew up with no title N and no female athletes and it wasn't really a thing. and and when they were when they were playing back in the day, you know, they they never had women around. So, I think that it's a generational thing kind of and I'm definitely a product. The reason why I'm in strength and conditioning is because I was a college softball player and that completely shaped me being being a competitive athlete completely shaped me and I really took to the weight room and that's kind of how I got into strength and conditioning in the first place. So, I'm definitely a product of of that, you know, coming about with with FEMA athletics. Do you think you could be just a strength and conditioning coach and not have been an athlete and understand that other side? Because it really I mean being a product of the system really does give you deep insight to the the demands of professional athletics and and we'll call college sports professional athletics very much so. Right. Cuz but those people have two jobs and they'll get paid but being being a product of that system. Does that really give you, you know, a different insight? And is that would that be an important role or is that the only way you think people can come through? It's not the only way because there's plenty. I think um I don't want to say this cuz never say never, but um being an athlete in college definitely as a woman kind of gave me that like, oh, she was a catcher in college, like she gets it kind of thing. And um it gave me a leg up on some of the competition. There's plenty of male strength coaches out there that weren't college athletes. Uh, I think it takes a special breed of person just like an I hate to say but an aggressive person, someone who can be dominant, who can be an authoritative presence. Like that definitely is something that I got from college athletics and from being a catcher and having to lead a team and all that stuff. Like that for sure helped me. And then also like let's be honest, a little street cred like I can actually throw a ball and catch a ball. And you mean you're athletic like a human being? Uh, yeah. Right. You throw you throw like a girl as in aka you can whip it, right? Yeah. Right. Like I can, you know, if I pick up a ball in the outfield, I can I can haul it in and you know, whether like a human, it's an Yeah, it's it's an it's intangible, but the guys notice and they're like, "Huh, like, okay, she can, you know, she can hang kind of thing." We have a member of our staff, uh, Major Da Toro. She's a in the reserve as a marine, but one of the things that happened, she was a senior instructor at, uh, the Marines, uh, like their top gun school. and and a lot of the marine culture, clearly there not that many women in the marine culture, but she was soon as she start cranking out pull-ups and strict pull-ups, they were like, "Oh, it's all in." Like, it's okay. It's like check the box. Yeah. Like I think that the first first couple of days it's kind of like, "Okay, like who is this girl and what's she doing here?" And then they see me, you know, like you said, they might see me lifting after the day is done or whatever, and they're like, "Oh, like, all right, whatever." Oh, she deadlifts like everyone else. I'm used to um being the weak person on the platform because of some of the women at our gym. Thank you, Chris Newman. Um also, I've had the the pleasure of out going out and working at Louis lifting at Louis Simmons gym and being on the platform with Laura Phelps and having like my all-time lifetime PR squatting and then have Laura come in and triple it as she goes up. So, I mean, I understand. I'm like, "Oh, right. I'm just the fat slow guy." Um you were lifting on the women's platform. I was lifting on the women's platform. Thanks, Jay. you all the met. I was the only man on the women's club, just being really clear. And I don't even belong there. I didn't belong there. Um, you know, we're seeing uh that the positions in the military have opened up to women in all combat positions, which of course is a double standard already because you're not the first strength coach out of college, right? There are women strength conditioning coaches and we have a member of our staff who uh Taylor Curado who is who's a a strength coach at San Jose State, but we're seeing now that women in the military in all these combat positions um a lot of women who've been there have not gotten credit for it, but now and they can be in all the tier one units, right? And and there has been a conversation about, you know, hey, people are a lot of the athletes or a lot of the tactical athletes and senior ups I know are really comfortable with it as long as they're saying, hey, we don't change the standards and we shouldn't change the standards because there's no reason why. I mean, I know you can do pull-ups. I know you can deadlift and squat, you know, and more importantly what we're finding is that and and I can say this being married to Juliet and knowing a lot of strong women that having a a woman's voice and a woman's brain, all the research and data shows that that has a more functional organizational outcome. Like having women as part of the dialogue of problem solving actually makes you more money. It actually makes you a more successful business. and you absorb a lot of the silliness because we have this novelty, right? It's just new. Yeah. But on the other hand, you can repres you can shuck a whole lot of BS off because you're coming from a different side. Do you find that you're able to have a different relationship because you're not the dude, you know, coach who's been shouting at them their whole lives? Yeah, I think the ego thing goes out the window. I mean, sometimes there's just no there's just no headbutting. There's no there's no like, oh, I have to show how much I can lift here. I they they they want to listen to how to do it correctly. They're more open to just like taking some of the weight down and doing it right and like listening to technique, just listening to me in general because they know it's not a territorial thing. Like, I'm not I'm not competing with them. I'm literally just trying to help them. And that's that's it. There's no hidden agenda of me trying to to puff up my chest and compete with them as a man, you know, because I just don't and I can't. Well, and you're stronger than they all are. I mean, and there's there's no contest. There is that. We see that a lot. That's um um when you know, if if we're talking about baseball Mhm. It's ironic because I'm trying to think maybe there's one woman strength conditioning coach in football, right? Um she No, there's not. Uh there's a woman or there was a woman coach for the Arizona Cardinals. I don't know if she's still there or not. That's the thing. But you in in the host of professional sports and thing I know a lot of women women who are physios, right, and ATC's and in those support roles, you know, do because the the strength conditioning has really found its voice in professional sports. It's beginning people are beginning to really understand that it's not even strength conditioning. We shouldn't call that. It's human performance, right? But now you're with an organization, the Astros, that is very progressive. Yes. Right. Who and I have to say that just knowing them tangentially and having a few interactions with them, very progressive, very open. And I feel like you being part of the organization is not even like it's like of course of course you would end up in this place. Yeah. Really, it is like that. Changing gears for a second because the role of it's it's an it's you're you're an anomaly in the world of strength and conditioning in professional sports. But we're seeing that and my experience is that baseball is in the dark ages typically around you know because there's this inherited experience right you can speak to that but you know what is up with baseball and is baseball changing and evolving? Yes. Yeah. I'm like so positive about um professional baseball and the way that it's headed. I I just can't wait to get kind of dig my hands in with the Astros. They're definitely moving things along and and really like pushing the envelope in baseball at least. Um I think it's I think baseball is headed in the right direction. I I've been a part of baseball for only four years and I can say that I've already seen some change. Um the whole old school thing again is just it's the older generation being filtered out and there's literally still men in the profession that like smoke cigarettes in the dugout and like had a beer in between innings and well maybe that still happens every once in a while but but most of those guys are getting getting out of the coaching roles at least and more into the administration. And we're seeing younger coaches who went through a legitimate strength conditioning program in college and they understand that it's important to be strong and mobile and really to take care of your body in every way, nutrition, um even being mindful and breathing and and all of those things like there's more of a knowledge base at the coaching level and so there's more buyin from the coaches which makes a huge difference. I mean with any strength and conditioning coach you need the coaches buy in to get the players buy in all that. So I think it's really just it's a generational thing. And then also Major League Baseball changing the standards for strength and conditioning coaches. Major League Baseball has put an actual standard on the coaches to say you have to be certified, you have to have a degree, all those things have to be in place in order for you to work with our athletes. And so instead of kind of getting, you know, the the bodybuilders or the just kind of the the um I don't want I don't want to offend anyone, but just the random personal trainers that are like, "Oh yeah, yeah, the oh yeah, I'll just work with the professional athletes. Sure." and then they just sign up or you know and even the steroid era is kind of what pushed it along too is that there were random personal trainers and there's a bunch of steroids around Major League Baseball was like wait a second like who are you working with how are they how are they allowed to work with you what are their credentials and so there's a lot more standards there's some generational things that are going on but I'm extremely positive about where it's headed and I mean otherwise I wouldn't be here like I I definitely um I was with the Cardinals before the Astros and I didn't have the greatest experience with them but I'm not deterred at All I think that it's just, you know, and if you don't know, we we have talked about this on sports coach radio, um, Glenn, but being a professional strength conditioning coach is in in a professional team like Major League, NFL, it's really a hard job and a lot I mean, it's it's sexy, but it's very very demanding. the time. All the head strength conditioning coaches I know are Zen masters and the the the difficulty of balancing getting some actual work done, the the limited time you actually have with players, the number of fires you're putting out, the number of egos you're stroking, everyone's got a guy, it's just a lot going on there. um you know it it the the job is difficult enough and I guess one of the things I want to ask you is you know and my understanding of your role is working with player development because my experiences I'm like hey there's a generation of athletes who when they get old enough and sophisticated enough they want to come talk to us and really hey I want to stay here a long time this what I'm doing isn't working anymore but what we're finding is that the younger athletes are really the more sort of fertile fields like you can make massive change and completely change a culture we talked about this last time we were hanging out you Can you talk about that a little bit because I know that's where you are and you say that really excites you. Yeah, so I my role with the Astros is the Latin American strength and conditioning coordinator and so that basically means that out of the eight minor league teams that are underneath each major league team, I'm dealing with the bottom three or four teams right now. And it's it's largely Latin American players. And I just love love love working with those kids. They are they're so young and impressionable. We get them when they're 15, 16 years old. And they they might have an eighth grade education, but their eighth grade education in the Dominican is like our fourth grade education. And so, not only you're trying to teach them baseball, but you're also trying to teach them life. You know, you're trying to teach them how to be a young man and how to be mature and how to take care of their teammates and really just how to to function in everyday life and how to be successful on and off the field. And so, I'm like I mean, I just that's my favorite part of the job in general is to work with those young young players. Not that working with major league players isn't fun in its own right, but there's just not a lot of like mental coaching that goes on. And so working with those young young guys, really developing a culture for them and keeping them accountable is just that's basically my job with the Astros. And it's it's definitely something that is in a huge huge deficit I think anyway in baseball is that we we constantly have problems with these younger players and no one wants to do it. And I can't wait to get my hands on it. that really I mean when I have worked in professional other professional teams you know it's really fun to work with the criminal crowd cuz just brilliant athletes are brilliant athletes but it's also really fun to try to capture people earlier and what we've realized is but we need to start in college and we need to start giving strength conditioning coaches and and college coaches oh and then it's about high school and then you're like well by the time it's high school it's really late it's middle yeah no right middle school right and then you're like oh boy you're in middle school and and you're already you are restricted and are heel striking and you know you have all these problems. So where you know you are catching I think in the professional sport and I like where you are kind of catching kids as they're coming up cuz it's really hard to build durable athletes when you're undoing uh an ethos and decade of hey let's get stronger let's move in spite of it let's suck it up and it's it's hard to reinvent the wheel I can't even yeah I'm like explo like I just want to I have so many things I want to say but I will say that I think that that's one of the very unique things about professional baseball is that you're dealing professional athletes at at my level at the um lower levels. You're dealing with professional athletes. They're getting paid to play and some of them are getting paid a lot of money to play actually, but they're 15 and 16 years old. So, you have these like blank canvases physically and mentally speaking that really haven't had much organized physical training. They've just been playing baseball literally their whole life. Some of them are already messed up, but a lot of them actually we're seeing are like hyper mobile and and are blank canvases truly. Some of them are already, you know, kind of too far gone. But so I just got off the phone today with our major league athletic trainer. Uh and we're we're going to try to start implementing things that are a little bit more organic, things that are more based in just regular plain old movement with those kids and actually like putting monkey bars in the Dominican, having them crawl around in sand, having them have pre uh free play instead of being afraid that no, they can't play kickball or whatever. The development of the athlete. How do we developed athlete, not a unilateral hitter, a unilateral thrower? We've we've g to have we know we have run those experiments especially in the unilateral load. It causes problems in the long haul, right? It and it's hard to undo that and by the time someone gets to their, you know, end of their career, they're very conscious. They know it works. But if you could set the clock back and especially now we're talking to, you know, a lot of women. Let's let's let's put that since you've seen you have been an athlete yourself and come through a program and you're at the top looking backwards. What would you say about athletic development for kids playing baseball? That's crucial. I I think I mean this is starting to be talked about a lot more, but uh stop playing baseball. Like that's my that's my answer is I think that sports specific has become so bastardized and it's like sport specific has okay like baseball terrible too. I have a pitching coach who's for my nine-year-old. I have a right extra hitting coach. It's like so much rotation. So much rot. Oh, and then because it's a rotational sport, let's go in the weight room and throw med balls and rotate and rotate and rotate and then we wonder why we have oblique injuries. We wonder why we have all these messed up issues. Um, I think anymore kind of sport specific training should be geared on like getting away from what they do in their sport and stop. We don't have our guys rotate a lot in season because they're already rotating a million times and they're having maximal contractions with that rotation. So, why are we going to go throw a medball against the wall like that? And so from my own career, I can say that I actually just was putting together a presentation about this today is that I saw I'm like looking back and when I was young, I had all this mobility. I had very little pain. I have zero strength obviously and I was doing no sport specific training. I was just playing sports, running around like a kid. High school came around, I got a little more sports specific. I had more pain, less mobility, you know, and then by the time I got to college, it was all sports specific training. And I remember training was just totally geared towards softball and it was great. and I was super strong and I had tons of pain and zero mobility. And so now I'm like, okay, so now I'm the adult athlete and I play beach volleyball regularly. And I'm like, okay, how do I not mess this up? So I'm getting away from the rotation. I'm getting away from a bunch of shoulder extra shoulder work when I don't need it. Like I'm basically, like you just said, setting the clock back 10 years and coming out of that sport specific mentality and just getting more into just basic overall athletic movement, moving like a human being. So be be more granular cuz I we have a lot of girls in our neighborhood. I mean I have two daughters. A lot of their kids I mean they're playing two sports. They're you know their parents may or may not be living through there vicariously. Um like what but be be more granular. Are there concrete things like you know we run a little school we call it squat club and once or twice a week we squat here just like we just we just squat. Like what other things would you if you could go back and create a master program for kids what would it be? uh moving moving through a full range of motion number one. Uh when I started lifting or doing any sort of activity, I was not doing that and then inherently you lose your full range of motion. So So you're like Olympic lifting gives us full range of motion. I am an avid Olympic lifter. I just am. I Yeah, I'm I'm I think Olympic lifting is quite possibly one of the best ways to train athletes. Not because you have to be an Olympic lifter, but because if you can do an overhead squat and you can do it under load and it looks good, well then you're probably pretty mobile. You're probably pretty strong. You're probably pretty stable in your shoulders. You're probably pretty stable in your core most likely. And it's okay to play that as a long game. Hey, we can develop this. We can muscle snatch long before you can be overhead squatting or or full snatching or even power snatch. Just the simply the movements, an overhead squat movement. If somebody can perform that, then it's typically I mean that's why it's part of all of the movement screens. Typically they're you're a good mover if you can perform a good overhead squat typically. Um Dan John says along he's like you know he was a thrower in college and works with a lot of throwers and he just said hey look people ask him what would you do different I would just overhead squat simple like shoulders are stable I would just make the trunk more integrated you know position in space very simple and and I I really feel like we can simplify that kids aren't getting any of that diet now right we're we're not we're sedentary you know kids aren't aren't moving they're not having this movement richness that we used to get in just the variety of sports would there be specific things Do kids need an aerobic sport? You know, kids need to run around and be in free play mode as much as possible. Aerobics, I aerobic, anorobic. I don't know if I have a preference. I guess aerobic simply because they would be moving more and that would be great. Like games like soccer and they're moving around more instead of just Yeah. instead of just playing first base for their softball team. Even though I have a softball player, but I mean, you know, being in sports where they're just going to be active and again moving through full range of motion. if you're playing first base for your softball team just cuz like you're the tall girl. I mean that really sets you up for not moving a whole lot. So I guess you could say aerobic sports, but I would just say sports again that you are you're running around, you're getting to full speed, you're getting to that full range of motion where you're going through a cyclical motion with your legs, things that are actually creating creating habits of like I said again, I can't say it enough, moving through a full range of motion. I don't think that there's any lack when you get to a high level of sport. I don't think there's any lack in collegiate athletics of let's get them strong. But I do think we're really good at that. We can take any kid off the street and literally we're going to front squat and back squat and deadlift or power clean. That's easy. We got you. The biggest thing I don't see college athletes come to our world in professional athletics and be like, "Wow, I'm just not strong enough. Woo." But I do see them all come in going, "Oh my god, my hamstrings are tight. Oh my god, my hips are tight. Oh my god, my shoulders tight." You hear tight, tight, tight. You never You never hear, "Gosh, I'm just I just am not strong enough." Like that's not something that I hear on a regular basis. I think the thing that we that we're lacking the most in strength and conditioning at the at the high school level and even like we talked about middle school level is just being able to to move freely just like you're just like you guys are starting or you started with the standup desks because you saw your daughter at what age getting messed up and you're like like I got to fix this before it gets too bad. True fact. And it has nothing to do with anything but the way that we're moving. three programs that I can think off the top of my head. Uh I have worked with the strength conditioning coaches and staffs of Stanford and Notre Dame and had pretty good years this year, right? Football. And then one of our other friends, S Thompson, has worked with Clemson. And there's a big cultural change at the university level saying, "Hey, look, we're going to have to graduate kids and they have to come out unharmed. You know, we can't just grind kids down." And it turns out when we improve their athleticism through these other skills and training, not just get stronger and, you know, and be be a piece of meat on a bike, that we end up getting more out of that. Do you um do you see that we're getting we're getting the the the flags um when I if this is a tide change happening, do you think we have a chance in this generation of getting more out of our athletes? Because the one thing is I I I mean it's a moral responsibility not just to kill people and put tortoidol in them and you know and crush them and baseball's really interesting because the travel is murder like any other thing. Yeah. And the the the pitchers we work with are just like they're heroes. All these guys I mean like it's unbelievable. But I feel like we still haven't scrapped or gotten out of our athletes as much as we can because this idea of human performance of taking of monitoring sleep and nutrition and like it's all starting to be part of this conversation. Yeah. I think I think technology has changed a lot too because I mean I made the mistake in college as an athlete. I was lifting I was power cleaning a ton of weight but it was so slow and like murderous and I wasn't even probably getting at the training effect. Like what training effect are you really trying to get out of it? Are you trying to get out speed and explosiveness? Well, then you can't lift as much weight. And that's something like technology. So like things like bar speed, things like readiness that we're talking about now are completely changing that because if you're not ready to lift, then you're not going to get out of it what you want anyway. But now we have those resources to say like, oh actually maybe you should lift tomorrow or maybe you shouldn't do this type of lift. You should do this type of lift instead because we have those technologies available to us. Um, I mean, I think that is a huge shift and yes, you definitely can get more out of your athlete if you're doing it right and not just like we were just talking about squat, squat, squat all day long. Squats cure cancer and just keep going and if it hurts, just keep going. You're you're weak and that's why it hurts. Keep going. It's fine. I mean, I heard that all the time. Oh, it's probably because you have a weak low back. So, that's why it hurts. Keep going. Up and away. That's right. Let's make it Let's make it stronger. Yeah. Let me ask you this kind of a couple ideas. Finish. One is women are still turning their ACLs at six to eight times the rate of men and at the collegiate level and uh and overall we're seeing that it's it's up from four to six now it's 6 to8 that's from John's Hopkins what is up what why have why is doesn't shouldn't we be solving this problem and and as the woman right what what are you seeing and what are you doing because it's not it I think we're seeing the same patterns in men but women's anatomy exposes them to injury sooner than men they just fall off the cliff one beat for earlier than men do, even though the same is saying. What What is going on that we need to do that? How do we fix that? Um, first of all, I'm a woman, but I work with all men all the time. And so, I like I feel very out of touch with that in the first place. Second of all, yes, their anatomy exposes it sooner. And the the way that their development happens obviously exposes that sooner, but I think that also part of that is you're seeing a ton you're seeing more women who are in athletics and pushing harder than you ever have before. And so, I don't know. I can't I can't intelligently speak on that too much, but I don't know if it's really like that issue or if it's just that more girls are getting into it and they're getting hurt and they're doing different things and they're they're women's athletics is exploding exploding and we're seeing the same. It's dragging. It's catching up and it'll it'll attenuate. You think? I I think that's the same thing that we're seeing. We're seeing more Tommy Johns or UCL tears at at like a adolescent age or like 14year-old age. And it's the same thing. Like I'm not sure if it's really just oh that all of a sudden we're doing something and we're seeing more UCL tears when when guys are 14 or if it's just actually they're talking about curve balls earlier and they're talking they're pushing harder to throw more pitches and all these things. I'm not sure if it's environmental or if it's literally something that we're doing in training. Um but as far as the ACL goes with the the females, I would imagine that it's simply their anatomy. But we every coach I know has a specialty or a way of thinking or something that they just are obsessed with. What are you obsessed with around the human performance? Things that you come in and change right away. Movement. That sounds that sounds so I mean I'm talking to you so it sounds normal. Movement. Um I'm the person that walks in and tears down the weight and like it's never good enough. I think that that's paramount. It was paramount to my own. Let me This is important. I love that you said that because last idea is that there's a lot of women who coach and I actually they ask me in a lot of our courses they're like, "Hey, when I see someone moving terribly and I'm a woman, I go up and stop them or as a coach, I have a hard time, you know, getting the respect or the the the the male athlete. Is that a problem for you? And what advice would you have for women who are who are saying, "Hey, like, hey, dude, your knee your ankles are collapsed, your knee's going in, your back's off. What's going on?" Um, I don't I actually don't get a lot of that. I don't get a lot of like um negative feedback from that. But I think some of it too is like, "Hey, it's it's pretty simple. If I know a guy well enough, I'm like, "Okay, like you can squat whatever you can 405 or whatever. You can squat for for five, but can you do a pistol squat?" And he falls on his ass. It's like it's pretty simple. You know, there's there's things like I why can I do a pistol squat and you can't? Like there's certain things that you expose them quick and they're willing to listen. Love it. Love it. Movement. Uh, we're getting we're getting the Juliet saying, "Hey, stop talking. We're almost out of wine." Um, where can where can we find you on the internet? You can easily find me um you can find me at damselinthedout.com and my email is Racheldamselinthedout.com. Oh, I don't know if we should have given the email. That's good though. We'll just have to edit that out. That's fantastic. All the fanboys out there like, "Hey, I have I have a UCL injury." It's fantastic. Um, dude, thanks so much. I you we're you know it's difficult to be a pathfinder. It's difficult to be the first one even though it feels totally normal and kudos to those organizations that see that it's you're like you're either good or you're not good. You should be agnostic about the sex and and um you should never be agnostic about sex, right? Um, but the idea here is that um, you know, what you're doing really I I'm I'm so tickled to have been able to chat you up and uh, and be able to point my my daughters in the direction of uh, the future. Cheers, dude. Rachel BC, guys. Thanks so much. We'll we'll see you tomorrow.