Chris Duffin here. I am here with Kelly Sarah. Can you believe this? The two of us together, mobility, stability, and uh we've got some good discussion. I think that's going to happen today. Yeah. Uh you know, Chris and I have been touching base. I We've been touching each other tangentially for months now. Yes. And finally, the power of the Mark Bell brought us together. And you know, we are West Coasters, which I appreciate, right? Oh, yeah. which is obviously the origination of all good thinking. West Coast. But no, seriously, um, this conversation is right time. We're going to get to this. Hang tough. But, uh, I think the the heart of the soul of this conversation is what is the new role? What is the role of the strength conditioning coach and what should we expect that person to be able to do, right? That's that's we talk about. It is. And it's it's something that's shifting and changing because I mean we look at you know how athletes are operating today. And there's one we've got a lot of issues that should we need to know when we take somebody to the next level of care. When do I send them to see when do I send them to see the back specialist? But at the same time there's a lot of things that we should be assessing and putting fixes in place on a regular physician so that they never get to the position where they need that care. Right. Yeah. Totally. is it's not skilled care. That if you show up and your kneecap is hurts when you squat and your quads are stiff and you're missing terminal knee extension, your calves are tight, that is not a skilled care issue, right? That should be dealt with by this recognition coaching by you as an athlete, right? You need to care that especially if you're sophisticated enough, you know, conjugate cube, 5x5, paleo, back carb loading, right? Like you should be able to take care of your tissues. Yeah. I mean, it's not that complicated. Well, let's get into it first. So, cuz there's a clear line there. You say, and we were talking to them, you said, "Hey, there's a there's a point where some I recognize I think someone's got something serious going on." Yep. How do you know when that point is? Cuz this is I think one of the big issues is that people don't have a template or a schema to even begin to understand when am I injured? Like, so we don't we haven't even defined injury. In fact, most physios, chairos, athletes can't define injury. We can scale injury once we're injured. That's great one tear, grade two tear, great, right? But we don't even have a clear line when someone's injured. So, when are you talking about injury? I mean, it's you've got to have a platform. Like, you've got to know here's the tools I have to apply, work through them, and if you reach a dead end, you know, don't be don't be playing guesswork. So, I mean, one of the first things I always go to is we've got to we've got to watch the athlete lift to begin with, right? Wo wo. Okay. You're saying that like that's some context that that's important. Okay. So, because that's a big deal. So, you're you're we've got to we've got to understand what we're seeing. And I think we're getting that. You're saying that in the last couple years especially, people come way more sophisticated understanding what they're saying. It's not just put more weight on the bar and and pray. Absolutely. So, one, you know, do we have a do we have a movement issue in general? Two, are they able to get in the proper position? Do we have some mobility issues and some other things that oh, here's some principles? I can go uh go on the uh you know, you're on site and go, hey, here's some mobility issues. we can improve the mobility of this, you know, shoulder and get them in position where now they're not uh now not hurting there. Let me ask this because one of the things that in the professional sports medicine world there's very little connection consilience between understand that poor positioning causes pain and and for me that's that's my moment that that that we and I don't know if it's because a lot of the movement professionals a lot of rehab specialists aren't actually working and watching people move consistently but you know you can't take the human body out of context of its movement, especially out of a strength conditioning practice, and say, "Well, then, hey, you turned your your foot out, your knee slammed in, and that's why that may be, you know, I don't know why your knee hurts, but you know, it's weird that you turn your foot out, your knee sl you you can't you can't do anything unless you start with how they're moving people." I mean, that that's that's it's a basic concept. Um, I mean that and that's for me and that's one of the things that I'm really passionate about is helping our street coaches know how to see deviant movement patterns, what's going on and go, "Oh, we've got an cuz if you just take it from a, you know, sitting down, you know, in the office and looking at what the problem is." I mean, you've got to you've got to, you know, assess the whole body to understand, you know, and start getting piecing together the pieces to figure out why is that knee causing an issue versus, oh, it looks like we're, you know, we're caving in here or I can't get the shoulder in position. That's why my tricep hurts. Instead of just sitting here and treating, we've got tricep problems. Let's treat, we were just talking about this with Marbel, you know, tricep, tricep, we got to fix this. And really we've got lack of internal rotation, you know, which a lot of it he's got that lat just kind of tacked down really tight on there. That's, you know, is, you know, impacting his, uh, you know, scapular mobility and be able to get in position. Okay. So, things we're talking about that you're just kind of throwing out there. This is what our mission together with all the other badass coaches is we're going to try to really in the next 5 years make it so these things are so clear to see in the strength conditioning world. Everyone needs to be able to identify them. We're I think we're getting better at making it clearer, right? But what I really appreciate about, you know, when I watch you treat like I watched you treat Stan even just seeing you think about Drake might be the wrong I watched you address Stan's movement restrictions, right? That may have been causing him to not bench 500, right? Um and I think that's important. You know, semantically, we're going to have to address we're going to have to figure out what is the language then of this. This is strength and conditioning, right? which means that it's also I'm responsible for position mechanics. We are getting better at making it a clear one to one, but I can see you work with an athlete and I know exactly what you want and I and none of it doesn't it doesn't feel voodoo like it doesn't feel like gimmicky like it's straight up restoring mechanics. You know what I mean? And I think that's where in this performance side, it's crucial because you're always considering pain is the problem. But really, it's about we can't do the things we need to do. And what I have always seen in working with a lot of really good athletes is that when they're moving well, nothing hurts. In fact, they can work even harder and still nothing hurts. It's like an inoculation against dysfunction. Absolutely. I mean that's that's primary one is and we talked about this a little bit earlier. I mean I don't want them I you know I've got I've got my uh subscription website for that covers a lot of corrective issues. They have a lot of things on coaching movement. You've got a lot of great content on mobility work. In the end if we move correctly to begin with we rarely ever meet. I want them to do the least amount of your stuff and my stuff as possible. Totally. Let's go into the gym, spend five minutes warming up, and let's start training because training correctly is going to that's that is your that is your that your prep rehab. Couldn't agree more, right? And what we see is in places like the NFL, athletes get 8 to 10 minutes to warm up. And what the problem is, we're using our warm-up as a time to try to correct our inefficiencies. Don't have full intern rotation. Can't put my arms over my head. can't even get to the bar without sacrificing my my my T-spine, right? So, no wonder you have to round your back be full because you actually can't get to the bar without rounding your back be, right? And so, which then drives our disc issue and now we now we lose the athlete for totally fine, but it's normal. So, but the the key here is saying that once you're in your positions, mechanics improve, it takes very little to maintain that. Yes, you just have to do a little stiffness once in a while. I don't think humans were ever designed to deadlift as much volume as they're deadlifting. We're we're striving you can, but in the real world, you know, you're probably not walking with the mass on your back handle, which means it only takes a little input. It doesn't take massive amounts. Exactly. In fact, let me ask you this cuz I want to come back to the injury mind, but how much time do you spend a day working on your tissues and your positions? I don't want I never want to have somebody doing more than 10 minutes worth of work before a workout. Do you hear that? 10 minutes. Like that's it. Dose response. What we want you to do is spend time training, getting into positions, doing skill assessment work or skill assistance or positional work. I I think this is some an area where people also misinterpret like the content that you put out, I put out the other stuff and they want to do like 45 minutes worth of prep. Stop it. Exactly. Stop it. If you're doing that much, there's some basic fundamental issues with probably moving correctly to begin with. You probably don't know how to squat. and you need to fix it. And we we appreciate that, you know, you you know, so people are ending up down a hallway on fire, right? And they're like and they've been moving so poorly for a long time. And I think one of the mistakes is that we realize that people are having to really dig themselves out. And and it's much easier. What I can tell you is that the athletes that move the best spend the least amount of time. You know, maybe like the Chinese lifters are a great example. They move really well and they do a little smashing on each other. you're walking each other right a lot just to restore slide surface so that volume can go up but otherwise doesn't take tons and tons and tons of prep. I do think that when I see highly inflamed powerliffters, right, we like crap know who you are, right? 14 14 things we talk about, right? And uh I can't write a 13. So it's all about dose response and poor warm up, poor cool down, no aerobic work, right? Super stiff. And just put 1,000 lbs on your back, you're going to get stiff, right? So but but we should be able to program for that and it shouldn't take more than 10 minutes of of monkeying around it. Absolutely. Okay. So, back to injury because this is an important concept because one of the things that let's just call it for-profit medicine or or sports medicine world is concerned about is that strength and conditioning coaches are handling injuries and trying to treat injuries. So, let's define that. For me, an injury is I can no longer perform my movement or occupy my role in society or do my job on the team. So, I can't squat, right? I if I can squat, I have knee pain. I'm not saying you're injured. I'm saying you have a an incident that we need to take seriously, but that's still not an injury, right? Because I know how many athletes are working in pain and around pain. A lot. Yep. And a lot never actually let anybody know about it because they're worried that they're going to be the traditional response. Well, let's not train and let's do some of these remedial movements for the next month and then we can get you back to it. And they want to avoid that with all cops. But and they've had an experience where they spent their whole lives strength conditioning, being very serious about it, being very sophisticated about it. Then something happens, get injured or or whatever. Then they end up in this this rehab hole in a completely foreign language of not hard work, of non-assistance, of of and that doesn't even correlate well, right? I'm laying on the table. You know, there was a meme that showed up on my physical therapy feed. It was like a P private PT practice and it was a person laying on a table like stick figure and then the other stick figure was moving their knee around and I was like what is that? That's not physical therapy. That's like moving someone's knee around. I mean and I think that's the the one mistake is when we're seeing that the language of strength conditioning does isn't congruent currently or the language rehab isn't congruent with that. And so athletes are hiding their problems or waiting till they're very severe because we haven't empowered coaches. we have empowered athletes to take care of. Yeah. Yeah. And we see that a lot. I mean, just uh I was telling you about uh you know, recently at the college strength and conditioning conference had a bunch of coaches come up and they're like, "That's a great product, but you know, I can't I can't I can't touch that. I'll get in trouble." You know, it's and like it what's different about that than grabbing a foam roller and having the athlete lay on it? Just another way of addressing some very simple things. If we've got some restrictions, we can deal with it. We move forward. But, you know, if we suspect we've got a, you know, an AC joint issue or a torn rotator cuff, you know, you're not going to play around with that and you can't you can't fix it. Exactly. Right. And one of the ways that I think we'll both agree that, you know, is that you've taken things off the table, you know, you've gotten in to the thoracic spine, you've gotten into the latinus rais, you've cleaned up the things that you know you can clean up and it didn't improve the problem, right? And that's something we want people to know is that working on your own body and addressing your own issues and being able to identify what's normal and not normal is part of the strength conditioning practice. And when you clear those things up and it still hasn't, then you need help. Exactly. Just like Mark, you know, he's got he's got some issues, right? Like, well, we've got his lats are tacked down. Let's let's spend a little time loosen those up. Boom. We can alleviate a lot of things that could end up leading to a surgery because he tore his tricep down the road, right? by he's not terrorist benching 600 all the time missing 100% of this inter rotation mark and this is twice now that two of your good friends have pointed out you're missing inter rotation as the problem and this is this is I I want to say is this isn't a coach's fault and I say Mark's fault everyone's a product of a system and they come through but now we need to put a a flag in the in the sand and say this is when it changes and this is what we expect you to be able to identify and see because you If you can see the same problem, it's it's just screaming at you. I see the same problem and screaming and Mark hasn't seen it, which means that we haven't done a good job, a good enough job explaining to Mark, right? Or or or Mark's training partners to say, "What the hell, Mark?" Actually, his training partners in the room while we were going through it yesterday and said, "Here's what we're seeing. Here's what I would here's here's how we'd approach something." Yeah. And that's because that's right. They need to hold them accountable, too. And they're they're the so if you go to almost any Eastern block training, athletes are touching other athletes, you know, like you know, we're afraid you put our hands on like athletes like, "Hey, I'm grizzly there, you know, or it's not working right." And like someone just grabs you and moves you around. It doesn't even have to be like the most skilled. We have more pictures that are sent to us from the Chinese training hall of athletes walking on each other smashing like there's the gold medalist smashing the other gold medalist you know and it's and it's normal because they know what it feels like and what it should feel like and and if that doesn't get the response like we can tell it's tight I'm not I'm not able to get you anywhere like I in my facility I still have an in-house massage service that works there we don't try to like take their business away or have people not go it's just a point of like well can we spend 5 minutes doing it warm up and address it. If not, we need to go here. Maybe they need some art. Maybe they need, you know, whatever whatever that approach is to get that uh that dealt with you have done. And I think people are maybe worried that we're trying to eliminate that. I don't I don't I I don't know where the the fear comes from. Yeah. Well, I mean, watch someone deadlift poorly. You can have some fear. Not because they're going to get hurt then, but we know you're going to get stiff because that's the issue. How many bad lifts have you seen in your time? Oh my god. Did people's necks blow up and spawn fancy on the spot? No. No. But what we know is in the long haul that's going to be a problem. Even if tissue restriction, right? Cuz your body's compensating for some of those positions that and you know, if you're all turtling and you pull there, you think that's going to affect your bench press. It does. And that's the problem because we can't we're not we haven't been clever enough. ever conjoined the the strength training positioning with mechanics. What we've said is, "Hey, you know, we're really good at conjugate and I can do 27 different thousand squats, but I don't understand what I'm doing." Exactly. I mean, we can we can talk programming theory all day long. But number one, first you got to be moving well. And if you're not moving well, as a coach, you should actually be able to know just from watching that that oh, we may have a restriction in the glute. We may have again, you know, this lat issue, internal rotation, we may have. You should be able to see that in the movement. I'm going to put I'm going to put a flag. That's huge for me. Like, if I watch somebody squat, I can tell you almost everything about what's going wrong with their body. And what I would say is um every master coach I know can see the restrictions in the movement, but they've the old generation of guys didn't know how to fix it. they would just be like, "Well, we'll just we'll do all these resistance work exercises, a billion drills to try to work around the problem without necessarily ever addressing the problem." Um, one of the the people who are doing the best right now is coach Dan FAF out at uh Altus, which used to be the World Athletic Center in uh in in Phoenix. They're going to put about 45 Olympians into the Olympiad this year. But they have what they call trackside therapy and they treat all their coaches to be able to assess and also do some manual assessments and also some simple soft tissue work as a background because the athlete comes in and says, "Hey, I can't do this or I'm not hitting this or I can't get into this shape." They can fix it, put it right back out. That's perfect. That's that's the process of how it should be working. Let me ask you something. If you're if you're warming up with squat and it's nice is that you if you haven't seen Chris Duffin squat or dead, you should. It's really it's fun to watch. It's always fun to watch big strong guys move well. But um if you're moving under the bar, you're hot and sweaty, you're feeling heat, and it's not going. Will you fix it between sets? We will. Yes, absolutely. You see that? That means because we just found out some information about how we're moving and then we can fix it. So, part of the movement is the the warm-up is as an assessment like and sometimes we may do some simple things too like maybe I'll do a little bit of goblet squatting before I go in. Oh, I've got this issue going on here. Boom. Jump, you know, work a fix, then go back and go, "Oh, I'm going to go squat again really quick." You know, did I make change? I did. Okay, now let's move to our warm-ups. You know, did and am I still having this restriction? you know, I might need to raise some overhead RT squats to open up because, you know, I'm not, you know, not being able to get in position. I got a lot of tightness pulling into my, you know, in on my elbows. Uh, you know, that's that's that's in the process. All right, I'm squatting, fix it, test back and forth. That that is the the the heart and soul what we're trying to do is, you know, we're dividing and we call this the i3 model. Well, first is I have incomplete mechanics and I can work in those incomplete mechanics, but I'm leaving force on the table. I'm not making it about performance, right? When I optimize position mechanics, I get better expression of force transfer, period. Right. Yes. That's what that's ultimately what we're caring about, right? And I I I love I have to go into that all the time cuz a lot of people that I, you know, I'm trying to get the word to, right, they're still in their early 20s and uh I think it's like you're you're going to make me safer, get me out of pain. I don't I don't have pain. I'm fine. Well, I have to wait a little while. So, I'm like, you're leaving performance on the table. How big is what? That's right. And when you can join that for people, I think that's actually one of the things we found is the most important experience is that when we put athletes in better positions with tissues that move, they express more force and then the cycle like it's it's it's conjoined. So, people suddenly are like, "Oh, well, I know what I'm doing before I deadlift because it makes me lift." Yeah. And that's I mean, it's this is basic, you know, no, right? that if you don't have great core stability or proper joint centration, your body is going to try to protect you. It's going to degrade weight so that you're you can't elicitly, you know, put out the the maximum force. So, if you take care of those things, get joints in proper position, stabilize correctly, you're going to see not a performance increase, you're going to see what your actual performance is because before you're you're basically undertrained. That's right. I mean, so we work through this stuff and it's like, you're a 400 lb squatter, let's fix it. Today, you're a 440 lb squatter. You never knew it. Yeah. You know, I think it's Dave Tate who said things like, you know, he he really likes cleaning up people's technique, which is about clean up their position and seeing the massive gains quickly. You know, you go from, you know, a 400 pull to, you know, like you said, 460 just because you you didn't didn't sacrifice your spine. People were like, "This is amazing." I'm like, "Well, actually, just we were always there. always there. But think about that from a performance aspect. I mean, if you were always there and you weren't training to that level for the last 6 months, where would you be yet? Yeah. And this is uh this is crucial cuz we have a bunch of physios are going to listen to this and you know, our experience working on the performance side is that position drives performance. That position inoculates us. And the problem is, and we're going to try to drive the rehab staff back, is that we can't necessarily tell a straight story because, you know, people I get hammered all the time about posture. Like people are like, there's no research that posture causes pain, right? And I'm like, well, there is great research that shows that posture, poor posture affects your breathing, affects your ability to pull. I mean, you know, I mean, and I think it's because if we don't scale that conversation up under load, intensity, you can see how you come to believe a certain fallacy about it doesn't really matter if you round your back and you pick things up off the ground. What matters is at some point, and at some point, it's easier for us to just teach you to keep picking everything up off the ground. Back flat. I I I was uh just working with a uh a girl earlier this week. Posture, she's rounding. It's a thoracic, right? She's got no pain with it. no pain, good posture. But all, you know, she said, "Well, I'm while I'm squatting and deadlifting, you know, my all of a sudden something will happen and I lose I can't walk for a couple days and this bad like neural shutdown." None of the doctors, nobody's been able to figure it out for me. So, we worked through some stuff and improved her posture. She was limited in basically thoracic extension as well. Um, but that posture was also, you could see some issues going on in the core because she was compensated with overactive abdominals. Hey, are you listening? So, so we worked on the posture, worked on, you know, worked on her breathing patterns and how she used her core. And all of a sudden, she's like, "Oh my god, that I could feel it coming today cuz I could see the feel that the the sensation in my glute that I normally feel prior to leading up." I'm like, "Well, let's squat. Let's see what happens." And no issues. So, I'm going to make sure she continues to report back to me. But the posture did not cause any pain. Yeah. And that's the squatting deadlift caused pain. That's right. And it's but and that's why we think it's much easier to teach kids this is what your spine looks like when you just do simple hinging. This is what your spine looks like when you pick your shoes up off the ground. Because also in that moment of load when you're the load is squeaming your head like I was just saying you know I'm doing a little puzzle you know depth of progression you know cuz I just need someone to program down one heavy session a week but I was just doing fives last week and I can't hear anything like I'm really trying to hear what's going on in my body but when I'm doing fives on deadlifts have a go it's really hard for me to hear anything and to be sensitive and aware hey I you know I didn't finish or I flared or my lats turned off or I could you know what I mean? And that's the problem. It's really difficult for people to to hear this and be cognitively aware when that's why your default position and learn positions and learn responses matter because those that's where you're going to go to under stress, the competition, fatigue, you're going to always default to what you train. Yep. And that's uh like and there's so many things from that awareness standpoint and that's where I use like a lot of like the corrective tools. Like I said, I don't want people doing like a whole lot of stuff before they warm up, but there's a lot of stuff to be bring postural awareness and to practice some of these positional stuff on your off days as well. And just bring that awareness and that practice and it just becomes second nature. And that's a big piece of uh big piece of my movement website, which to me I think is really complimentary to what you're doing. I have tried to stay out of the correct game because people like you were there. Greg Cook is there. Like we have a bunch of friends who are really really competent in that and I'm just like hey let's let's clear up your tissue restriction and and by the way this is also what we think good moving looks like. But we we I've stayed out because I'm like look I have friends who are really good at this and people confuse and I'm just saying that like if you just open the joint you're done. And that's not true. No, I I think the two pieces are but you can't but you can't have proper movement if you're not able to get the joint in proper position to begin with. Right. So they're they're you need both of these. They're both together. But that's and my expertise is on the movement side. And so like I have very little content what you're doing because guess what? You need need to work on that stuff. Go here. Yeah. So you're going to see more and more of this overlap happen where you know yesterday one of my strength coaches who was also DPT he's working on his snatch you know and at the top at the top moment his glute just shuts down his knee comes in right so he's already he's pulling too wide cuz he's looking for stability when he comes narrower suddenly he's up in his ankle restriction and then we so we improve that but then all of a sudden I'm like hey you're missing all your internal rotation in your hip right flexion it's like how'd you know I'm like well you get that spot you bounce off the The first thing I do is I throw a hip circle on and make you just do good mornings hip circle. And he's like it looks like I when I get to that spot it's flat. It's like it's an empty void. I'm like that's where your brain and that is the role of corrective exercises teach skills and reconnect those things right skill position transfer exercises. But once we do that we've got to go back to your snacks and actually ingrain that pattern and go cuz you've got to have you got to have training to stimulate a response right? It's not the same thing as, you know, taking your 60-year-old non-active person and, you know, assigning them a corrective. Guess what? That's actually training them because they haven't. So, they're going to see a response from your DPT who actually lifts not going to see any response. That's just going to help him turn on and get it moving the right direction. But then he's got to go next. That's right. And this is where we we're going to do a better job in the next couple of years of really giving people simple recipes. You're never going to do it as well as Chris. You're never going to do it as well as some of the masters, but you don't have to do it as well cuz you can get 80 to 90%. You're going to fix and nail all the problems. We have to make it so ubiquitous that it's not just more squats solve the problem cuz that's not the case. Right. Sometimes we have to identify what the movement problem is and then say, is there a tissue restriction underneath that? Yep. Now, you address there's some ding on us because we don't talk about pain very much, right? yet, you know, when I watch you work on Stan, we'll put the link on the Stan's shoulder. You're like, "Hey, let me desensitize this tissue a little bit, right? Can you talk about just how you think about chronic pain?" Uh, so sometimes chronic pain is just underlying like reminisence of some past issues, right? So Stan's been in training for his whole life. He's probably been training for 30 years. He's the strongest human being. He's the most Yes. So, so, uh, actually that's what we, uh, use a lot here on here is we'll just, if it's we can kind of identify if it's, you know, something that's just a peripheral nerve sensitization versus a bigger issue that needs some maybe I need to refer them out to uh, to someone to take a look at, but not just taking care of the tissue restriction, but we're, you know, just basically kind of pulling the fashcia and the skin and just having a shearing effect. A lot of times that'll clear up some of those issues. It's very simple, easy to test. If you get results, move on. If you don't, send them on to someone else that can dig deeper. But why would I why would I send somebody out for shoulder pain if I can spend 30 seconds, you know, you know, desensitizing the the peripheral nerve system and yeah, and the problem's gone, right? So how many you are a competitive athlete how many like one of the things that the beefs that I have seen in the world with some movement breathing people is people like I don't have time for that I how I got to lift and train and still manage my kids and I can't like I would tell my wife like if I was like Juliet I've got two hours of practice she'd be like go do you think that we can get all this done in a training session Absolutely. So, it's it's I mean I do this all the time. This is what our coaches do. So, you know, our coaching staff works with virtual clients all the time. Um I I mentor a lot of strength and conditioning coaches in college pro like you know in powerlifting as well. Um, this is, uh, you should not be spending too much time, especially to take the high hitters, right? And we're not we're not squatting, deadlifting, good morning, benching, pressing, like it's not everything every day. There's only so much you're going to get done in a session anyway. Let's focus on those moves and and pick the highers. Like, if we've got 20 different things, you know, what's the top three? And let's work on those. Get them down and move to the next. Get them. It's it's beyond your scope. you know, get some help. But it's you'd be amazed at how much you you can do, but you should not be spending 45 minutes worth of prep time for 30 minutes of training. You should be spending 10 minutes of prep time. And, you know, maybe if you've got a lot of issues on your off day in between, you know, maybe you have 10, 15, maybe 20 minutes at the max at home doing some bodybuilding stuff at home. And even I I'm like, look, you know, that 10 minutes you watch TV before you go, that's what that's for. Not the train session except don't sit on the couch. Get get down on the floor, do some work, you know, do some hips, you know, work. Maybe you're doing some box squats on the couch. You know, it doesn't love it. Pablo was I just saw a thing. He was saying he's like, I don't want to see you stretching the gym. That's not what the gym is for. It's like don't don't make these soft exercises. Come to the gym with intention to train, right? And and you can see that he's not saying don't work out your positions, but he's like quit being all soft and like come on, let's be serious what we're doing. So yeah, so anytime we have athletic mobility work, what we do is we do that like the day before, the night before often, then you come in and you start prepping movement. Now, if you encounter an issue, you may have to put something in in between those sets and go boom, let's clean this up really quick. Goal is that you've already done that. Let me just say that one of the things that we do is we talk about either prepping for the next day's movement or I just train and learn something about myself, so I fix it after, which means I'm already having my next session. Exactly. All right. So, my bench, I had a problem with my bench. I fixed some aspect of my bench and then I'm bench 2 days later or 3 days later anyway. So, it's probably already fixed. But yeah, if you waited until the next big session to address it, you're lazy. You're marking. All right. All right. So, um let's um that's right. This is awesome. We can talk. I mean, this is this is so important. And this is the next revolution. This is the next revolution. Um all my people we're at lew w right and our our library exercise stuff is there how people find you who who need to know who you uh um so our movement website is kabuki k a b u ki ms uh or you can just go to our main website that's linked there but kabukstrength.com I want I want to say um we had a a games level athlete come to the gym recently she's been having knee pain deep squatting Um, especially on the pistol, it's been happening since December. So, she's totally sensitized. Like, she's got 4 months of just this thing. MRI is clear, back is clear, check, check, check, check. Everyone's missed. Turns out her quads are so stiff. They're brutally stiff. And I'm like, when I push on her quads, she like barfs and blocks out. And I'm like, well, maybe that's related, right? Cuz it's connected to your kneecap, right? And I sent her away with your um, you know, she looks like Davis. I was like, "Hey, look, I need you to take this and try to work on this." And uh but your roller I love because I need that geisha roller is it's so it's beefy enough, frankly, that it Yeah. So that's we sell products that help people do some of this work at home. So we got the big geisha roller, which is a combo effort between me and Bonnie Thompson using this body tippering, but just a passive way of putting some load for, you know, disperse load for a longer period of time on a tissue. And we see great results in our in our trained athletic population. Trained athletic population. That's right. So, uh don't don't be cuz like anytime you want to be taught results, just come to our I try I finally had to say to all the physios. I'm like, hey, look, you guys in the UK especially, you know who you are. I was like, you need to come and train with us and see what we're doing. And when they come to town, I'll call Chris or we'll go up to Chris gym and then we'll we'll start just swinging problems out and we'll show show us how you're solving the problems. Cuz if you can get a faster result than we're getting and actual results, then we're off. And it's what we found is just really long lasting results from some of these product like like the geisha roller on that quad. Uh it's very easy. You can watch we put uh Tim Hasselbeck uh um right on and just smoke. Matt Hasselbeck actually just sat there and Tim was there, but Matt just sat there and smoked his quads on the top. Excellent. Loves it. All right. Uh kubbystrength.com. Yep. Fantastic. Uh, we're going to just take a quick pause and then I want you to talk about this beautiful thing. Okay. All right.