Hey, welcome back to the mobility project. We're going to throw at you today is some of the tinkering we've been doing to try to explain some of our concepts. One of the things that we're always after is using training strength conditioning as a tool to put athletes in a good position, protect our athletes, especially our young athletes. And one of the things we like to do is, you know, we're always working on jumping and landing mechanics so that we can have a so we can have a stable ankle and a stable knee. Okay, you can go inside, buddy. Is that like alien? Can you face the camera for a second? Is anything going to pop out of your stomach? Not going to do. All right. So, here's a quick test. If you close your eyes and go belly tight and even start up or low, doesn't matter. If you jump up, see what your default positioning is. We should see ankle in a stable position, knee over the ankle or in a position where I've created extra rotation and I'm landing in a good good base mechanic. What I shouldn't see is as I jump up, I shouldn't land in this collapsed open ankle position, which trashes my Achilles, opens up the knee, and puts me in a really big VGUS force. And it's a quick, easy test in a lot of your athletes who are strong enough to do this, but just belly tight. What happens? You can do it eyes closed or eyes open. You can jump high, but you should wh overjumped. You should be able to jump up and land in a pretty good position. Westside guys, the Russians are doing this with 100 kilos. You can. It's a powerful way to overload pure hip extension. What I want to show you is as we teach this jumping and landing toe to heel good mechanic, one of the things we're always trying to do is protect our athletes. And one of the things that you'll see is that if I land and here' be a deep landing position with my feet straight. This is going to always limit how much ankle opening I have that collapses and how much internal rotation I have. So, I'm not going to expose the knee to very much force. If I turn out 30°, you're going to see that suddenly my ankle collapses a lot further and my knee goes into this open position and is susceptible to a lot more load. If I land in 45 degrees, which is a lot of our young, tall, stiff athletes, then suddenly I land and I have this bad mechanic that if I don't have perfect control and jumping and landing knees out, which is really difficult to do to land in that 45°ree position, right? That's kind of a crazy jump and land. Certainly functional, but then what ends up happening is that I missed land or I get tired or I come down predispose me to a lot of dysfunction. So, one of the things that happens is that if athletes have a matted down hip, they lose that hip function. Tight kind of medial chain then and it's not hip capsule. We'll see the athlete turn the foot out because this is a shorter position than this is and they can't really recruit well in the hip and it's not necessarily kind of tight musculature, not short weak musculature can just be tight matted down musculature. So, here's our prescription today. What's up, Bear? I'm coming out. Coming out. Great. So, here's what we're going to have got going on. First thing first is we're going to take the 45 lb plate. I sit down. You can sit down. And we're going to get into Super Frog. So, have a seat right here. Perfect. Bear, do you see the animal about to jump out of her chest? Just kidding. Is it like an alien? That's a kitty. Oh, it's a kitty. It's not an alien about to jump out of her chest. It's a kitty. I'm gonna load belly tight. Squeeze the butt. And then I'm just gonna tension. Load. and then tension by dropping the other leg out. And then as soon as I just go to my happy place, I'm going to contract and then relax. I can obviously have a friend pull. This leaves me feeling vulnerable and sketchy. Press. I catch some of the soaz. All of this medial kind of gristle. Hang out. Contract. Relax. Work your way through it. Let that leg drop out. I should, you know, I could load up both legs. You doing it too? Nice job. I can load up both legs and come straight back, but it's probably best to do one leg at a time and then feather the other leg out. So, that's homework number one. Homework number two, set your choice double ball, your trigger point wheel, your tumble roller, rumble roller, and I want you just to seessaw across from the TFL, this flexor wad into the glute here. And so I'm just going to start leg straight, put a bend in the leg, and then I'm just going to try to seessaw and be able to sink all the way through. And if I don't find a spot that's ugly, I'm going to move up and down. And I'm going to try to clear the whole mass from side to side. And it may not be, hey, one second there. You can put that in there. It may not be till I get all the way over here that I find that and start to shear those tissues off. So that's homework number two. We really want you to open up this kind of lateral complex in flexion. Homework number three is an idea where I was talking to one of my big thick strong athletes and was like, "Dude, I'm having a hard time getting to a lot of extension over the double lacrosse ball over the top." One of the things we can do is load up and have him load from the other side. So we do the keg drill, base the hand and load down. The other times is sometimes you need a 40 pound ball, 100 pound ball, a little pressure through that thoracic spine and now I can get some better rolling. So take your heavy stone, go ahead and take your your ball and then hit that kind of thoracic extension with a little bit of pressure through the ribs and you'll get that loading through that rib to the back. Some ideas about keeping athletes safe, improving your positioning. We'll see you tomorrow.