

=== FILE: Excellence vs. Hustle Culture： What Really Matters with Brad Stulberg [P6Au5miiHCs].txt ===

 excellence is involved engagement or caring deeply in something worthwhile that aligns with your values and goals. It is not robotic optimization. It's not waking up at a certain time because some influencer told you. How would I recognize an excellent environment? Sometimes excellence gets confused being in an intimate conversation with a great friend. Phenomenal flow state, but you know what else is a flow state? Brad Stolberg. Brad's an author, he's a coach. Brad Stolberg's newest book is The Way of Excellence and it's already drawing praise from some of the biggest names in sports and performance. His work's been featured in the Wall Street Journal, New York Times and Time magazine. We are told the key to a good life is to be happy all the time. As a result, people end up chasing happiness. I love this term called zombie burnout. How do you try to combat it in this insane internet world? How do you manage that in your own life? What's up Brad? Welcome back to the Ready State podcast. It is great to be back. We are really excited about this conversation. In fact, we probably should have just recorded the whole pre-roll because there was a lot going on there. Let me just say again, I don't have many friends who just keep making, like, hitting home runs. And I'm like, we should probably talk about that home run too. Like, come back and talk about another home run. It's pretty amazing. And I don't know if you're in our brains and in our homes, but it's really the things that you continue to write about, resonate with us in our seasons of life. Yeah, they really do. Or I'm just mature enough now to really appreciate what you're finally talking about. It's probably the former, but either way, I'll pick the compliment. Thank you. Yeah, and I just want to say too, for my part, I do feel like I'm at a phase of life where I'm doing way too many things and maybe all of them not great. And just reading this book was such a nice reset and I'm really going to try to use it as my guide going into 2026. So I'm grateful to you. Set this talk or the for me, your book is the way of excellence. And one of the things that resonates with me right now is that we're in a time where everyone I feel like is an inch, an inch deep and a mile wide. Like it's all superficial. I really can't see someone's work. I can't see the depth of their thinking. I don't know where they're coming from. I don't know what their work looks like. All I know is that it's like a veneer of sparkles. And I'm like, is there anything below that veneer? And that really is at the heart of what excellence is. And I just see people are just pretending their ways into positions and they're not doing right by the world. I think that's a really astute observation and that is driving force behind the genesis of this project. It's really meant to reclaim excellence and to get really clear about what excellence is and also what excellence isn't. So before we dive into those questions, what is something you are doing in your own life right now that you're actually trying to do with excellence? What's going on in the first set us up about what are you working on now? The areas of my life where I pursue excellence, there are three. The first is as a husband and father. And I really just want to be the best that I can possibly be for my wife and for my kids. The second is in the craft room of my identity house. And for me, that craft is writing. So I want to be an excellent writer. I want to learn from the greats. I want to try to take the torch that the greats have handed to me through their work and carry it along to the next generation. And then the third big area in my life where I try to pursue excellence is as an athlete. And I'll never win an Olympic gold medal. I won't win a regional gold medal, but I can still learn so much about myself through pursuing barbell sports and overcoming challenges and trying to see where my genetic potential lies. I love that. And just for the listeners, the specific thing you're pursuing right now from a barbell standpoint is deadlifting. So how's that going? It's going well. I just had a PR earlier this year. I pulled 530 pounds, which for me is a lot. That was in September. And anyone that's a lot. Yeah. It's a very happy story. That was untapered. It was in the middle of a normal training week. It was a situation where my coach was there and it was going to be a heavy single anyways. And he said, you know, 515 moved really well. Like put 530 on the bar and see what happens. And I shocked myself and he turned to me and he said, you're going to pull 550 before the end of the year. No problem. And I haven't pulled more weight than 530 since. I missed 540 a week ago after a full taper in everything, which just goes to show that sport is finicky and performance is complex. But I'm really excited about the challenge of going back to the drawing board next year, entering a new training cycle and seeing if I can inch that number up a bit. One of the things that jumped out at me when you talked about this chasing this being curious chasing this new thing, I'm just going to say that your training age is very old. You're a really remarkable athlete, but you're sort of the obsession with barbells is newer for you, not new, but newer. One of the things that you hinted in there, I think speaks to this book a little bit in that when we are talking about limits, when we are getting near the limits of our capacity, our attention, our abilities, you really start to see inputs and outputs very clearly. That's very different than some of the things you can get away with when it's low speed, low psychological consequence, low, like it doesn't really matter. You're taller, I can deadlift 225 all day long. I don't need to warm up, and as soon as it's heavy, as soon as there's real consequence. And we talk about this in speed load. If I really want to see how you perform, I'm going to put you under some stress. I'm going to make you move fast. And I'm going to really tell who's who and what's what and not all practices get us to Rome. And I think it's one of the lessons that I know you take out of high performance is that you can eat any what you can have a cigarette and eat little chocolate donuts and have a great time and not really sleep and be okay. But as soon as you want to actually differentiate yourself and be excellent, you really have to start paying attention to these small details and consistently for a long time. You want to write there? You're 100% right. I think that the way to test a system is to put it under stress and see how it operates stress. That's like systems thinking one on one. And I think that's exactly what you're describing. So the system of Brad Stahlberg is an athlete is put under stress when I've got 540, 530, 550 pounds on the bar in little things that don't matter when there's half that weight on the bar suddenly start to matter. And on the one hand, you could say, well, 80, 20 role, like I'm just going to be pretty good at a bunch of things. And there's nothing wrong with that. Or you could say, this is fascinating. Like this is where the interesting stuff comes in. I've been doing this seriously for five years. I've gotten better in now the next five pounds are going to be really hard to find come by and I'm actually so excited by that because it just gets so much more interesting. I'm so much more curious to figure out what's going to happen next. And then to your earlier point, I do think that you've got to nail all the foundational habits and principles in what I call the fundamentals, the basics. And the better you get at something, the more important nailing those foundational fundamentals are. But then there's this other interesting tension that happens with really elite performance. And by really elite performance, I don't necessarily mean world class. I mean, elite for you when you yourself are giving something to your all when you've put in a lot of time and energy and effort. And that is you get to this question about the marginal stuff. And some of the marginal stuff is actually going to make you much better. Maybe it is monitoring your macros. Maybe it is throwing in a supplement or two. Maybe it is tracking your sleep. But some of that stuff can actually get in the way because you start to focus too much on all the things around the main activity and not the main thing itself. So I think the importance of nailing the fundamentals just gets heightened. And then you have to kind of pick and choose based on your own unique circumstances in your temperament, what things to quote unquote optimize versus when to just say effort and let it rip. And that's like also such a fun part about excellence and mastery is exploring that. So when you this is I think is a three part question, Brad, when you use the word excellence, what do you mean if you could just define it for us? And then also, what does it not mean? And then the third part is why should we care? Like why should you know, here I am like 52 year old person. Like why should chasing excellence be something that I should care about? I love it. What a great question. All three parts. What excellence is what I mean by excellence. Excellence is involved engagement or caring deeply in something worthwhile that aligns with your values and goals. Full stop. That's what it is. So you've got to care deeply about it. You've got to focus. You have to pay attention to it. You have to give something you're all you have to commit to it. And that thing has to be worthwhile and it has to align with your values who you want to become as a person. So yes, I want to deadlift all the way, but that process of trying to deadlift all the way is also shaping me as a person. So I better go about it in a way that aligns with my values. So that is what excellence is. What excellence is not. It is not robotic optimization. It's not waking up at a certain time because some influencer told you it is not giving a hype speech from a coal plunge and making sure that you put it on Instagram. It's not a 19 step routine. The goal isn't to be world class in an elaborate routine. The goal is to be a world class athlete or a world class parent or a world class leader or a world class executive or the best community member that you can be. So in so far that routines help that goal. Yes, do them. They're really important. I'm a staunch proponent of routines, but sometimes excellence gets confused with all of this elaborate kabuki that is not the real thing. Excellence is also not perfectionism. Nobody can be perfect and by trying to be perfect by trying to make every single day a 10 out of 10 you end up burning yourself out. Excellence is not winning at all costs. It's not sacrificing your integrity. Again, it is very values driven. Excellence is not just chasing a flow. Flow states are incredible when they're pointed towards the right thing. Making love to your partner. What a great flow state being in the pocket of a deadlift. What a great flow state taking over a basketball game incredible flow state being in an intimate conversation. With a great friend. Phenomenal flow state. But you know what else is a flow state scrolling tick tock and losing a sense of time being in a casino or getting addicted to sports gambling. Those are all flow states. And I think that sometimes we chase flow and we chase these ephemeral fleeting moments of happiness. What excellence is much more concerned with long term lasting satisfaction. So that's what excellence is not. And then why does this matter so much right now? I think it matters for a couple of reasons. I think one is that so many people in my reporting for this book told me some version of the thing that they fear most in their own life and for the people they care about is that they kind of sink into this going through the motions, numbed out. Just I'm just trying to survive and I'm numbing myself out. And excellence is the antidote to that right when you pursue excellence you get this feeling of aliveness and dedication and caring that makes life worth living. Another reason I think it's so important to reclaim excellence right now is what ends up happening is real genuine heartfelt excellence gets crowded out because on the one hand you've got pseudo excellence or hustle culture greatness all the bullshit that you see online. And people see that and then they hear excellence and like that's not for me like I don't want to be an Instagram influencer. It's like no, no, no, that's not what excellence is. And then you have this other extreme where people will say that life is so hard right now. Why should I even care about excellence? Like everything is so broken. I'm just going to complain in some circles complaining is even like a way to get status and listen, there's a lot to complain about. There's a lot that's broken, but nobody has a good life. Nobody tells you that it's super fulfilling and your life has meaning and texture by sitting there and complaining all the time. So real excellence lives in the middle. And the last thing I'll say is I started this project by interviewing over a hundred people that care deeply about their different pursuits. These included athletes, coaches, teachers, physicians, therapists, musicians, so on and so forth. I said, what are you doing when you're at your best? And they all told me that they're super focused on their craft. And I asked them, what's that like? And they all said it's one of the best feelings there is. People told me it is energizing. It's enlivening. It feels like the sun is shining on my back. A world-class mountain biker that you all know told me. So like we all want this feeling. It's great. We admire it in others. We can create it in ourselves. And that's why I wrote the book. So I think this is really important because I think especially in this internet world, we're all chasing, I think things that maybe won't bring us true satisfaction. And one of those things is this like weird idea of happiness. Like we're all supposed to be happy. And I think you make an excellent point that excellence is a better pursuit than this like vague idea of happiness. Can you talk a little bit about that? Yeah, 100%. So I think that you're right. First off, we are told by the happiness industrial complex. It is really we're we're going to just run. Did you frame that yet? I'm trademarking it right now. Yeah. So we are we are we are told by the happiness industrial complex, which is a real thing that the key to a good life is to be happy all the time. And as a result, people end up chasing happiness. However, happiness is like a butterfly. Like you try to grab it and it just immediately flies away. Happiness is often a byproduct of caring deeply about something and giving it your all. And it comes into these fleeting moments and then it goes. But is much more enduring is a sense of satisfaction or fulfillment. And I think that that is what so many people are after. The feeling of I showed up today and I gave a good effort on something that mattered to me. Like that's what makes it easy to fall asleep at night. Not happiness, but that. And I think about my own life. And I think about the things that I find most fulfilling. And it is facing the blank page and writing a couple really good sentences after spending three hours trying to coaching my kids basketball team. It's showing up and being there for my wife when she really needs me. I'm not happy in any of those instances. I wouldn't describe what I'm feeling is happy. I would describe it is focused, engaged and satisfied. And I just think like that is the target. It's not happiness. Happiness can be a byproduct. It's great. I'm not anti happiness, right? We should enjoy moments of happiness. But I think the pursuit of happiness is the wrong pursuit. As you were talking, I was thinking about like imagine trying to apply like just being happy to your marriage and how that would just be like the, you know, if that was your expectation, like I should be happy all the time in the way that you've described it, how ultimately disappointing a marriage might be. I don't know why I thought of that sample. But, but right, like obviously we have these moments of total joy and happiness together and stoke, but those are fleeting, right? But what is there is this like, you know, real feeling of commitment and shared values and, you know, all the other things that make our marriage so satisfying. But I think if they, if we just pursued like happiness, right, no marriage would ever make it. I'm so glad that you used the marriage as an example because another way to think about it is what you and Kelly have, because I know you both well and you're, you're incredible and your marriage is incredible as you have intimacy, intimacy, connection. Okay. I use the word intimacy in the book to say that we hear intimacy and we think about it just in a romantic context, but you can also have intimacy with a craft. So you can have intimacy as an athlete with your sport. You can have intimacy as a coach with your team. You can have intimacy as a leader with your leadership practice. It's that feeling of intimacy, of deep connection, of, Hey, there are going to be obstacles and challenges in days when I don't feel like doing this, but I'm going to commit to it and I'm going to get as close as I can to this thing and remain endlessly curious about it. Like that is what equates to a good textured life. It's not chasing happiness. There's this famous philosophy experiment that just immediately throws this question into relief that I love. I'll go over it real quick. And the hypothetical says that you have two choices. One is I could put you in a tube for the rest of your life, but you would not know that you're in a tube and within the tube, you would take these drugs that one, make you forget that you're in a tube into you would feel euphoric as happy as can be all the time. And you'd be in this tube, you wouldn't know you're in the tube and then you'd die. Or you could continue with the rest of your life, all of its problems, all of its challenges, all of the heartbreak, all the messiness. Almost nobody chooses the tube. Yet, as I said in opening, increasingly, the world is becoming the tube. Like we're just told to numb ourselves out and kind of go with the flow on an algorithmic conveyor belt to freaking nowhere. And I just don't like that can't be where we go individually. That can't be where we go as communities. You are, my brain is spinning on things to talk about and experiences I've had. We worked with Team Sky back when, you know, that was the British cycling sort of excellent team, you know, peak Bradley Wiggins and they're one of their performance physios, Phil Burt, genius bike that are superstar. They went through this phase called aggregation of marginal gains where they became obsessed with every small detail. Like we'll put alcohol on the tires and it'll soften the rubber a little bit. And in and they did that. And I use that example. They did that towards a hundred things, 200 things, 300 things. And they lost the track. And I do see very much they had a terrible season. The thing fell apart. And I see what you kind of hinted at earlier that where a lot of people are doing this performative kabuki, which is just a great phrase that you use is that, you know, where, where, if I take this pill, if I do this thing, if I track this metric, it will fulfill me and or lead to some transcendent state where things, you know, happen. I am right now the person I am most obsessed with. And if you're out there listening, it's not you, Juliet. It's Emma Hayes, who is the women's national soccer team coach for the United States. And I consume all Emma Hayes things because her ability to get people together, to do extraordinary things is one of the most world class things I've ever seen. And I am obsessed with that piece of it now, because as we spent the last 20 years working on performance and all these small variables and techniques and mechanics, you know, that was great because it was a tool set that we needed. But the real thing is this person with us. The real thing is interacting in a way that, you know, that allows me to have these kind of peak moments or this deep satisfaction in the process. And I'm realizing that I need to really continue to educate myself on that and immerse myself in those situations where I'm we're developing practices and in living in a way that feels excellent. And I am looking around and I'm like, well, that that's excellent. It's so clear to see. This episode of the Ready State Podcast is brought to you by Vitality Blueprint. And Vitality is a blood work platform built for high performers by our friends, Dr. Andy Galpin and Dan Garner. Yeah. Well, I want to just highlight that for a moment. We have brilliant friends who've been in the high performance space for a long time doing this. Our dream always is to transmute the lessons we learn in high performance to those like middle aged, mountain biker dad, dudes like me who want to be less gross. This I am so excited about because you get access to their brains and protocols. And that's the difference between Vitality and just getting your blood done. Yeah. I mean, they use this really cool framework where they investigate, which is what to test and they're really careful and thoughtful about that. They interpret it for you, which is sort of like, what does it mean? What do all these results mean? But then I think maybe the coolest thing about this is that they actually prescribe interventions and programs like how to actually do something about all these forms. Psyduckles only supplements and life cell intervention. Yeah. And I think that that's really unique in a crowded space where there are a lot of companies offering blood work. They really take it to the next level. And so you don't just have this sort of like 2D data that you look at and think, oh, OK, my cholesterol is in the red or whatever. You actually can do something about it. And what I love is if you've already got blood work, you can upload it to there and use their platform to interpret what you already have. Yeah. So you can get a baseline, like back baseline. But a couple of times a year, and I feel like it's really reasonable to see what's going under the hood. There is not a single athlete we work with who does not do this. I want to stress that we need to understand what the physiological limitations are to your performance. And sometimes it's microdutrients, sometimes it's hormonal. We need to see what's going on inputs and outputs. Yeah, but this is really important. If you want to learn more, go to vitalityblueprint.com slash TRS and use code TRS for $50 off any vitality plan. I love that example. And I think that what makes that example so incredible is also the main things. As far as I know, it's about the culture and the community. It's about the people that make up that organization and that make up that team. And it's about the common mission. And then it's just about the consistency of like showing up day in and day out and doing the work and do all the accoutrements on the side, play a part. Do they matter? Absolutely. But like the main things are the main things. And you've got to keep the main things, the main things. It sounds really cliche, but it's true. And I think that what happens is so often people focus on the last one percent because it's like a bright and shiny object and it's sexy. And they focus more on the last one percent than the first 99 percent. And in order to be excellent, you got to get that pyramid right. You got to focus on the first 99 percent and only then mess around with some of these things at the outer edges that may or may not work. So when I think about the word excellence and what's going on present day, and, you know, obviously this episode is coming out at the end of January, but I have been obsessed and we talked about it in the pre-roll with the newly minted Heisman Trophy winner, Fernando Mendoza. And I just am obsessed with his story of being like a two star recruit and like the 2,500th, you know, pick. I love that he went to my alma mater, Cal, and somehow graduated in three years, go Bears. But I just somehow for me reading your book around the time that his story has just exploded on the Internet and the news is just such a cool example of excellence. What do you what do you think about him? Do you agree? I don't know what's your take on him? I love Mendoza and I love him because he cares so deeply about his craft and his case being the best football player he can be, the best quarterback he could be. And because he's unabashedly himself. So this guy cries. He's like super expressive in interviews. He's he's constantly thinking others effusively in a way that many keyboard warriors have called like cringe or uncool. He brags about how he calls his mom multiple times a day. And all these people are like, oh, like he's kind of a tool or he's nerdy or he's not cool. But guess what? Like you don't win the Heisman Trophy for being the coolest. You win the Heisman Trophy for being the best at football. And in order to be the best at football, in order to be the best at anything, you you have to be yourself. Like you can't waste time and energy worrying about what other people think or trying to mimic someone else's path. You have to know who you are, be OK with who you are, and then take all your tools to bear and put them to the test. And the point isn't that like we should all try to be like Mendoza because most of our temperaments aren't like his. The point is that like we got to stop wasting so much time and energy worrying about what other people think and mimicking other people. And instead, like really be ourselves. Something that's interesting in the reporting for this book, what I realized in so many great performers and this is domain non specific, again, and athletes and artists and entrepreneurs and creatives is at a certain point, you just gain this confidence in yourself and like you can be yourself and go all the way. And such a trap is saying, oh, you know, I saw how that coach did things. So I'm going to model myself after that coach. And it's great to have role models. We need role models. But if you don't bring your own personal flavor to that or worse, you try to shut down your own personal flavor because you think somehow it's not cool or you're scared that you might fail. You're never going to be as good as you could be. Love it. I want to put that incredible quarterback and transparently, everyone, I had been and worked with the University of Indiana football team before the current coach. And I've also been there with the current coach because Cal plays there. The women's head water polo coach, Taylor McNair, is a friend of ours, an extraordinary person. Her husband works on that staff. I've been there and met Kurt Signetti, the head coach. When you take an exceptional person and drop them into an exceptional environment, it really is a win, win, win. And what's like we used to call it effortless effort. There was a speed that we could make the boat go and slalom where it just took we knew was going to work and then to make it go 5 percent harder. It took 10 at times the effort. We had to like work so we wanted to find the speed where we effortless effort. And that excellence piece, when you're in that environment, it feels it feels like it's effortless effort. Like you're like, hey, I can do this and I can do that. What how would I recognize an excellent environment? Because I think those people are thinking about that. They may be hearing this conversation being like, is my work excellent? Do I work around excellent people? How would I know? Because it is different, but clearly the culture at University of Indiana right now is one of excellence and it's not performative excellence. It's real excellence. I love that, Kelly. I actually think this is so simple, but simple does not mean easy. So how do you recognize an excellent environment? Does that culture or does the leader of that culture? Do they know their values? Can they define those values really clearly? And then are the behaviors that are rewarded in alignment with those values? Those three things. Do you know your values? Can you define them clearly and are the behaviors that get rewarded in alignment with those values? And when you have those three things, the culture just blossoms. Why? Because it is the best selection bias criteria. You're not going to have people come into that program that don't hold the same values as you because it's so clear, but these are the things we value. And these aren't just inspirational sayings on a wall. This is what we actually value. Let's contrast that with my alma mater and where I'm on faculty, University of Michigan, you know, the Michigan man, we value integrity and character and they have a coach that is having an affair and paying off a staffer, allegedly, and who has recently arraigned and arrested because of his behaviors. That's a defunct culture. That's because the values clearly, they don't mean anything. They're just words on a wall. They're certainly not being practiced in Michigan's football program over the last couple of years, hasn't been the best. And even when they were the best, there were a lot of values issue there. Contrast that with what you're saying about Indiana, where the values are clear in their practice. And then you get the kind of player that wants to buy into those values and then the most discouraging thing for an athlete. And I've heard this from current members of the Michigan football team is to buy into the values and to think that's what's actually happening. I mean, they get there and they're like, Oh, this is just a facade. Like this isn't happening. Right. No one's going to give you effort. They're going to feel stuck and trapped and misled. But if you actually practice those awesome values that you espouse, that is what makes a culture great. And I think this sounds great and it sounds easy, but it's not because it takes a lot of time and reflection to get really clear on what you're value, how do you practice them? And then when the going gets tough, when you put the system under stress, is the system actually going to show up and act in alignment with those values? Or are they just going to be words on a poster? You know, really quickly on the subject, we saw a signetty interviewed on 60 minutes this weekend and the interviewer was like, what is the secret sauce? And I love that he just said there isn't one. It's the fundamentals, right? Which I just was like, you know, just, I love that. So let me, let me jump in since we're talking about the fundamentals. Since we're sort of taught in this football world, at Indiana, one of the things they have on the wall is they would have an offensive player of the week, defensive player week, especially as part of the week. And then to the old system.  if the team didn't win, there was no one selected for the effort. And Coach Signetti came in and was like, this is ridiculous. And so whether we win or lose, there's always an offensive, because it was the effort that was rewarded, not the outcome. And I want to just point out that that small detail, because I'd walked in there before and be like, hey, this week doesn't have anyone up here. And they're like, yeah, we lost that week. And I was like, you lost this week and there's no one. And what you see is the only thing we value is outcome, not process, not effort. And just that signaling of them changing that one piece of saying, hey, yeah, we lost. And of course, they had a loss much in the last two years, but we lost. And it doesn't matter because we still reward the effort and that person giving their best. I think that really says it, because we have to divorce this excellence from only the win. Because the win can't be in the thing. It cannot. It's too, especially in these elite sports, it is so hard to win. And I'll just point out our friends at the Niners right now, you know, beset by injuries and still figuring out ways to belong, to lead to. It's really remarkable to see what a culture does, even when it's handed less than ideal situations. It's such a great example, because I don't know what the values were, but let's say that even four or five years ago, the value at Indiana was focused on the process. It's a really like cliche thing to say in sport and for good reason. You ought to focus on the process. But if you're telling everyone that we're a program that values the process and we focus on the process, but then you only have a player of the week after a win, that's not values aligned. Like that's discordance. You actually have to do these things. And on the notion of process, it's not to say the outcomes don't matter. Like outcomes matter. There's a reason that we have a scoreboard. It's normal to want to win. You should want to win. Often outcomes have financial implications, or they open you up to more opportunities. The point of sport, in elite, most things, business, even in the arts, like I want my book to sell, we're not all going to hold hands and just sing kumbaya, and we're going to accept losses. But it's to acknowledge that the best chance that you have to get the win is by focusing on the process and to acknowledge what you just said, that nine times out of ten in an elite environment, you're going to do everything right and still not get the win, just because it's so freaking hard at the pointy end of the stick. But you've got to reward that process because that's what keeps you coming back. And you stay in the arena long enough and eventually things fall into place. I think in my hometown football team, the Detroit Lions had everything fall into place two years ago. And then your team, the Niners, we played like eight bad minutes of football and it didn't go our way. Now, should we not celebrate that season because of eight minutes? No, that's the dumbest thing ever. But back to how hard it is, I don't think the Lions are going to win a Super Bowl anytime soon. I hope I'm wrong because it's just so hard. And if you can't love the process and enjoy the process, you're never going to last because when you lose and fail, which is inevitable, if you're trying something really hard, you're going to quit. So like it's not process over outcomes, it's process and outcomes. Yeah, I don't like it. By focusing on the process, you give yourself the best chance at the outcome that you care so deeply about and that you want. So switching directions a little bit here, Brad, I love this term that you introduced in the book called Zombie Burnout. And I just somehow just kind of jumped out at the page, off the page at me when I read it and it just made intuitive sense. But can you talk about what that is and sort of how do you try to combat it in this insane internet world? I think the other just sub point here is we all are talking in the wake of Jonathan Heitzbuck, the anxious generation, about kids on their phones. But I think we adults are equally, if not more connected and on our phones, sometimes under the guises that we're working or whatever it is we're doing. But talk about Zombie Burnout and how you manage it or think we can try to deal with it in this crazy internet world. First off, our phones are like adult pacifiers. So whenever we're feeling any kind of discomfort, we need the pacifier. So we scroll on our phone. It's all it is. It's an adult pacifier. And much like at some point you got to wean a baby off a pacifier, like we got to wean ourselves off the adult pacifier. We have to get comfortable being uncomfortable, having our own thoughts, being a little bit bored. Like these are not problems to solve. These are parts of the human experience. How this relates to Zombie Burnout. Zombie Burnout is a kind of burnout where it's not that you're burnt out from doing too much. It's that you're burnt out from not doing enough of things that actually light you up. So it's this numbed out feeling of going through the motions of kind of hitching a ride on the algorithm. If you're spending a lot of time on the internet and going wherever it takes you. And you finish the day and you're both really exhausted, but also really restless at the same time. And the reason for that is you're just drained from doing nothing meaningful. And you can have two people that put in the same number of hours of work in a day. Or a week or a month. And one of those people can burn out and the other one could be flourishing. And the only difference is the one that's flourishing actually finds what they're doing invigorating and meaningful. And so much of how we spend our days is on this algorithmic conveyor belt to nowhere. Sometimes it's our own doing. It's scrolling. It's getting like watching all these short form videos nonstop. It's getting hooked up in the gossip and rage machine. Other times it's in a work setting where we're just responding to like short emails and texting all day. And like we're never really doing any deep focus work, which we know is so gratifying and fulfilling. So that's zombie burnout. How does it connect to our phones? How do we get out of it? I think it's really simple. I think you have to identify periods of time where you want to engage in something in an intimate way, where you want to give something you're all. And then you have to leave all the devices that can possibly get in the way and distract you. You have to leave them behind or remove them. So again, simple, not easy. What does this look like? It looks like putting your phone in the basement, putting it in your attic for two hours and then sitting down to write. If you are a coach, it looks like, hey, when we enter the clubhouse or when we enter the training facility, here's a little lock box that everybody drops their phones in because we care deeply about pursuing excellence in this sport. And we all know, even the most addicted to their phones people, they know that their phone is distracting them and making them feel like a zombie. So you just say, you don't want to feel like a zombie yet. It's going to be hard to take the pacifier out, but we've got to take it out. And I think it's another one of these practices that is so straightforward, but that doesn't make it easy, which is identify the times and places where you want to give your all to something, figure out the things that are distractions and remove the distractions. And how do you manage that in your own life, especially as you are trying to market a book? And then also, I know you're coaching your kids soccer teams. You have kids. And maybe this is just like a mom excuse, but there are times when like Kelly leaves his phone behind and I think to myself, like, must be nice. Because I have my phone in case the kids need something. And so how do you manage that in this sort of universe where it's like, there is this expectation that you're reachable at all times. Even by your own kids and, you know, you're coaching teams and there's communication around that. Like how do you manage this at this time, especially when you're marketing a book and you have to probably be online way more than normal? This episode of the Ready State podcast is brought to you by Element. Dude, Element is so cool. There's a couple of reasons. Number one, we are getting real good at fueling performance with carbohydrate. And I really like separating eating whole foods from hydration and making sure we're getting enough electrolytes. And look, if you're just a middle-aged dad walking around, yeah, have an element. It's fantastic. I think you'll be entertained. But if you're going hard and you're not replacing essential salts, magnesium, potassium, you're going to feel like crap. Or if you're someone who's doing a ton of sauning or like very long workouts. Yeah. Yeah. And, you know, the other place that we don't talk about very much that we use element all the time is on these long bike rides we're doing. I mean, we really are always out on the weekend doing these two or three hour rides. And neither one of us is that great at constantly eating enough carbohydrates and snacks throughout those long rides. But we eat a whole bar. Like we eat like food, like things. Right. And then we, our water is elementless. Yeah. Look, this element, you kids, it is. You kids out there. It has found its way into all aspects of my practice. We're trying to have healthy tissues. We're trying to make sure that people are sorted on salt. Our athletes have an element before huge game days. They wake up in the morning. We just make sure that we're bolusing with that thing. Yeah. And they also just came out with these awesome amazing 12 ounce sparkling element cans with a few new flavors like pineapple salt. They have had the black cherry for a while in the larger cans, but they have them also in these small cans. Why do you like the black cherry? I really like the black cherry. It's like my favorite flavor. Sometimes I do feel like it's like Edward Forte hands. We're holding those huge, you know, like there's definitely a time I need that one. But what I really like about the small can is that it's sort of the right amount. Yeah. And again, it's so tasty. I challenge you if you feel like you want a little bump, take a little bump in the afternoon, have a salt bump instead of a caffeine. Yeah. And it's a little sodium, potassium, magnesium. And you just feel way better than if you have candy or a cappuccino at four o'clock. I mean, the other one's more fun. But I guarantee this works better. True fact. Right now, if you order through our link, you can get a free sample pack of elements, most popular drink mixed flavors. Of course, if you want to party in your mouth, sparkling, go to drinklmt.com slash trs. We literally drink it every day. Every day. Hey, if you're enjoying the show, make sure you're subscribed wherever you get your podcast. That way you won't miss any of the new episodes we drop. Plus, it really helps other people find the show. So hit that follow button now and let's get back to it. Yeah, I think that you can't let perfect be the enemy of good. So I think the coaching example is great. There's all kinds of research that shows that just having a phone in your pocket, even if it's not turned on, so your phone is off, detracts from whatever you're doing. Because we've just gotten so habituated to the feeling of having a phone in our pocket that it reminds us of all the things that could be happening in the world. This is why you get phantom vibrations. Like your nervous system is on such alert for that thing to ring. So on the one hand, I'd love to leave my phone completely behind. On the other hand, I live in the modern world in my 8U basketball team has a text thread with all the parents saying Lincoln's out. He's got the flu. Ronan's got the stomach plug. Why it's going to be five minutes late. I forgot what time does the game start at. So I need my phone to be able to respond to them. However, once I'm in the gym and I count and I know we have at least five players who are there. So we've got enough to field the team. I give my phone to my wife. Who's in the stands. I don't want it in my pocket during that game because in that 90 minutes, I want to lock in and be fully there. And there's a reason that that 90 minutes is so fulfilling. It's not just because I love coaching and kids. It's because I also don't have my phone in my pocket. When it's time for family dinners. Same thing. The phone, it goes in a completely different area of the house. It's not charging on the island in the kitchen where I can see it out of the corner of my eye. It's completely gone. Something else that I did for a long time is I had a flip phone. In the flip phone is what you could carry, Julia or Kelly could carry that your daughters have your flip phone number. So you have the peace of mind knowing that if there's an emergency or if they need to contact you, they can call you on your flip phone, but you're not going to have access to the internet. You're not going to be able to text because the older the flip phones are, the more you have to like hit number three, six times to get to the other team. No one's got time for that. No one's got time for that. You're not going to text, but you still have that, that like that layer of comfort. Something else. Everybody. Yeah, right. Something that's it. T nine, something else that I do that I think is really important is not to have the phone in the bedroom. So sleep is really important. And I don't want to have this like perpetual distraction news arousing device on my nightstand. So the phone gets charged downstairs on a different floor in a completely different room. So it's just again, it's figuring out those moments where you want to lock in and be present and then not having the phone with you before big workouts. I don't even bring the phone into the gym. I just put it in my glove box. You know, a lot of people, I don't know exactly how, how you all train or how you track your training, but like part of the technology is great. My, my, my phone has an app on it called true coach. And in true coach, I get all my workouts. There's examples. I can log my sets and reps. So for some workouts, I'm just doing that in real time. But for key workouts or just on a day when I feel like I've got zombie burnout because I've been on the internet all day, that shit stays in the glove box of my car. And I bring in a notebook and I log everything in my little notebook and then I take four minutes. It's all it takes four minutes after the workout to log it in my phone so that my coach can see what I did. I love it. Okay. Turning directions again. I see that you are very influenced by the book Zen in the Art of Motorcycle maintenance, which Kelly and I also both read as undergrads and loved, but I don't think either one of us have re-read it. I noticed on Instagram, you just recently re-read it. And so, and I think that it was influential in writing this book. So tell us a little bit about why do you love that book and how does it relate to the pursuit of excellence? I love that book so much. So it's a very dense book. It's not for everyone is the first thing I'll say, but it was definitely for me. So Robert Persig, the book's author at the center of that book is this term quality. And he describes quality as an event that occurs when a subject or an actor cares so deeply about their act or their object that it becomes hard to separate the two. So this is the craftsperson that cares just so deeply about his or her craft that you can no longer separate the carpenter from the table or the woodworker from the bench. It's just all one act. This is the basketball player that is no longer playing basketball. Basketball is just happening like you are so intimate with what you're doing. You are so in the pocket. You are in such a groove that you get this quality. And what Persig said is that the more that something has quality, the better it makes us feel and the more it contributes to the world. Persig in his later writing started to link quality to excellence. And unfortunately, he passed away while he was working on a book called on quality, which was only published after he died. And on quality has so many of these obscured journal entries that he hadn't he hadn't ever published before when he was alive. And you can see in his train of thought, he's linking quality to excellence. And I came across this book on quality. It was actually published when I was midway working through this book. And that's what made me realize that like what I call intimacy, he calls quality. And we're all pointing at the same thing. Like a good life is one that has quality that has intimacy, not just with other people, but with the things that you care about. So that book has been enormously influential on me. I've read it probably 10 times now. And each time I read it, I get something new about it. It also raises to to real like quite. I'm not saying this really says again. It also raises some real questions about trade offs. So I have a young child now and in Zen and the Art of Motorcycle maintenance, the narrator and the author is on a motorcycle trip with his kid. And he's a terrible father. He's just like an asshole. He's not present for his kid at all. And the reason for that is he's so obsessed with this idea of quality and with trying to figure out what it means and how to communicate it. That he's not having a quality experience with his own kid. And I think that is a really important lesson. And that teaches us a lot too, that when we get really wrapped up in something, there can be enormous costs. And if we're not careful of those costs, we might not even be practicing what we're preaching. So by no means is Robert Persig like up on a pedestal as a perfect person. But I think he had a great idea. And that idea has really shaped my philosophy of life. And in many ways is the inspiration behind this book. I love it. You also say that some of our greatest philosophers like Tolstoy and others actually really sort of at the core of their work pursued excellence as a virtue. And that that's sort of like fallen out of favor now as a thing. Why do you think that that is just this through line through so many writers and philosophers? But today, it doesn't seem to be a thing. I think it's a through line because I think it's the meaning of life. Like that's why I wrote this book. Like I really do. I think the meaning of life is to care deeply about things that matter to you and give them your all. Like that's it. We were in New York and there was a cool store and it had a pennant. And maybe that was just a thought of it. And all the pennants said was give a damn. Are you kidding? I have that pennant. I have that pennant behind my head right now. No way. Are you serious? That pennant hangs above my writing desk. We actually talked about it and we're like, why didn't we buy that? Like we've talked about it so much. And I feel like, you know, it's interesting. I'll talk about you can get it from Oxford pennant. I can send you the link. So truly dumb. OK, we won't win. Yes, right above where I write. I have that pennant and every day I sit down to write. It's like a reminder like this. I'm blessed to be able to do this. Just give it to them. Damn, damn. We we we have this little Halloween party, this little bash that we put on. We have a DJ in our garage and I say little with quotation marks. It's a it's an event. We're a banger. Two or three thousand people come to our street. We have that street. But every year we put on a huge everyone's involved. Lisa, our producer is like a master crafts person. You know, like we we put her all. She's she's shaking her head, but it's true. We've seen the Barbie box on the Internet. You know, I'm talking about. But we we go all in on a theme, on costumes, on the feeling. And people are so surprised. They're like, how did you work in movies? Well, yeah. And just to interrupt you, people have come up to us and said, oh, well, now that your kids are older, are you guys going to stop doing this? And we're like, yeah, no, we don't do it for them. And we just so like we start thinking about a process. We have the kind of and everyone is in and people are so surprised that we just give such a shit and for this one day and and send it. And we just give a damn. And I try to remind people, I'm like, you know, you can do this, too. You could do this at your house. But people have lost that feeling of just sort of really going ham and really caring. And I tell you, I am sort of drawn to people. I'm like, oh, there's some obsession here, then I'm really interested in that obsession. Like I feel like that's a rubric or a trick or a hack where you can see someone who's obsessed and is doing something. And that for me is interesting. I like that's where I want to follow. You know what I mean? Yeah, I do. And to answer Juliet's question and also Kelly, this gets it what you're saying. I think the reason that that is more rare is twofold. I think I alluded to this earlier, but excellence has been appropriated by marketing grifters that say that excellence is having, you know, a certain skincare routine. Or like that's not excellent. That's and there's nothing wrong. Like I moisturize. I think it's great. I think more men should moisturize, but like stop using the word excellence. That's not excellent. That's putting moisturizer on my face. Um, I think that like, uh, I know that I, I'm often hard on the cold plunge. And I think cold plunge has real benefits, but like getting in a cold plunge is not excellent. It might teach you something about doing a hard thing or discipline. You might find it exhilarating, but like that's not excellent. Like that's not the thing. So I think excellence has been appropriated by marketers on one end of the pendulum. And then on the other end of the pendulum, I think. That somehow people have gotten so scared of failure that they would rather not care than care and potentially fail. So we all can remember, think back to high school, Kelly, Juliet, there was probably a kid or a bunch of kids who were the quote unquote popular kids. Those kids never tried in gym class. They always sat in the back row. They were too cool to play an instrument in the band. They weren't too cool. They were just scared and insecure. The reason they didn't try because they didn't want to fail a test. The reason they never participated in gym class is because they were scared that they weren't going to be the best athlete. So instead of giving a damn and caring, they protected their fragile little egos by not trying. And they said that that was cool in so many adults have yet to outgrow this tendency. Like it is cool to care. And we need to reclaim that. You feel like that was true at PG, Lisa? Wow. Point. Point. Point. OK, so I mean, I can name the kid. I doubt he's listening to this podcast. I'm not going to say his last name. Like there's a kid named Jared and he's like the coolest kid. Like, you know, he had Jared, he had the Jankos. He had the baggy jeans and these are like elder millennial baggy jeans, not the actual cool hip baggy jeans that all the kids are wearing. He had the earring. He's like the first kid to drink beer and dude would never try. And I can just remember thinking like, I wish you try in gym because like, I'm a frickin pound you like, oh, you think you're cool. You're getting seas like your lame as shit. And I just think like it's that attitude of like, I'm too cool to try. It's like, no, you're just scared and trying hard and giving a damn like it is scary because eventually you're going to fail and it sucks. It hurts to fail. It hurts to own something. It hurts to set a big goal and then not not not guarantee that you're going to get it, but that's just the price to pay for having like a textured life. And that's at the core of excellence. That's that's why all these philosophers have pointed toward this thing. And that's why I think like we need to reclaim it. So you mentioned goals and you have a whole chapter about how to set them so that you might actually meet them. You sort of a lot of people have heard of like the smart goals framework. You say it's too narrow. And, you know, right now this episode's coming out in January, which is a time I think a lot of people reflect and think about their goals for the year. Often health goals in particular, but many overarching goals. What is your recommendation for people, especially who are sort of moved by this idea, maybe think they've gotten away from the pursuit of excellence and want to set some goals around this? Like what is your philosophy recommendation? Because one of the things I love so much about the work you do is that you're just such a practical thinker as well. And I think it would be really helpful for people to get your advice on that. Okay, great. So the way that I think about goal setting and all of this is in the book with with even like an exercise in the appendix for people that want to key in on this particular part of excellence. So the first thing I'll say is that goals are very important. Like they give us a peak to shoot for. And if you don't have a peak, then you don't know where you're going. However, it's really important that you pick the right mountain to climb. Cause you spend 99.999% of your time on the mountain. So the first part about goal setting goes back to your values. Like what do you actually value? What do you care about in life? And do the goals that you set, do they allow you to practice your values? Like do they align with your values? And you should not go after a goal because you think accomplishing it is going to make you a happy person. Like the spoiler alert here is it's not. What's going to make you a happy person is the process of pursuing it. So that better align with your values. That's the first thing I'll say. The second thing I'll say is once you set the goal, it's so important to figure out the discrete steps that are necessary to achieve that goal that are within your control. And then to mostly forget about the big goal and just focus on executing those steps instead. Again, back to the metaphor of a mountain. You could sit there and stare up at the peak, but you're never going to make it staring up at the peak because you're going to trip over your own feet. Like in order to get to the peak of a mountain, you have to dig where your feet are. The bigger the goal, the smaller the steps. That's something that a mutual friend, Kelly Humphries, who's one of the winningest winter Olympians, three-time gold medalist in the bobsled. That's what she told me. I talked to her about how she thinks about an Olympic cycle. And she's like, an Olympic cycle is every four years, but I break that baby down to two year increments, to one year increments, to quarters, to months, to days, to workouts. So how do I achieve my goal of winning a Olympic gold medal as I know exactly what I need to do in today's workout? So the bigger the goal, the smaller the steps. And then to your point about SMART. It's a super well-known framework. And it's not that it doesn't work. I think in some instances it works and then in some instances it gets in the way. So SMART says the goal should be specific, measurable, actionable, relatable, and timely. So a SMART goal would say, I want to deadlift 405 pounds within the next six months. Okay. And for deadlifting 405 pounds from taking your deadlift for 365 to 405, that might be a great goal because like it's a pretty predictable path to get there for a lot of people. However, once your deadlifts at 515 pounds, it's so much less predictable. Progress is so much less linear. So for me to say my SMART goal is to deadlift 550 pounds in the next six months. I'm just setting myself up to fail. And I'm going to end up forcing the issue and probably getting hurt because I don't know if I'm ever going to deadlift 550 pounds. Maybe I'll have a breakthrough. Maybe I won't. A better goal is to say I'm going to deadlift as much as possible. And here's the process I'm going to take to explore that. So I think SMART goals are really beneficial for beginners and for people who are intermediate. I think once you start shifting from intermediate to advanced, they can get a little bit too narrow. Like they just, they can kind of pigeonhole you into thinking that you need this certain result by this time. And again, if you're a beginner, that's an incredible accountability lever. But if you're already pretty good at what you do, you probably don't need that accountability. You probably actually need some more flexibility to evolve and change as you go. But I think the biggest thing to take away is the bigger, the goal of a smaller of a steps. So yes, set that big goal. Know what mountain you're climbing. Make sure it aligns with your values and then break it down into these small incremental steps that you can focus on having success in today, tomorrow, this week versus thinking about the whole year. I love it. I'm going to eat way more cookies this year. I can't wait to see. I'm so curious. I'm going to make it. You got to make it a smart goal. How many, how many cookies are you going to eat? You know, you're going to eat 12 cookies every six days. Ooh, uh, I could do that. Um, one of the things that, uh, one of my favorite memes is like, uh, it's like a cat, like with a big gold grill. And it's like the dentist says, you know, Hey, I see you've been grinding in your sleep. And he's like, thanks, dog. Appreciate you noticing, you know, like, and, uh, like, grinding your teeth and grinding. There's this idea that like you never get to take your foot off the gas. Yeah, I find that exhausting. Yeah. Um, there, you know, we know in from our friends who write about flow state and Kotler that after there's a refractory period, there's a down period after these big efforts, big things. And we have to recognize and respect that need to just unplug for a second. And it can't just be, you know, recover, I think that's the truth. You argue that excellence requiring rest and renewal. I feel like that feels true. Will you talk a little bit more about that? Cause I feel like that's missed here, that we're never really, we like to say you're either on the gas or you need to be on the brakes, but most people are just sort of idling and they're not really on the brakes. Yeah. If you never go easy, you can never go hard. Uh, and you kind of get stuck in the murky middle. Um, stress plus rest equals growth. Uh, stimulus plus recovery equals adaptation, experience, experience plus reflection equals learning. Like these are timeless truths of how a body grows, but they're also timeless truths of how you grow your emotional capacity, your cognitive capacity, your creativity, it's how organizations grow. It's how relationships grow. You take on challenges and then you need time to process those challenges. And then you take on even greater challenges. And, um, I think that the, the trap that some people run into is they think that rest, recovery, renewal, whatever you want to call it, they think it's separate from the work or something that they do is a sacrifice to the work. One, in fact, it's an integral part of the work. So if you want to be good at something over a long period of time, you need to get really good at the stress part of the equation. You need to grind those teeth. You need to work really hard. And you need to also get good at the rest and recovery part of the equation so that you adapt to the stress so that you grow instead of just burning yourself out and exhausting yourself. And for type A driven pushers, the rest is always the hardest part. Um, both on a micro scale and on a macro scale. So a macro scale might be taking one day a week where you truly don't do anything stressful, right? It's just a rest day.  or taking a vacation. But on a micro scale, it's hard. I know this myself. There was a day, and the irony is I was working on this chapter of the book, where there was just a problem I wanted to solve on the page, and it was like right at the tip of my tongue, or I guess in this case, because I'm not speaking, I'm writing, like right at the edge of my brain. And I was so close to solving it, and I just couldn't. And I told myself I was gonna write until 10.30 AM and then go to the gym. And 11 AM rolled around, and I was still trying to solve this problem. 11.15 rolled around, and I said, all right, I'm working on a chapter on renewal. Like I need to practice what I preach. It was physically painful. Physically painful. Every cell in my body resisted stepping away from the computer and driving to the gym. I called one of my good friends, Clay, like an addict, like truly like a work addict. And I'm like, Clay, I'm doing something that's really hard for me right now. I desperately like want to be solving this problem in the book, but I'm driving to the gym. I think the quality of my workout is gonna suck, but like I know I need to step away from the manuscript. And when I got to the gym and I had something else to focus on the workout, I eased into it. And on the way home from the gym, the manuscript was the farthest thing from my mind. And guess what happened is I'm walking into the door. I have this aha insight where I solved the problem I was trying to solve. And that is such a common experience. So it can be really hard to step away from work that we identify with, but if we don't, eventually our progress is gonna stall. So we have to cycle between hard work and rest. This episode of the Ready State Podcast is brought to you by Momentus. And we know that January is the month where many people are kind of focused or refocused on improving their health. And what can often be a part of that is this sort of insane and crazy world that is supplements. Like what do I take? How do I know what to take? And one of the reasons that we love working with Momentus is that their sort of company creed is this idea of the Momentus standard. And one of the things that I love is that, someone pointed out to us that supplements are generally considered like a low trust category because there's so many of them, they're unregulated. People aren't really sure of the quality and there's very little transparency. And Momentus is the opposite. It's a high trust company in a sort of low trust category. And let's talk a little bit about that. Let me double down just for a second in that. I just saw a huge article come out that a lot of the cycling nutrition supplements, this is cycling, are all tainted with things that are banned, substances because they're not tested. So if you're out there looking for, hey, I think I need to get on some Amegas, I wanna take some creatine, make sure that your company that you're working with like Momentus is NSF for Sport Certified, which means what's in there is in there and it's free from sketchy things. Do not go out into Amazon and buy your supplements really nearly. That is a recipe for disaster. Yeah, and the other thing we love about Momentus is they're always transparent. And they are also really focused on sourcing the highest quality ingredients. Like in one example, creatine is a little bit crazy, but they always focus on Creeapier, which is the highest quality creatine you can get out there. And that's just one of many examples in their products where they're looking to make sure it's always the highest quality product. Go take a word for it, check it out yourself. And right now if you go to livemomentus.com slash TRS, you use code TRS and save up to 35% on your first order. We really suck at that. It's hard. What do you mean we? Well, I do, but you too. You're in it with me. The whole time you was like Juliette and I was like what? No, no, no, no. Can I say something else though to give you all some grace? And I think that you all know this too. Recovery is a big deal. We suck at that. No, but it's really important. And you all teach people how to recover. I have a chapter in the book called Rest in Renewal. And I think back to like making sure you nail the fundamentals, an old time coach who's a good friend of mine, you probably know him, both of you, Vern Gambetta. Vern Gambetta, legend. At the start of all of this recovery stuff, he said, I just hope that people don't lose sight of the fact that they need something to recover from. So I think a trap is getting so focused on recovery. It's like, what are you recovering from? Dan John, another legend, told me that about eight years ago, Dan John noticed something. And he noticed all these people coming into the gym and they were perfect at their recovery. They had their Normatech compression boots. They were tracking their heart rate variability scores. They were taking their ice baths, which now we actually know don't help recovery, but that's another, well, that's actually not true. There's new ones. They help short-term recovery, not long-term adaptation. The point is, he noticed that people were crushing recovery. Truly recovering like pro athletes, but none of them were actually training hard anymore. And he's like, what's going on here? So yes, recovery is really important. And everyone that's listening can be honest with themselves. Some of us are like Brad and Juliet. And we need to ask ourselves, what would it look like to be a person that actually takes recovery really seriously and look in that direction and do that a little bit more? Some people are gonna be listening to this and they're gonna say, wow, I am world-class at recovering, but I'm not actually training very hard. Like I'm not actually, there's nothing to really recover from here. And you need to ask yourself, what would it look like to be a little bit more like Brad and Juliet? And we can all be honest with ourselves and we can all evaluate where on that spectrum we lie and just try to nudge ourselves a little bit to look the other way. You know, we were just at a big longevity conference and the thing that we observed above all else was that there were a lot of, there's a lot of fringy stuff there, first of all. And then, but then second of all, the thing that we noticed was that it did seem like the vast majority of the people there were like focused on recovery and supplements and tools and all the minors that we've all talked about before. But Kelly and I were walking around and we're like, do any of these people actually like lift a heavy weight or train hard? Or, I mean, just by the looks of them, the answer was no, not to judge a book by its cover. I'm sure there were plenty of people there that train hard, but it was this sort of, it was just an observation. Yeah, well, I would say all the CEOs and people speaking were there were giving their right. Yes, absolutely. I think that's really it. There is a lot of noise in the world and it's difficult to sort of hear that signal and be like, I'm really interested and curious about this. As we sort of wrap up here, because we could just go on and on, you're so lovely to talk to about all this. And I just, everyone, I get to call Brad whenever I just want, just whenever you know, just na na. What has surprised you or what has changed for you after doing this meditation? Yeah, I think that I have become even more aware, viscerally in my body, that I am always going to want to achieve. I want this book to be on the New York Times bestseller list. I want to hit that 550 pound deadlift and that 600 pound deadlift. And I can do all the meditation and read every book Arthur Brooks puts out and I'm still going to want to achieve. That's just how I'm wired. That's who I am. And I can accept that about myself and I can find so much satisfaction and fulfillment and joy in the process, in the climbing itself. And I can realize that the only Zen on the top of the mountain is the Zen I'm going to bring up there. And both those things can be true at once. You can want to achieve. You don't have to deny that part of you, but man, you better be really honest with yourself and you better say, am I climbing the right mountain? Cause the worst thing that you can do is climb the wrong mountain. But if you're climbing the right mountain and you're finding fulfillment in the process and that process is shaping you, like the real award isn't the 600 pound deadlift or the New York Times bestselling book or the medal or the promotion. The real reward is the person that you become along the way. And that's only going to happen if you're pursuing the journey with the right people in the right mindset, in the right mentality and in a way that aligns with your values. And if you're doing those things, then hell yeah, like go win the Heisman Trophy. Go get the promotion, publish the book, like do the big thing, care, own it, it's okay. Give a damn. Give a damn. One last. Hold on, hold on, just want to shout out to your partner who is also a boss. Just want to point that out. Just as we're ending this as well, one of the things I love about this book, and I think all your books is that you do such a great job of making the case about why we should care about excellence and pursue it in our own lives. But then it's also very practical, like how do we actually do this in our lives, especially amid all of the distractions and ways in which we are sort of pushed to not be excellent. And one just simple strategy that you put forward is that we should all choose one like meaningful milestone a year. And I love that it's just a framework. Like if people take nothing from this, it's to choose one meaningful milestone a year. So we've talked about the things that you're currently pursuing, but like do you have another thing beyond what you're currently working on? Like what's your one meaningful milestone for 2026? That's a great question. My one meaningful, well, I guess my biggest milestone for 2026 is launching this book and doing everything I can to get it out in the world and start a conversation on reclaiming excellence and help people in their own path to that. Separate from that, honestly, it's to just continue to have so much fun coaching my kids in sports. Lila is now three, so she's gonna get to start soccer. You better bet I'm gonna be a volunteer coach on the sideline of whatever excuse for soccer. Only if you wanted to have a good experience. So like that's it. I've already said no to plenty of big money speaking gigs that had a lot of book sales come with them because they conflict with coaching my son's basketball team. So I wanna try to practice what I preach. And then in terms of my craft, this is actually the first time where I haven't had the next book idea already lined up. So I don't know what it's gonna be and I'm really looking forward to long walks in reading and conversations and having the freedom to just be really curious. And I think I'll find the next project but there's also a chance the next project will find me when I'm least expecting it. Hell yeah. Hell yeah. We ask all of our guests one final question which is help us add a book or piece of music or a show to our infinite shelf. So what is a book that you're reading, loving, enjoying that you would recommend to our audience? It doesn't have, I'm sorry, it could be a show or music but I feel like in your case, it's gonna be a book. I'm actually gonna surprise you. I am gonna name a musician that I think is the best working singer-songwriter right now. And his name is Jason Ispel. And where it starts, probably his album from 10 years ago called Southeastern. He just put out a new album called Foxes in the Snow. And I cannot get enough of his music. I got the little Spotify rap thing and I probably had Jason Ispel in my ear more than anything else combined. So I just absolutely love, love, love his music, his lyrics. I think he's one of the best living writers. And I'm often left thinking like, I could never write that as prose. And he's written that in a song, like just insane. So go check out some Jason Ispel. He's excellent. We are so on it and I love that it's not a book and that it's a piece of music. So thank you for the surprise there. And Brad, yeah, thank you so much. It's such a pleasure. And I really just can't say enough about this book and how sort of meaningful it was for me reading it at this particular time in my life. And I can't wait to get to work trying to apply some of the principles. And as always, it's just so fun to get to chat with you. The feelings are 100% mutual. So thank you, Juliette and Kelly. Hey, Kelly and Juliette here. If you're ready to feel strong, move freely and have a body that's built to last for life, we've got something special for you. The Star Ed System. It's our 12 week strength and lifestyle training program. We designed it so you don't have to guess what works anymore. We blend strength, mobility, and recovery into one smart system that actually sticks. Over 12 weeks, you'll train with us and learn from our expert guests, build strength, lose the stiffness, wake up with more energy, and finally feel in control of your body again. If that sounds like your kind of move, go to the readystate.com slash system to apply. We'd love to help you show up stronger, more capable, and ready for anything life throws at you. Let's make it happen. We'll see you inside.

=== FILE: Muscle： The Ultimate Key to Longevity [EceoAOV8NQs].txt ===

 cardiovascular disease, diabetes, obesity. These are not pathologies out there. These are pathologies of skeletal muscle. And now, with the use of GLP-1s, we are now entering almost what I believe is going to be a repeat of history. If we don't recognize that muscle is at the focal point, we're going to swap obesity for sarcopenia right before our eyes. She is a New York Times best-selling author. She's an expert in geriatrics, nutrition, and health and longevity. She coined the term muscle-centric aging, and she has the Muscle-Centric Institute. Dr. Gabrielle Lyon. Muscle is the organ of longevity. Your body armor against injury. Your body armor against disease. And it's your protection mechanism, both mechanically and metabolically. The fastest way to become free is to move your body, and your mind will follow. How do you define fitness, Nisa, being useful? Gabrielle, welcome to the Ready State Podcast, and I just want to start by saying this is long overdue. Kelly and I have been such a fan of you and your work, and we're very influenced by your first book, Forever Strong, and we're just so excited to have you here today. The feeling is mutual, and you know, the podcast is Ready State, I'm ready. I'm ready. Oh man, go. Are you ready? Are you ready? You have young children and a busy partner, and you're putting another book out, it's impossible. I don't know how you are at the margins, and it actually sets it up perfectly. We feel like there's this conversation about longevity and durability, but we feel like people are really on the margins of having zero additional bandwidth, and we feel like the story is that you're like, oh, you're doing good, your little perfect routine, and you're barely holding on, and then someone gets sick, and then there's a deadline, and then you have a kid, and then there's a big project, and then someone goes to med school, and it wipes out your capacity, and really one of the stories that you're telling, which I really wanna get into, is that you have to put the time in to build this resilience, and I think you've kinda hit on a secret way to do that, that we've all sort of known, but you've really given voice to. I really appreciate it, and you know, what I hear a lot, so I actually still see patients in our medical practice, and the reality is people say, well, I don't have time to train, or I don't have time to dial in my nutrition, but the alternative is you don't have time to get all the things that you're talking about, like getting sick or getting injured. This is the most time-saving entity you're human to invest in that one could ever, that and of course, relationships. Yeah. Jacked and socially strong. For our, you said you're still seeing clients or patients, but for our listeners who are meeting you for the first time, you know, how do you introduce yourself, and what kind of doctor are you, just like a little backstory, and then what is your day-to-day life like? Like what is it, you know, I mean professionally, like what is your, what are you doing on a daily basis? I imagine- Lots of push-ups. Every day is just- Lots of push-ups. Well, it's, again, I've been a huge fan of both of yours for years. To say it's been a handful of years would actually be an understatement. I'm talking about the Charles Polakwyn days, so for years and years, which is extraordinary. When you talk about durability and longevity, I think that that's what you guys have done for people. My, well, I'm a physician. I'm a traditionally trained physician. However, my background is in human nutrition, vitamin, mineral metabolism. And I just happened to be lucky to have started my nutritional training very early on. Did my undergraduate in nutrition and vitamin, mineral metabolism just so happens by one of the Godfathers of protein metabolism. To just kind of set the stage, because there's a lot of talk about how physicians aren't trained in nutrition, or they're not trained in some of the things that they're talking about. And that may be true, but certainly this is, I've dedicated my life to that. And then, you know, I went to the University of Illinois. Have you guys been to Illinois before? You know, there's lots of cornfields and nothing else and tornado warning. Tornado warning. But there's absolutely nothing to do. That's what a lion eye actually means, tornado warning. And it also means boring, cold, miserable winters. And I remember I was in the nutrition class because I was studying to become a dietitian and there was a tornado warning. And we all have to go to the fallout shelter. I was there for two and a half hours and I felt completely useless. And if anybody knows me personally, being useful is a core value, which sounds silly, but also true. I love that. No, it's a great core value. I love it. So listen, if there's an apocalypse, come over to my house, I got everything. We are completely covered. Yeah, yeah, Kelly and I, we say we have like a lot of protein powder in a pool. So there's like enough water and protein powder to go a long way, right? George K. Baer, who's the founder of MoveNet, someone asked like, he's like, how do you define fitness? And he said, being useful. I love that definition. And I love that way of describing yourself. True, and I think it's human. We are very disconnected from the idea of being of service. We're all in our little microcosms. But I think in order to truly live a fulfilled life, which is both physical, mental, and all the components that ride along with that, there is at its core being useful to other humans. So I was in a fallout shelter thinking, wow, I'm completely effing useless right now. I need to go to medical school. So if there isn't any kind of emergency, then I can be able to do something about it. So that obviously changed the trajectory of my training. I then went to medical school. I did, and I'll fast forward to the relevant part, but I did two years of psychiatry, three years of family medicine. And then when I was finishing, my choice was either I'm gonna go into the Navy or I'm gonna go do a fellowship. My mentor said, well, if you wanna really move the needle in nutritional sciences and muscle, then you really have to go back to training. And of course, this is after four years, four years of medical school, plus five years of postgraduate training on a salary of like $45,000 a year for the last almost decade of my life. And I thought to myself, Navy or fellowship? Well, I decided on fellowship. So then I went to WashU and studied both nutritional sciences and geriatrics, which is in essence, the study of longevity and aging. Fast forward, here we are now, thinking about muscle as a movement and really a new language of this idea of longevity and medicine. So as you're now focused on practicing muscle-centric medicine, which is a phrase I love and have heard you say, and maybe you could define that, but when you first began in medicine, did you have sort of an idea of what a successful patient outcome looked like? And as you transitioned to focusing more on muscle-centric medicine, did that successful patient outcome become a completely different thing? Yes, and to be fair, I hated medical school and I thought about quitting at least 500 times. And it was very different. Obviously, if someone is physically active and interested in wellness and health, studying the pathology of everything that possibly goes wrong is the last place you want to be. And in my mind, at that time, I was still training. I've always been training. When I was five, I was doing 10-mile bike rides with my dad. To this day, I don't like to go visit him because he lives in Ecuador. And if you have the opportunity, if it's four hours and under, by foot, we have to walk. I'd never go visit him. I love it. I love it. Bless that man. I'm a iconic guy because I love walking. You just, I want to just circle back on something that you just kind of threw out there. You just threw out this legend, Charles Pollacken. And a lot of people have no idea how we got here today in terms of the language that we're using, the things that we understand, the giants' shoulders on whom we're standing. You know, shout out, phosphatidyl serine. Thank you, Pollacken. But you hinted at being a user in a time when it was really obscure. Pollacken is deep nerd, deep performance. And it's the very beginning of talking about bioptimization and looking at what our best practice is. How do you, I mean, you just hinted at that. You've been active your whole life. But no one just stumbles into that world. And then that's the lens through which you go to med school and all this advanced experience. Plus, you know, understanding your partner. This is crazy. Like it's just, you're a unicorn in that sort of lineage. We talking about that? Yeah. Well, surprised and almost embarrassed that you kind of made that connection. But I believe that we all have a certain, you know, out being kind of weird, like a Dharma that we are meant to do this kind of work. And from a very early age, I knew that my job was to be able to help people become the strongest, most capable version of themselves. And so when I was in medical school, I don't even know, is I met Charles easily over 10 years ago when I was just starting and thinking so muscle-centric medicine. And I'll get to where this goes is the idea that muscle is the largest organ system in the body. Out of aesthetics, outside of cosmetics, outside of power and strength, that skeletal muscle as an endocrine organ system is our focal point. Just like the heart has cardiologists and the endocrine, you know, the endocrinologist study the thyroid muscle is its own living, breathing dynamic entity. And I created the field of muscle-centric medicine. And in my first interface, I needed to find people that didn't think I was crazy. That didn't think that I was just some weirdo, here I am, this young female physician who is into muscle, obviously not too jacked in town, but coming at it through the lens of actually medicine. So as it exists right now, there's the lens of strength and conditioning, we need that. But then there is this whole other side and this whole other side that looks at muscle from a medical standpoint, you know, this idea of Alzheimer's, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, obesity, these are not pathologies out there. These are pathologies of skeletal muscle first. They largely begin in skeletal muscle decades before. And so this entity, the way medications affected, the way that all of the inputs that we think about traditional medicine, how this affects the cardiovascular system or the thyroid or the hormones, all affect muscle very uniquely. And so Charles didn't think I was crazy. And Charles said to me, you know, and obviously for those that you don't know, I was actually with him two weeks before he passed away. He said, Gabrielle, you're onto something and this is the future. And I said, Charles, well, tell me three people that you think I should meet. And do you know who is also on that list? You guys. No way. And Mark Bell. And Mark. Okay, I just got some chills, all right. That's amazing. So you guys are on that list. Mark Bell and, you know, Super Training was on that list. And there was one other person who was this peptide pharmacist on the list. That's a crazy story. I'm just gonna out myself and I say this inappropriate thing whenever I can. And people are like, hey, what, like people are like, what's the secret? I'm like, oh, everyone just needs cocaine and steroids. Like if you want to be the best, like, and literally that is obviously not true, everyone. But the idea is that like, you need to be more awake and lucid and you need to really lean into this thing that you are built to move, full stop. And I love this, because I really do think we've put such a big, such a primacy and need on function, right? That's the reason. And it's really been hijacked by aesthetics. I think that's really a big kind of missing conversation. But however we get there, where we get there. But this piece that you're describing, I really, it was missing from my PT school. It was missing from my grad education. We didn't talk about it. And even just recently we've learned that like, the muscle is responsible for a ton of stem cells that go in and heal bones. And like, I mean, if you don't flex the muscle, you don't heal. I mean, we're learning things about this incredible endocrine system, even in the last year that's- Are you ready for this? I just want to point something out. In the 70s, when the obesity epidemic, people started to understand what was happening. From the 70s, it was all about obesity and fat tissue, muscle and movement wasn't even part of the conversation because movement hadn't really changed. And then finally in the 2000s, when obviously nothing was working, they started to understand that muscle played a role in metabolic health. And that was 25 years ago, that's it. And if I were to kind of foreshadow, which I don't want to do, at that time in the 70s, muscle was completely irrelevant to the conversation. Nobody thought about it. And now with the use of GLP-1s, we are now entering a almost, what I believe is going to be a repeat of history. If we don't recognize that muscle's at the focal point, we're going to swap obesity for sarcopenia, right before our eyes. This episode of the Ready State Podcast is brought to you by Vitality Blueprint. And it's January, and many of us are thinking about either New Year's resolutions or kind of focused specifically on our health. Whatever, I'm in my 50s, I have to focus on my health. And one of the things you and I have been doing once or twice a year since, as long as I can remember, is a pretty comprehensive blood panel once or twice a year. And we really are believers that you have to kind of get some information about what's going on under the hood if you want to really sort of start to address your overall health and performance. And we are just stoked to be partnered with Vitality Blueprint, which is run by our friends, Dr. Andy Galpin and Dan Garner, who are both geniuses. Yeah, savages. You know, one of the things that you and I feel strongly about here at the Ready State is that we are all about assessment and that application, not playing press and guests. And if I drop into a typical person, and I'm like, hey, can I see your supplements? Can I see your lifestyle? It's all press and guests. Like, they don't know. We have best principles, right? Fruits and vegetables, like sleep. But really, the blood tells the story about your history, what's going on, where you are. And people don't realize that there are small hinges that open enormous doors. And that's what's really cool about the application of this very high-performance sort of analysis of people's blood applied to mere mortals like me. It's like, I actually get real insights that I can't get from just a thousand dumb tests. Yeah, and one of the things that you can do is actually take your blood work from another provider, even your primary care physician, and upload it into Vitality System. And then you get access to all of this awesome interpretation and advice about how to improve these markers. Yeah, and one of the things we talk about a lot in the supplement space is about how there are some basic supplements probably everybody should be taking. But then beyond that, it really does depend on, like, do you have a deficiency? So it's really important to know, like, are you vitamin D deficient? And if so, vitamin D is definitely a supplement that should be on your list, but you can't know that unless you get the test. 100%, and Vitality is the highest expression of this. And I think it's super reasonable. Check it out for yourself, VitalityBlueprint.com slash TRS, and here's the deal. Use code TRS for 50 bucks off, any Vitality plan. Do it. These guys are legit. Do it. You're very stoked. You mean going to or are? Yeah, or are. Wow, I mean, there's so much there. And before we move on, I just wanna go back to this. On the practical side, as a muscle-centric physician, what does that look like for your patients? You know, if I were to book an appointment with you, would it be because I have a specific issue? Like, and tell me what that looks like, because we obviously understand the lens of, you know, muscle from a strength and conditioning standpoint, but tell us more from a practical standpoint. What does that look like for a patient? Yeah. Our medical practice is actually called Strong Medical, which is kinda cool. And people can find it on my website, which is Dr. GabrielleLine.com. And I will also say, you know, Rob Wolfe, who has been a great friend of yours, we have helped take care of Rob. He just sent me a sub-stack that he wrote all about healing from this gastrointestinal problem. So we do everything. Again, muscle is the focal point, and there's a number of reasons as to why one would come into our clinic. The first reason is people have been to 13 other physicians and there's no answer. I am, myself, we relate to that. Myself and my team. Dr. Lisa is our lead doctor. She's also my personal physician, are relentless. And my practice actually started with elite operators. So the Tier 1 operators that would go to Mayo Clinic and go to all these different places and would never get answers. They would get the lab values that would come back and say, well, everything is normal. And obviously these guys in their entire platoon and then their wives and their families, everything kind of derailed. So there was a component of people have been to multiple physicians and everything is normal. And then they would come into our practice, whether it was Lyme, chronic fatigue, environmental exposures, a lot of gut issues, relentless in figuring it out beyond just traditional testing. And so that's really where the practice originated. Forward-facing, people will think about the practice as I wanna change my body composition. And we absolutely do that. So whether someone is really, really sick and they wanna come to us or someone is like, you know, I really wanna change my body composition. I don't want to age the way that I saw my parents age. And I wanna actually put on muscle and rework this idea of getting older as becoming this downfall of some aging trajectory. So we do all of that. So you and I have connected on Instagram about this, but I am obsessed with your quote, muscle is the organ of longevity. Like I think I've said it on like 10 Instagram videos. Like I quote it all the time. Oh, the starts are here. Yeah, and cue up the line quote. And I feel like it's such a disruptive idea. I mean, it really does, it does make a lot of sense to me that it's just been in the last 25 years that, you know, muscle as this key endocrine system has really kind of come to the fore. But, you know, just tell me a little bit about that. From, you know, and assume that our listeners are probably people in their 30s to 70s who are definitely interested in health, but why in your view is muscle like the thing? Which I agree with you by the way, but tell us more. I had always an inkling and I think that you guys can probably appreciate this as your practice and your work in the world has evolved. It was during, I'd always been focused on muscle. And the reality is I was very focused on it through a youthful lens, meaning whatever, I'm in my 20s and then I'm in my 30s and, you know, muscle is so great, it's gonna be there forever. And I'm just gonna be jacked in tan, eat protein, do push ups. Then I did my fellowship in geriatrics. And holy cow was I unprepared and ill-prepared, both mentally and physically for number one, what I was about to enter into and see. I was absolutely faced with my own mortality, rounding on 30 patients a day that were all on their deathbed. I did palliative care, I did nursing home rounds on the weekends, I would reintroduce myself to these patients that couldn't feed themselves and their families. And the devastation that I saw over two years, it took me triple that amount of time to be able to even overcome that, right? From having just dreams about it and feeling like, ah, you're a doctor, you're supposed to be able to do that. And I would say, if you are someone who cares about humanity, you are not prepared. No human is prepared if they are connected to their fellow man to see that. And I'm like, oh man, we have this all wrong as we sit here and we talk about obesity and we are doing your cardiovascular activity, I would watch, I would round on these patients. One, right, there's no conversation of resistance training, there's no care about their muscle, it's every organ system. I'm rounding on these nursing homes, you get a call at two in the morning, this patient that you've been seeing for two years falls and breaks a hip. And the next thing you know, you're at their frigging funeral. And we missed it. And that has become the norm and it's not. So, as I started seeing this and then seeing the impact that it had on the families and the patient and myself, as a fellow is someone who's doing advanced training, we all get a project. And my project that I chose was looking at body composition and brain function. How did I tie my geriatric training with my training in nutrition? As I was advancing, I went to WashU, which is the Midwest, another very rigorous school. And I saw this one woman, she was in her mid 50s and she was like so bubbly and dark curly hair and just talking about her kids. And I image this woman's brain and her brain looked like an Alzheimer's brain, beginning of an Alzheimer's brain. And why she was metabolically unhealthy. She had gone through the same yo-yo dieting and every time she did what the doctors told her, she lost more muscle and put on fat. And I couldn't live with myself. I'm like, we can't. And then I went to my colleagues, I'm like, hey guys, this is what I'm seeing and what is our answer to this? And they were like, well, this is just the way that it is. Do some aerobics or jog and eat the food guy pyramid. And that wasn't good enough for me. And so you asked this question, this is the longest answer of where I came up with this idea that muscle is the organ of longevity. It wasn't through flowers and unicorns, it was through seeing a lot of death and pain and seeing how the medical establishment had made multiple mistakes over multiple decades. Wow, that's, it's a lot. So I would love if you could talk about like the deep, and maybe we could just choose one of these things that we all fear in getting older. And I think the one that comes to mind for many of us is dementia Alzheimer's. My dead left going down, but carry on. Yeah, besides Kelly's dead left going down and dying of a tooth abscess, those are two. You gotta definitely fix that Kelly. That's like not a good look for anybody. Yeah. I would just love to, if you could really talk like deep science on how does having muscle mass potentially prevent you from getting something like dementia or Alzheimer's. It's called Frank. And they're in it's. Give us the details. And this is, and I'm sorry that this is sounds depressing. And, you know, I'm sure that people come to you because they want to hear how to be mobile and how to be more like the supple leopard and all of, and yes, and if we don't face the realities of where the majority of our population is going then we never get to course correct. And if we take a big step out and we think, okay, well, what does muscle do? Muscle, we know for that mobility part, the strength and Kelly's dead lift. But then what else does it do? And what are the unique characteristics of muscle? And I would say that the following, well, muscle is your primary metabolic sync. Healthy muscle at rest doesn't actually burn much carbohydrates. It burns primarily fat, which people are often really surprised, but it is the place where you dispose of carbohydrates that you're eating. Okay. Also, it is your amino acid reservoir, meaning those proteins, your body is, it's not this on off switch. Your body is always going through turnover at night when you're not eating the, all the enzymes in your body, everything requires these back, these proteins, these amino acids, everything. So it is your body armor against injury, your body armor against disease. And it's your protection mechanism, both mechanically and metabolically. So that's another aspect. And then as an endocrine system, and as this entity that houses stem cells and immune cells, the more healthy muscle mass you have, the greater your survivability against nearly all cause disease. And in fact, and I'll just throw this one more thing out there. We just published a paper myself and my colleagues at Baylor. I was the senior author and it looked at the relationship. Every guy is going to like this between sexual function and muscle mass and strength. And guess what? While those urologists think something else is the organ of longevity, it just so happens that the more healthy muscle mass you have, the greater your sexual function. And that's because it helps with endothelial function, which is the health of your arteries and it helps with blood flow and helps with metabolic health. So if you want good erections, have good healthy muscle. And by the way, I don't think this is depressing at all. I find this to be fascinating and fascinating that it is really just such a new, it's just so new, which is really amazing. It's amazing to me that this hasn't been part of the conversation for the last 50 years. And as someone who was a part of the sort of, Kelly and I call it the diet wars, like I've told a lot of people on this podcast, but I was a division one rower at Berkeley during the low fat diet and crazed time. And Kelly and I were like- You mean low fat, low protein? Low fat, low protein. So I mean, I look back in horror at how I was able to function as an athlete, living on like bagels and red vines. Sounds good. You know, fortunately, human beings are resilient. But one of the things that I'm seeing, I do feel, and I know from the data, in terms of women in particular, being interested in going to gyms and signing up for gyms and specifically stating that resistance training is something they wanna do. I know lots more women are doing it. And I still at the same time feel like a lot of women, maybe even a majority still, really fear resistance training. And I think that's part of the reason why- You think it's your resistance training? Or no, it's about aesthetics. Not familiar with resistance training and worrying about changing their way they look. And I also think that's part of the reason why Pilates has had this huge explosion, because I think there's a lot of women who are like, okay, okay, like I can't just blow myself out running or doing cardio. And I know I need to do something resistance training. And I hear that Pilates will give me long, lean, toned muscles, which all are things that make no sense. And so I'm gonna try Pilates, right? And I see this in my own community. I live in, we live in Marin County, where it's an affluent suburb of San Francisco. And I see a lot of women in particular consuming this information. I think now really knowing even how important muscle is, but somehow not being able to get over this mental hurdle of thinking, okay, I can't get over the aesthetic piece that I'm gonna start to look muscular, which is a way I don't wanna look. And I imagine you experienced this as well. And I know in Forever Strong, you talk about how important identity is here. And so I'm sure that could be layered into this. But what is your approach? And is it just because we're early and that we're eventually gonna convert people and it's just a matter of time? Or how do you approach sort of this like resistance to resistance trick? It's a great question. And there is the PC answer, which is the soft answer like, okay, ladies, you're not gonna get too bulky and just do it anyway, it's gonna be okay. So that is the answer that I think people like to hear. But the real answer is the following. Is it,  that you can't or that you won't. Can you be too rich, too pretty, too young? Like, is that going to happen or too jacked? The reality is, no. There's no one or 95% of the population, aside from my husband, who looks at a weight and becomes jacked. We're past that. So is it, A, a narrative so that if I choose to believe that, then that means I don't have to do it and I'm not accountable for doing that because I am anchored in this one belief, because I would say, ladies, if you're listening to this, please name one woman that you know that has become too bulky. I'll wait, just one. Moving on. Right, and you're like, you're still waiting. But I mean, is it, again, so is this a repetitive conversation because it's a true fear or is it, hey, you know what, if I believe this, then I don't have to do it? Okay, I mean, maybe. So let's say we've surmounted that hill and now we're done and now everybody who's listening to this hates me and thinks I'm such a jerk. Okay, fine. Well, I will say that it is a non-negotiable. And if Pilates was enough, then we would have our astronauts and our seals and all of these people that put their life on the line just doing Pilates. Yes. You do Pilates and go to the Olympics. That's all you do. But the other thing that I'll say, Kali, one more thing. No, please, please. We've been lifting weights our whole life. I have a toddler that's 50 pounds. I have a lot of groceries and a lot of luggage and I move furniture. I've been doing this my whole life. And every single person listening to this show has been lifting weights their whole life. Period, end of story. Right, it may not be a barbell, but you are lifting. One of the things that I think is, I see, I call it extra fitnessing. We're doing fitness-like activities. That is like a hobby. And I'll put it into like, hey, what do you do for enjoyment? I go dancing. Like I'm like, okay, dancing is not fitness and strength conditioning. It's dancing, it's great. And I'm all for it. I feel like a lot of exercise has become entertainment. And I'm gonna call it exercising because it doesn't meaningfully move the needle on bone density. It doesn't meaningfully move the needle. I mean, I tried all the Vibactin, ate all the calcium juice, didn't work. It doesn't put that lean muscle mass on. Can you quantify what a healthy muscle mass is? Because this is something that I think people haven't wrapped their head around. It would be great. I think more people could understand, like, oh yeah, okay, body fat, this range, that's decent. Right, and everybody's starting to get a dexa scan on Iverman, but a lot of people are getting what's the thing? And then all they look at is the bone density. Which is great. First step first, but quantify how much lean muscle, and I mean, fatty muscle, I'll take this muscle. How much muscle you have. This episode of the Ready, Stay podcast is brought to you by Element. And here we are in the middle of winter. It's dark. It's dark and sad. We're on the uptick. We're on the uptick since this January, but it's dark and cold. Yeah, and what we see is that oftentimes, you're not getting the signaling from light, you're feeling a little groggy. And what you're doing is reaching for coffee. Or candy. Maybe it's just maybe I'm reaching for coffee all day long. I'm like, let's have another Americano. The problem that we're gonna help you solve today is that all of this caffeine afternoon is wrecking your sleep. It's making you hardy with sleep and it's disrupting the quality. Yeah, it's like each passing year of our life, we move our last caffeine early. It used to be like two or three and now it's noon. Three, I'd be like four o'clock. I didn't even have a spress before, I gotta bet. But sometimes it's cold, you need a little bump at four o'clock. And that's where we always bring in the hot element these days. I mean, we always both have a huge cup of hot element at the office or when we're working at home that we're just sipping on all day. And it really does make a difference. And it's like you're still at work and it's dark and it feels like it's 10 o'clock at night. And somehow that hot element at three or four in the afternoon helps us get through. Number one, you're gonna get less caffeine early in the day which we need to do. And number two, I guarantee you're not drinking enough water in this cold, because that's, we have to remind all our wood traps. And on top of that, you're getting some nice salt and magnesium and potassium. And it tastes so good. Stop it, it's not about, it's never about taste. It's all about performance. Right now if you order through our link, you can get a free sample of elements most popular drink mixed flavors. Of course, if you want to party in your mouth, try the sparkling, go to drinklmnt.com slash trs. We literally drink it every day. Hey, if you're enjoying the show, make sure you're subscribed wherever you get your podcasts. That way you won't miss any of the new episodes we drop. Plus, it really helps other people find the show. So hit that follow button now and let's get back to it. What does that look like if I'm having that conversation? Let's frame the conversation before I give you a direct answer as to what the landscape is. So BMI, body mass index was meant to find information, population-based information. So it's like this height, weight situation where someone like you guys would be considered overweight or obese because you have muscle. It is population-based information, not very helpful. People still look at BMI, we've all recognized that there are limitations. Move to body fat percentage, which is DEXA. DEXA is this machine that will show the body in compartments, shows how much bone density you have, how much fat mass, and then extrapolates lean body mass. Lean body mass includes everything beyond bone and fat. It includes organs, it includes everything. It doesn't tell you how much skeletal muscle mass you have. So we think that it's about 40% of lean body mass. That's terrible, the idea that we have decades of research based on a estimate. Okay, just throwing that out there. We have an idea of what percent body fat is unhealthy, but we don't really have an idea of what percent healthy muscle mass would actually be valuable for people. And I'm gonna take a step further. Roughly, it should be 40% body weight. Great, is that a great estimate? I mean, we have some frailty index, but all of that is based on disease. So we don't actually have a scale in which we can say this is the optimal amount of muscle, nobody can say that. Now, one step further, here's where I think the future is, because this is what I think is the most meaningful number is. Frankly, I don't think body fat matters almost at all. I don't think it matters. I think it's almost irrelevant bystander. I think what really matters is... Wait, wait, we're just gonna pause. Let everyone's mind unexplode for a second. Okay, carry on. Body fat doesn't matter. Body fat is irrelevant. Whether you're 30%, 20%, it doesn't matter. The real pathology is the intermuscular fat. The real pathology that has metabolic outcomes is actually the fat in the muscle, which we don't measure for. It's still within research, but that's actually what is most about... And if Charles was here, he would be like, see, I knew you went to school for a reason, because it's the percentage of intermuscular adipose tissue. So there's inter and intra, and it's that percentage that likely pushes negative metabolic outcomes. So for example, let's just say we have a lineman that's 30% body fat, and then we have another person who's sedentary with 30% body fat. Both have the exact same weight and the exact same, quote, muscle. But the lineman has an intermuscular adipose tissue that's really low, meaning their muscle looks like a filet, not a wagyu steak, versus the sedentary person with 30% body fat, now they both have the same, with a muscle that looks like a wagyu steak that has elevated levels of glucose, elevated levels of insulin, elevated levels of triglyceride. Both appear to have 30% body fat. One is metabolically healthy, one is metabolically unhealthy. That is the number that matters. It's the intermuscular adipose tissue that is going to be what determines in the next five years if we're healthy or not. Amazing. So that intermuscle adipose tissue, it seems like not being sedentary is a one way to avoid it, but how well it is the way. So it's, I'm assuming it's movement, it's resistance training, it's cardiovascular exercise, it's sort of like the triad of movement that we are all promoting that everybody does. But I don't think people think about that, right? You're like, oh my God, I'd wanna try to avoid having this intermuscle, but here's the thing that's so extraordinary. And this is what actually becomes empowering. And I learned this because I was on my own podcast, which you guys are gonna be coming on. I have these world leading experts. I have these innovators and I had an MD PhD who is the world leading expert on PCOS, which is Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome, the number one cause of female infertility. And I was like, Dr. Kree, what percent body fat is totally screwing people up? She was Gabrielle has nothing to do with body fat. It has to do with the intermuscular adipose tissue that we see under MRI, that when people are exercising, we see decreases. Regardless if body fat percentage changes. So I need everybody to hear me because if we then move from muscle as this performance organ system, which it is, I mean, listen, everybody wants to be better. It's at least I do, right? Wants to be better at movement. The simple act of engaging in resistance training, and I cover this in my playbook, two, three days a week, a three day a week plan, the simple act of contracting that skeletal muscle, whether you increase your muscle mass or you decrease body fat, will improve the quality of the muscle tissue, which then has a downstream effect on cardiovascular disease, sexual function, diabetes, Alzheimer's, because that simple act of taking voluntary control by three days a week of resistance training throwing some vilpa, some vigorous intermittent activity, like after this, I'm gonna do some push-ups and maybe some jump around something, improves the intermuscular adipose tissue like that. So you know what this makes me think of, and this is not science, but my mom's best friend, my mom is now in her 80s and her best friend Linda, I think is 82, and all of our childhood, Linda was like by far my mom's most athletic friend. And at the same time, she was always probably like 20 pounds overweight. So never obese, but like a bigger woman, right? And it's been really interesting to watch them all age and see my mom's friend Linda actually now in her 80s, looks to be like to me by far, the most durable of all of them, because she's gotten a little older, she does actually look a little bit leaner, but I feel like she's sort of an example of that. Like she was someone who maybe on the surface did not look jacked into him, but because she was so athletic, my guess is that she had very little intramuscular adipose tissue and has aged so well and so durably, both physically and mentally, but definitely does not have the kind of like body aesthetically that we think we're looking for. I mean, I don't know if that's, again, not science, but that's what I thought of when you were talking about this. This is an important point because now this brings back performance and muscle. I believe there's a lot of conversation around strength, that people should just train to be strong and then mass doesn't matter. I disagree with that. I do think that on one hand, that decreased intramuscular adipose tissue, if we're gonna meet people where they're at is critical. On the same hand, the idea of it's like saving for retirement, putting as much muscle tissue down as you can will benefit all of these meaningful outcomes that we want. And so I do think that there are, that there is, again, beyond just the metabolic component, the sheer ability of mass and strength and maintaining those type two muscle fibers and building that is critical for aging. And I joke, you guys were recently at a conference and you were talking about kind of like this biohack space without saying the biohacking space. And we're seeing kind of a shift. I think that when we were, I don't wanna say younger, but maybe 10 or 20 years ago, people were talking about reading muscle and fitness and being jacked and biohacking this skinny drinking soy was like not a thing, right? I mean, don't hate me, but it wasn't. And now we're seeing this shift because we're entering this new era of being on the computer sitting, we didn't have social media. You were strong and you were in it and you're at the gym, you're gonna crossfit, we're like, we're doing all these things. And what I imagine will happen is as the biohacking community gets more attuned to bring back to mobility and strength, we're gonna circle back to the foundations, which is what you and I believe in to build for long lasting legacy health. So we have so much to talk about, including your new amazing book, but before we do that, we would be remiss in at least not touching on the nutrition piece, which is such an important part of this whole muscle discussion. And I don't even know how to tackle this in a short amount of time, but what do you think we're getting wrong from a nutrition standpoint still? Where do you see your patients struggling the most? And what is your philosophy on nutrition and protein? Yes, I love this question and I can get it done for you in four minutes or less. Are you ready? Now, I'm trained professionally in nutritional sciences by one of the world-leading experts in protein metabolism. What I am about to tell you, I will share where the evidence is and where my professional opinion is. There's a million different ways to do a nutrition plan right. However, there are a handful of core fundamental principles that we have to get right for the reality of where we live. So let's take a step back. The majority of people are overweight or obese, roughly 74% of the population. Most people, easily 50% of the population does not meet the minimum exercise requirements. Why do I say this? Because all of this matters because it reflects the health of skeletal muscle, which is that intermuscular adipose tissue, the quality of that tissue is low. If we believe that obesity and sedentary behavior will mirror muscle quality, then I would say roughly 74% of people have unhealthy skeletal muscle. So when we talk about framing up a nutrition plan, we can't have some nebulous idea of who we're talking to. What's the reality right now? The reality is most people are eating between anywhere, let's just say 80 grams of protein a day. 80 grams of protein a day is above, quote, the minimum requirement to prevent deficiencies. Last time I checked, no one cares about that. We're not trying to be the bare minimum. So the minimum amount of protein, and again, this could be a nuanced conversation, but I only have three more minutes left. Dietary protein is the only and most important essential macronutrient as we age. You need more of it. You make a protein decision based on three things. Age, the older you are, if you are over 40, you need more protein. Number two, if you are sedentary, you need more protein. And three, if you are metabolically unhealthy, meaning you have elevated blood sugar, lipids, insulin, and are struggling with obesity, you need to reorient yourself to the idea that dietary protein is really important. Okay, as we think about how much we need in an overall period of time, the minimum for everyone listening is 100 grams of protein. Below that, it loses its metabolic effect. It does a whole host of other things. When you eat for muscle health, everything else falls in line. So minimum of 100 grams. We need it for these essential amino acids. How do you, if you are sedentary and older, the worst of all worlds, is to eat small protein high carbohydrate diets, i.e. welcome to the food guide pyramid. Your first meal should have 30 to 50 grams of high quality protein. High quality protein include whey, lean meats, eggs, dairy, chicken, if you can kill it, if it flies, if it comes from an animal, it's considered high quality. This is not an emotional statement. This is just hard-fast biological numbers. That might be a little harsh. If you are a vegan or vegetarian, then you can have a rice, pea, soy, shake, add in some essential amino acids, and you're covered. You're now protecting muscle. You're also reducing appetite. You're increasing your will of avoiding muffins and everything else. And you've stimulated your muscle in an appropriate dose to be able to help protect against aging. So if we just wanted to pick a number, 0.7 to one gram per pound of target body weight, that's protein. And I love that 100 grand. I mean, we say in our start-up system program, we say 0.8 because we've found that that seems to be a number of people can reasonably hit it, right? And it's within that, which is, I think, twice the sort of recommended daily allowance, by the way, which again, we all agree is like, let's just survive. I like to vote with rickets and scurvy. I mean, those minimums are good for me. We know that that number is a completely relevant number, so everyone asks, is the RDA, are we eating? So the RDA for those listening is the recommended dietary allowance, which is based on nitrogen balance studies, which is from the early 1900s. And there's not one known-to-man health outcome from a nitrogen balance study. It's an irrelevant number. You say that like it's a problem. It's an irrelevant number. And the other thing, which I cover in the book, which is new and based on research, and we're gonna be publishing a paper on this, is called carbohydrate tolerance. And this is new in the playbook, which I'm really excited to share. It's this idea that we don't think about carbohydrates in an overall amount. We think about carbohydrates in a meal-to-meal amount. The average American eats 300 grams of carbohydrates a day. That's three oral glucose tolerance tests a day. Remember when you had babies and you had to drink that sugar? That's what people are doing. So the reality is if you are sedentary and struggling with your body fat percentage, then you cannot dispose of more than 40 grams of carbohydrates in a two-hour period. That's- Boom, I love this. I love these guidelines. I love this. Okay, so I think you do talk about this in your new book. So I think I'd love to just switch over to deep diving if we can on the Forever Strong Playbook, which is the follow-up to your amazing book, which I mentioned earlier, New York Times, Miss Heller, congratulations, Forever Strong. And Timmy, I see this book as, Forever Strong was like the why you should care about muscle and the science behind it. And this is how you actually implement, and I don't know if this is the right word, like a muscle-centric lifestyle. Is that a correct description of this book? Basically, it's actually the first book of its kind. The final copy will be a bigger version with glossy pages, and it has illustrations, it has recipes, it has, it's hardcover, and it is meant to bring with you. So it deals with everything that you could imagine has protocols for hat, for colds, for recovery. Again, it is the first of its kind, and it has mobility, foundational fives. How do we think about injury prevention? Everything that I wish that I'd had in a first book, I put in this one. Yee-haw. Yes. This episode of the Ready State Podcast is brought to you by Momentus. And as we are in January, a time when many of us are revisiting or recommitting to a health practice, I think it's so important for us to double down on talking about this idea of the Momentus standard. Yeah, 100%. Look, we know if you're in this community, you're probably taking creatine, you're probably taking Omega, you may even have a protein powder. I want to say, okay, let's take the next step, you're doing the right thing. Let's start putting your money where your mouth is, and let's make sure the things that you're taking are safe. I think you wouldn't, you know, when you just go into the wild west of supplements on Amazon where people are getting their stuff, oh, I got a good deal, or I like this cookie flavor, or they had it at Costco, I have to be straight up and clear, you absolutely need to make sure that your supplements are NSF certified, so that what's in them is in there, and they're not contaminated, and you're getting ethically, like meaningfully sourced ingredients. Like that is the standard everyone should describe to. Yeah, it's so interesting because the supplement industry is very lightly regulated, if at all. It's super easy and inexpensive to enter. The companies are not really required to disclose anything. They're not obligated to prove purity or accuracy. So it's interesting, we've been describing that as like the supplement industry is a low trust category, and on the opposite end of that, Momentus' whole like creed as a company is to be a high trust company, and what makes them different is NSF certification, transparency, sourcing the best possible ingredients out there, and I think that's why you and I feel so comfortable talking about these and recommending Momentus products and using them ourselves and letting our kids use them. 100%, and we know so many people who get blood tested for sports, don't mess it up. If you wanna learn more, go to livemomentus.com slash TRS, and use code TRS and save up to 35% on your first order. Yeah, and I think we all know, there's so much information out there, and it is pretty obvious that just consuming more of it isn't changing people's ways. It's so much more complicated than that, it really is people need a how-to manual, and I see this as such a vital how-to manual in a space where we still, I think they're, we joke we have a neighbor whose entire health practice is listening to podcasts about health, but he doesn't actually do anything, he just consumes information, so he can talk about the latest and greatest science and information and what we're learning and how to live long, but that doesn't translate into action for him, so I think this book is just so important for that. So one of the things you touched on earlier, I know that you address as well in the forever strong playbook is GLP Ones. This is just such a hot topic everywhere, and I know that you actually are, I don't know if I would say you're a fan of them, but you prescribed them. I am a fan of them. And you, I think are a fan, but they come with a like yes, but, and can you talk about what that is? And how to sort of avoid what we talked about earlier in the episode, which is this epidemic of sarcopenia, where we switch, we go from one, we trade one problem for another, thanks to these amazing drugs. So they accelerate muscle loss if you are not training and doing resistance, or if you're not doing resistance training and having enough dietary protein, they will accelerate muscle loss. And there's not something magical specific to muscle that happens. So I think that if we look at the evidence, it's not that GLP Ones are degrading muscle faster, it's that it allows for people to slow their gastric emptying, meaning they feel full longer. It allows them to restrict calories. And what happens is, I actually think GLP Ones are good for muscle because they can help decrease intramuscular adipose tissue, but without the majority of people go off of them in two years, and we know that 96% of weight that is lost ends up being regained. And so why is this a problem? Because it's not gained in muscle, it's gained in fat. And this, it will just accelerate the cycle earlier, but they can work great in lower doses, this idea of micro dosing. There's a whole host of positive ways it can work, just have to be really careful and understand that it's not a replacement for good habits and standards. This conversation is so important. One of the things that we're talking about is we're talking about aging well, being useful, warding off morbidity and mortality. One of the aspects that I have to address all the time is we have a lot of joint pain. And we have now come to view osteoarthritis really bad away. These are metabolic diseases. These joints are just subjected to a lot of internal stress. Well, this was a nice way of putting it. One of the things that I think is lost in this conversation about muscle mass and strength is that we're looking at just back pain, low back pain. The first time I read a paper, I think it's like 2004. And we're talking about people that chronic low back pain have these multifidae, which are muscles that are sort of next to the spine, everybody. And that they noticed is that people that chronic back pain didn't move because they were in pain. And those muscles were infested with fat. They had a lot of this intramuscular fat. And it was an indicator of sort of loss of function. And more importantly, what we saw are to see is that people lost stability, they lost gapping, they lost sort of, you know, we see that people who have unstable shoulders often have this thing called the sulcus sign, which is where you just, the capsule is a little bit, the shoulder's a little loosey-goosey, you pull down on the shoulder and you can see a little gap between the head of the, the humerus and the shoulder. And the solution for that is a big beefy deltoid. So we don't even think about creating stability and less joint pain and less threat signal into the brain. You're talking about covering a lot of issues, just getting people stronger. Could you talk just for a second? Let's say that I'm listening to this, and I'm like, okay, okay, okay, I need to get strong. What does that look like? Because Peloton tells me it's do 100 reps, or I go to my spin class and do 100 reps. And we've already, I love Pilates for all of its connective tissue and recovery and positional things. But I always say, hey, if you're gonna do Pilates and you just swing a really heavy kettlebell and do some sprints too. Where do, what should someone look for in a muscle-centric strength program? One, I love this question and you're absolutely right. We do see this in imaging. It's not just about progressive overload. It's really about progressive stimulus. And we recognize that everyone is in various points in their journey, whether they're beginner, intermediate, or advanced, and understanding that you do have to be strong and pacing it enough that your tendons and joints and ligaments are able to keep up, right? So we're hearing a lot of information in the landscape and most of the training information is targeted towards the younger population that my mom, who's 74, should go out and she should squat. Well, she does that, she's probably gonna get hurt. But she can't just not move because I don't want her at risk for osteoarthritis or back pain. And that sedentary musculature does become weaker, less contractile, also poorer in metabolic health. So in my mind, a well-designed program has both strength, mobility, all of the components that are then incorporated into everyday life. It's not just about training in the gym. It is about training for life. I love it. So I know that you've got to run but two more questions if we could. If someone participates, like what's your hopeful outcome if somebody does your entire program in the forever strong playbook? What can people expect their life or body to be different following this program because I think it could be quite different? Freedom, not just physical freedom but mental freedom. The fastest way to become free is to move your body and your mind will follow. I love it. I love it. Well, I just wanna say this book is amazing. We were lucky enough to get an early copy and it's so practical and so valuable and I really do think is such an important toolkit for people building a resilient body as they age. So thank you for writing it and I'm so excited for it to be out in the world for everybody. Last question we ask all of our guests. It's we call it the infinite shelf and if you could.  just tell us a book or show or piece of music that you are loving listening to and might recommend to your friends and our listeners that we can add to our- Okay, it's not baby shark. All right, just kidding. If you have not read the book, Relentless, you shouldn't, by Tim Grover. Relentless or winning, you have to read that book, those books, those are books that I always refer back to. I love that. Yes, and that's, I love it. And if you want to, you're in the mood for a movie, 300 is great. Oh yeah, we love that movie. Okay, last but not least, where can people find you, learn more about your book? I truly cannot recommend Forever Strong enough. I mean, to me, this is like a- Where we pre-order this thing? For anybody who cares about aging, and then anyone who wants to sort of put this to good use, the Forever Strong playbook is definitely the perfect companion. You can, first of all, I'm so grateful that you guys took the time to talk to me about this book, because it's something very meaningful. Again, we talk about protein, we talk about muscle, but what we're really talking about is building stronger, more resilient humans, and nobody knows more about that than you two. This book is available for pre-order now, and what you people might not recognize is that if you guys order it now, first of all, there's a ton of free stuff that comes with it, but more importantly, it helps put wings to the movement of what we're doing, no pun intended, because it increases visibility for the book. And so we're not just ordering a book, we're actually trying to support a movement. You can go to Amazon, you can go to Barnes & Noble, wherever books are sold, you can find me on my website, or Instagram handle, at DrShareBrainLine.com, plus my podcast, our newsletter, our YouTube, or Strong Medical, all of the things. Perfect. Perfect. Thank you so much. We are so grateful for you being here, and spending some time with us. We're such fans, such fans of your work, and this has just been a total delight for us. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. Thank you. Hey, Kelly and Juliet here. If you're ready to feel strong, move freely, and have a body that's built to last for life, we've got something special for you, the Star Ed System. It's our 12-week strength and lifestyle training program. We designed it so you don't have to guess what works anymore. We blend strength, mobility, and recovery into one smart system that actually sticks. Over 12 weeks, you'll train with us and learn from our expert guests, build strength, lose the stiffness, wake up with more energy, and finally feel in control of your body again. The first 2026 cohort starts January 12th, and early birds get $200 off. If that sounds like your kind of move, go to thereadystate.com slash system to apply. We'd love to help you show up stronger, more capable, and ready for anything life throws at you. Let's make it happen. We'll see you inside.

=== FILE: Pelvic Floor Secrets： What Every Man & Woman Should Know with Dr. Sara Reardon [zXkvqdOo9jM].txt ===

 Subject I would love to tackle is painful s***s, what that means for women and what that means for relationships. If you're in perimenopause, some of the things that you may start noticing are dryness during intercourse. You may have to feel like you are using lubricant or there's just dryness or itchiness, feeling a pressure or heaviness in the vagina. Dr. Sarah Reardon, Dr. Sarah Reardon, Dr. Sarah Reardon, also known as the vagina whisperer, is the power of social media to educate women about their health. She is out with her first book, Floored, a women's guide to pelvic floor health at every age and stage. Word-certified pelvic floor physical therapist. She is the founder and the chief vagina officer of the vagina whisperer, an online pelvic floor workout program for women of every age and stage. What would be an ideal postpartum care situation? You know, I think there's always like a level of like, I'll take this, but the dream would be this. What is wrong with society that women have children and then we're like, good luck. Why is it that we have to sort of wait till there's a problem or react? That is the way that our medical system works and it's really unfortunate and ineffective. This episode is sponsored by Laird Superfood. One of the things I'm on a mission to do is to get adults to eat breakfast again. Yeah, and one of the reasons that we're really excited about people eating breakfast is we need to eat enough and in most cases more protein. And if you skip an entire meal, you're behind already. Like by the time you get to lunch, you can't catch up. Could not agree more. The other thing that we're seeing is that sometimes people just aren't breakfast people. I have a daughter who's not a breakfast person. I'm sitting next to not a breakfast person. I am not a breakfast person. And you have trained yourself to get some micronutrients and some macronutrients, specifically protein in the morning. And I really appreciate it about you. Yeah, but one of the ways that I get a few calories on as well as 12 grams of protein is with Laird Superfood protein creamer. What's great about this is that it's the classic mushroom blends, like all these super functional mushrooms, plus all of the micronutrients and great healthy fats from the creamer, then they've added a little protein. And what's nice about it is, and I think you know this, is a lot of proteins don't mix well with other things. No, not at all. But this is not the case. This makes a super smooth and creamy, yummy, tasty cup of coffee with protein. It is a vegan plant-based protein. And it's so tasty. Yeah, it's equivalent of two eggs. And so what I think is like, you're like, hey, I'm in a hurry. I'm going to have this nutrient dense coffee. And I'm beginning to have my bases covered. And I think that's how I really like to think about it. Yeah, I mean, before I train, I leave the house with, you know, a little bit of coffee, which keeps me alive. Some general calories. It's my pre-workout of coffee. Some adaptogens and some protein on board. Yeah, you can't beat it. And I think if you're traveling, you and I travel, we always seek out the coffee. Now we have a, like, we often don't eat breakfast when we travel. We just like kind of go on to the day. We just hope. So this is an easy way to meet your needs. A nutrient dense cup, all we're doing is adding in enough protein to just maintain your muscle mass. I think this is a great, great solution for those of you who don't like breakfast. Which I'm one of those people. Yeah, yes you are. To learn more, go to lairdsuperfood.com slash trs and use code TRS20 for 20% off and free shipping. This segment is powered by our friends at the World as You'll Know It. Their latest season, the future of aging, dives straight into the holy grail of medicine, slowing or even reversing aging. They bring in leading voices from biology, neuroscience and medicine to ask whether we can reprogram cells, reboot immune systems and extend health span, not just lifespan. Imagine 20 extra years of trail runs, back squats and grand kid piggybacks because researchers cracked the code on cellular damage. Sound sci-fi, but these guests are running the experiments right now. Episodes unpack everything from molecular tweaks to brain plasticity drills. Plus a sober look at which miracle supplements don't deliver. For anyone chasing longevity through smart training like our ReadyState tribe, this podcast is essential listening. Search the world as you'll know it. The future of aging. Hit follow and stay ahead of the curve. Let's get into today's show. Dr. Reardon, welcome to the ReadyState podcast. Thanks so much for having me. So we are here today to talk about your amazing new book called Florida. It's a women's guide to pelvic floor health at every age. And I'm just going to kick it off because I loved the subtitle of the introduction. And that is the current state of down there care. So what is the current state of down there care? So unfortunately it is in a poor state because I feel like we're not really talking about a lot of the pelvic floor issues that women are experiencing. And just to clarify, all genders can experience pelvic floor issues. All genders have a pelvic floor. I focus this book solely on women's health and pelvic health issues because that's where I have the majority of my experience in my 18 years of practicing. And also because women are more vulnerable to pelvic floor issues because they go through experiences like pregnancy and postpartum and menopause. But more women experience urinary leakage than osteoporosis, high blood pressure and diabetes, yet they're less likely to get treatment for pelvic floor issues. And I think we really need to start having these conversations so that women and medical providers are aware that this type of care, pelvic floor therapy is available and very successful in treating these issues so that women aren't suffering silently. We're in this really amazing time where bright physios, bright instructors are moving what was traditionally held in offices behind walls. You're saying, you know, we describe it as there's a lot of very highly skilled work, but then there's a lot of information and a lot of practice that we're going to call unskilled. And when I mean unskilled, I don't mean that it's not technical, that it's not sophisticated, but that it can be done by a person. And one of the things that I love about this book and I love about your approach is that it's so much organized and centric around shifting low side of control back to the person. It's not saying, here's a book about clinical diagnosis, here are the questions you need to act your practitioners, but here's what you can do to have some agency and to change your own experience around this sort of very hidden process that frankly no one talks about and is all too prevalent. Right. And you know, I mean, that's an amazing way to say it. And I'm like, come on tour with me because that's a perfect song. But you know, I think one of the, this is a silent epidemic. I mean, you know, the statistics are very clear. One in three women will experience a public tour issue at some point in her lifetime. 50% of women over the age of 65 leak urine. We spend billions of dollars on pelvic floor dysfunction and we're often treating the symptoms instead of getting to the root cause of the problem. And I think as physical therapists, we're really trained to kind of look to always take a step back. You know, we're not just slapping on cold packs and hot packs and medications. We're like, what led to this dysfunction? And I think that in the realm of pelvic health, when you're not incorporating a pelvic floor physical therapist or occupational therapist, we're missing the lens of what's causing this. So we're just women are continuing to have these problems. They're affecting their quality of life, their work life, their ability to mother to have intimate relationships to exercise. And we've kind of been told to just deal with them like, oh, you have a vagina and you've had babies, you're getting older. Oh, no, no, here's another undergarment that you can wear. Here is special exercise clothing. Right. I mean, it's now we make underwear with pads in them. Like, how about that? Like, look at all the innovation we're doing for you. And it's really like, really, this is the only option that we have when it's actually not the only option. So you have this phrase you use called common, but not normal to talk about pelvic floor issues. And so I just, I'm wondering if you can sort of, and I'm sure people listening to this, you know, many of my friends have experienced a lot of these issues, but like, what are the, what would you say are the top common, but not normal pelvic floor health issues you see? I want to jump in just because Juliet and I, Juliet's married to a physio. And for a hundred thousand years, I've been like, that's not normal. She's like, I'm normal. It's just not typical. And so I really appreciate this language, common, but not normal, because it is important to say, hey, what should we expect out of our bodies? What is, what is baseline function? And I think it's important to define that. Yeah. And at different stages of our life, you know, Correct. Do, right, because we, we have a pelvic floor throughout our whole life and probably a different experience, but like, exactly at what point do we know we have a problem versus, you know, there's got to be some normal changes to our pelvic floor. So talk us through this whole common, but not normal idea. You know, and I think one of the challenges with people not even knowing the difference between common and normal is that we don't even talk about this part of our body. Most women don't even know it exists. Young women don't know what exists. So when there's a problem with it, they can't attribute it to like, oh, that's a pelvic floor problem. Is it common or normal? They're like, we don't even know it's there. And so I think a lot of it goes back to just the lack of awareness we're taught about the pelvic floor from a very young age. And that's really why I start the book like with menstruation. And particularly for people who have, you know, daughters or young children, it's that if we can start talking about what's normal when we're young with the normal way to pee, the normal way to poop, what's normal for periods, pain is not normal. Being able to insert menstrual products comfortably is normal. Pain, free gynecological exams, normal. But when we don't even know what's normal and what's not, we can't even, you know, kind of start to discriminate. Well, oh, is this a problem? And then where do I go seek help? And then as we start getting sexually active, when we maybe go through pregnancy or childbirth, a lot of the common but not normal symptoms start to arise like urinary leakage or discomfort with intercourse or cesarean scar pain or prolapse or even what we call like a mummy tummy like weak abs for due to a diastasis recti. And a lot of this is like, oh, you're, you've had babies or you're getting older, this is normal. But again, it's not normal. Normal means that we can function without pathology or symptoms or disease. But, you know, we're kind of just taught as women to deal with them and figure out how to, you know, work around the dysfunction versus actually treat it. And so a lot of this, I think, is to a lack of awareness and education. And then also, once we do have the courage to discuss the pelvic floor issues, say with a medical provider, it's kind of dismissed as, oh, that's normal when in fact it's not. Yeah, you know, in the pre-roll, I just talked about how I'm seeing a little bit of a shift in my daughter's conversations about their body functions and how comfortable they are discussing their periods and, you know, and just that they're like, yeah, this is like a man or just as just human beings being human beings. And they've really begun to normalize that. Oftentimes, we, because we went to gym for so long, initiated a lot and we had a pelvic floor therapist on staff for a long time. And we initiated a lot of conversations around, we'll call it pelvic floor dysfunction, when it was related to performance. And we found that that was an easy way in for a lot of people to initiate a conversation because we said, hey, we noticed that you're peeing and you're snatching or double unduring, you know, and hey, what's going on there? How long has it been going on? And just being curious about that, we used to, I mean, we did keep a towel on the platforms because it was so common to just wipe up the pee during a session. And eventually, you know, we'd say, hey, you know, we have solutions and we'd love to talk to you about this. And people were like, you know, it's I'm not ready or, but then it was such a embarrassing, embarrassing, and it was a way in finally for people to begin to say, hey, and then also we had, and then there were so many follow along conversations about this. So, you know, you really bring up this point that as practitioners as as coaches, and especially as someone who works with 50% of the population, this needs to be on your radar. Yeah, it needs to be in your radar, and it needs to be not normalized. I think the conversations need to be normalized, like ask about them, encourage support, recommend therapy, but not the problem. You can't normalize the problem because although you feel like, oh, well, this woman knows she's peeing her pants. Again, it's embarrassing. But what you're leading to is perpetual dysfunction that will only get worse, like these symptoms don't get better. If anything, they get worse. You're continuing to kind of push your body past what your tissues can tolerate, they can support, what your pelvic floor can handle. And again, as your hormones change, as you go through pregnancy and postpartum, like that only gets worse if it goes untreated. And so, I kind of unfortunately feel like it's a little bit of a disservice when we kind of, you know, shrug off these issues as quote unquote normal because no offense. But I'm like, if a man was walking around doing this, like would we just be like, oh, it's totally fine. He's just paying his pants. Like just for liner it. No, that is a solid no. Yeah, just wear a pad, just wipe it up with a towel. It's no big deal. And I think that we would put more research dollars behind figuring this out and getting treatment. And you know, ultimately what you want from an athlete or what you're trying to optimize is performance. But many, many women leave the sport or leave exercise because of pelvic floor problems. So it's something that I think that we want to be attuned to and really kind of encourage early diagnosis, treatment, proactive and preventative tips to help manage them and stay in their sport. So I'd love to talk a lot. I have a thousand questions about the specifics here at all ages. But I would love to go back a little bit because you know, you have grown a big following on social media. And you are known as the vagina whisperer, which is like the greatest title of all time. And if I'm not mistaken, and if you could tell this story, I think you started by wearing a vulva costume. And that was sort of the beginning of you. You know, I know you've been practicing pelvic floor therapy, but you I think realize that you know, you could have a certain amount of impact in your own clinic, but that you could amplify that impact on social media. So tell us a little bit about that backstory and you know, what you've really learned by putting out this content publicly. Sure. And I think, you know, when we start down these paths, there's no goal of like, I'm going to build this platform and get this many followers. It's really that we're so passionate about what we do. And we feel like everyone needs to know the benefit of that type of therapy. And for me, that was pelvic floor health. As I mentioned, I've been practicing as a pelvic floor therapist for 18 years. It's all I've done. Before this, you and I, you know, we were all chatting about orthopedics. I was like, that's, you know, not my jam. It's been a minute. But it's, you know, I've only done this type of therapy. And I am really passionate about helping people and particularly women better understand their bodies and to help them get relief from again, symptoms they thought were common, but they're not normal. After I had been practicing for about 10 years, I had went through my first pregnancy, I did a lot of childbirth preparation in pelvic floor therapy. And I had a really incredible birth and a really great postpartum recovery physically. The rest of it was kind of bananas. But physically, I was like, Oh my gosh, this is possible. I've been helping women for a decade thinking that we were just all doomed to have pelvic floor problems when that wasn't the case for me. And I felt like, again, everyone needs to know this information. Why is it just the people who were seeing me in Dallas, where I was working at the time, or who had the opportunity to get referred to therapy were privy to this. So I started an Instagram account for much for my girlfriends, my friends at the time who were also getting pregnant and giving birth. And I was giving them tips and tools about perineal massage and the best belly braces for pregnancy and how to modify planks. And then it was just organic growth from there. And this was back in 2016 or 2017, where Instagram wasn't this huge educational platform. It was literally just photos we can snap. I think my first photo on there is like of a bunch of lube, you know, wasn't anything like earth shattering. But the growth of my account really is a testament to how much women and medical professionals want this information about pelvic floor care, but they're not getting it from, you know, health education from medical providers. And then the Volvo costume popped up when I reached 10,000 followers, I think after having the accounts for a year. And that used to be like a big deal because you could finally like share a link in your story. And I still wear that Volvo costume like very regularly on the account. So it's just, it's really been an incredible journey as a PT. I don't think I ever imagined myself being here. But to see the awareness of pelvic health grow and help so many people is just amazing. And I'm just really grateful that I'm doing this work and love what I do so much. Let me take a step back for everyone. I think probably everyone here knows a woman. Everyone has maybe even you even have girl children or a mother. It's chances are. But define pelvic floor for us. Like what when, when is it like, you know, we are, we've seen a revolution come and go around talking about diaphragm and breathing, dynamics. And I'm like, that's cool. That's 50% of your, you know, container. But define pelvic floor for us and sort of demystify it because when, when, when the late person says, rotator cuff, I'm like, what does that mean to you? And they're like, well, this is some stuff in my shoulder that rotates the cuff. And so when you hear pelvic floor, you're like, it's a floor in my pelvis. What do you mean? Cause I have my own working definition because I talk about this ad nauseam and have, hopefully share some funny stories of working with men just so that this can be a wonderful way to talk about, you know, pelvic floor health with all genders. But when we're talking pelvic floor, what do you mean? Give us some anatomy. Help us understand what's in bounds and out of bounds. So your definition is not often is the floor of your pelvis. And it's 50% of the container because the diaphragm's at the top and your pelvic floor muscles are at the bottom. But if you imagine there was ring of bones, the bony pelvis, it has an opening at the top and an opening at the bottom. So at the very bottom of that opening, you have a basket of muscles that sits like a hammock and it attaches to the pubic bone in the front, the tailbone in the back and kind of slings side to side to the ischial tuberosity of your sit bones. And that basket of muscles, again, it's in all genders, supports your pelvic organs. So in the female body, your uterus, your ovaries, your bladder, your tull urine, your bowels, which hold stool all rest inside of that hammock. In male bodies, it's the prostate, the bladder and the bowels. These muscles also have openings. So in a female body, it has three openings. One where the urine exits, one for the anal opening or poop exits, and then the vaginal opening for vaginal birth, menstruation, and vaginal intercourse. And the male body has two openings, one for the urethra for urine, one for the anal opening. The reason that women are more susceptible to pelvic core issues, although all genders again, and particularly males can have issues as well, is because we have that third opening. That it's what we call the urogenital diaphragm, that opening in the muscles is like an area of weakness, an area like a path of least resistance. So there's more pressure. We go through monthly menstrual cycles that where hormones change and it affects those muscles. We go through pregnancy and birth where those muscles get stretched out. Often they can even have a tear and then during menopause, the hormones in our bodies, the lower estrogen testosterone levels kind of weaken and thin those muscles. So women are more susceptible to issues, but again, these muscles are working all throughout the day. They're holding in urine in store. They're relaxing for bathroom trips. They have to relax for menstruation and intercourse. They're supporting our core and they co-contract with your transverse abdominal muscles. So they're super important. Yet again, most people don't even know that we have them, even physios. So it's pretty wild that we kind of jump from like the ribs to the knees and we don't think about the pelvic core muscles and their function and when we address body. So I'd love to hit a few of the things that I hear about a lot from my friends in my own life, you know, working with people. And we've touched on it a little bit, but the sort of peeing yourself leakage issue has been a big one. Obviously, we owned a gym, as Kelly mentioned. You know, I'm a mom. My friends are most of my friends are moms. This is an ongoing conversation. So I'm assuming your point of view is this is common, but not normal. And, you know, A, what are some things that women who are suffering from this can do on their own? And then how should they know when they actually need to go to a practitioner? And are you asking about bladder incontinence or incontinence? Are you talking about any pelvic floor pain, sexual pain? I'm just I'm talking about like actual bladder issues like leakage, like, you know, your jumping rope, you sneeze. You know, that's the most common thing that I hear about and know about amongst my peers and people that we work with. So I would agree with you. I would think urinary incontinence, as you mentioned, Kelly, is probably the most common type of pelvic floor issue that people experience. And again, they don't even realize that their pelvic floor muscles are a contributing factor or maybe the factor that are causing that leakage. And when that happens is that your bladder has some urine in it. Your bladder is never completely empty. It always has a little bit of residual volume. And anytime you cough, sneeze, or jump, there's pressure down on that bladder. And when your muscle can't close that sphincter well enough to hold the urine in, you get a leak. It can often happen with the urgency to urinate or kind of a full bladder walking to the bathroom as well, which is called urgent incontinence. So what you there's two things you need to do is one, you need to learn the proper way to pee and poop. And I say this because we're never taught it, right? Like so even as young kids, this is the one like when you're kind of training your kids or, you know, teach them the proper way to go. For females, I would encourage you to sit down so that you're not hovering over a toilet. So your standard should be sitting down. If it's like a super gross toilet that's fine to hover or squat over it. The second is when you sit down lean forward to kind of put you in more of a squatting position, which relaxes your pelvic for the best. And last is to just to not push when you pee. And I call this power peeing. I think as women and moms, we're always like wanting to be so efficient and move on to the next task. But when you pee, you need to chill because your bladder is a muscle that pushes the urine out for you. So just sit, chill and breathe. And the reason that's important is because you could be weakening your pelvic floor muscles every time you pee if you're straining or pushing. And you pee six to eight times your day, and you're weakening your muscles every time. So I'm like, you could do kegels to the cow, come home. But if you're not changing some of those things in your daily habits, it's not going to help you. Oftentimes with leakage, you can have weakness where you'd want to do some strengthening exercises of the pelvic floor. But many women also have tension. And you need to relax the pelvic core tension first with breathing and yoga and pastoral changes before you strengthen. So it's really important to discriminate which pathway you need to walk down to treat the incontinence. And then also look at things you might be drinking that irritate it like coffee or wine or bubbly waters. Those can also be bladder irritants. So some lifestyle changes, some exercise stuff. But you know, again, these are really just like if somebody came to you with rotator cuff issues, you would not just like, oh, just go do like a bunch of bicep curls or rows, right? You would look at how they're moving, change their posture, you know, change their mechanics, you would kind of look at all of those things. And, you know, if they have tight muscles released that first, and then maybe go into strengthening the same thing applied to the pelvic floor. Can I ask a quick question? Oh, yeah, go ahead. So after I had my own kids, I definitely had some like very light leakage issues, which resolved themselves. And one of my theories on it, because I didn't do anything specific other than continuing to do a serious strengthening conditioning program. And so my assumption was that I was just by doing a generalized strengthening conditioning program, that that was why I, you know, that problem resolved for me without seeking any kind of professional help. Is that true? I mean, is that possibly true? Obviously, you can't diagnose my specific situation. But, you know, for like, let's say women who are postpartum, and at a safe point where they can exercise, obviously, is strength training something that can help resolve these issues? If you rebuild the pelvic floor and core strength first, like before you at six weeks postpartum, your pelvic floor is functioning at 50% of the strength and endurance that was pre-pregnancy. You say that like it's a bad thing. We got to get back under the deadlifts. Let's go. Right, exactly. But I'm saying that's when we get the clearance to go back to the gym, right? If you're trying to resume your normal strengthening and like your deadlifts or whatever it is that you're doing at your previous weight, you're loading your pelvic floor before you've rebuilt that strength and endurance. And every time you load your body, load your spine, it's pressure on the pelvic floor. So I really encourage doing some really focused deep core and pelvic core strengthening. And for you, it was likely that you know this. You know the mechanics of engage the T, the transverse abdominals, kind of exhale with exertion. You know those mechanics, but most people don't. And so I think that you can absolutely build strength by doing those things if you've got the right mechanics while you're doing it. I think a lot of trainers and instructors don't know how to do that properly and aren't really focused on that kind of postpartum rehabilitation state to rebuild their cores and pelvic floors before increasing a lot of load or intensity. And that's a key point. So I mean, I will say that I'm 42 years old, I'm perimenopausal, and I started playing tennis at the age of 40. So at 40, I was like, I'm going to pick up a new sport. Yeah. So I'm like, and it's incredible. I love it. But about a year ago, I was playing tennis and I made a quick side step and I was like, Oh, my gosh, I think I just peed. And I was like, I'm the vagina whisper. I can't pee my pants. And the whole game, rest of the match, I was worried are my pink leggings wet? Can you see it? I mean, I lost the match. Your mind doesn't go off of it. It is so consuming and embarrassing. And I said, I'm perimenopausal, my hormones are changing. I'm doing a new activity in sport. I have to train my pelvic floor just like I would train my rotator cuff for tennis. You have to train these muscles just like you would anything else to perform and function. And I started doing pelvic floor strengthening, but working it into my strength training routines. And are these and are better? Is this kind of pelvic floor strengthening people can do on their own? Do they need to do it with a qualified coach or a pelvic floor therapist? I imagine you talk about this in the book. But yeah, what can people do on their own versus what do they need? And also, is there a level of severity? Like, is there a level of severity where you're like, okay, skip all this at home stuff and go, you know, do not stop, do not pass, go directly to a therapist? Let me jump in as a man here. And what I want to say is it's okay to get help at any time. Well, no, of course, of course. But I think a lot of, but you, it doesn't have to be, I just want to be clear for everyone. It doesn't have to be severe to go seek a person. You don't have to suffer in sounds. But to your point, I just want to want to be clear about that. Yeah, but I think, you know, sort of what's the the temperature, right? You know, if you have a little bit of light leakage and you're, you can relearn how to pee and, you know, do some strength training and think you it's going to resolve or I would say this, no amount of leakage is normal. Today's episode is brought to you by element. Let's start with the elephant in the room. I don't drink enough water. You never have recently. I was like, you know, I'm feeling kind of achy and I was like, I may want to drink any water. Yeah, you literally had one day where you drank enough water and you said, Hey, Juliet, I had no idea I could feel this good as a human. And I said, what did you do differently? And you go, I drank water today. And that leads me to why  I love lemonade element. A, I have a hard time just drinking enough water. I'm actually staring, I've started drinking from a straw cup. Because that increased your water exactly. Right, it's easier, but when I put lemonade element in my, it's not a problem. Yeah, this needs to become everybody's new summer love affair is lemonade element. It is bananas, not only do I drink more, but I actually wait for it, feel better. This morning, brutal, brutal bike intervals, pouring sweat. And you know what I thought to myself? I don't need any salt. I'm a 230 pound man. So did you just have coffee instead? No, I crushed some element and it is such a game changer. One of the things that we have forgotten because we all sort of moved away from sugary beverage, recovery drinks, is that we need to put the electrolytes back in the system. If you are working, we do, we work alongside world elite athletes. They take their salt intake so seriously. And as people have trained really hard and as their diets have gotten kind of, like they're cooking whole foods and things, they don't salt anything. And it is a huge opportunity to feel better, go faster and come into cold water. Most importantly, this thing is like the perfect mix of sweet and tart and also has this nostalgic flavor of the powdered lemonade drinks that were full sugar that we all used to drink in the 70s and 80s out of a plastic container. I even brewed some, I just took some hot black tea, right? Just brewed it for a few minutes, dumped a bunch of ice in it, dumped my element in it, boom, salty Palmer. And I'm telling you, this is, I'm gonna, they're gonna cut me in half. I'm gonna be two thirds lemonade salt. That's the game. Look, right now, if you order through our link, you can get a free sample pack of elements most popular drink flavors. And if you want to party in your mouth, try sparkling. Go to drinklmnt.com slash trs. And what do we do, Jay? We drink it every day, literally. This episode of the Ready State podcast is brought to you by Momentus. And today, we're gonna talk about one of our favorite subjects, which is pug. More importantly, let's be more scientific, intracestion pug. What is pug? So passion fruit, orange guava, everyone knows what that is. Especially if you're a teenager, it's like hip, the flavor combo is like very hip with teenagers. So imagine, let's put pug for the side for a second. We're in the middle of a revolution of carbohydrate fueling exercise, especially high intensity exercise. Our elite cyclists, 100 to 120 grams of carbohydrate an hour, even in our collegiate athletics, my Uber friends, geniuses are saying, hey, try to get 60 grams of carbs an hour if you're in a high aerobic sport. Well, the other thing is, think about youth sports. We have so many kids, including our own kids, who are practicing upwards of two hours, two to three hours, depending on the sport, especially by high school. Very tolerable carbohydrate. We figured out the carbohydrate mix. Momentus has a carbohydrate mix that is gold standard for easy on the digestive system. And what we're seeing is being able to fuel the session. I think we all, look, if you're going to one hour spin class, it's not worth talking about, like whatever, you can do whatever you want. We'll do better if you drink carbohydrate. But for those intense efforts, for longer sustained efforts. And this flavor is so good. Look, I've been on the fuel for a long time. Sometimes I'll come in fasted. We're working out first in the morning, and I won't eat anything. I'll just start drinking right away. Well, this is so good. And bonus, it's carbohydrates plus electrolytes. So it sort of checks all the intercession needs that the athlete has. Whatever nerd, it tastes so good. It's pock. No cap. It's definitely not mid. That I did it. Look, if you want to learn more, go to livemomentus.com slash TRS and use code TRS and save up to 35% of checkout. No amount of leakage is normal. And it varies for everyone. So for me, a little leak with tennis is like a huge deal. And I'm like, let's go. I'm spending the next year strength training, pulling in my pelvic floor, building muscle in my body to combat this. For somebody else, they may be like, oh, it's not that big of a deal. So we kind of know it's variable per person to what their tolerance level is, what their activity levels are. I'm a pretty active person. I'm like, no way. Diapers are not my destiny. I'm on this, right? So I think it's a little bit of tolerance, but no amount of leakage is normal. I think that pain, leakage, discomfort, these are, this is information from our body that either our mechanics aren't right, from things that are functioning well. And whether we choose to take action or not, I think it's always up to us. So that's one thing I would say. The other thing is there's absolutely things you can do at home, but I think, well, actually I think one of the beautiful things about healthcare and medicine and fitness is we have options. You can go do in-person training. You can go to in-person therapy. You can do telehealth. You can do digital platforms, or you can read a book. You know, I think a lot of what happens in pelvic floor therapy can feel really mystical and overwhelming. So what I get you in this book is a starting point. And if you do the things in this book and you start the exercises and the training, I think it's a great start, but I say many times, if your symptoms don't get better or they get worse, then I want you to seek in-person help. Because this isn't meant to replace it. It's meant to complement it. I love that. Let me ask just a blunt question. What is wrong with society that women have children? And then we're like, good luck. Because I'll speak to my own experience. Juliet has had a couple of babies. We are like literally here's your baby, good luck. I hope you just make it home in the baby carrier. I hope you can feed your child. Seems I look around, there are a lot of kids, there are a lot of people. It means that this has happened a lot. Why isn't this part of postpartum care? Why is it that we have to sort of wait till there's a problem before we react? Why isn't this just normal? That is the way that our medical system works. And it's really unfortunate and effective. And it's one of the reasons that I'm so vocal about pelvic floor health care is because if we were able to intervene sooner, I think that we would prevent a lot of the issue instead of to your point waiting until a problem arises. Or it's like, how bad does the problem need to be? Do you need to be soaking your pants in the grocery store aisle? Do you need to be having to change jobs because you can't sit or stand all day? I mean, I think that, and to be super frank, I don't think that we have the infrastructure in this country to appropriately support women, particularly after giving birth. There's no paid medical leave. There's no healthcare coverage. There's no childcare coverage. You get one postpartum visit that's scheduled for five minutes to an OBGYN that's completely overwhelmed. And 40% of women don't attend their postpartum check-ins with their medical provider. And I wanna be clear, you don't have to have a baby to have, not get any care or anyone else. I just wanna be clear, but that ends up being a really obvious entry point for a lot of people. Hey, since we're here and you've just had this child, you pushed a child out through your belly or through your vagina, now is a chance to talk about all of this musculature. Yeah, I mean. And connect the tissue. I will say for my part, and I realize you have a pelvic floor your whole life and a different journey with your pelvic floor. But I mean, it at least became a conversation amongst me and my friends after having children, right? Because you have a friend who has a prolapse and you have painful sex and leakage. And so it does start to become a topic of conversation. So just to follow along Kelly's question, what would be an ideal postpartum care situation? I have some ideas, but I would love to hear, what should we be shooting for for women in postpartum? You know, I think there's always like levels like, I'll take this, but the dream would be this. So in the dream world, I mean, we would treat birth, like we would any other surgical procedure in the orthopedic world. When you get a hip replacement, you get therapy day one, right? Then you get home health care, and then you can progress to outpatient treatment. You're blowing my mind right now. It's the same thing, right? Like you get more care for a knee replacement or an ACL tear than you do for a cesarean section. And yet you don't even have a baby to care for and feed. And so I would say in the dream world, we had acute care therapy and the postpartum, the mom and baby for where they teach you literally, how do you get out of bed? How do you use the bathroom? Start mobilizing and walking, scar care. I mean, body mechanics, lifting. I mean, the things that we teach people, just like we do in any other acute care setting. And then once you return home, you can either do virtual care and or home health. And then at your six week, it should be three week postpartum visit. Our medical system hasn't caught up to what the recommendation is, but at your six week postpartum in-person visit with a gynecologist or midwife, you also see a pelvic floor therapist. And that's what we do at our clinic here in New Orleans. If somebody goes and sees their OBGYN at their six week visit, I mean, we see them the next day. Because I'm like, once you get clearance, like I wanna do an intravaginal assessment. I wanna look at your cesarean scar, perineal tear. I wanna look at your diastasis. I mean, before you like go back to exercise and sets, like let's see where you are and what you need to work on before you try to jump back into your normal activity. And then we do ongoing care until they are returned to normal function. You mean the episiotomy where we cut through your pelvic floor? Muscles. Correct. So that we shouldn't just be casual about that? Oh my gosh. I mean, and think about, these are cut muscles that close the urethra. They close the anal opening. They are the entry point for sex and menstruation. And there's no care. Like if you have a scar, like we mobilize scars. We put silicone in them, but we're not doing that for perineal tears, which is also where scar tissue can form. So there's just, it's like this, for lack of better terminology, this black box. So that just goes like forgotten. We don't wanna talk about it. And then Julie at your point, they become these kind of hush-hush conversations that we maybe have with girlfriends or dinner table conversations or private in the bathroom. But then what? Like it should be normal to get care. Just like we, you know, get, if you said my shoulder hurt, they go, oh, go to physical therapy. I know a really good one. Like this should be no different. That just makes so much sense to me that it's like actually kind of shocking. That's amazing. So the next subject I would love to tackle, which is one of the other ones that's come up a lot in different conversations over the years, is painful sex. And not just what that's about, but what that means for women and what that means for relationships. And what a huge deal it actually can be, not just from the pain perspective, but like from an emotional perspective. So I don't even know where to begin with this painful sex piece. But this is part of this conversation around pelvic floor, your general health. Yeah, and also just to tack on to that, you know, I'm obviously in the perimenopause, menopause demographic, that's what content has served to me. But, you know, in addition to having many women, I know have pelvic floor problems, which arose after having kids or for whatever reason. And then you add on to that, the other things that are happening with perimenopause and menopause, you know, loss of libido, dryness. I mean, you name it, it's like this perfect storm for women. And I think there's probably a lot that we can do, a lot of support women can get. But again, this is a topic that is literally just like, discussed quietly at our book club and not really publicly. So I don't even know where my question is. At least discussed quietly. I think there's like 50 questions in there, but if you could just talk about this subject generally, it's such a big deal. You got it. But it is, you know, I think, and you know, women are having babies later in life. So more women are having babies in their 40s than their teens. So you're literally going from postpartum into perimenopause in one blurry season. And you can't even figure out like, where am I right now? What happens during perimenopause, which is the kind of five to 10 years before you hit menopause. Menopause is when you haven't had a period for 12 full months and you're considered menopausal after that. Perimenopause is this runway before them where your hormones are kind of fluctuating and changing. It feels like you set a storm. You know, it's really this hormonal storm where you can't quite figure out what's going on. But I really see perimenopause as this kind of yellow light that's flashing, like, hey, something's coming. It's like a little dangerous line. And you're like, you have an opportunity to kind of prepare for it, or you just head right into the storm with no preparation. If you're in perimenopause, some of the things that you may start noticing are more frequently peeing. It could be like waking at night to pee when you didn't used to, or feeling like you have to pee several times if we're going to bed, more frequent leaks. So it could be like, oh, I used to be able to run or cough and sneeze and not leak, and now I do. Dryness during intercourse, you may have to feel like you are using lubricant or there's just dryness or itchiness kind of throughout the month. Heavier menstrual cycles, feeling a pressure, heaviness in the vagina. Kind of those are some of the more local pelvic floor symptoms. And a lot of that is due to lower estrogen levels. So estrogen starts to decline gradually when we're in perimenopause and then kind of like just plummets completely after menopause. Astrogen is a hormone that kind of plumps up and lubricates your pelvic floor and your vagina. Your vaginal walls are part of your pelvic floor. So when we have healthy estrogen, you have more lubrication, you have more lubrication with the rousal, you have thicker and more toned pelvic floor muscles and vaginal wall muscles. You could have stronger orgasms because orgasms are actually pelvic floor muscle contractions. So, that's kind of what we see. And when we don't have estrogen, we start having more leaks, more dryness, painful sex, things like that. And also low libido. Astrogen also helps produce collagen, which is a protein in our tissues that offers support. So when we have less collagen, we're more likely to have weakness in the muscles and lack of support, which puts you more susceptible to pelvic organ prolapse. And this is a lot when I hear women, they're in the shower and they're like, I feel like I'm washing, but something's coming out of my vagina. Or I feel like I can't empty my bladder completely or my balls completely. And it's scary when these things happen, you're like, who wants something coming out of their vagina, right? It feels pretty terrifying, but a lot of it is just due to a lack of support. So I think one thing is educating women on, how do you manage this? Exercise, proactively strengthening, using a vaginal moisturizer, which I'm a big fan of, but it's like we moisturize our face, use a specific serum or lotion for the vulva and vagina, using a great lubricant during intercourse to decrease pain. And then using topical estrogen, just very locally on the area or DHEA, locally on the area to help pump up and rejuvenate those tissues to minimize the risk of those urinary and sexual symptoms. And I am a breast cancer survivor, and I think there is started to be pretty clear research showing that vaginal estrogen is actually fine for women post breast cancer. So I'm just shouting it out to there that I think there's this subset of women who think it's like never an option for them, at least locally. And I think research keeps piling on that it is an option and could be a great option and could solve some of these problems for women. So I'm just throwing that out there. And I wanna circle around again, because I wanna remind everyone that you're a physical therapist. It means you're a movement specialist. And one of the words you threw out early on in this conversation was posture. And I think when people think posture, they think, oh, you're slouching in your back, you're forehead and neck. But when you and I mean posture, we typically, physios agree that we're talking about the organization of the body. And one of the things that I think helps from when I describe posture for people is like, there are shapes you can get into where you're less effective, where muscular chard doesn't recruit as well, where you appear weak, but you're what we call in our house, positionally inhibited. You're just, things don't work very well. And we were teaching in Australia, was that, I don't know, 2010 maybe? It was a long time ago. A long time ago, I was much younger, had hair. And at the end of my course, a woman came up and said, hey, I'm a pelvic floor therapist. And I can't believe how much you talked about organizing the trunk, the pelvis and relationship to the spine, and the function of the hips as it related to the system functioning. She's like, this was a whole course in pelvic floor health. And I wanna remind people that sometimes when we chase better function, it's not just we're playing need to play defense here, but by getting ourselves organized. We say, hey, can you stand up and squeeze your butt, for example? And what we see is as soon as you squeeze your butt, you tend to see a pelvis rotate posterior a little bit. And in those positions, your pelvic floor works a little bit more effectively. When you can rotate your hips, and you have hip extension, turns out that the hip rotators, you have six of them, nudge right up against the pelvic floor in a weird way how they're connected to this region, that we see global changes. We just had a, in our one or two course, we just had a coach say, hey, I worked on breathing, I worked on sequencing, and the restored some rotation. And this person had a much better, had much better bladder control. And I just wanna make sure that everyone doesn't hear this and say, oh, this isn't me, but that there's a continuum of looking at how the body functions. That isn't just hormonal, that isn't, there's a lot of things that you can do that are in service of the functionality of the body. Do you think I'm in the right place here? Cause certainly- I think you're completely right. This is how I talk about it with men a lot. Yeah. And I think it's so helpful for you to put it back in the body. Like it feels like, oh, the pelvis, we can just skip over it. But I mean, I'm talking, if you have a caesarean scar restriction, it's 30%, over 30% of women are having C-sections now to give birth, that it's gonna change your posture in your trunk, that's gonna change your shoulder mobility, that's gonna change your rib cage mobility in your breathing. Postpartum, you've got a wider rib, intercross the angle, that's gonna affect how you engage. If you can't get a neutral pelvis, that's gonna inhibit how you can contract your pelvic floor muscles and your TA. I mean, if you've got overactive obturators, that's a pelvic floor muscle that can cause painful sex. I mean, 36 muscles attached to the pelvis. I mean, you can't just look at the levator, and I am the obturator and be like, oh, it's just these. I mean, your piriformis does, you know, all of these. And so I think that we, as crucial as it is for pelvic floor therapists to put the pelvis back in the body and zoom out, I do think that other therapists have to be aware of how to also zoom in. Because we kind of skip over this part of our body. We maybe look at the hip rotation or knee angles. And, you know, but we're like not really addressing the abdominal wall, the adductors, the glutes. I mean, the hip rotators, it's like, and to be honest, like I think that there's this obsession with PT's like bring it back to the spine. And I'm like, it's not the spine. When you have pudendal nerve pain or vulvodynia or it's not your spine. Like you need to kind of get closer to the areas you're afraid of assessing or refer out for those because you're missing a huge portion of the body that again, like you mentioned, is connected to every breath you take. And I think it's really, it's interesting because I gave a lecture recently at our local university. And unfortunately there was maybe a group of five or six guys in the background or back left, you know, and they're kind of, you know, like laughing and not paying attention. And I'm like, you guys are missing out because again, as you mentioned, like 50% of your clayslater are gonna be females. You're gonna have female athletes, you're gonna have pregnant women, you're gonna have men who could have pelvic floor dysfunction, breathing problems. I mean, you have to be aware of this and it's a real disservice if you don't take the time to get comfortable even just asking the questions and figuring out either who to refer to or get comfortable with doing some of the external stuff yourself because you're missing huge pieces of the puzzle for your clients. If you, let me just say this to all the potential male therapists out there, if you can help a woman have less painful sex, less peeing, less fear, you're a god. I mean, not really like this, this is one of the things that helps, like it's so on top of people's minds because it really does cast a pallor over all of their daily function. And it's, it really is remarkable. I think I've been saying sphincter to belly button for a thousand years, right? And not always that I need you to brace, I need you to relax sometimes. There's a lot of coaching involved here. But one of the things that I feel is especially after trauma and I'll say trauma of birth, I don't mean to categorize it that way, but let's say that you had a tearing or an apesiatomy or a cesarean, a lot of that proprioception, a lot of that self-awareness is shut down and I'm fearful of touching, I'm fearful of engaging with these parts of our body. We have been having people roll their bellies on a ball for a hundred years, a squishy ball, and we go after the endopelvic fascia, we talk about the abdomen. Is it worthwhile for people to get a, like I've seen something on the internet and I have no affiliation with them called the Goochball? Have you seen this? Yeah, I do, I had somebody recommended to me. And basically it's a soft ball, a squishy ball that allows people to get some pressure into their pelvic floor, you sit on it, it could be done with a towel, that's how we've always taught it. But it seems like sometimes the first step is just, hey, let's see if we can get your brain to reconnect with this part of your body. Is that a reasonable kind of first step for people even? Yeah, I mean, I think a lot of this again, we're not taught about this part of our body, we are disconnected from it and then once trauma happens with whether it be sexual trauma, birth trauma, it could be cancer treatments, anything, that there's like almost an avoidance of it. It could be discomfort within reports, you kind of distance yourself. People won't even touch the scars on their knees, right? Right, right. And then we're asking people to touch it on their bellies, and there's so much kind of emotion. It's not unusual for us to work on someone's cesarean scar and do massage and sensitivity work and their tears are screaming down their face. And it's not because it's painful, but because we're holding so much. Like we've never unpacked these experiences. And so whatever the method is that can help people start to connect, and sometimes having an object or a layer between the hand and the body can be helpful. Even when we have people who can't touch their scars or they're not ready to, I'll have them take a towel and just like wipe over it after a shower, or place their hands over their pants and their scars underneath it and just do some diaphragmatic breathing into their hand. I think we need to meet people where they are versus thinking that there's only one way to treat them and whatever the tools or devices that can help start bridging those gaps, I think that that's really helpful. And we see this a lot with painful stats. It's like, oh, let's relax your pelvic floor and desensitize the muscles. And we have these tools we use called vaginal dilators. And they look like tampons of different sizes. And then you work up to the size that's the same size as your partner or whatever you want to insert into the vagina. But that's a huge challenge to go from using a vaginal dilator to having sexual activity with your partner, right? So we have to kind of give people a pathway to start connecting to taking those steps. It's like a trail of breadcrumbs to get them to meet their goals. And so I think we have to be creative as therapists. What can we offer them to help get them more comfortable? So I think that those are great ideas. I don't think there's any device that's like a one size fits all, gonna solve your problems. But I think it's good to have a toolbox of tools to help you start connecting. So we've talked about urinary incontinence, painful sex. I think you briefly mentioned prolapse. What are we missing in this common but not normal? Because I think if we do nothing more on this podcast then make sure every woman who listens to it knows that whatever it is they're experiencing might be common but not normal. And then the secondary question is, how do women then talk to their doctors or their healthcare practitioners about these issues, assuming that in many cases, they're going to be told this is normal. How do they have those conversations? So like what are we missing in the common but not normal so that people know that they know what's going on and then how do they have these conversations with their medical people? So I think the last thing we didn't mention is pooping, which is my all time favorite topic. That people don't realize that issues with bowel movements are also related to their pelvic floor. So constipation can be due to non-relaxing pelvic floor muscles or incoordinated pelvic floor muscles that can cause incomplete bowel emptying, straining with bowel movements that can contribute to prolapse, hemorrhoids, fissures, fecal staining. One of the most popular blog posts on my website is Skid Marks, why you have fecal staining in your underwear. And it's a really common issue but it can be due to weak anal sphincter muscles, overactive anal sphincter muscles. So if you're having any bowel movement issues or pooping issues which are actually quite common, your pelvic floor also needs to be assessed because it's likely a contributing factor. And even if it's due to something like colitis or Crohn's or IBS or whatever the diagnosis, your pelvic floor starts to kind of be a piece of the puzzle that needs to be addressed. So I think that that's one thing that I would encourage people in the book. I mean, there's a chapter called the scoop on poop. And it talks about like how you need to be properly pooping. If you have constipation, it could push on your bladder. A full ball could push on your bladder and cause more urinary urgency and overactive bladder and leakage. And so just thinking about how all these systems work together I think is really important. To enter the second part of your question about, I get the question often of, what should I do if I go to my doctor? And my doctor says, don't worry about this or that's normal or just use more lube or just relax. And I say, well, you should find a different doctor. Like I was like, I know the answer to this. Yeah. Act of physician. You're being gaslit. And I think there's enough doctors out there where you can find another one, because ultimately even as a PT, if I don't have the answer for you, I'm gonna say let me find someone who does. Right? Like if you come to me and you don't have a pelvic floor issue or you're not benefiting from the care that I'm providing, I'm gonna say, okay, let me look into this, talk to my colleagues, find out who the right person to refer you on to next. I don't say like, well, I can't find anything wrong. So just come back in six months if it's still there. That's just not the way that we handle patients. And I wanna say 100% yes on finding a different physician, but also I wanna remind everyone that your physician may have had 30 minutes of education here. And that I went to physio school and I'm pretty sure I had some lectures around it. Maybe it was three days, maybe it was four days. Of course we talked about the body a lot, but this is not necessarily an area of specialty that is hammered because there's so much to cover. So I just wanna, it's a crime of omission and we are experiencing the crime of omission that we're not adequately educating physicians and providers about resources even for, hey, you're gonna run into people who have pelvic floors, like 100% of the people you're with, and you need to know what to do next. Yeah, I mean, I don't even think most people realize that there is a subspecialty of physical therapy that is pelvic floor, right? So I mean, it's educating people up to that point. Like maybe the person, maybe your first call actually isn't to your primary care physician or your OBGYN. Maybe your first call or your first Google search or whatever you're gonna do is to try to find a qualified, board certified pelvic floor therapist in your area. Can we just clip that out and put it on the APTA national site, I mean, yes, 100%. I wanna just suggest that if you have a physician that you love, talk to them about who they love, right? Because that's actually the physician's office is not the place to address this, believe it or not. Maybe aspects of it, maybe getting a prescription for vaginal estrogen, but you need much more than six to eight minutes to untangle and begin a process of owning your own body. It's complicated and you're gonna have to go see a pro. It's easy. Right, and so that's what I would say is in every state in the United States, you can access or get an evaluation with a pelvic floor physical therapist without a referral from the provider. You're, I'm from a medical provider, so your insurance may require it, but.  by, you know, Practice Act, you don't have to have a referral, but I would say like, go to Google, ask your friend, ask your medical provider, do you have someone that you would refer to, can you ask your partners? A lot of it is unfortunately like omission from education that medical providers aren't understanding of the role that therapy can play, but I don't buy that anymore, because there's enough chatter out there that you need to educate yourself, you need to have a therapist, a pelvic floor PT in your back pocket if you're treating people with vaginas, hands down. So just like I have an OBGYN that I would refer people to. That's right. You have to do that, and I just encourage patients, as you all do, like you have to be the advocate for your body, and that will never change, no matter how great your doctor is. You have to be the driver, not the passenger, and if somebody doesn't refer you or believe in it, don't let that be the end of your story. You will have to continue to push and kind of find the resources, which again are much more readily available now than they used to be, but you will have to continue to drive, and I encourage you to keep doing that. So tell us, I don't know if it's a top three or top five, but are there, and this is for women regardless of whether you're having a pelvic floor issue. We can always talk about improving function too. Yeah, for, are there like daily non-negotiables or daily habits and practices that you recommend that all women do. I'm sure there would be a whole separate conversation for what men should be doing, but let's just keep this to women, like what are the daily non-negotiable things for pelvic floor? And we could add in some things that maybe you should avoid or could avoid. I don't know if there are that three things, five things, but let's go. And I, this is the final chapter of the book, or like the 10 things Sarah does for her pelvic floor. So I'll give a handful of them. So first, you don't push when you pee. Sit, chill, breathe, don't push. Second, use a squatty potty underneath your feet when you're pooping. That puts you in a more relaxed position for your pelvic floor, a little stool under your feet, and it's gonna help you minimize straining so you don't weaken your pelvic floor. I exhale with exertion. I don't unveil salvo when I'm lifting, when I'm lifting weights, when I'm exerting effort, when I'm pushing furniture, you have to exhale when you're exerting effort to minimize the pressure down on your pelvic floor. I don't push into pain or leakage. If I leak doing something, if I have pain with something, I don't push into it. Like that might mean pain with sex, that might mean leakage with double-enders. It's information from my body that my tissues can't support what I'm asking them to do, and it's not gonna get better if I just keep pushing into it. So I think that that's information to take in and make adjustments. I use a great lube. I recommend everyone do it. It doesn't mean that you are not a rouse. It means that you have some dryness or some sensitivity and it can not just decrease friction, but also increase pleasure. So those are kind of my top five. And then I use, being perimenopausal, this is also important for women who are postpartum and breastfeeding to use a moisturizing balm on the vulva because you have dryness when you have low estrogen, and that happens when you're breastfeeding, but also perimenopausal and menopausal. And then I strength train my pelvic floor, and that doesn't look like me doing kegels in the carpal lane. That means me pulling in my pelvic floor when I'm lifting weights, when I'm doing squats and lunges, and functioning, like picking up my kid, lifting a stroller, like teaching these muscles to turn on when I need them. And I just made that part of my daily habit, also my workout routine. I love it. Well, I think with that, for those of you watching on video, congratulations on your book. I think this is your first book, so congratulations. Thank you. And I think this is so useful and so valuable. I know people can buy this book wherever they get their books. That's right. And where can people find you elsewhere on the internet and on social media, TikTok, you name it. I know you're all over the place. So where can people find more, learn more, and follow your awesome advice and journey? So I am on Instagram as theVeginaWhisper. So it's the.Vegina.Whisper. And again, as you mentioned, I'll likely be on there in a Volva suit at some point. I'm on TikTok as the VagWhisper, because TikTok doesn't like the word vagina. And my book, Floored, a Woman's by the Public Four House at every age of stage is available and you can find it at all major bookstores. And if you're looking for a public court therapist, you can Google, you can look on some web sites called by the APTA or pelvicrehab.com. But I just really want to let people know that this, these issues are totally treatable. It's never too late to get care. It's also never too early to start. And I just really hope that Floored helps women better understand their bodies and care for it across the lifespan because we deserve to be able to, you know, have really great sex and exercise and not leak and do all the things we want to do to have a fulfilling life. And I just, I want that for everyone. Here, here. Here, here, that is amazing. Thank you so much. People don't realize that I am kind of closeted to the pelvic floor nerd. And I talk about this a lot. I think we do realize that now. I know, I hope you understand that, you know, that this is such a continuum. And if you're, if you're with a woman, know a woman, work with the young people, this is required reading and understanding about the fundamental and elemental physiology of the human being. Thank you so much for this wonderful book. Thank you so much for being with us today. Thanks for having me.

=== FILE: Performance Without Burnout  The Systems Behind Lasting Success [Xoe2Tve_xJE].txt ===

 If you're over the age of 65 and you fall and break your hip, your chances of being dead within a year go up by over 20%. We're all fitness prepping because I'll put all these deadlifts into a room and someday when the zombie apocalypse comes, I'll be wrecking. You know, we've forgotten the point was how bodies that feel good and are pain-free. Ben Bergeron. Ben is one of the most successful CrossFit coaches of all time, as well as an entrepreneur. Ben is the coach to CrossFit champions as well as people who just enjoy CrossFit on the day to day. Let's coach some of the top athletes in the sport of fitness such as CrossFit Games champions Matt Fraser and Katrin Davidsdott. The nervous system plays into health and performance and I don't mean it in the way of like, let's be springy, reactive and dupliometrics. What I mean is, do you feel safe and can you down-regulate outside of training? Our mission has always been the same, which is to create a family of humble, hungry, happy people who kick ass in the night. Ben, welcome to the Ready State podcast. So good to be here. It's, I know you guys for a long time, so it's great to be here. Yeah, let me set this up. We were all teenagers together in high school. Like, we went to the same high school. We, I think I was 14. I think you were riding along with me when I got my driver's license. We were like friends on Myspace. Yeah, yeah. 100%. Everyone, Ben Bergeron has been part of our community and in our family of coaches and athletes for, I mean, literally almost 20 years now. And it is always a pleasure to talk to you. Just for reference, Kelly had hair and you definitely did not have gray hair. So I'm just saying that. How long it's been? I'm going to point out, I just saw this thing on the internet, which I really thought was appropriate. And it's called the Four Stages of Being a Man. And this is awesome. You'll appreciate this. This is how long we've known Ben, everyone. When I met Ben, I believed in Santa Claus. Then I didn't believe in Santa Claus. Then I became Santa Claus to my children and now I look like Santa Claus. So yeah, that's the Four Stages of Being a Man. And now I'm in my, I'm Santa Claus phase. We're gray and you are at the peak of your available coaching power. You have never been better. You've never been more reasonable. You've never like, it's, it's really fun to watch super talented people evolve and evolve and evolve. And last thing I'll say before we jump into this, you know, 15, 20 years ago when I started getting into perform better and Exos and all these places, I remember being like, man, all these old coaches know each other. Like how do you break into this old guys network? They've all known each other. And now we're in it. We're it. And I'm like, okay, that's what happens. Like we know everyone and you know everyone. Keep digging, digging a ditch for 20 years. That's right. Pretty soon you're like, oh yeah. Ben, we're old mates. We're old mates. Okay. So, uh, so to kick this off, I'm just going to say one of our favorite quotes from James Clear, which is we don't rise to the level of our goals. We, we fall to the level of our systems. So you've been in this business for a long time. And what do you think is the single most important system, whether it's physical, mental, environmental, that every day athletes are getting wrong. And what is getting it right mean for their long-term fitness? Wow. That's a great way to kick this thing off. And for starters, I appreciate being a part of the old guys network. That's awesome. So awesome. Yeah. And I appreciate you saying Kelly that at the, at the peak of this thing, it's certainly been a transition. It's certainly been an evolution. When we came into the thing, it was, it was a lot different. It was just, you know, how fast can you thrusters and pull-ups? And I think now it's a lot more about a holistic approach, a long-term play, more focused on not just, you know, what does tomorrow look like, but what does it, what does it mean to be kicking ass today, tomorrow and forever, right? Kicking ass in your 90s. So I think that that's the kind of the, the, the prison that's a framework that I now come to training and coaching with kind of evolved from how do we make world champions to how do we work with the kind of population you just laid out. A few letters here is whether it's a weekend warrior or trying to lose the extra 10 pounds or trying to have a little extra vitality. And if there's that one sort of system, I don't know if I would call this a system other than I think it is the first place to start, which is it might even be a James Clear thing as well. So if it is, I want to give credit. It's the power of your environment. Your environment is so vital to your success. And I think it is James Clear. It's the idea is to make bad habits put as much friction as you can between yourself and bad habits and make the, the, the actions between yourself and the desirable habits as frictionless as possible. The way that I encourage people to do that, I believe that health, vitality, kicking ass in our 90s comes down to five different things. It's how we eat, sleep, train, think and connect. My prescription for that is to train. We have a prescription for training, but to train five or six days a week. Eat real foods, sleep eight hours, think like a warrior and connect with yourself, others and nature. I think the, the hack, if you will, and I hate that word, but if there is a way to set yourself up for the greatest level of success is to be around other people that have that same set of values. It's just, you are going to, you know, it's, it's not only are you going to fall to level of your systems. What really is going to happen is you're going to fall to the, the norms, the social norms, your friend group. And as much as you want to lose those 10, 15, 20 pounds and you're going to the gym every day, if you're also going to Dave and Buster's and having a pitcher of beer and three rounds of buffalo wings with your buddies three nights a week, you're going to set yourself. You're going to have a really hard time achieving what you want. If the system is you are around like the gyms in our space, right? The CrossFit gyms and the gyms like us. If you go to those places, you are by default around those type of people. And I think that that's the biggest thing. If you're trying to do this on your own, if you can't do one of those, join one of these virtual communities. You guys have a virtual community. I have a virtual community, but set yourself up so where the norm, the social norms are in line with your vision's values and goals. It's that alignment that helps out more than anything else. Yeah, I love that. And one thing I could just say on the- No way, I'm going to let you go, but I have to just apologize because clearly I'm just dragging you down. He's speaking and I'm like, I'm so sorry, Julianne. That's not true, baby. I should have brought home those donuts last night. I'm stopping. The Kelly does love a dessert item. So the environment piece has come up in so many different ways. I mean, we coined this term called create a movement rich environment. We couldn't agree more. And I think one of the things we've been so focused on is expanding what you can think about as an environment. And we had Sean Stevenson on our podcast and he wrote a whole book about basically creating like a kitchen culture and kitchen environment and a table culture and table environment. I think there's so many of these little micro environments in our life, whether that's your work environment or your TV. Like we have a little TV environment. So our TV environment makes it so that it's comfortable for us to sit on the floor and mobilize while we're watching TV and sit in the morbid tofu. So there's sort of these like broad environments, but then there's all these little micro environments in our life that we can influence in the way you said that that environment piece is just so important. Yeah. It's like if you were to take that and work environment and think about whether you think micro or you think in terms of these pillars, right? So what is my training environments and how can I make training more the norm? Not the exception, right? How can I make it so it's, you know, there's a cue and action and a reward. How can I make it so like this feels like it's a rewarding experience. I enjoy going to the gym and seeing these people. And if that means not training as hard because you're scared of going to the gym and doing that hard workout and feeling that way, like, yeah, like do that. Like don't record your scores so you're not on the leaderboard. Whatever you need to do to create that environment, it's not just necessarily the physical. It's the psychological environments, right? It's if you fear going to the gym because you don't think you're going to do well, because you're not going to be on the leaderboard the way you want, change that up as well. So there's the training environment. Then there's the eating, the kitchen environment, the kitchen micro. If you have crap food in your house, you're eventually going to eat crap food. Like that's it's so simple. It's like it's like why even worth having the conversation except that it really does matter. So if the dessert is, I always think about this, like I don't have enough willpower. So just none of us do. I was, so this is like the way my default like mind works. And it's like, I know how like perverse this is or strange, but I would rather like finish the bag of granola, the Oreo cookies, the ice cream. I need to finish the whole thing in one sitting so that I don't have to fight against it anymore. I just wanted. It's like the whole sleeve of Girl Scout cookies or like single serving. Why are you guys saying whole sleeve? It's a unit. Yeah, it's a unit of it's a serving, serving size, one sleeve. The idea is like, I have to, if I don't finish this, I'm going to end up eating the whole thing. That's what goes to my mind. So, you know, you, you, you both are talking about environment. I was just at my daughter's anatomy and physiology class today at high school. Super cool. And they're in the sort of nervous system chapter. And I said, Hey, number one, you guys have both made this point that you need a system, a system of systems. And the way you have to sometimes learn information is to chunk it one unit of time. My training is distinct from my nutrition is distinct from my sleep. We know though, as we've all gotten way more complex and that these things all interrelate. And what I said to these kids was, I was like, Hey, all of this very sophisticated information we have access to pales in importance to us feeling seen, feeling safe and belonging and having these rich relationships. And what I heard you say in the beginning was, you know, when you go in and create that sort of environment for yourself and you really are conscientious about having fun and excited about the people you show up with sitting down and breaking bread with your family and friends and coaches. And what we do see is that it does reduce a lot of friction and it makes the it makes the load bearable and not only imbearable, bearable, but enjoyable. And so much of the work I do with teams now is really looking at how do we set up a place where the human brain perceives itself as safe as the person belongs to the group. And then everything else just sort of falls into place in that way. And I think about two athletes, we know Kaylee Humphries, who is an Olympic bobsledder. She'll be one of our Olympic bobsledders again. She's the most decorated bobsledder in the world. She was saying that, you know, at her peak when she was really getting good, it was just really easy. She didn't have social media. She didn't have distraction. She had photos. She just literally went to the bobsled. She went to the gym. She went back home and she was just rich. She was this in this little microcosm of people on this journey. Alex Honnold would climb and then go back to his band, climb and go back to his van, right? And just get a lot of work done. And I think, you know, the simplicity of what you're saying is really elegant and really difficult to make. And I want to just highlight that you were one of the first coaches in my crossfit world. Not the first coach to do this, of course, because you're smart and everyone has been thinking about this. But you really started thinking about the person and belonging. People moved into your house. They felt like they had a tribe. They had a connection of people. And that safety really does allow people to go do extraordinary things. Wow. Yeah. It's so cool to kind of pause and push on that and double down on the connection aspect. I call it connection. Being seen, the person belonging to a group and how that, the importance of that. I think it's one of the most, it's so cool for you to highlight this. Because one of the questions was asked me recently, what's one of the things that once you see, it's hard to unsee. And this is it for me, is how the nervous system plays into health and performance. And I don't mean it in the way of like, let's be springy, reactive and dupliometrics. What I mean is, do you feel safe and can you down regulate outside of training? We need, as you know, we need really acute stress to be able to cause a stimulus that we can adapt to and get stronger. We also, as you know, that will be suppressed to a degree if we don't allow ourselves to get out of that sympathetic nervous system. If we stay in that heightened state, we will not respond to the training the way we would otherwise. Our bodies made up of these, whatever, depending on how you count it, about 13 different systems. All of those systems, from you don't have to be as smart as Kelly to know what those are, everyone listening will recognize, you know, the digestive system, the immune system, the cardiovascular system, the reproductive, it's like, these are all words that we know. When we are in a stressed state, when we don't, and what that means is when we don't feel seen, when we don't feel like a part of a tribe, a group, we feel on the outside, we feel alone, those systems don't operate optimally, all by design, because they're not supposed to. You're supposed to be in fight or flight, you're supposed to be able to run away from the saber to tiger. So let's forget about the immune system. That's for later. The pathogens, not a big deal. Like what we need to do is get blood to the working muscles so we can get at a dodge. And this idea that once we, this is the biggest thing is once you see, is how detrimental, I'll call it stress, like this chronic, not acute, this, the stress that doesn't go away is to fill in the blank, athletic performance, gains, losing weight. I actually think this is the most underrated thing in terms of sleep. Everyone has a gazillion different ways to work on sleep. And it's the big things where they always talk about it's the QQC, quality, quantity, and consistency. Everyone talk like, and there's all the things from lighting to circadian rhythms to, you know, temperature regulation and all these different, but the biggest thing we do talk about, like get off screens, which has a little bit to do with this, but we're not talking about is the stuff that happens outside of that wind down window, which is your default, your, your 80 20, like what is the 80% of your day? If it's just like, I have no connection with people, I don't feel seen, I don't feel part of a tribe, I'm isolated, I, you, you have such limited potential compared to the opposite, which is, as you said, when I had, you know, these freak stud athletes, I wanted them to live with me. And they did, they lived with me for sometimes years, because I wanted them to have a meal with a family at a dinner table. I didn't want them to even, they didn't even own cars, right? So there's no car insurance. There's no gas. There's no paying excise taxes. There's no, they would drive to the gym with my wife, they meet me at the gym, we train, they could, I drive them home, they're all the meals, like everything was together, communal. I think that's such a underrated aspect to health performance and longevity is this, I am seen, I am connected with other people. I think that, you know, the Harvard study has highlighted the importance of relationships, but I don't think it's gone deep enough to say what you said in such a great way is like, I, I'm, I'm seen and I am a valued member of a group. Word. Yeah, I mean, word, I think that's so critically important. And, you know, I think the, the thing with CrossFit that they did so well, and we all did so well, I think was that community and connection piece. And we thought about it quickly. When people walked in the door, they were greeted, like consciously, no one could walk in the door and not be seen. Hey, you know, even just a random coach, you don't know. And number two, we made everyone shake hands before we even started. People know each other for 10 years. We're literally like, we are going to make sure that you are seen every single day. Yeah, it's just so important. Yeah. And, and I, and I do, I love that question. Like I want to steal that for future episodes. Like what, what, what can, what are you seeing that you can't unsee? That's such a great, I love that question. So I want to switch a little bit to talk about the training piece, the training pillar. And, you know, we obviously all come from a CrossFit background. But as we talked about in the pre role and defining that as Olympic lifting, sprinter, gymnastics, classic strength and conditioning, that's it. Yeah. And, but I, we talked about this in the pre-roll a little bit about how we've all evolved in our thinking about training and what we were doing when we first opened our CrossFits, when we were all in our 30s and how we thought about that and what our focus was, I think has changed. And my guess is our philosophies have changed in similar ways over the years and especially as we've all gotten older. And one of the things I keep seeing these days on the internet when people are talking about training is that, you know, everyone's like now all into talking about progressive overload and you just have to do like the same set of six movements over and over again. And that's the only way to build muscle and get stronger. And that definitely sort of flies in the face of, you know, the training method that we all grew up using, which was, you know, a little bit more diverse and I wouldn't say random at all, not random. Oh, conjugate. Yeah, but conjugate. And I just wonder what your philosophy is on, and sort of this, this idea of, okay, well, you know, the only way to truly get stronger is this really sort of linear, like five by fives and progressive overload. And, you know, if you're doing any kind of mixed training that looks more CrossFit in style, you know, there's sort of a trend where people are like, that's not effective, you're not actually going to build muscle and get stronger. So I guess that was like a seven part question. But how is your philosophy about training changed over the years? What are you really focused on now? And, you know, what do you think about this sort of trend where it seems to be sort of saying, Hey, this CrossFit style of training isn't actually effective for building muscle and getting stronger. You know, before diving into like any of the specifics of a training protocol, I think that in the fitness space, we could use a lot more of the yes and. Right. As opposed to it's complicated. There's more than one way to do things well. Right. There's one, right. Like, for someone to say it's the only way, like, I just don't think that there's absolutes in our space. Like, and I think that that's kind of a red flag. That we should instead be looking to say, yes. And this might also work as well. So people have seen a lot of success with a linear progression. People have also seen a lot of success with undulating. People have seen a lot of success with random people. Seen a lot of success with conjugate people seen a lot of success with Texas method. People there's enough different ways that we've seen that people have had success. I think what we should do is be more kind of like let's, which is what we did a lot of in the early days is we went and went, hey, what are the best practices? What's the, what are some people that are doing this really well in their specialty? And let's learn. And I think that people get a little bit tied to a doctrine, a method tied to what they've seen success with for themselves or their athletes. It's the same thing we see in nutrition all the time. Nope. Like if you eat blueberries after dinner, this is the way to lose weight. It's like, and this is the thing. It's like, and this is why you have so much of this like, no, it's about vegan. It's carnivore. It's keto. It's macro. It's because people have had, and the answer is yes, like the answer. Yes, all of those things will work for the right person. So that's kind of the the preamble before going into maybe the way that my perspective has changed over the years on. If we want to talk strength specifically, maybe zooming out a little bit in terms of like fitness at large. When we first got into this, to me, I love the competitive aspect of what this brought in terms of like CrossFit. I was coming out of being an Iron Man triathlete thinking that that was the pinnacle of fitness. I was trying to qualify for Kona in Worlds. And I really thought like, if I could do that, that's as fit as you can get. And then I can remember watching the first CrossFit like, what the crap is that? And knowing immediately, like immediately how narrow scoped it was that I was pursuing. And that's the thing that just drew me in completely. I was like, I always wanted to be able to do Iron Man, but also be strong. But at certain points, once you get past maybe like a 245 bench press, getting any stronger as a triathlete isn't that beneficial. You should be carrying extra weight. I was like, I want to get more though. So like, how can I like, and I saw this, I was like, that that is such a better test and such a better definition of fitness. I think that I was so motivated to compete and then coach and excel at the sport that it leads you down, you have to you have to become sport specific. No, no one goes to the Olympics for the 100 meter dash without learning how to start out of track blocks. Learning how to start out of track blocks doesn't make you fitter. And that's where I kind of like have shifted is I've taken these movements that are necessary to compete in this sport, but maybe not that beneficial outside of the gym. And that's what I've kind of like shifted towards a little bit over the last four or five years is away from how do we compete to become better at a sport to truly this balanced and transferable, monthly dimensional aspect of fitness. So a lot of that is still grounded in the tenants that we grew up with, right? Constant variants, functional movements, high intent, all that stuff is still there. I think the things that have changed is I've actually implemented a great deal more structure than what we originally grew up with. So when we originally started this thing, and we can Kelly was a part of it, you remember like we would give the programming lecture and it was like, you know, keep it as varied as possible, routine is the enemy. And just kind of like, but what you find is that after working with these elite athletes for 16 years of trying to get them to be the very, very best, that's not what we do. We have routine. We know we are going to strength train a certain amount of days. We are going to make sure that we're hitting certain different aerobic capacity pieces, a certain number of days in a call what you want week month training cycle, whatever it is. So what I've kind of done is gone, okay, what are the best practices that we used with these super elites? All the while I was still training the 9 830 moms. So I never lost this kind of like, this is what the real world looks like. I kind of lived in this world myself in between where I was like, I want to be really fit but not compete. So I kind of those three kind of like tears. I've kind of gone, what is it? What is this thing going to what's the best practice that I can create as of right now with my knowledge base that I have, hopefully in five years it's better. But based off of right now, this is what this looks like. And the structure to it is thinking of strength, not just as what I think most people think of strength, which is the maximum ability to move an external load. That's your absolute strength, which is certainly a huge component of that. But there is other components to it like explosive power. And that's where we've involved more plyometric work, which people we didn't do before. It's not really a part of the CrossFit space. No, no, we do box jumps. Box jumps in Kelly is not plyometrics. That's a conditioning tool. So we did and I now do absolute strength. And we also do explosive power stuff. And we also do muscular endurance stuff, which CrossFit certainly does a ton of a ton of and that's what we think of strike now is like kind of those three buckets. And then we kind of taking conditioning and gone from, okay, let's just do random, random is a the derogatory. So I don't want to say random, maybe not quite as structured. E-moms and AM raps. And this one's 10 minutes and this one's 20 minutes to a much more structured approach of we want to make sure that we're hitting anaerobic capacity, VO2 max, lactic threshold, zone two, the appropriate amount of times inside of a weaker training cycle. So before it was kind of like when it shows up, it shows up. And you realize we kind of go back like, Oh my God, we are basically just doing anaerobic capacity work for like 10 years. Yeah, for 10 years. And even if it was drowning for time, even if it was a 20 minute workout, it was still anaerobic capacity. It's like it was kind of a mismatch, right? You can you didn't have that total alignment. Let me, I want to I just want to point out for everyone just listening that we hear these conversations and sometimes we hear these critiques. And I want to remind everyone what the state of the union was 20 years ago, because it looks really different. It's important to understand that strength and conditioning is not mainstream. The internet really broke this open and what we call and kind of really good second way. It's yeah. And when we started all this thing, like you actually couldn't do a ring dip. You couldn't overhead squat overhead squatting 135 pounds was like a heroic thing. You know, Caroline, my 17 year old like does peak wattage interval pieces and then just casually snatches and overhead squats. And that's before she goes to water polo practice. Like it's the world has changed. I always say about my first pair of Olympic tissues of a car, like a drug deal on the back of a store, you know, like you couldn't court they were like they had like the wood base on them. Yeah, the SF let it go up by those. And you know, so we had was a huge  like you, kind of traditional big aerobic engine power. That's what we valued. And then we had people who did come out of real strength conditioning programs, and that was typically track and field and Olympic lifting only. And then maybe you were exposed to football strength conditioning, and that literally looks very different, like just, you know, strength is never a weakness, mass moves mass, right? And at the time when we're bringing people along on this journey of becoming more skilled and more conditioned and stronger, like it's not the same place we are now. And we saw that people became very decorative in their training and lost the narrative of what we were training for. And I think that's something that I've seen your evolution of asking, what is the point? Because this is just recursive fitness. I chase pull-ups, so I can chase pull-ups, so I can chase pull-ups. You pointed out, you're like, hey, I bench pressed 245, and it didn't make me a better swimmer or cyclist. So that's lost some utility. It doesn't mean you're going to stop benching, but it means that your strength in benching has sort of reached its sort of maximum yield because you had something to apply it to. And in the, I'm going to call it the fitness race, we're all fitness prepping because I'll put all these deadlifts into a room and someday when the zombie apocalypse comes, I'll be ready. You know, we've forgotten the point was to have bodies that feel good and are pain free to be able to go play new sports and learn new skills more quickly. And as I famously say, maybe be less gross for my wife and the bargain. So how are you thinking about the, because now coaches have so many tools. I mean, you can buy kettlebells at Walmart and Target. Like, okay, okay, okay. Like something has deeply shifted. That was an obscure Russian farmers training implement, right? That came in like, it's crazy that that's in Target now. So I remember when buying Pavel Sosalini's book and being like, Oh my God, like what is this? This is crazy. The 10 minute like, how do I find the kettlebell? Yeah, 10 minute kettlebell snatch test was one of the most sinister gnarly conditioning expressions. Dude, Caroline can do that like, like before she goes to bed, you know, like our kid was swinging 100 kettlebell swings for extra popsicles a long time ago. We're terrible parents. I understand. But, you know, your point here, the point is, how are you thinking about fitness as a standalone now? Because we're selling fitness as, as I can just do a bunch of work and it'll cover all my needs. And we're seeing it fall on its face was people get injured playing pickleball. I'm like your Peloton fitness burn, you know, didn't really prepare you for sport. How are you thinking about that dynamic of meeting people's fitness needs and preparing them for actual sport and testing their fitness with sport? I love going back to set the stage. So this is like, to even set the stage before like when we started, fitness wasn't a thing. No, like 60 years ago, there was no such thing. Unless you were training for a sport, there was no such thing as fitness. A guy named, I think his name was Kenneth, wrote a book in 1968 called aerobics, which ignited the craze called jogging. 68. So, that's yesterday. Yeah. So exactly. It's yesterday. So all of a sudden, the 70s became this jogging craze. Late 70s Arnold Schwarzenegger pops on the scene and then he's the terminator in the 80s and bodybuilding becomes the next thing. So now you have these two kind of like polar opposites that have infiltrated the training and fitness and workout space. I don't think people recognize how much influence those two things still have today. It's either I'm going to lose weight and get skinny by doing a lot of aerobic work or I'm going to lift weights to get bigger muscles. And when CrossFit popped on the popped up on the scene, and this is again, only 15, you were at the very, very early days of this, but for me, you know, 20 years ago, when it popped up, that was the first sort of like, wait, it might not be just about those two polar ends of the spectrum. There might be something else. And as you said, I love to kind of like reminisce and realize like there was no such thing as bumper plates, like forget about overhead squats. Like no one even knew what bumper plates were. No, very few people trained with barbells outside of a Smith machine. Like you had the easy bar curls. This episode of the ready state podcast is sponsored by element. I want to talk about one of the problems that happens with athletes when it gets cold. They stop. Yeah, their hydration goes into the total trash. It's really crazy. And look, yeah, yeah, yeah, you're going to see some decrease in your view. You know what the problem is? Your foggy and your tissues suck when they're dehydrated. Yeah. And also it's not just young athletes. It's us. I mean, you know, in the winter, not young athletes. What are you talking about? The Santa Claus over here. You and I are either just drinking tea or coffee sometimes until two o'clock in the afternoon when we're like, uh-oh. You say that like it's about that. We haven't had a single drop of water and maybe the water in our coffee isn't the most ideal hydration source. It is less ideal because it's just not enough volume. Like, you know, I mean, like I could drink three liters. Enter hot element. Yeah, I'll just say that it's probably and it continues to be my absolute favorite way to smash a liter of water. It's warm. It is so tasty. And I am just over water. I'm over it. I want to be entertained. I want it to have some flavor. Yeah. And, you know, element has all these amazing flavors that I think originally were designed to be served hot. Chocolate and mint chocolate and a variety of other flavors. But our go-to is actually all of the more citrus flavors. It's like a like a super yummy citrusy hot tea. I started drinking really hot sweet lemonade tea in Nepal. Like I think 300 years ago when we were trekking. And I'll tell you the lemonade. It was in the late 1900s. And the lemonade element in a thrown in your favorite yeti. It's so hot and you will crush it. I guarantee what's going to happen is back's going to feel less achy, less brain fog. You're not tired. You're hypo hydrated. Yeah. And this stuff has no sugar. It's got sodium, magnesium, potassium, tastes great warm. Yeah. And just honestly helps us get more water down during the day. You also when you go work out, you will feel better. I promise it. And we know that hydration is one of the great limiting features of muscle protein synthesis. So don't rate limit your muscles, bro. Get on that hot element. And right now, if you go to order through our link, you can get a free sample pack of elements, most popular drink flavors. And of course, if you want to party in your mouth, you can always sparkle it up with sparkling. Go to drink element T.com slash TRS. Take it away. We literally drink it every day. This episode of the ready state podcast is brought to you by momentous. And what we want to talk about today is one of our go to supplements. And that is creatine. And in this case, creatine for kids. That's one of the biggest questions we could ask. You're talking about youth athletes. Youth athletes. There was new randomized control trial published in September of 2025 in the Journal of International Society of Sports Nutrition, showing that creatine can significantly enhance technical performance in adolescent basketball players, especially when they're required to think and perform at the same time. So this isn't the first study on creatine in kids. And I believe the research is pretty clear that like almost anybody can take it at any phase of life. But I know that parents, understandably, are particularly concerned about like supplementing their kids. Oh, yeah, but give your kid that bang energy. That's totally fine. Right. Yeah, that's fine. But it's fine. So there's a couple things. I think you're living under a rock if you haven't heard the word creatine. But specifically, we want to just remind you that it has these amazing benefits. All the the science go back listen to our podcast about it, right? But one of the things you can do if you're feeling sketched out is buy a good brand of creatine and a creatine that has CREA pure as its source made in Germany. That's high quality. The best quality. It's not sketchy. It's not made in a bathtub. And those things are other things that byproducts I won't even go into here are so gnarly. But the other thing here is that your whatever creatine source you're getting, it has to be NSF certified for sport. Yes, which means it doesn't have contaminants in it. It means that it's not sketchy and laced. It means it doesn't have byproducts in there. What's in there is in there and you can protect your family. Do not give your kids or anyone in your family creatine that's you just bought off Amazon sketchy unless it's NSF for sport. And our favorite creatine of late is the relatively new momentous creatine choose solve such and you know, they're particularly great for kids who sometimes aren't as excited about supplementation. These things taste like like every kid is like, yes, supplementation. Yeah, you're absolutely right. The barrier to being able to get your kids to creatine like with these little like sweet treats. Yeah, we just leave them on our kitchen counter and you know, we just find that that we all take them more regularly and more consistent because they just taste awesome because that's what I need more sweet treats. Yeah. Thank you for creating a monster momentous. Check it out. If you want to go to live momentous.com slash TRS, you use code TRS and save up to 35% on your first subscription. But like it was if you went into a traditional health club, you were either in one area doing the elliptical. Thank you for saying health club. Yes. You're either on the machines trying to like read people magazine and try to just go for 20 to 40 minutes really slow or you were doing some strength stuff and you're using a barbell was only for curls. Hamstring curls. Yeah. Yeah. There was definitely no burpees. There was no gyms with open rubber floor spacing. This truly I it was a fitness revolution. It changed what we are doing. So the way that kind of think about that is what we want to do is make sure that everything that we're doing. I like to think this is like we only have so much time. People really have so much time. So what is the greatest? What is the greatest bang for the buck we can give them? So if somebody only has 30 minutes a day and they're going to train three or four days a week, what should that training session look like? And I want to give them the biggest thing. And there's this as you said, here's the things that are kind of like popping up on the scene, whatever it is. My algorithm sends me zone two. I don't know why, but I get all the zone two stuff. If someone only is 30 minutes, that's because that's what old people are supposed to do Ben. If someone only has 30 minutes a day for three days a week, I don't want them doing zone two stuff. That's just not going to be beneficial. So that's where I always start is when you start talking about what should someone's training look like? It starts with, well, tell me the constraints I have to work with. How much time do we have? I think it's the most overlooked question. And maybe it's because I actually don't know why, but that is the number one question is like, what are we going to, what are we going to say is our allotable time? Is it going to be 20 minutes, three days a week, four days a week, five days a week? Is it an hour? Is it 90 minutes? Because that is then going to shape it. And where I'm going to go to is the most potent. The shorter it is, the more potent it needs to be. So accessory work and all the extra stuff is awesome, but not at the expense of, right? We really need to do is it's the same term we've been using forever, but we got to build people's work capacity. And we got to be able to build it up. And the biggest thing we can do is get them to push, pull, squat, lunge, run, jump, carry better. Like that's the deal. If you can focus on what someone's limiting factor is, right? Okay, you're not strong enough. You don't have enough of an engine. Your range of motion is super limited. We're just going to lean farther into those areas, but not neglect them, not say we're only going to work on those things. Because what we need is a well rounded fitness. You are as like the number one correlate for, I shouldn't say the number, the very strong correlates for how well you are going to live into your marginal decade, right? And live longer with more vitality is your physical capacity. And what everyone's going to is the single things. It's VO2 max, it's grip strength, it's whatever the soup to your and the latest like internet test. And I know we got to get you stronger put on muscle, but you can't get heavier. That's right. Okay, it is. I mean, if you zoom out just a little list bit, again, it's the yes and it's yes, it is those things. But it's it's not any one of those things. It's just so obvious that it is the totality of your physical capacity. I want you to be able to jump even when you're 75 years old. That might not be on a 24 inch box, but I need you to jump over the line in the floor. Like otherwise, what happens when you chip trip getting off the curb? Like I need you to have that little quick, reflective, powerful movement. I need you to be strong. I need you to be able to work through full range of emotion. I need you to be able to push and pull and squat in the higher the capacity you have in your 20s, 30s and 40s will benefit you later on. So that's what I'm thinking about now is really, you know, it's been our even when we're like the super competitive gym, our mission has always been the same, which is to create a family of humble, hungry, happy people who kick ass in their 90s. Like it's always been about that. I don't know why that was the thing I was still shooting for when I was, you know, in 30 years old, but somehow that resonated like I do want people to actually I do know why. I mean, it's it's it's a little bit longer story, but um, my best friend lost his dad way too early. And it's because he didn't have health. And that's brutal. Like it's just brutal for that. My cousins lost their mom and their dad way too early. It is because of their health. Like when you see kids, we see like, um, losing the most important figures in their lives way too early, right? Like in middle school, high school and in college. And it's completely preventable. It's it's it's hard not to, I mean, that's that's ultimately the reason I I doubt this. You do. Yeah, it's exactly right. Yeah. So I have a comment and then sort of a question, but the first is on this, and we'll move on from training here because there's so much other things, so many other things to talk about. But you know, one of the things I think is doesn't get enough, um, cred when it comes to this conjugate training is it's fun and keeps you interested. Um, which I really think is, you know, I would not keep up my strength training practice if I had like six moves I did and all I did was go to the gym and do like five by five squat and then five by five. Like I would find that to be that that may work again. It's the yes and that kind of training, I'm sure, works for many people. But you know, for me, I'm definitely more of a novelty seeker. And for me to stay interested in and engaged in a program of any kind, but specifically a strength and conditioning program, like I cannot be doing the same thing every single week. Like I it's got to be varied. And I think that's one of the things that for me is important and undervalued in a strength training program. So I'm just shout out for that. And then quick last thing, there was a podcast recently with a physician and some well known strength and conditioning coaches where they said that, you know, nobody over like 40 should be squatting or deadlifting, which I don't agree with. I just want to know what your point of view is on that. Yeah. I'm not the short answer is I don't agree with it either. I saw that podcast and I should say I saw it. I saw the clips of the podcast. So I don't want to say that I saw the whole thing and there might have been more context to it. But actually, I think I listened to at least up through that part. And the really short answer is I do not believe in that. I believe in building strength. I believe that strength is best built through the core foundational movements of squat, dead, push and pull. I believe that that is best developed in those movement patterns by trying to lift the heaviest possible. So you get to a threshold. So it's when you when you start to lift heavier weights, you get more benefit. It's kind of like duh. But you get that not just a musculature, but the as we talked about earlier, you get a neural musculature, you get the the central nervous system gets involved. The best way to get the heaviest loads on you is with a barbell. So if we're chasing this longevity thing, not only is it the most beneficial thing you can do for pure strength, which matters, not only is it the thing to do for muscle mass, which is also matters, it's the best thing you can do for bone mineral density. And a little bit of the science behind that part is bone mineral density matters, because if you're over the age of 65, and you fall and break your hip, your chances of being dead within a year go up by over 20%. That's like catastrophic. So we got to do everything we can to improve bone mineral density. What's the best way to do that? The way we grew up in the old aerobics world was impact. It happens through like jogging, like running is the best way, jumping, jump rope. That is a way, so I don't say no, because it's yes and yes, that is a way. The better way to do that is through strength training. Bones actually get the strongest, not from the impact, but by the muscles contracting against the tendons, the ligaments, and essentially trying to break the bone. And the bone resists against that. And that's what actually creates the greatest bone mineral density. So if we're trying to preserve function, if we're trying to preserve bones and muscles, it matters. And there is basically unrivaled movements, which is squat, dead, fall, and so on. I'm going to go out of the garage and now just say, I'm going to go try break my bones. Yeah, break my bones. Break my bones. One of the things that I want to appreciate here, and want everyone to appreciate about you a little bit, and we hint at a little bit, is that your first operating system language is strength conditioning. You have great success. You've been doing it forever. We could see your receipts. One of my favorite things now is I'm on the internet, I'm like, oh, who is this person worked with? Can I see your world champions? Can I see your military group? Oh, you're in a gym by yourself. It's not even your own gym. You actually have been responsible for someone's long term athletic development. But I think sometimes the least interesting part of you is the strength and conditioning expertise. So I certainly got into that and recognized, I was like, oh, we have this opportunity over here, but now there's so many aspects where sport becomes this framework, where I become interested in the next thing, which I see as a huge limitation. What are you obsessed with right now? And I hint at that you do a lot of mental skill training. And what I'll say, and Juliet, here's me say this all the time, if I went back to school now, I'd be in group dynamic there. I'd get a PhD in how to organize teams and how people belong. And maybe that's some psychology. We see that people don't have any framework for setting goals or being successful or dealing with hard experiences. That's something that's very interesting. What's interesting to you, and explain that a little bit, because again, your first love language obviously is like, if I need a good program, I know I could find you. But that's, I feel like now the least interesting thing. Yeah. And also, a sub question, how are you applying that to the people you're working with? Yeah. I actually don't love the word. So, short answer is, yeah, mindset. The really quick kind of like, let's, maybe set a little bit of a disclaimer to that. I really don't like that word mindset. I've got away from mindset. First off, I don't think it's your mind. I don't think it's set. So, I have a friend, Chris Irwin, who calls it mental fitness. And I like that a lot better. Fitness implies if you work at it, it gets better. It implies that it's not just the mind, but it's the total totality of your mentality. The recent things that, if you ask kind of like, what am I kind of focused on now outside of the coaching, strength conditioning, programming, it's really in, I'm, I'm, I really like the word character. Because I think it's actually, the biggest thing is, how do we act? How do we carry ourselves? And to me, that's your character. Your personality is how you act in peacetime. When things are going really well, that's your, your personality comes out. When you're surrounded by your friends and you're doing the things you love, that's your personality. I don't think that, I don't think it counts for a whole lot. It's like, because some people are introverted, some people are extroverted, some people are curious, some people are funny, some people are, you know, it's just like, I just, it's, it's who you are. And I think it's a little bit, I think that is a little bit more of the nature and nurture. It's just kind of like, your personality came out, came out kind of through that. Whereas character is truly more like, you know, the Carol Dweck. It's like, it's the thing that you develop and you do it intentionally. And it's hard. And if personality is how you act in peacetime, character is how you act when you're challenged. Is that, is the gym the right place to develop this? Or is this the only last place to develop it? You can, so you can develop it a whole bunch of different ways, right? You can develop it just like you can with any sort of psychological framework. You can develop it by journaling, meditating, long walks in the woods, solitude, stillness, talking to a psychiatrist, reading scripture. There's a whole bunch of different ways that you could go about trying to develop and forge this. I, my biased opinion, obviously is, I think all of those pale in comparison to you going and doing a hard workout. I really do, I think that the gym is the best place you can go to develop your character. Dot, dot, dot, if done intentionally. Because you see tons of people, this is where it gets kind of missed is like that idea of like, does lifting weights develop mental fortitude, fitness, toughness, or is it just the physicality that kind of creates a higher buffer? I don't think that it, because I've seen it. And the story I give is like when Katrin first came here, she did a workout, it didn't go the way she wanted to. And she was short tempered. She had, she took off her weight belt, threw it across the room into the corner, yelled out some swear and Icelandic, went out the door and slammed it behind her. And so she was a super, she was a games level athlete at that point. It's like, so even getting to that high level, didn't teach her the resilience, didn't teach her the, the ford through, didn't teach her the patience, didn't teach her how to stay centered and calm, didn't teach her the emotional maturity, didn't teach her how to handle hard better over the years of doing it intentionally, doing hard training with the intention of developing your mental fitness. I think that's the biggest difference. It's the same thing as you were to go to group therapy. If you went to group therapy, just cause you, it's like your parole offer said you had to do it, and you have no intention of actually changing, it's not going to change you. But if you went in there, like this can be the best thing for me. I mean, everything I can out of this. I'm so curious of what this process is going to be like. And I can't wait to see who I am on the other side. Totally different. Like intention matters. Right. It's a difference between manslaughter and murder, like your intention matters. Thank you for the lawyer reference. I appreciate that because we are in like grind culture, just show up and just blind effort. Another coach and I kind of coined a term that we called it plausible deniability. Because you could be like, well, look how hard I worked. It's not my fault. And like, you don't own anything. You could just show you're like, well, I broke or I wasn't strong enough or whatever. And that plausible deniability gives you an out versus exposing the whole thing. And I think something you said when I said, Jim, you said also sport is that we are hoping and Juliette and I are very obsessed with this because we have kids in sport and we work along a lot of youth sports in collegiate kids is that we're, I think parents are hoping that we can develop character through sport, but it just seems to be a lot more busy work training and there's not a lot of intentionality around that. Right. Would you agree, Jack? Oh man. Yeah. I mean, I love that. How do you do that in a session? Because what you're actually describing actually is a really good yoga class, honestly, where someone's like, this is what we're working on. Let's come here. Let's, you know, this is what we're thinking. You know, hey, stay centered. That's not what happens when I still go into a lot of gyms. I go into a lot of gyms and the music is cranked and it's just three, two, one go or hey, we're just grinding under this heavy load with my headphones on, right in the big commercial gyms. How do we, what you're describing is coaching and teaching and, you know, almost like, like people use the word personal trainer. I'm like, I've never identified with that word, you know, because I was like, there's a lot more to this. And now I'm like, is coach even a strong enough word? It's like, you know, guru mental facilitator, like, you know, there's not even a word for that anymore. But how do you do that day to day without going to woo and without eating up the valuable 30 to 60 to 90 minutes that you have? What does that look like? Yeah. So I actually think, I think coach is the right word because I actually, the framework I use with my coaches is most of the people you'll see here are not coaches or trainers, they're cheerleaders, right? And cheerleaders, if it's better than not being a cheerleader, like it's, because if you're not, then you're a spectator on the sidelines. Like that's, and I'll use coaches, the highest moniker of respect I can give you. That's right. Yes, coach. So it goes cheerleader, trainer, coach, right? And a cheerleader is like, let's go, guys, you got this. And you can be really motivating. Like that could be a really high level cheerleader. Yeah, like I always think like spinning classes have cheerleaders. Like usually spinning class instructors are great cheerleaders. Exactly. Then when you get into a trainer, so a trainer in the spin world, right, would be teaching points of performance, right? It'd be teaching to use the totality of the circle on the, of the, where, where should their hands be? Do we have shoulders externally rotated or we hunched up in the upper back? Is our head neutral? And we have like, all those little things, are we riding on the rivet? Like all, like now we're talking like training. A coach is one that then takes it beyond the points of performance, beyond maybe even identifying, rooting and fixing issues to the psychology of the individual athlete, or if you're working with a group, the actual dynamics of the group, right? It's like,  kelly wants to be coached this way, juliette wants to be coached this way, and I might yell at one and whisper to another. It's this understanding of now, I'm not just working with the individual, but it's the holistic approach to the athlete as well. It's not just I can identify, see, and correct, root and make the athlete move better, I'm fixing the totality of it. So that's, I actually, right, I think coach is the highest model of respect, but to answer your actual question, the way that we bring that change, the in mindset, is the same way you would bring change to anything, which is you create awareness about the issue, you create a strategic plan, execute it with intentionality, and then repeat that action. So the framework is awareness, intention, action. So the first thing we have to do is understand what mindset is, we have to bring awareness to it. And mindset is simply the story we tell ourselves. So that's what it is, we need to bring awareness to the words that are going through your head. Most people when they are kind of told that, it's challenging because it's not a constant narrative, it's more like a kaleidoscope of thoughts, it's all these competing thoughts in their head. So what you need to do is get them to be aware of it, so they can slow it down a little bit and listen. And when they slow it down and listen, what we wanna do is hear the language. And is the language that's going on in your head, which by the way, for a lot of people, is not just in their head, it'll be shown through their body language, or might be shown through the spoken word. And it's through the spoken word that's really powerful, and we really need to change that. Words dictate actions, actions dictate behavior, behavior comes who you are. So what we wanna do is, that's why we have all of these bracelets that I'm wearing now, would say never whine, never complain, never make excuses. Like you can't do that. If you're doing that, we have some word so massively hurting ourselves. So then what we wanna do is bring awareness to the language, in your heads, body language, or spoken word. And we frame it up. And we just kind of go like, hey, is this the language of a victim? Right? What was me? They always program these types of workouts. God, I can't believe it fell this way. Like, oh, like, oh, everything is against me. Or above that is a pessimist. Which sounds like what was me, but it's like this sucks, this is gonna stink, this is gonna be so hard. Or next above that, and these are sort of like hierarchical pessimist victim, above that is the optimist. Which is like, it'll be okay, don't worry about it. You know, sunshine, rainbows, most people stop there. And to me, that's just like the middle. Like that's just like okay. It means that we don't have issues. But what we wanna do is evolve past that to a realist. And a realist just understands like, yeah, you're gonna have bad training days. Like, yes, like there's going to be, it's gonna rain on your birthday. Like, yes, we don't have enough perspective even right now to know if this thing is good or bad, to why get so wrapped up in it. And then what we can do is if we work on this language enough and bring enough awareness to it, maybe we get to like have a warrior mindset. And that's why train five, six days a week, eat real food, sleep state hours, think like a warrior falls into this and then connect with yourself, others in nature. When you think like a warrior, what a warrior does is once you become the best old school Japanese samurai, once you dominate the dojo, you don't stay in the dojo. A true warrior does what? Goes roams the earth for a worthy foe, right? It wants the challenge. Once you become good at surfing knee-high waves, you don't want knee-high waves anymore. Why? Because they're not a challenge. You want the waist-high ones. You want the overhead. You want the big barrels. Like I don't even surf, so I hope that's the right words. But that's the idea is the warrior seeks out. They look forward to, they know what they're gonna evolve through the challenge. So awareness, intention, action. Awareness, what does your language sound like? Bring huge, like don't let it slip. When our athletes say words, we call them on it. We snap our bracelets. Like you're hurting yourself and me. Like we gotta bring crazy levels of awareness to this. If your kids are talking with a victim or pest with mindset, we talk about it. We say that and we try to reframe it. That's all it is. So the awareness, the intention is when I talk like that, when I have those thoughts in my head, I will follow through a process to reframe them to a next level up. I probably won't get to a warrior, but okay, at least let's try to get as close to optimist as we can. And then from there, the action is, I'm gonna do this every single time this pops up. In the beginning, you're only able to do it with the small things. Over time, you develop your mental fitness and you can do it bigger things more frequently. And how are you seeing in your clients when they're following all of these pillars, how are you seeing it? And I see, I know you've worked with so many elite athletes but I'm talking about more like your A30 moms class or your 630 people. You're not 30, 30. 930. Yeah, 10. Yeah. How are you seeing the 837 class? How are you seeing the transformation in humans from following this method? Yeah, so the first one is like, no mystery, right? People get leaner, they get stronger, they get healthier. They come back with, the really cool ones are when it's not just that, but justified by lab work and blood work and like all that stuff sows in and all of a sudden they're off medication. Like that's, they're doing their first pull ups. Yeah, huge win. Yeah, all those things are awesome. The really, really cool ones are the ones that, so I had one just last week. He came up to me, he's like, I, we're outside of Austin. His daughter goes to college in Pennsylvania. He is driving with his son to go to his daughter's lacrosse game. So they're gonna drive from Boston to Pennsylvania, like seven hours. Halfway through the drive, he gets a call from his wife and goes, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The game isn't this weekend, it's next weekend. So he's driven three and a half hours in the wrong direction for nothing. He has to turn around and drive another three and a half hours back. He in the past was an athlete, ever was an athlete. He was a guy that would have lost his shit. He would have gone off the rails. Like he had a rage thing. And what he instead was like, I felt that thing, the trigger. I was like, wait a minute, I don't need to go down that path. I can get myself back to center. What this means is I just have another three and a half hours in the car with my son. That's pretty cool. And then that's what he's saying to himself. And I'm like, that is way more than pretty cool. Like the fact that anyone backed to his house and instead of losing it on his wife, which he would have done before, he came in the door and his wife was fully braced for like impact. He was like, got home and he was like, hey babe. And she's like, that's, that to me is like, I call it being centered, right? When you're traveling the path of life, we want to stay centered. If we're driving through a tunnel, you want to stay in the center of the tunnel. You don't want to smashing into the walls, smashing the walls. That's when you get knocked off center. We're all going to get knocked off center. The goal is how quickly you can get back to center. That is something that would have taken him maybe weeks or maybe never gotten back to center from. He might have held his grudge against his wife forever for that. But the work, as I said, like these, we know that like it's so much more than the workouts, right? If you bring the intentionality to like, we are going to work on more than your muscles and your lungs and your range of motion. It's going to build up your mentality, your character as well. That echoes outside the gym, which is the coolest thing ever. Do you coach that person's wife as well? No, but she's a friend. Because I just want to give her a shout out. She's actually a world champion triathlete. Oh, there you go. Because I want to give her a shout out because she didn't make an excuse. She's like, oh, I messed up. Yeah. And like, oh, okay. And the safer thing would have been to like, just like let him drive the whole thing. We need these states away at that point and deal with it. Yeah, she's got like another shout out to that woman who knew who knew was like, oh, I owned it. And then now it's your problem. Well, Ben, it's such a total pleasure to talk with you. And I think we could go for another two hours. But we have a question we like to ask all of our guys called the Infinite Shelf. Before we wrap, what is one book, film, show, or album you'd contribute to our Infinite Shelf? And why does it matter for you? Oh, are there still albums? Do people still make albums? Is that a thing? I mean, I think they do. Yeah. I think they do. I guess it says we knew, right? It could be like the Beatles' white album. It could be like. It doesn't need to be corrupt. Adolfo Destruction, yeah. Splatify said you're 95 years old. All right, one book. So of those different mediums, I'm definitely the book person. I'm not the person to go to for recommendations on any of the others. I would say that the book I've recommended the most over the past probably two years is the almanac of Naval Ravikant. Tell us more. Are you not familiar with it? No. No, wow. OK, so Naval is amazing. He's one of these Silicon Valley slash, but he's also an Indian philosopher. So he has this really cool duality of business, of happiness, of the totality of what it means to live a meaningful existence as a human. And he has these different frameworks that are just so dang simple. And the book is written in such a way that you could sort of like just pick it up and read it anywhere. And it's these mantras. It's these memorable principles that help you in business, in health, in happiness. And it's become a really guiding, sort of a guiding principle for a lot of what I do. I love it. I love it. We can't wait to read it. We'll let you know how it goes. Now, let's just say that you're a middle-aged dad and you need some motivation. Where can I find Ben on the internet? Where are we stuck? Yeah, point us to your comp training program and where would you send people? And you obviously have written a book and you have your own podcast. Let us know about it. Yeah, you're a senior person. The first place I would say is comptrained.com. If you're interested in the training side of things, it's an app with daily training that our idea is to build high capacity, high character human beings. That's what it's about. It's about training pretty hard, but in a way that allows you to live a more meaningful life. Beyond that, Instagram, unfortunately, is probably the next best place. And I have a podcast called Chasing Excellence and also written a couple books, so Amazon. And you're at Ben Bergeron on Instagram, right? Just straight up, okay. And if I wanna come just live in your house and have all the things stripped away and have someone drive me to the gym and get coached, I can't guarantee a championship at my age, but maybe that's what's gonna. Yeah, I would love it. The invitation is there for you, Kelly. I've already been there. Lived at your house. Ben, this has been a total pleasure. Thank you so much for being here and we're just delighted that you joined us. I appreciate you guys so much. Thanks. Thanks, Ben. Hey, Kelly and Juliet here. If you're ready to feel strong, move freely and have a body that's built to last for life, we've got something special for you. The Star Ed system. It's our 12 week strength and lifestyle training program. We designed it so you don't have to guess what works anymore. We blend strength, mobility, and recovery into one smart system that actually sticks. Over 12 weeks, you'll train with us and learn from our expert guests, build strength, lose the stiffness, wake up with more energy, and finally feel in control of your body again. We're running a free seven day in app challenge starting January 5th, if you wanna check it out. The first 2026 cohort starts January 12th and early birds get $200 off. If that sounds like your kind of move, go to the readystate.com slash system to apply. We'd love to help you show up stronger, more capable, and ready for anything life throws at you. Let's make it happen. We'll see you inside.

=== FILE: Real Health vs. Internet Fads： The Truth Revealed with Dr. Rachele Pojednic [yVuOzBXTACo].txt ===

 It drives me crazy that we're all trying to live the protocol life right now and that everything needs to be optimized. What we think is this shiny, perfect solution really doesn't withstand a person trying to get out to school, go to work, manage a sick family member. It falls apart. Dr. Rachel Pajednik, she's a respected expert researcher, global speaker, thought leader in nutrition and exercise science. She's an expert on the health benefits of physical activity. Currently serves as the director of scientific research to restore hyper-wellness and is a faculty member of Stanford University. We abdicated a spot in this science communication space for so long that we allowed the people that are literally driving us crazy, saying wacky wild things to own the space. In these past three years, what have you been researching and what have you found? Has anything surprised you? Rachel, welcome to the Ready, Stay podcast. Thank you so much for having me. I am thrilled and humbled. Well, we have no idea. We're such fans of you and your work. We were lucky enough to meet at an event that Stacey Sims put on first. And then we both, you and Kelly and I are part of the Stanford Lifestyle Medicine Group. And so we've been, you know, our paths have just been crossing. And I've really noticed what a good job you've been doing, you know, getting out there on the internet and on to podcasts and just trying to sort of communicate some, you know, real evidence-based, specific and practical health information and sort of try to cut through the noise. So I'm just going to start with this opener question. If you could delete forever one piece of health information that is pervasive on the internet, what would it be and why do you think it's harmful? Oh, there are so many things. I mean, what to really choose from. I think the biggest problem with what's going on in the internet right now without sort of, you know, really pointing out one particular piece of advice or another is that there's this idea that there is an answer or that there is a protocol. It drives me crazy that we're all trying to live the protocol life right now and that everything needs to be optimized because, first of all, that's not the way that we live our lives. But second of all, there's almost no data to point to a very specific diet, exercise regiments, sleep hygiene protocol out there. And I think this is what's making people so crazy and confused is that they constantly feel like the message is changing number one and number two. They secondarily feel like I can't do these things and I certainly can't do all of them. So if I had to change what's going on in the wellness space right now, I'd say everybody just relax. There's too much information and not enough data to be honest. I love that. And I want to just highlight the fact that we try to remind people that the human brain is the most sophisticated structure in the universe. Attached to a physiology that's equally as complex in a psycho emotional, you know, ecosystem that's really complex. There's a lot going on and every day I coach a Division one team over at Berkeley. And what you just said is so highlights the fact of what we think is this shiny, perfect solution really doesn't withstand a person trying to get out to school, go to work, manage a sick family member, have to cook from it just it falls apart. And so what we have is this sort of shiny nuance and then when it actually meets the real application when someone's what are they doing day to day? It does. It feels like I've watched TV and now I don't know what to do about that. And I think you make a really good point, Kelly, is that athletes are often looked at as the epitome of the protocol. They've got this perfect training plan and they show up every day and they execute and if you execute, you're going to be able to show up on game day or race weekend. And it's all going to pay off. And if you actually work with athletes, you know the variation day to day stress, sleep deprivation, the changes, you know, if we're thinking about women, we've been talking about hormones a lot lately. Those are all factors that have to be dealt with every single day and no protocol or training plan is ever executed perfectly. You know, we just had Ben Bergeron on our podcast, Great Coach, and he said, you know, in this industry and he was talking more fitness, but I think it really does relate to fitness, health, wellness, whatever, you know, whatever this, you know, broader industry that we're all in is. And he said, we need a lot more yes and kind of conversations. You know, there's just too much of this like, there's one way to do things. It's this protocol idea you're talking about. And not only is that not based on reality or evidence, but it also just doesn't fit well into people's lives. So, I'd love to hear a little bit about your personal backstory. It seems like you work in this intersection of research, coaching, performance. I think you've really moved into sort of being a science communicator, translating science and evidence and, and, you know, explaining that to regular people. Tell us a little bit about how you got to this point and sort of what are you actually doing every day. It's another really good example of how everybody thinks the trajectory is very obvious. It's actually quite circuitous in life. No way. You just, you were like, I'm going over there and it's just a straight line. So I'll give you the TLDR. Basically, I started out doing my training in Boston way back in the day, exercise physiology. I was a personal trainer, ended up becoming a strength coach. Did some really cool work with some teams out there and really was going down the route of human performance and decided I wanted to go back to grad school. I was actually teaching at the time and couldn't really find a good program for human performance, but stumbled across a really neat lab at Tufts called the Nutrition Exercise Physiology and Circle Penia Lab. It was led up by a guy named Roger Fielding and they were looking at older adults and muscle and I was like, I want to look at older adults. I really want to do, but now it's a good talk track because I can always say I've been studying longevity before it was hot. Yeah. But what I realized is when I, you know, spoke to everybody in the lab is they said, Rachel, if you understand where things break, then you can work backwards and look at, you know, an optimized body. And realize where those intervention points are and where things start to go wrong. And it was a light bulb that went off in my head at the time is you don't have to study human performance or healthy aging because it's all one spectrum, one arc, if you will. And so muscle became the tissue that I was studying and I continued on the very traditional academic track. I did a postdoc. I became a faculty member at a university in Boston. I was on the tenure track. Was that Harvard? I did my postdoc at Harvard. Yes, I did. I just, I like to just put it out there, you know. Yeah, I did, but I did my PhD at Tufts and that nutrition program is actually one rank higher than our. There we go. Go Chambos. It's anyone's kind in the back. Yeah. Um, so I, you know, I was on this really traditional route, ended up moving to Vermont during COVID because everything got shook up. And my husband is actually an athletic coach and he got a job offer out here to coach at Stanford. He's one of the rowing coaches here now. And he was like, Rach, what do you think about blowing it all up and moving out West? And I said, great, but I actually don't want to work full time in academia anymore. It was kind of getting challenging for me because at the time I was studying things that are really hard to study. So I started out looking at skeletal muscle, as I mentioned, and different supplementation strategies started out with vitamin D. Challenging to study because vitamin D is hard to study. But then I started looking at CBD. And this is where things got really interesting. I at the time was in Boston and I wanted to give CBD to a cohort of people because I had gone to get a massage at a studio that was owned by the quarterback of the football team at the time. It was the TB12 studio and the massage therapist gives me this oil and she says, oh, there's CBD in it. There's so many good, wonderful recovery things that CBD is doing. And I'm like, interesting, what is it? It really recovers your muscle, reduces inflammation. I thought it's interesting. I'm a muscle researcher. I've never heard of this before. And so went and dug up the literature and realized that there really wasn't any data on it. At the time there were two research studies. One was in guinea pigs and one was in dogs. And started to go down this path of can we study these things that the wellness industry seems to think is doing all of these wonderful things for us. But really there's very limited data. And when I went to my IRB, that's the ethics committee, they were like, no, you can't get that. And I was like, you know, they have it in a massage oil right down the street and you can buy it at every gas station. Right. That's crazy. Yeah. And so started to go down that route and trying to cleverly figure out how to study these things that you were not allowed to give to people because they were in this federally gray regulatory zone. At the time, the federal government was like cannabis and hemp are illegal. States were like, no, just kidding. You can do it. But the IRB was not allowing me to do it. Move to Vermont. Same story. I was trying to study CBD. They wouldn't let me give it. I tried to study cold therapy. They wouldn't let me do it without a physician in the presence of the cold, even though my students were out jumping in the freezing cold river in Vermont and nobody cared. And so when I got to Stanford, I actually took a faculty appointment at Stanford in the Human Biology Department and the director of education at Stanford Lifestyle Medicine. But my primary role now was actually pivoting to industry. Because I was offered a job with this company called Restore and then the chief science officer where they called the up and they said to me, look, we want to spin up a lab. We've got a lot of therapies that have an absence of evidence. We're making a lot of claims about them. We're kind of under the flashlight of the FDA and the FTC because we're a pretty big company. And we want to actually put our money where our mouth is and get a really good, highly qualified scientists to come study our stuff. And if you had known me three years ago, you would have been like Rachel would never have taken that job. Literally never. She was the myth buster way back in the day. But I was offered a job and I went for a walk, as we do when we're trying to work things out. And I was listening to a podcast. And it was a podcast where people were kind of railing against the wellness industry. And I said, you know what would be great is if one of these wellness companies would pay for the research and actually hire a scientist to investigate their therapies. And I was like, hey, okay, weird, okay, weird. Universe. Universe. So I took a leap of faith and I said yes. And when I had my final interview with the CEOs and the founders at the time, I literally said to them, I want it in my contract, but I am not here to rubber stamp your shit. I'm going to do good science. I'm going to do it the way that I know how to do it, which is from the very top. And you need to deal with whatever the data actually shows and says. So their credit, they said, that's exactly what we want. We want to be transparent. We want to basically put a firewall between what you're doing and what we're doing kind of in the development and R&D side. And so that's where I've been in the past three years is transitioning from this really traditional academic route into kind of a role of a Trojan horse in the wellness industry to see if we can bring some good data and communicate some good science to people that are really just trying to help themselves stay well and get better. So tell us what in these past three years, what have you been researching and what have you found? What and has anything surprised you? So the we have four or five papers that we've published in really good journals, very similarly to the way that I would study in my lab in academia. We looked at one for cryotherapy, which had very little data and inflammation and showed over time that cryotherapy does seem to have a signal to reduce inflammation. We looked at this was very controversial. We looked at compounded GLP ones to see if we could use these therapies that the time a couple of years ago were the alternative to these prescriptions that were really, really hard to get to see if the weight loss would be the same. And I study skeletal muscle. If we could preserve skeletal muscle through a really strong coaching program, which we were able to do. We are looking at some B vitamin derivatives. You've probably heard NAD and N.R. We just had the very first manuscript ever published on IV and R because somebody had to do it to figure out if it was safe. Number one, so that was the paper was to understand safety parameters. So we're kind of poking holes in a lot of different places where people are accessing their wellness care right now. I love this on so many levels. And one of them is very difficult to take what we're learning in sort of science and sort of rigorousness and veracity of approach. And then you have this partner who coaches mutants. And you know, you really get some insight into what those kids hear, what they see and how difficult it is to translate the lessons that we know are legit into fundamental biology and performance biology. And we love performance as a laboratory because you really do see that when the margins are small, we can see effects and we start to see inputs and outputs much differently. Because it low loads, low stress, low biologic imperative, you can kind of do whatever you want. The body is very tolerable. But at the high levels, we have mutants who like it really does matter if it makes a difference. It makes a big difference. When you are now sort of thinking about science communication, because I think that's got to be the place where this really became important to you is like you have this, you know, partner whose life is. I mean, Julianne was a rower at Cal Go Bears and you know, no rivalry there at all. But you know, how do you start to also realize that traditional academia has not done a good job of translating because it's easy to be like, well, in this community and I'm like, OK, well, what are we learning from Stanford and how do we transmute that because that hasn't been part of the directive of science and communication. I think the first. In fact, it's kind of in the opposite. Like it seems like that's changing. But I remember talking to Jessica Nurick and she said when she first went out and was she got slammed. Yeah, that she got slammed by her fellow scientist as like it's, you know, it's below you as a scientist to be on the internet doing this communication. Yeah, and I want to hear sort of how you think about this evolving role. But one of my friends, Greg Cook, who have functional movement systems, said, hey, if you're not the local expert in movement in your and you're a professional, you know, you're a professional. And you're a professional person, there will be a local expert emerge and that person probably has zero training and is very bro science. So you might as well step into that role of expert. It's something that I think about all the time is, yes, when you come up in traditional academia, flirting in these circles is very frowned upon and being active in these circles is kind of shunned. Because we talked to other academics, that's the way that we've been trained in we don't say words like boost or optimize, right. But that's what the general population uses for words. And so I think just as a really good job, Jess Nurick does a really good job of this is making complex nutrition policy is kind of her stick really accessible for people to understand. And it's something that I recognized in myself years ago, I told you I was a teacher I actually taught middle school for a couple of years. They were awesome. I loved it. But this idea of early skills development of taking complex science and making it really simple like can you make science understandable for a middle schooler. And that's kind of the backbone of science communication in the world of wellness is, can you take this really complex science and make it easy for people to understand. And so that's the sort of start of where I frame my science communication. And then Kelly to your point, which I think is really important is if we're not here as the experts in this space. Somebody is going to fill that vacuum. And that vacuum is already massive. Right. We abdicated a spot in this science communication space for so long that we allowed the people that are literally driving us crazy on our social media feed every single day saying wacky wild things to own the space. This episode of the ready state podcast is brought to you by a vitality blueprint. You know what? There's two features here around vitality blueprint that are important. Number one, you finally have a place to bring all of your blood work, your historical work into one spot that will analyze it. And I think that's really cool because you're like, Hey, I got this. I got all this information and I, you know, I make stretching videos. I don't understand. I must be skating this right. And so suddenly I have someone interpret it for me, which is a great, great piece. And I think the other thing that's so key that we talked about for years and why we're such a fan of doing this kind of performance in regular blood work is that it's not just your results today that are important, but it's tracking the trends over time. And so one of the amazing things about this platform is not only can you get your blood work done comprehensively, but you can also add in and upload other blood work and really start to look at your trends over time. Which is the thing, right? It is the thing. And the last thing I want to talk about, which I think is so unusual is that like we're complex systems of systems, but vitality does a really good job saying focus on this first. This is your big constraint. Like if you want to start to move the needle, start here on these behaviors and that's really radical. Otherwise we know, I mean, we ask people to do two things. We're out. Yeah, you can do one thing, improve this one thing. Yeah. And usually when you get blood work, it's just sort of like it just goes into the ether, but actually to get this really comprehensive protocol of what to do. And in my case, my protocol wasn't a laundry list of 700 things. No, no, no. It was like two or three key things, key changes and things that I could do in my lifestyle that could potentially make a big difference. Sign me up. If you want to learn more, go to vitalityblueprint.com and use code TRS for 50 bucks off any vitality plan. If we had been here the whole time, we might have had a fighting chance, but now we're making up ground and it's really hard because I say this all the time and short of a few people, scientists suck at social media. Like they're really bad at it. When they try for the most part, it's like a really, you know, proper infographic and it's like people like swipe, ignore, boring, right? And we need to figure out a better way to crack through and get good information to people. And if that means using words like boost or optimized or longevity, that's the space that we need to really figure out how to translate what we know to be true based upon the evidence. In a way that people, real people can understand. And I think it's so complicated because, you know, and we, Kelly and I are like pro doctor all the time and we appreciate how challenging it is in our current environment for doctors to, you know, in 10 minute appointments to give this like That's generous. And so, you know, you know, people who actually understand the data aren't in the conversation and, you know, I'm sure it's very frustrating and maybe what will motivate more scientists and physicians to get online is, you know, the amount of people who must be coming into their office and saying, hey, I learned this from Instagram and that from Instagram and, you know, them having to spend a lot of time dispelling misinformation, disinformation from their clients and patients. So I just, I think it's so awesome you're there. I have to give a shout out to the Stanford lifestyle medicine group. It seems like that group is at the cutting edge and more and more of the physicians and researchers in that group are, you know, really trying to get out there and appreciating the sort of be in at the longevity and wellness conferences and get on to social media and, you know, it may take a little while before, you know, before it's the norm and not the exception but it seems like it's trending in the right direction. I was going to say even the step that Stanford took to say, hey, there's no more geriatric medicine. This is how we treat people or their lifespan health span just sort of starting to say, hey, we really have a place here and sort of to begin that conversation. How if you're a young clinician, you're a young researcher, how do you begin to think about science communication. I mean, we took, we were worthy of the appropriate when I started making videos about people caring for themselves in range of motion and pain, just that alone. My entire industry was like quack, like this is crazy. And it's taken, you know, almost 20 years for now I am, you know, working with the APTA. I'm invited to speak like, you know, it was at first Kelly was like, you know, in the traditional physical therapy world, he was like, you know, the pariah and what is he doing and he's giving away all this proprietary information. It was weird. So I remember just thinking, well, this isn't serving the people I'm working with. I have to do a better job of taking this and transmuting this so that people can do it on their own. This has some agency. Where should someone start thinking about this, this aspect of translational research or application, because it is daunting. Like, you know, what it's like to be a young underpaid undergrad postdoc. It's not like you're like, Hey, in my free time, let me just start this other side hustle. It's a lot. Science communication takes a ton of time because you do have to figure out how to make nuance really accessible for people so that they understand without losing the important details. Right. And so I think that is just in general, whether you're young and just starting out or really seasoned and trying to get into this game. It's a real challenge to figure out how to rewire your vocabulary in order to get this information across. Now, as far as getting started, I think one of the things that you really need to recognize and we all need to kind of come to terms with and you highlighted it just a second ago with your own experience Kelly. Is this idea that there is a really pervasive friction between these two worlds of traditional healthcare, academia, research, and where real people live. And so one of the things that I think about all the time is how can you have a foot in both worlds and really think about bridging the gap here. Because as you also pointed out, people are going to their providers and they're not getting the information that they want and need and it might not even just be like, hey, you know, what does this peptide do or should I put a red light mask on my face or like should I use a PEMF mat, right, which is all the kind of like fringy stuff that's going on in the wellness space. It could just be like, hey, is this like, should I be eating saturated fat? Should I not be eating saturated fat like really simple stuff that people want to know. And what I find frustrating is that the healthcare space operates kind of like within their own confines and they've been trained very purposefully to stay within the guardrails, right, like do not color outside the lines. And that's very frustrating for people because they live on the margins oftentimes. And so when you go to your doctor and they say, oh, well, that's probably not going to work for you. That's not what the data shows. People leave and they're like, what the frig, like what should I do then. And the other part that I find frustrating in the healthcare space is kind of a lack of curiosity of what people are actually doing in their day to day. And oftentimes people will say, I'm doing this, taking a supplement, doing this particular exercise regimen. And the doctor will kind of be like, well, why are you doing that? There's no evidence to support that. And I have to say as a supplement researcher, and I've been researching supplements for almost 20 years now, I find that lazy. I'm throwing a little, throwing a little stake on the ground. Here's a little Barb. We know that there are plenty of supplements that work, particularly for, what did you call them, the, our athletes that like see the 1% mutants, particularly for the mutants, right, where like, they're looking for that tiny edge, right, they're looking for, you'll appreciate this expression. Juliet is the, the bow ball over the line first, right. And that is real, and that, that does work. And so I find that really frustrating on the healthcare side of the house. On the wellness side of the house, I get really frustrated in the absolutism and the answers that they are so convinced are correct. Going back to this idea of protocols. Oh, if you have this particular condition, this is the answer. No, 100% no. And this is the problem and where people get confused is that person X is saying this is the answer person Y is saying no, no, no, no, this is the answer. And person Z is saying everything you've heard up until this point is wrong. You know, your physician is wrong. This person is wrong. And people are like, who the hell should I trust? My doctor doesn't know what I'm talking about. The wellness industry is telling me 6000 different things that I should be doing. And people are left in the middle navigating for themselves. And I find that to be putting these two worlds together. The most frustrating thing overall is that the real human beings that are truly trying to seek care, and mostly in the case that we're talking about preventive care. How do I keep myself healthy for the long span? I really left navigating all of these conflicting messages from people that they're trying to trust. And at the end of the day, they're turning to self experimentation to baby guru in their life that they kind of attach themselves to. But at the end of the day, most people are really just frustrated and confused. Are you saying serial anecdotal empiricism is not as regressed as we like? I don't know where that just came from. One of the things that we discovered is we almost had to create a whole different lane of performance therapy. Yes. That we didn't wait until the person's shoulder was so bad that they couldn't occupy their role in their family, couldn't go to work, couldn't do their job, right? Like medical emergency level. And that was where we were. Most people are having these interventions around tissue health, inflammation.  swelling, pain, loading, all those things. And we, Juliet and I finally just kind of were like, okay, this thing doesn't exist, let's go ahead and just create a different field, where we're looking at observable, measurable, repeatable phenomena. And I think this is where so much of the science communication needs to go, is like, what are the objectives that you're actually looking at as a person? Because I feel better, I'm like, that's cute, you know, that I really, I believe you, but can I see your why this change? And I think one of the things we figured out was that early on when we wrote Supple-Eppard, there were really like just two things we could measure. And one of them was your range of motion, which all everyone agrees was relatively the same, within let's say five degrees, right? And then we were like, and wattage, and power, and output. And so we could measure those things, and we could say, hey, these things got better when you did this, let's continue to repeat that. And I think that leads us back to one of the problems with health is like, how do you measure health? And how do people measure brain fog? And all of you know, cortisol burnout. And when you're thinking about these things, do we need to recognize that we just, maybe our traditional medicine models don't serve us because they are really managing complex disease, which happens for humans. And that we almost need another track, help us understand, are we misusing sort of our traditional science kind of, and wellness and health, and what the hell should people be tracking? Because if they can look at SAO2 and blood pressure, we can expand that and just say, hey, this is normal for everyone. Yeah, I think you're putting such an important and fine point on where these two worlds should and need to overlap is what is the data that we should be collecting? And I think that I love that you said it's observable, measurable, and repeatable, right? And it's not just kind of like a one-off or a weird claim, cortisol, spikes, right, which is kind of like the marketing buzz terms that everybody's saying these days. And so when I first got to restore, one of the first things that I did is I looked at a lot of our intake forms and they were asking really good questions of our clients that were coming in. There was a health history forum, there were questions around lifestyle and diet and everything, and I said, well, where did you get these information or where did you get these questions from? And to their lovely, amazing credit, all the nurses that I was working with was like, oh, well, we just made them up. And I was like, okay, cool, because A, you were first thinking about, we need to actually capture this information on our clients because it's really important for them to be able to track themselves over time. But we can actually make this a little bit more sophisticated by bringing in some validated tools that are and have been shown to be observable, measurable, and repeatable. And we know that they can then compare to the other science that's in the literature right now because they've been used by scientists and actually shown to measure what we think we're measuring. So I think that is one of the first things that we can do in the wellness space is start to integrate tools that actually make sense and have been tested to actually capture the information that people are trying to capture. And I will argue in a way that's actually comparable in different systems. So for example, if you think about the way that we are all tracking ourselves day to day with these wearables. If you were to wear an aura, a whoop, and a garment, and you were to track your sleep, they all get pretty good and close within 20 minutes or so of how many minutes of sleep that you get in a night. But if you were to actually compare the sleep zones that they are measuring, none of them are measuring those zones correctly or repeatedly. So you can't compare your aura to your whoop and you can't compare your whoop to your garment. They're all measuring something totally different. And so if you were to look, for example, at your recovery score in the morning, which is what so many people are using, your whoop might tell you, hey, it's good to go. You're great today. You got all, you know, 90 minutes of deep sleep and your aura is like flashing red, like go take a nap. You're in the danger zone because it's measured that you've only gotten 40 minutes of deep sleep that night, right? And so this is something that I think is super important that you're getting at, Kelly, is we need to find a common diagnostic suite so that we understand like, is this actually working? Is it working in the real world? And is it truly observable, measurable and repeatable so that we can see our trajectories over time? So that's something that I'm working on in every aspect of my life right now is I have a diagnostic set of tools that I have created and we're working on creating this big data set at Restore. And every single time I consult and talk with these other companies, I'm like, can we standardize the way that we are asking questions so that I can go out and say, oh, you're using an aura or you're using a whoop. Oh, I can see like, yes, this is actually accurate information and you can trust that information as well so that you can track your changes over time. But that's not the way that the world is in the wellness space right now. What you just said just blew my mind and I'm like, yes, you know, that a true model and if we're trying to model human function, it has to be, you have to explain current phenomenon, you have to be able to predict future phenomenon and this is it, you have to be able to communicate that information across platforms. Otherwise it's not a model. What it sounds like is we don't have a unified model for the body because we're so diverse. You'll appreciate that I've had all of those devices and which one did you trim it if you're the best? At times I wear them at the same time and but then I will always like cast away the one that is giving me the worst scores and conclude that like that one is wrong. I mean, think of me as like your average user and I'm like, well, my aura ring has been telling me I'm not doing well lately, but my garment has been saying I'm crushing it so like I'm not gonna wear my aura and then if my garment starts going downhill I'm like, I better put my aura on tonight because things don't look good for me over my garment. I mean, literally this is ridiculous. She's never said this out loud. Yeah, I do that. I'm like, which one is gonna be better for me and make me feel better about myself, which is totally insane, right? That's not data and it's not anything. So, okay, so... Can I just tap in really quickly about like kind of like the alternative version of the healthcare? Cause I think it's really worth comparing these two worlds is when we think about the diagnostics that are on the healthcare suite, if you will, you know, let's look at blood, for example. There's a really standard panel of blood that you might get. It's, you know, your A1c, it's your fasting glucose, your triglycerides, your cholesterol markers, maybe some inflammatory markers. And here's where things get kind of problematic. I think on this side is you have a range of what's normal and what tends to happen in the healthcare interpretation of these diagnostics is as long as you're in the normal range, you're good. What they're also not doing for the most part, there are some physicians that are doing better at this, is tracking change over time. I'll give you a really good example. So let's say you're 25 years old and you go and get your blood work done and your A1c, which is a measure of your glucose metabolism, is somewhere around 5.1, which is really good. It's very normal. And then you're 35 and you go to the doctor and now it's 5.3, still normal. But you're still printing in the wrong direction. You go in your 45 and it's 5.6. You are borderline now for insulin resistance and eventually trending toward type two diabetes, but you're still in the green. And it's probably likely that you saw a different doctor at 25 to 35 to 45. And so that trend never gets caught. And now you go at 55 and your A1c is at six and oh, hey, now you've got a diagnosis. When it probably could have been caught at age 35. And so this is a problem of using really traditional diagnostics is they're great and they're great for cutting and creating thresholds for a diagnosis of a disease. But oftentimes what we don't see is this trend over time, which I think the wellness industry is getting better at even if their tools are not yet refined enough to really capture and compare. And let me give one more example. Juliet may or may not have had a traumatic birth and received 12 blood transfusions at one point. Just call it a blood bag. But I remember distinctly where the physician's like, well, you're not that anemic and you were at the very bottom number of the reference range for like, and I was like, that has nothing to do with the fact that you're an athlete, you're a superstar. Like you had no ferritin, you had matriculitis, like that of someone who doesn't have blood. And the thing that you just said about the trending also doesn't say about that didn't match what the physicians had didn't actually match to its experience, right? Around, hey, I don't feel very poppy. I was a division one rower and I have a huge aerobic engine and I don't feel like I can access it. So real quick before we move, how do you we think about that problem? Because then I know that's functional medicine and putting people into these ranges, but that range goes in both directions where people aren't catching that or we don't know you well enough or hey, that's good enough and is good enough the place for my primary care. But if I'm interested in performance, I should have a performance physician. Is that even possible? I think it's possible. I think a lot of doctors, especially after working in the lifestyle medicine space for a really long time, which is kind of adjacent to the functional space, a lot of doctors are really becoming disaffected with the system, right? They didn't get into medicine to type into an EHR for 15 minutes while their patients kind of like rattle on and they have to ask them all these questions that are in the check boxes that are. And that was an electric health record, everyone. EHR. Yeah, sorry, electronic health record. So I think a lot of doctors are also getting frustrated with this system. The good thing about the healthcare system is it's repeatable and consistent, right? So if you go get your A1c done at one doctor, you can trust that the test is comparable to the other doctor. The problem is the communication starts to break down. And to your point, Juliet, like, okay, if you're at the lowest level of all of these markers of iron homeostasis and you're normally somewhere in like mid to high level, you might have been flagged as normal, but for you that is not normal. Very disnormal, yes. Yeah. And so I think this is where we have an opportunity to bring these two worlds together and start to use the diagnostic tools that we know work and are repeatable and feed them into the sort of continuous real time devices or apps or whatever it is that the industry is creating so that people can actually start to see their own trends over time, keep track of them in one place and have that point of communication consistent so that if people start to see things slipping and sliding, they can rely on the metric that they are seeing and also then go seek care when they start to notice that things are going sideways before they end up with a diagnosis. So that's where I think the wellness industry shines is this idea of hyper personalization. We're not there yet, but we are trending in that direction and I'm really excited about it. This episode of the Ready State podcast is brought to you by Momentus. You know what's super cool? What? Caroline Saret takes a protein shake to school in the morning. I have one, that's one I'm gonna call peak father. Yeah, and I think what I'll say here is that aside from all of the technical benefits of eating enough protein, one of the key things is actually finding a protein powder that you like and taste good. And I think that's one of the amazing things about Momentus protein powder. I mean, I'm obsessed with the strawberry, but Caroline, our daughter, will mow down the chocolate protein like it's her job. Yeah, and I think I can't stress enough that you and I have the protein test. Can you put it in tepid water? Yeah. It does taste good. But imagine you shish it up a little bit. Maybe add a little piece of banana in there. Yeah. And then she's like, whoa, I've got some micronutrients in here, dad. But I have a sneaker creatine in there. Collagen. Dude, it is a delivery system. She has no idea. She has no idea. She's never gonna listen to this, but I am secretly sending my daughter out prepared. And what's nice though is, you know, kids have low drive to eat breakfast anyway. Then at least I know. They're supposed to still be asleep. That's right. In her first period, she's got 40 grams of protein down. And I'm like, I don't know what's gonna happen at lunch, but it doesn't matter. Yeah, but the key there is it is a really tasty protein powder. We could call it the Caroline line. Like just the fact that like, will Caroline eat it yes or no? Like, you're like, Mikey likes it. Dude, you, those of you who are old enough to understand the life commercial, Caroline is that person. Yeah, so if you're looking for a tasty, easy to drink and mix protein powder, this is the one. Skadeesh. If you wanna learn more, go to livemomentis.com slash TRS and use code TRS and save up to 35% in your first order. Hey, if you're enjoying the show, make sure you're subscribed wherever you get your podcast. That way you won't miss any of the new episodes we drop. Plus, it really helps other people find the show. So hit that follow button now and let's get back to it. Yeah. Yeah, and I was just gonna say, I mean, there's a lot of fringy stuff that Kelly and I are not fans of, but just because we've tapped into this blood work piece. I mean, we really got on this. We actually really started working with this very early independent blood work company, like way back in 2012. And Kelly and I actually really started doing more regular comprehensive blood work, sort of outside of the traditional medical care system and starting to see that like, if you can actually start to track trends and changes and maybe make some alterations in your lifestyle or your medications or whatever you're doing before things start to go south, like it really can make a big difference in your overall health. But it is interesting to see over, as you were talking over the last, let's just say it's been 13 or 14 years, Kelly and I have gotten comprehensive blood work from, you know, five or seven different independent groups. Then we've gotten tons of blood work within our traditional medical care system. And you're right, none of it is in, like there's no single source. So I could go over into my one medical and see some years of trends. And then I could go back into my Kaiser for some years and see some trends. And then, right, but there really isn't this like single source of truth. And so from a blood work perspective, it is interesting. I just never thought about it like that until you said that, that we really don't have a way because we all are changing insurance and trying, you know, we get something from this company and that company and right, there's no way. So, you know, maybe that's a business for someone right there, but anyway, I guess, you know, one of the things I love about your work is how practical you are. And that's one of the reasons I love following you on Instagram and, you know, tracking all the work you do. And again, I know that you're not someone, and we all I think are sort of critical of like this. There is one protocol, but I think there's some basics we can all agree on. And I guess my question to you is what are those basics? And then I would also sort of add to that, if there are some things we should be tracking on the regular, what would those things be? That's a great question. I like to think about the foundations and then the fun stuff as big levers and little levers. So, if we think about the big levers, these are the obvious kind of unsexy parts. Oh, like money with these. Yeah, it is. You gotta move your body. You have to eat a diet that is mostly healthy, mostly gonna be unprocessed foods, sometimes M&Ms because life must have joy. Seriously. You need to get a sufficient amount of sleep in a pattern that makes sense for your body. You need to find a way to cope with stress in a way that works for you and your schedule. You need to surround yourself with people that are really supportive and loving and have relationships with others. We know that that's becoming such an important component to the human experience. And if you can start to really dial those big levers in, that's gonna have the most, what we call in science, effect size. So, when we think about the magnitude of the outcome, these big levers are gonna make a huge difference. They're gonna have, if we were to measure it statistically, a large effect size. Then you can start to sprinkle in the fun stuff, right? So once you've got those big levers pulled, we're talking about perhaps some supplementation that might enhance your performance or your brain health or touch on some issues that you're dealing with. You could refine your exercise so that it is specific to training for a marathon or training for a powerlifting event or a high rocks event, right? So when we think about the overall trajectory, if you can really focus on those big levers, get those under control and then have fun and play with those little levers, you're gonna feel confident because you're actually coming back to those same patterns and behaviors over and over again, which is kind of soothing to the soul rather than sort of like responding to every shiny object and things that spin. And you're also allowing yourself the curiosity and the creativity to find those kind of sprinkles on the cake that you have baked that work best for you and for your body. And so as we think about the sort of foundational pieces, that's the way that I like to frame it. And then as far as things that you want to test, a lot of these wellness-y tests, as we talked about, are kind of experimental at this point and not particularly repeatable. So the things that I really like are the basic blood work panels, right? Particularly around metabolic health, check your A1c, check your fasting glucose, check your triglycerides and your cholesterol. And yes, without going down this rabbit hole, your LDL cholesterol matters. Please get it tested. It is an indicator of cardiovascular disease risk. Maybe more importantly, a low HDL is important for cardiovascular disease risk. So please be careful in the biohacker, bro science world, please get your LDL checked. And then on top of that, some really simple things that I like to measure are resting heart rate, first thing in the morning. So if you are consistently at a resting heart rate of what's called at 55 when you wake up first thing in the morning and three days in a row, you wake up and you're at a 65 or a 68, something's going on there, right? It could be that your sleep is poor, it could be that you're over-trained, it could be that you're getting sick. That's a really good indication for you because it's a measure that is consistent and repeatable in your own body. These other metrics, things like HRV or we talked about the different sleep stages or the sleep zones, I'm not completely convinced that they are an indication of anything right now. If we look at HRV in particular, it changes a lot based upon a lot of inputs that you could manipulate. Like, did you have one extra glass of wine the night before? Did you stay up too late? Did you have a fight with your partner the day before? That's all going to affect your HRV. But what we don't know yet in the literature is whether that affects your future performance. That just doesn't exist in the literature right now. Like that data is an absolute absence of evidence. And in fact, in some cases, this is really fun. They looked at war fighters that were flying planes and they've actually showed that those that had a lower HRV, so poorer HRV, actually flew better the next day. And one of the hypothesis is that they were appropriately stressed out, that they knew that there was a really important and consequential event in their future. And so they had the butterflies. And the war fighter said, I like to call it butterflies flying in formation. Right, like they were ready for it. But their body was stressed out and that's okay because we know that stress heightens arousal and they needed to be really on point when they were flying their planes around. So stick with the basics, even with the diagnostics. If you get those dialed in and you really learn your own body and you can follow trends over time, you can start to see very clearly where things go wrong. And I can, can I just go? Please go ahead. Well, I was just going to say, this is more of a comment and then I'll let Kelly ask his question. But thank you for saying that about HRV because we actually coach real people. And right, and that's also could be a whole other side conversation, the intersection between like all this talk we do and then the reality of coaching actual humans. But I would say in our group, our STARAT system program, the biggest source of anxiety when it comes to tracking is HRV. So many of our clients have what they consider to be poor HRV, they can't seem to improve their HRV. And it is this, it actually becomes a source of anxiety for them because this wellness, influencer world is telling them that like, HRV is the thing. And again, this is not science, this is my instinct tells me that like from what I see over all these years that there's not, doesn't seem to be a ton people are able to do to really massively influence it. It seems to be very genetically based. Like I trained with this woman, Margaret, her heart, she's 57, her heart rate variability is like 100 every night. She's just like a mutant. And then, I don't know. So it's just, I thank you for saying that because I do really feel like it's this metric that we don't at least have good protocols for figuring out to improve or control. And it does actually cause people a ton, the people who are tracking, it is causing them a lot of anxiety that it's poor. And it's poor in a lot of people because usually the people are tracking are people in their like 40s, 50s, 60s who are peak job raising kids, stress, busy life. And, you know, it's just not awesome. I'll just tap in really quickly. Can I do? Can you ask you a question if you don't mind? When many of the groups and the athletes that I work with, we actually recommend to them, especially at peak performance times, that they stop wearing their wearables. And there was actually, I believe it was the WNBA, they said, don't like do not wear your wearable before big games, before championships. Because what happens is you wake up in the morning and you look down at your watch and you're like, oh God, I am not primed to do my thing today, right? I'm not primed to show up. And what it does is it, before you even put a foot on the ground in the morning, it biases your brain to believe that you're not able to perform at your own peak at every, you know, the peak that you have been training for every single day. And so we actually recommend that you don't wear those wearables at times that it matters. And I'm actually working right now with a group that's trying to help the women's USA cycling team start to track their progress and nutrition and, you know, align their diagnostics with their training so that they can dial in and dial out training based upon where their body is. And one of the suggestions that we had from one of the researchers at UC Davis, Keith Barr, is he was like, you know what we gotta figure out? How to create an app where when they turn it on first thing in the morning, it asks them how do you feel before they get to see their score or maybe they even don't get to see their score because the feeling that you wake up with is much more powerful for the way that you are gonna perform later on in that day than the number that might arbitrarily have tanked your HRV or, you know, your readiness score or whatever it is that you're looking at. And so if you can bias your brain to be like, hey, I feel great. And then you open your score and you're like, all right, whoop, does not think so. You might be able to kind of overcome that initial negative bias, but that would be my suggestion as well as far as like a trackable piece here is, yeah, there's all these, you know, objective diagnostics, but you can also think about subjectively waking up in the morning and just frankly asking yourself, how do I feel today? And that's a great way to start the day. We, Kelly and I developed this scientific test a long time ago that we ask ourselves, do we have a desire to train? It's real, it's deep science. And because we both have a strong desire to move, you know, we're like movers, we have a strong desire to move. And so if anything, we're gonna override that when we shouldn't be, when we should be resting. And so we started asking ourselves like 10 or 15 years ago, like wake up in the morning, don't look at our devices and say like, do I have a desire to move today? And on those days when we just are like, oh, I have no desire to move, we actually listen to that. And it's, you know, it's not scientifically validated, but it does really seem to work for us. We should validate that, it would be really fun. How do you feel? What? Whoa, whoa, whoa. I just wanna highlight the wisdom that you just dropped. That was exactly what I was gonna just circle up on. And, Great mind. You know, I just had a conversation with a woman who is very high level player, captain of our international team. She's on her way to European championships. And she's like, okay, I think I'm interested in your watch, but I'm worried it's gonna tell me I'm not recovered. And I was like, we don't, it's a training tool. You know, we don't look at like, oh, your bench press went down, you're gonna not be able to play. I mean, it's just, that's, it's crazy. And I just love, love that, that. And I wanna highlight for everyone the real world application of being on a team with real people. And I don't mean just in sports. I mean, like, you think about your group, that person has a sick baby. That person has a sick parent. That person just jet lagged. You still gotta show up and do the thing. And I think that's, you know, almost weak. We almost call it like plausible deniability. We're like, wow, it wasn't, you know, my metrics weren't good. I'm like, turns out you had crap genetics, crap coaching, crap preparation. But you know, you have to show up and put that, you know, bow ball over the line first. And it doesn't, it's agnostic about how you got there. And I just love that reframing because it is hard to take this personal information. And here's the rub, translate it into something that I can do because I'm like, okay, what did you do about it? Well, you still ate two bags of gummy bears today for dinner and you, you know, you, and as all the things you said, all the big leavers aren't getting pulled and you're just measuring crap. 100%. And that's the part that I think with all these diagnostics, that we kind of like loop it all back is like there's such opportunity here. And then there's also such a cavern to fall into if you're not really careful about the way that you use and interpret that. There's gotta be a, like this, I think it's like orthorexia, orthosomnia, right? Where you start to worry about your health and you start to perseverate on your sleep. There's gotta be a disease where you worry about worrying about the sleep. You wanna know something really interesting? There was actually a report that Lululemon put out in 2024 where they were talking about the global state of wellness. And they found that the vast majority of people that are concerned about their wellness are also kind of like making them sick over the concern about their wellness. It's kind of like the rexias that you're talking about here, right? Is that like there's wellness rexia here with being so concerned that you are opti...  amlodimizing, and that you're doing all the right exercising and that you're exercising hard enough and you're eating the right diet is actually a vicious cycle for people rather than a virtuous cycle in many cases. I like that. I love that. Yeah. Okay, so I know that you maybe, I don't know if you're trying to retire your role as a myth buster, but I would like to see, maybe this can be a bit rapid fire on a couple of topics. The first one, and I know you just wrote a great sub-stack article on this and you can get on the internet on literally any day and you're like, yes, you should do more zone two and zone two is the source of all longevity. And then it's like, no women shouldn't do zone two. And I mean, it's the zone do thing is like, it's one of the questions Kelly and I have to answer to a lot in our own coaching and working with people. So, you know, can you give us a sort of rapid fire? Like, how do we think about zone two and you know, if we don't do it perfectly, are we all gonna die? Yeah, 100%. So I am an aerobic athlete for the most part. And I wrote this sub-stack that the headline was basically most longevity influencers have no idea how to actually train because they're all using this idea of zone two. Good clickbait. Good job, scientists. I love it. Yeah, yeah, I'm working on it. So, like, most people are talking about zone two, like it's some magical, like mitochondrial unlock. Like, sorry, I'm like giggling over this now, but you train people like zone two is it's the place where you practice your skill. It's the place where you get your body really used to the motion, whether it's running or cycling or rowing or swimming. And you get really good at it there. You start to train your base so that you can work harder in the future and your form doesn't break down and you are able to push out into zone three, zone four, and in some cases zone five without getting injured, without, you know, overtraining. And I just, it makes me giggle that this has become the biohacker, like, aerobic exercise. And the other part that's really funny is zone two is not even the best training zone for mitochondrial growth or efficiency. Like, if you want to increase your aerobic capacity, you actually have to train higher. And so I, and then, and then Julia, to your point, like you've got all these people being like, oh, but women shouldn't do zone two because they're already aerobic animals. And like the whole thing, it's just like, dude, just go for a run. Like, that's what you need to do. You're a rec athlete at best. Yeah. Like, let me just be clear, everyone, like, I know you think you're legit, but you are not legit. And don't worry about the zone two. If you're not even training hard three hours a week in the first place. Okay. And then my next myth, but this is next and last, next and last. I think you also wrote a sub-sec about this. You know, what do you say to people who are like, well, I read that there's lead in protein powder, so I can't eat protein powder. Yeah. How do you approach that question? I bet you get it as well. I do get a lot of nutrition questions because that's kind of one of my tricks, particularly with the lead in protein powder. You know, that was a bit of a sting operation for sure, where, you know, people were going after these companies and really trying to, you know, bring them down at some level. I do think there is utility in some of these testing protocols. I'm trying really hard not to use that word. You do want to get, you do want to take supplements that are third party tested, right? That is really important. And the thing that was interesting about the protein powder is that I don't think it translated very well is the reason why the ones that flagged really high in lead did is because they were highly concentrated plant proteins. And lead and other heavy metals occurs very naturally in soil. It's not nefarious. It's, it just lives there and it gets sucked up in some small amount into plants. And so when you hyper concentrate anything, that is going to hyper concentrate everything that is in that particular, you know, original form. And so I think about this for greens powders as well is that you're concentrating a lot of the things that you want. And you're also concentrating potentially some things that you don't want. And so I actually think it's good that they're tested and make sure that like the stuff that you don't want in there isn't in there. And honestly, the supplement world, this is another podcast. We're going to get another hour for this is, you know, it's, it's pretty unregulated and you do need to be careful out there. So make sure if you are taking supplements, even if it's something as simple and benign as the protein powder that you are, just double checking to make sure that it's been tested, that what's in the bottle is actually in there and that there's nothing else that is contaminating it. Shout out on the NSF for sport. We're here. Yes. NSF for sport. Yes. Great one. This episode of the Ready State podcast is brought to you by Element. We just had on the amazing Dr. Rachel. Well, actually on this episode, we're having on having on. And one of the things we asked her is like, Hey, could you give us an idea around a personal experiment that you can run? Yeah, on your health. And she said, you know what? Something I do with all my students at the university, she's like, the course, this nutrition, I haven't changed one thing. And they do it for like the whole semester. Like, she's like, do this and then run this experiment and see number one, how it impacts you, probably positively. Number two, what prevents you from doing it? Right. Like it starts to, she says it's future proofs, future proofs yourself. So here's what we're going to say. I want you to wake up, maybe have a coffee. Yeah, run this experiment. And then I want you to drink an element in the morning. Yeah. And it doesn't need to be 14 weeks. Like try this for one week, seven days. I don't think you're getting enough water first thing in the morning. I think you're going to pay for it later on in your tissue quality and your, how you recover and how your joints feel the brain fog. But once you've had that coffee, I want you to commit to drinking an element that's going to, it's going to easy to suck that water up. You're going to replace salts. Like it, and then if you don't drink water again for the rest of the day, I still think you're, hey, it's not me. I'm talking about you. I'm talking to you. That's true. But the bottom line here is run this experiment and I guarantee literally text us. Kelly, start at the right estate. If you don't feel better, you'll be shocked. That's an email. You will be blown away at how much better you feel when you'd have some tasty water. Yeah, run this. Run this mini experiment on yourself. And, you know, one of our feelings is that in order to actually do this, you want your water to be fun and taste good. So if you're going to run this mini experiment, add some element to it, do it for seven days and then let us know how you feel. And your friend, Beth, put us onto a, she's like, try hot element. That was years ago. It changed my life. So hot element. Right now, if you order through our link, you can get a free sample pack of elements, most popular drink mix flavors. If you want to try a party in your mouth, there's always the sparkle route. I'm fine with that too. Go to drinklmt.com slash TRS. We literally drink it every day. By the day. This, I know, goes sort of against this long game that we're saying, but do you have a challenge or behavior that people could engage in and do a micro experiment for a week? Like, I really love, I'm like, hey, run one experiment at a time. You know, Nick Gill, who is the director of performance for the All Blacks says this, like run a little experiment. Drink some more water this week and see if it changes something like cost nothing. And it can be subjective joy. Like, hey, I drink more water and X happened. You feel better. I'm into, turns out that humans that feel better tend to do better. And they certainly play better. Do you have something like that that you could help us just run a little mini experiment on? I love this. And I actually do this with my students. So I have them do a nutrition class that I teach. I have them do one tiny change around their nutrition and they could pick anything that they want, but it has to be small. So it could be drink more water. It could be add one fruit or vegetable to the day. It could be one. It could be make sure that they eat breakfast in the morning. Like, whatever it is, choose the thing that you are looking at yourself and being like, that's probably something that I should pay attention to. Pick that and then do it for they do it for the full semester. So it's a good 14 weeks. So it's longer than a 30 days, but I like the 30 day cut off. And the part that I think is really important is yes, pay attention to the things that are going well. Yes, I feel great. I'm I'm you know, I'm hydrated. I my brain fog is going away in the afternoon. But also pay attention when things start to go off the rails so that you know what to prepare for in the future so that you can essentially set your future self up for success. So let's say, for example, you want to drink water, let's say eight ounces of water more every single day. And you find yourself. I'll use my students as an example going from class to class to class to class to class. And you get to the end of the day and you're like, I haven't had any water to drink all day long. Recognizing that a that's a pattern that you need to break. But B, what can you do in the day to set your future self up? Let's say tomorrow for a, you know, I carry a water ball, auto with me or I when apple in my bag or something. Exactly. So it teaches you how good you feel when you hit that behavior, but also teaches you to recognize the moments when things might go sideways so that you can preempt them. And the phrase I like to use set your future self up for success. I love that. And I think that just sort of circles it up so well with what we started with, which is this, I think overarching idea that there isn't necessarily there's some important principles that we discussed and basics, these sort of big levers that we all need to follow. But there isn't really one, a one size fits all perfect protocol that everyone should be following. And part of figuring out what is going to work is doing these little self experiments, because what exactly works for you from a training and nutrition perspective might not work exactly for me or for Kelly. And I do think part of it is this sort of self experimentation and then sort of accepting and realizing like these are the things that work well for me. And then you can put that against objective data. My bone density is going up. My muscle mass is going up. Right. Then we can say, all right, you know, it's different kind of input. All roads lead to Rome, but a lot of roads don't go to Rome. Yeah, exactly. Exactly. Okay. So be water rose can drive you straight into the ocean. Exactly. Be careful. Okay. So our last question we ask all of our guests is help us add something to our infinite shelf. And that can be a book, a show, a piece of music, something you're enjoying listening to, watching, reading that we can share with our audience. Obsessed with favorite book. Anything. This is an excellent question. Um. I think one thing that I really enjoy and this is, uh, I guess it's something that I've always done is really try to have a different, um, genre of book than you would normally have in your day to day. And for me, this is hilarious. And I can't believe I'm admitting this on a podcast right now. This is, I feel like you guys would fall into this category with me like, oh, I lean in toward the health podcasts or the health books. Suple leopard is obviously on my, um, on my bookshelf. But I also find that having kind of just like trash reading around is we are here for it. For five brain. Not call my sci-fi fantasy trash. Yeah. Okay. So what's your favorite trash reading? Is it deep end? Yeah, I can. Yeah, I fourth wing. I, I call it a brain candy. Um, yes, by the way, amazing movie. Yes. Great. Uh, yes. Um, fourth wing was really good. I really liked that one. Um, I also am into the, um, the, uh, kingdom of, of roses and thorns. There's always like blood and ash quarter thorns, roses, blood, and roses. Thank you very much. Yes. So my, this is terrible. My, um, internal name for this genre is, is dragon smut. Um, I like that. Well, we know all those books. We know all those books. Rachel have them all at our house because our daughter Caroline has been really into that genre since I don't know, she was 10 years old and has read, I mean, she has read every single pot. And I'm always like, do all your books always have like a rose and a thorn and an ash and a court and a crown. And we didn't even have to talk about birds and the bees at all with her. Because she was like, Oh, I've been reading books about this for years. So, so no shade coming from me at all. I'm, I'm, I'm a pro reading and whatever it is, I'm here for it. So I love it. Um, I'm glad that you dragged that out of me because I wasn't going to say it in the very, like you could probably see the struggle in my face. Like, do I actually tell them that this is what I read? But I will, I will say in my defense and science is my love language. So I will, I will wrap it up with this is that there's actually some pretty good data that shows that reading nonfiction is really good for your brain, especially if you're kind of a straight line spreadsheet thinker like I am, because it unlocks creativity and it allows you to kind of like disassociate from the, the day to day part of your life, which is quite good for your brain. I'm not a brain scientist, but that's what I read. And that's my confirmation bias for my, uh, I love it. I love it. I'm, I'm for confirmation bias that is around smutty dragon lore. I think that's so good. Well, um, you know, total honor and pleasure to have you and you know, keep doing what you're doing out there on the internet and your sub stack, um, and tell people where they can find you, follow you, learn more about your work. Uh, thank you so much for having me. This conversation I think is so important for real people. And I'm very grateful for the platform. Uh, people can find me at Rachel Pagednik on the socials, Rachelpagednik.com. I keep it pretty simple. It's kind of a complicated spelling, but if you start typing it into Google, it should be the only ones pretty unique. Yeah. Awesome. And you, and just shout out to your sub stack as well. It's great. Um, if anyone's looking for great practical and evidence based, uh, thinking around this health wellness longevity space, it's a really great place to go. So enjoy it. Thank you. And last, I just want to say to talk of bulls is not the same thing as to be in the bull ring and good job being in the bull ring, talking the talk, communicating to us mortals, you know, and trans translating this experience and all of this information into things that actually make a difference in my life. I really appreciate it. Uh, I'm so grateful and we need more people in the arena. So let's go. Let's go. All right. Thanks again. Hey, Kelly and Juliet here. If you're ready to feel strong, move freely and have a body that's built to last for life. We've got something special for you. The star ed system. It's our 12 week strength and lifestyle training program. We designed it so you don't have to guess what works anymore. We blend strength, mobility and recovery into one smart system that actually sticks over 12 weeks. You'll train with us and learn from our expert guests, build strength, lose the stiffness, wake up with more energy and finally feel in control of your body again. If that sounds like your kind of move, go to the ready state.com slash system to apply. We'd love to help you show up stronger, more capable and ready for anything life throws at you. Let's make it happen. We'll see you inside.

=== FILE: The Biggest Loser Study： Why Exercise Didn’t Stop Metabolic Slowdown [2N2hI-Jv1js].txt ===

 and people have observed that especially in the phase of dynamic weight loss, while you're actually losing weight through a calorie deficit, the resting metabolic rate slows down more than expected based on just how much weight you'd lost. But at the same time, I was reading lots of popular articles and blogs and fitness magazines that said, if you just worked out enough, especially did resistance training and cross-training, you might be able to prevent that slowing of metabolism and therefore have greater success in weight loss. And then tuned into one of the episodes of this biggest loser TV show, which was this crazy television program where people are losing so much weight. And what you see on television is that these people are doing a ton of exercise, right, of all kinds, aerobic exercise, resistance exercise, cross-training, all sorts of things. And it occurred to me, if there was ever a case where we could study how metabolism was changing in the context of a severe calorie deficit with a whole bunch of exercise, this was the group of people to study. And so I eventually was able to kind of get a couple of postdocs in a collaboration with Eric Graveson's group at the Pennington Center in Louisiana. We sent out some postdocs to study season eight contestants of the biggest loser before they even knew that there were contestants on the program. We had like the list of people who were actually going to be selected and we measured them at their homes. And then during this crazy weight loss competition and then six years later after many of them had regained much of their lost weight. And I know that there were some surprising findings from this study. What was the most surprising thing you learned in following the release of the program? There are so many surprising things actually. The one that I thought was particularly interesting was that most people had thought that, well, again, did the exercise prevent the slowing of the metabolism? The answer was absolutely not. They still kind of during this sort of weight loss competition, despite all the exercise, their resting metabolic rate was slowing by a huge amount. But we were able to show that their total energy expenditure, the total number of calories that they were burning was going up quite a bit because of all that exercise and physical activity. They were doing about three hours every day of the week of vigorous exercise. And for this entire 30 weeks or sorry, 13 weeks while they were on this wrench. And then when they went home, they kept up an hour of vigorous exercise every day after they went home before the finale of the competition. So a huge amount of exercise. But despite that resting metabolic rate still crashed greater than would be expected based on the reduction of body weight, which was a huge amount of body weight reduction. It was 60 kilograms on average over a seven month period. So 120 plus pounds of weight loss was the average weight loss that these people experience. And then the thing that was most interesting about that phase of the competition was that the people who experienced the greatest slowing of metabolism were the ones who lost the most weight. So the kind of traditional logic would go, well, if the number of calories that your body's burning at rest goes down more, then that would make it more difficult for you to lose weight and therefore you should lose less weight. But in fact, the folks who lost the most weight experienced the greatest slowing of metabolism. And that trend was also in place six years after the competition. The people who were most successful at keeping the weight off were the ones who concurrently at that six year time point were also experiencing the greatest slowing of metabolism still. And there was no relationship between the slowing of metabolism at the end of the weight loss period and who regained the most weight. So those were all very surprising findings because they kind of seem to flip the carton, the horse, so to speak, of what's happening with metabolism. Is it really determining who's losing the most weight or regaining the most weight or keeping the most weight off? And it seemed to be no, it was actually following that. In other words, the people who are most successful with their lifestyle intervention and able to kind of lose the most weight and keep it off were the ones who experienced the greatest response of metabolism. It wasn't determining the weight loss, it was a response to the weight loss. So yeah, so that was really surprising and something that was kind of totally unexpected. Do you remember when we talk about like resting metabolic rate, how many calories it rests, it kind of takes to feed your body, keep your body alive and doing its normal functions like breathing, feeding your brain. Do you remember like, is that 300 calories or 500 calories? Give us a reference if you can just so that someone can perceive what you're saying. Yeah, so well with these folks, especially when they were starting, they were obviously had class three obesity, they were all very large people and we're talking about thousands of calories per day. So your average person with 80 kilograms and these sort of overweight categories, probably 1600 calories per day for the resting metabolic rate, these folks were, I believe, somewhere in the 22 to 2300 calories per day just at rest because they were so large to begin with. And then after when they saw those changes or the response, I don't want to say slowing, but just response to this weight loss, what was there, the change or the delta there? Yeah, so there's two, I'd have to go back to the original papers, but there's two pieces to that. One is the expected reduction just because you're getting to that smaller size. So if you kind of ended up, and I don't think anyone ended up at that sort of 80 or maybe a few people didn't, but the average was not at 80 kilograms.

=== FILE: The Biggest Myth About Metabolism—Debunked! [Z9aEJHiRp-0].txt ===

 If you just looked at my PhDs and you'd say, what the heck is this guy talking about nutrition, science, and metabolism? Because I have a PhD in physics, the long things. What was the most surprising thing you learned? We're producing, in America alone, 15,000 calories per person per day. Kevin Hall, PhD, one of the top metabolism researchers in the country. Kevin has a PhD in physics from McGill University. He is a senior investigator at the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Disease. He is at the NIH in Bethesda, Maryland. Yesterday, Kevin Hall announced that he's leaving. He's stepping away from his work at NIH. To be fair, it's actually been struggled over past administrations to do this kind of research in a rigorous fashion. One of the things you have researched is this very misunderstood idea, and that is about metabolism. Larger people burn more calories at rest than smaller people. Did the exercise prevent this learning metabolism? The answer was absolutely not. There was actually a guy that did the Twinkie diet. 100% ultra-processed food, and he lost a bunch of weight. Dr. Hall, welcome to the Ready State podcast. Thanks for having me. So we have so much to discuss today. Oh, this is going to be a good one, everyone. In my mind, you are a legend and someone who has really been at the forefront of this crazy world that is nutrition and nutrition research. As long as I can remember and as long as I've been paying attention to it, it's always like there's your name at the top of the paper. So we're just delighted to have you. And let me just say that one of the things that I think is really important these days when we're inundated with information on the internet, I want everyone to ask the next question, what are this person's bona fides? Where have they been? Can I see your track record and work? And that's such a wonderful place to start with you. Sure. Well, yeah, it's kind of an interesting place to start because if you just looked at what my PhD is in, you'd say, what the heck is this guy doing talking about nutrition, science, and metabolism? Because I have a PhD in physics of all things. So maybe we shouldn't look at that. I love it. Well, you have spent decades studying nutrition and weight loss in particular. And it seems to me, and I just finished reading your book over the weekend and it is fabulous, it seems to me like the deeper you went, the more your findings seem to kind of contradict what we know or think we know about weight loss. What do you think we're getting fundamentally wrong here? I know that's a very broad question. Yeah. I mean, I think we get a lot of things wrong. We get a lot of things right too. I think that what we have to be really careful in this field is to think that what we think makes sense and our presuppositions about how the body works and how different diets influence the body when we're in a calorie surplus or a deficit, that that translates into actually the real world data that we end up generating. In other words, that's the purpose of science, right? So, what we do is to kind of put together these pieces of information that we've learned about the world in the past, come up, make up some prediction about what's going to happen in a new experiment, do that experiment. You actually have to do the experiment. You can't just say what the result is going to be ahead of time. You can have a really strong opinion about what the result is likely to be ahead of time. And I think that what we found over and over, especially in nutrition science, is that we're often really quite wrong about what happens when we actually put those ideas to the test experimentally. And we're in a world now where we have a lot of people with really strong opinions about, you know, what the most healthy diet is, you know, what's going to happen when you go on a high protein diet for weight loss and all the benefits and maybe detriments that you might see. That's just one example. But until you actually do the study, you don't really know the answer. And I think that that's where we have under-invested in nutrition science. And that's one of the reasons why we have so much opinion and not as much data as we'd like. So one of the things you have researched is this sort of, I think, very misunderstood idea. And that is about metabolism. Like, what is it? How much can we influence it? And one of the real world studies you did, which I'm just going to start with right away because I find it fascinating and was a watcher and enjoyer of the show. You were actually able to go and research the contestants on The Biggest Loser, and you were specifically looking at metabolism. And I know that there are some sort of shocking findings from reading your book. So can you tell us a little bit about how that came to be, what you were actually looking for in studying and what you learned? Yeah, sure. I mean, and just to kind of put this in a broader perspective, one of the things that we talk about in the book is that metabolism is just this really amazing biochemical process that builds everything that we are and fuels everything that we are and everything that we do and that we've often just very much tied it to weight loss as the only thing that we ever think about metabolism with respect to is how does it change and how does it prevent weight loss? How does it make us more susceptible to weight gain or regain after losing weight? So just to put things in perspective, I mean, metabolism is just this process that's fundamental to all life as we know it. And it's kind of a mistake to kind of pin it into this one thing. But nevertheless, it is a really interesting thing about how metabolism might change with weight loss. And when I was again sort of getting into this field and learning about what happens when people go on different diets and particular calorie restricted diets, that after several days, the number of calories that the body is burning just to kind of maintain life and not even move around so much. So just the sort of resting metabolic rate tends to decrease and it decreases more so than you'd expect based on the amount of weight that somebody loses. So another important fact to remember is that larger people burn more calories at rest than smaller people. They have more tissues and organs and more cells essentially to kind of keep running. And so the idea is that if you become a smaller person, then your metabolism is going to slow down. The question is, does it slow down just based proportionate to the amount of weight that you lose or is it greater than expected? And people have observed that especially in the phase of sort of dynamic weight loss while you're actually losing weight through a calorie deficit, the resting metabolic rate slows down more than expected based on just how much weight you'd lost. But at the same time, I was reading lots of popular articles and blogs and fitness magazines that said, if you just worked out enough, especially did resistance training and cross-training, you might be able to prevent that slowing of metabolism and therefore have greater success in weight loss. And then kind of tuned into one of the episodes of this Biggest Loser TV Show, which was this crazy television program where people are losing so much weight. And what you see on television is that these people are doing a ton of exercise of all kinds. Robic exercise, resistance exercise, cross-training, all sorts of things. And it occurred to me if there was ever a case where we could study how metabolism was changing in the context of a severe calorie deficit with a whole bunch of exercise. This was the group of people to study. And so I eventually was able to kind of get a couple of postdocs in a collaboration with Eric Graveson's group at the Pennington Center in Louisiana. We sent out some postdocs to study season eight contestants of the Biggest Loser. Before they even knew that there were contestants on the program, we had like the list of people who were actually going to be selected and we measured them at their homes. And then during this crazy weight loss competition and then six years later after many of them had regained much of their lost weight. And I know that there were some surprising findings from this study. What was the most surprising thing you learned in following these contestants? There are so many surprising things actually. The one that I thought was particularly interesting was that most people had thought that, well, again, did the exercise prevent the slowing of the metabolism? The answer was absolutely not. They still kind of during this sort of weight loss competition, despite all the exercise, their resting metabolic rate was slowing by a huge amount. But we were able to show that their total energy expenditure, the total number of calories that they were burning was going up quite a bit because of all that exercise and physical activity. They were doing about three hours every day of the week of vigorous exercise. And for this entire 30 weeks or sorry, 13 weeks while they were on this ranch. And then when they went home, they kept up an hour of vigorous exercise every day after they went home before the finale of the competition. So a huge amount of exercise. But despite that resting metabolic rate still crashed greater than would be expected based on the reduction of body weight, which was a huge amount of body weight reduction. It was 60 kilograms on average over a seven month period. So 120 plus pounds of weight loss. So was the average weight loss that these people experience. And then the thing that was most interesting about that phase of the competition was that the people who experienced the greatest slowing of metabolism were the ones who lost the most weight. So you would kind of traditional logic would go, well, if the number of calories that your body is burning at rest, it goes down more than that would make it more difficult for you to lose weight. And therefore you should lose less weight. But in fact, the folks who lost the most weight experienced the greatest slowing of metabolism. And that that trend was also in place six years after the competition. The people who were most successful at keeping the weight off were the ones who concurrently at that six year time point were also experiencing the greatest slowing of metabolism still. And there was no relationship between the slowing of metabolism at the end of the weight loss period and who regained the most weight. So those were all very surprising findings because they kind of seem to flip the carton, the horse, so to speak, of what's happening with metabolism. Is it really determining who's losing the most weight or regaining the most weight or keeping the most weight off? And it seemed to be no, it was actually following that. In other words, the people who are most successful with their lifestyle intervention and able to kind of lose the most weight and keep it off were the ones who experienced the greatest response of metabolism. It wasn't determining the weight loss. It was a response to the weight loss. So, so yes, that was really surprising and something that was kind of totally unexpected. Do you remember when we talk about like resting metabolic rate, how many calories at rest? It kind of takes to feed your body, keep your body alive and doing its normal functions like breathing, feeding your brain. Do you remember like, is that 300 calories, 500 calories? Give us a reference if you can just so that someone can perceive what you're saying. Yeah. So well, with these folks, especially at when they were starting, you know, they were, you know, obviously had class three obesity. They were all very large people and we're talking about thousands of calories per day. So, you know, your average person with 80 kilograms and the sort of overweight category is probably 1600 calories per day for the resting metabolic rate. These folks were, I believe, somewhere in the 22 to 2300 calories per day just at rest because they were so large to begin with. And then after when they saw those changes or the response, I don't want to say slowing, but just response to this weight loss. What was there, the change or the delta there? Yeah. So there's two, I'd have to go back to the original papers, but there's two pieces to that. One is the expected reduction just because you're getting to that smaller size. So if you kind of ended up, and I don't think anyone ended up at that sort of 80 or maybe a few people didn't, but the average was not at 80 kilograms. But you're talking about, you know, that 1600 or so to 1800 calories per day. But then there was this greater than expected reduction, which amounted to several hundred calories more than that. The sort of metabolic slowing that we talk about, the greater than expected reduction in resting metabolic rate, once accounting for your new body size and body composition. I just, for everyone, I'm just like, that's less than one star book cookie. I'm just trying to put this into like units, I grab my head around. My undergrad was in cultural geography, the interaction between humans and environment. And I looked at predominantly sort of environmental considerations there. But one of the things that strikes me around doing any research around nutrition and people is how complicated it is. I think people don't realize how difficult it is to get good data when we're trying to look at these inputs and outputs of a human being and diet and nutrition and history and in cultural references. Could you just speak to what I perceive as some of the complexity of this? Because we can't really just put people in room like rats, can we? As a researcher, I kind of wish you could. And in some of our research, I think we've gotten as close to that as we humanly can from an ethical perspective as well as from a scientific perspective. But the way that we study the effects of diet and lifestyle changes in people is quite varied. So there's different kinds of studies that we use. The kinds that we've used typically aren't like the biggest loser study. The biggest loser was sort of a natural experiment and we had the ability to kind of go out to Malibu, California and measure some things as these folks participated in this crazy TV show. The other most of my research has been, has actually been bringing people into a clinical center hospital, having them live with us for weeks and months at a time. And he controlled every morsel of food that they eat 24 hours a day, seven days a week for weeks on end. And we either control exactly how many calories they're eating and change the composition of the diet or we'll change the composition of the diet and they'll have free access to however much or little food that they want to eat. And often those are the outcomes that we're interested in is how many calories people choose to eat. But in those kinds of conditions, we can study for the kinds of facilities that are typically available. I think this should change. It might be something we can talk about. We could study two or three people at a time. And so if you've got a study that where you want to measure something over a month long period and you can only study two or three people at a time, you can imagine how long it takes to get a study of 30 people done. It takes years, right? I mean, that's kind of how that works. And on the other end of the spectrum, there are people who do observational cohort studies. So they actually get, you know, thousands of people who volunteer to participate in the study and they don't try to intervene per se, but they'll just sort of measure different lifestyle factors. They'll do some sort of self-reported dietary assessment using something like a food frequency questionnaire or recalls of what people ate on the past 24-hour basis. And then they'll follow them up for years and hope, ideally, repeatedly assess diet in the sort of self-reported way. Maybe they'll get some biomarkers that might help them quantify the diet a little bit better. And they'll see, you know, do people who report sticking to a more Mediterranean type dietary pattern, do they have lower risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease? Or do people who are stick to more of a low-carb pattern have benefit-reduced risk for type 2 diabetes or something like that? The disadvantage of those kinds of studies is that you're not intervening. People are not randomized to different interventions. You don't really know what people are eating. There's some problems with the self-reported dietary intake. No, certainly not. Well, fear of now that's trying to come up with better biomarkers of diet assessment. Then there's a group of folks who do randomized outpatient trials where you basically, you can randomize people to different interventions and you either provide them with all their food that's kind of rare, or you basically advise them to change their diet in a certain way. And those studies often last for months to maybe a couple years or so. And you'll be basically trying to assess how did the advice or the intervention that you use to kind of change their diet result in some change in outcome. One of the challenges with those studies is even the ones that you actually provide people with all the food and give them very simple instructions, eat this and only this and nothing else, well, people are, you know, they use food for social reasons, for all sorts of reasons, right? They get together with their friends at happy hour. They do all these birthday parties and things like that. The adherence to those kinds of dietary interventions is limited. And we know that, for example, in some of the best controlled studies, if you look at the number of calories that people are burning using an objective biomarker and you compare that to the number of calories that you provided to people and these people are weight stable over many weeks. There's like an average of a 400 calorie a day gap. In other words, they're burning 400 calories a day more than they're eating or more than you gave them. And you don't know that they ate everything that you gave them, but you know, at least on average, they were eating 400 calories a day more than what you gave them. So there's an adherence problem in those kinds of studies. But, you know, with all of the limitations of all these different kinds of studies, the hope is that they can maybe agree with each other in some way. For some sorts of questions that you're interested in, and maybe you can triangulate towards the truth of what's going on. And I think that's the real challenge of doing human nutrition and lifestyle intervention research is that all the study designs have weaknesses and strengths. And the hope is that we can all work together to figure out, you know, what's actually going on. Triangulate or understanding. So I want to go back just on this biggest loser metabolism question. In terms of like what we've all been telling ourselves and what you know based on the research you've done. In my own life, you know, I certainly have had phases where I'm like, I have a slow metabolism. I also came of age at the beginning of the as a woman at the beginning of the fat free diet and diet wars have tried every single diet known to man out there. You know, partly because we also work in the space and we love to experiment and whatever. But for someone like me, is it possible that by, you know, dieting at some early age in my life, like the biggest losers, I slowed my metabolism and it's just stuck down there. Is that a is that a thing? Like how do we think about this biggest loser data with respect to our own sort of preconceived ideas of metabolism? Yeah. And is this and is it is your research from that show basically suggests that like dieting generally is sort of a bad idea? Yeah. Yeah. So no, I don't view it that way because first of all, is it the most extreme kind of lifestyle and intervention that I can think of and that's been done in this kind of area before. So when we're seeing this, you know, several hundred calorie per day reduction lower than would be expected for somebody's body size at that new lower level. That's kind of the maximum sort of effect that you're expecting to see. For most people who have kind of gone on a diet lost 20, 30, 40 pounds or something like that. The magnitude of the reduction is going to be much, much smaller. In fact, when people have tried to study this in non-crazy biggest loser style types of studies, they've either observed no effect on average or a statistically significant effect, but was much, much smaller than that several hundred calories per day. In other words, it's probably not that important. And I don't think there's much evidence that, you know, a sequence of yo-yo dieting, for example, over years from childhood through adolescence to early adulthood is going to ratchet down your metabolic rate in some way that has, again, you can read articles about people hypothesizing that this might be an effect of, of yo-yo dieting over the years. When you bring most people in and you kind of do a resting metabolic rate assessment with indirect calorimetry, you know, the vast majority of people are within a couple hundred calories of what would be predicted for their, you know, their height, their sex, their age, their weight. And that's just how it is. Now, there are people who have, you know, some hormonal imbalance typically in the thyroid axis, who tend to be either on the lower, higher end of that spectrum. But that's, that's the exception, not the rule. So fascinating. Okay. I'd love to switch gears a little bit and talk about this great debate that maybe you can tell us it's not a debate. And that is calories in, calories out. Is it fundamentally true? Is it more... Define it for us too, for us to live in it. Or is it more complicated than that? And, and it seems like it can work for some people in the short term, maybe doesn't. So, you know, what, what can you tell us about this calories in, calories out situation? This episode of the Ready State Podcast is brought to you by Vitality Blueprint. And Vitality is a blood work platform built for high performers by our brilliant friends, Dr. Andy Galpin and Dan Garner. And we were lucky enough to actually just go through the entire Vitality Blueprint process. Yeah. Here's what is normal, is that you get a blood panel with your physician once a year. And if you're over 50, let me just be clear. This is non-negotiable. Get your ass in there. You need to see what's going on under the hood. Yeah, because you feel fine and you're, you know, kicking butt, the local pickle pole rack, but you, there's some things you probably have some holes. Yeah. What's nice about the Vitality Blueprint experience is that it's been a long time since I've actually had a full workup, looking at, you know, cholesterol particles, all of the pieces. It is a really important deep dive into what's going on. And there's a couple of things I learned, believe it or not. And this is really important because we're in the world, Wild West of supplements right now. But my vitamin D is in the range for the first time forever. And I'm, because I've been leaning on that. But what I found out was that my Omega 3-dose, not sufficient. So I was a little low. So I just had to add a little bit more Omega. But it's one of those things where I don't want to just feel good. I am literally interested in running hard and then just like, ball the clip. Yeah. And what's different about Vitality Blueprint is that most independent blood work companies just deliver you a series of results. If you want, you can try to like get them interpreted through chat, GPT or something. But if you do this through Vitality, you get access to their deep dive interpretation of your results. And also a plan for how to improve, you know, some deficiencies you may have. And they also sort of look at your whole results holistically. So rather than just say, okay, you have this one biomarker that's off. It's looking at how does this impact your whole system? And it also keeps an eye on trends. So things that may look good now, but maybe trending in the wrong direction. Yeah. You know, we always say, Hey, we're system systems. We talk about systems. And I think that's what's really important about this is that many of us are beginning like homocysteine. But like, what affects homocysteine? What are all the things that I need to be looking at around my homocysteine? And it turns out you may not understand those relationships. And some of those, those, those levers are easy to turn. Like it's easy to hit these switches and see big changes in how you feel. Brain fog, power output, sleep, the whole thing. Yeah. And one last thing I'll say is, you know, we're all interested in supplementation. And what you need before you do that is a really solid blood fan panel to see where you are. What do you actually need to be taking on? And what can you set aside? Super easy. If you want to learn more, check out VitalityBlueprint.com. You can use code TRS for 50 bucks off any Vitality plan. It's awesome. You guys do it. So, so I think that people get confused by this because people mean different things when they say that. Right. So some people, when they say calories and calories out, that's all that matters when it comes to weight loss. Because if you just cut a certain number of calories from your diet, then I can predict what the deficit is going to be over time. And you will lose a certain amount of weight linearly over time. So this is the so-called 3,500 calorie per pound rule that's been, you know, decades and decades in existence. And it makes an assumption which turns out to be wrong, which is that it assumes that calorie intake and calorie expenditure are independent quantities that don't interact with each other. Right. And we just talked about the biggest loser as an example where you cut calories in people's diets and the number of calories that the body burns is changing dynamically over time. And it's kind of adapting to the change in calories and the change in body composition and the degree of energy deficit and things like that. So there's a group of people who kind of say calories and calories out is this sort of static rule of thumb of, you know, if you cut 500 calories from your diet, then you're going to lose a pound a week for as long as you had cut that 500 calories per day of your diet. And that's the way some dietitians were assessed on the relationship between calories and weight change for decades. That turns out to just not be right. Then another group of folks say, OK, well, what if we account for the changes in our energy expenditure, the resting metabolic rate, the energy associated with the thermic effect of feeding and the physical activities that we're doing. Once we account for that, then calories and calories out is all that matters when it comes to predicting the change in body weight and body fat. And you certainly get much closer to that. The problem is that when we're changing our body weights, and that actually also feeds back on our appetite. So we can't actually just cut 500 calories from our day with a constant intervention. Our appetite will go up as we kind of are losing weight. Our body is kind of fighting to kind of preserve that original weight and that original environment. And so then it becomes very complicated to say, OK, well, now we have to account for the changes in appetite for a constant intervention. So these are the kinds of dynamic models that my team built over the years was trying to quantify all of these different interactions between how appetite changes, how metabolism changes, how total energy expenditure changes, how body composition changes. And you can do those kinds of calculations. They can turn out to be quite complicated and involve some differential equations and all that sort of stuff. But then there's the question of, well, maybe it also depends on your home hormonal milieu. Like if you're on a low carb diet versus a low fat diet, insulin levels are going to change. And maybe that affects how many calories are expended or maybe it affects appetite. And then it becomes much more complicated because now maybe a calorie isn't exactly a calorie when it comes to those dynamic interactions. And so we did a whole bunch of studies trying to assess those things. And it seems like on the calorie expenditure side and how much body fat you'd expect to lose if you just clamp the calories in the diet constant, there's not much effect. And this has been known and we described this in the book for hundreds of years now and different. So it started off in these experiments with dogs way back in the 19th century and in the early 20th century it was shown to be true in some shorter term human studies. But it still doesn't address the question of, well, maybe these hormonal changes make a big difference on the appetite side. And I think that we're only beginning to do studies on that. We did a study recently where we actually did change the macronutrient composition of the diet and showed that it can have pretty big effects on how many calories people choose to eat. So I think that the jury is still out on.  and the appetite side of the equation. And I think the jury's still out on what do these changes, which everybody recognizes when you swap macronutrients in the diet, the changes in the sort of metabolic milieu and hormonal milieu, what effects does that have on the body independent of weight and body fat changes, right? Does it tune the immune system in a different way? Does it impact the brain and its function, especially over long time periods? I think those are even more interesting questions than the question about whether or not a calorie is a calorie or calories in, calories out when it comes to body fat change. Turns out it's complicated. This is the sophistication of human body. And we're like, no, no, no, just feed the dog less. Like, you know what I mean? When it's a dog, you can do that. I think it's a problem. We are in the middle of the most radical experiment in humankind around behavior modification with all of the G's GLP-1 drugs. And I would love for you to just, you know, we are in, we set the stage, we're in a food environment, which is bananas, which I know is, you know, you're one of your specialties. We try to tell a lot of the people we work with that the brain is wired for survival. It's not wired for performance. And it, you know, really is about survival, you know? And I'm crushed with all these super tasty, highly palatable foods. I can't seem to get out my control of these foods. I'm, you know, fed snacks at like FedEx and Kinko's. I mean, I just, you know, I want to get snacks everywhere. Suddenly GLP-1's rolling. And what are you seeing in terms of its impact on health? We are making the assumption that just skinnier is better. And that's certainly, I feel like sometimes the only meaningful driver of conversations around nutrition and probably why I was so reticent to just jump in there. Cause I just didn't want to talk about body composition all the time. I wanted to talk about health. You know, I wanted to talk about how do we have tissues that can handle the load and a brain that's stoked. And we don't, you know, throw these error messages in our arteries and, you know, 90 years from now. What are we seeing in GLP-1? And are you all looking at that? And how should we be thinking about this kind of, this pan-global experiment right now and these changes? Yeah. So, so maybe let's put this in a little bit of a broader context and think about the other, I think big broad change that happened in, in our sort of lifestyles, which was the changes in the food environment that we've experienced over the past, you know, 50 to 100, maybe not quite 100 years, but about 50, 70 or 70 years or so since World War II, where we've seen just this calorie glut. We're producing in America alone 15,000 calories per person per day in our just the four food commodity. Oh, get on it people. We have a lot of work to do. A lot of eating to do. Do your part. In fact, in fact, the increase in the food availability. So that was just in the crops. And of course we get rid of a bunch of that by creating biofuels. We get rid of a bunch of that by feeding it to animals or animal agriculture. And eventually, you know, we still have a surplus of calories in the food system and has been increasing quite dramatically since the 1970s. And most of the increase in calories available in the food supply actually went in the trash. They weren't actually eaten. Only about a third of that increase in food calories in the food supply was eaten. The rest went in the trash. So food waste has gone up by about 50% since the 1970s. So that's kind of setting the stage for this very unnatural, like broad experiment that we've seen in the changes in our food system and food environment. And in fact, you know, that set the stage for the development of all of these ultra-processed foods that we've seen and subsidization of those crops and produced at scale for all sorts of good reasons. But I think these have been generally unintended consequences. And we know that obesity that has kind of arisen over that same time period in the prevalence of obesity has gone up quite dramatically over that time period. There's a huge genetic component to that. In other words, there are some people who have, you know, several, you know, hundreds and possibly thousands of genes that each contribute a very small piece to whether or not somebody was susceptible to those changes in the food environment. And in any given food environment, it explains somewhere between 40 and 70% of the variability between people in their body size. So the people that were most susceptible to those changes gained the most weight. The way I sort of see it is, I think it's wonderful that we have a class of medications now that can take those folks who are most susceptible to those changes in our food environment and give them a chance to actually change their physiology in a way that will allow them to lose excess body fat and become healthier in that food environment. Doesn't mean that we can't, we shouldn't address the food environment. It certainly means that that's something we still need to worry about very much. But I think it's wonderful that we have that those kinds of drugs now on the market. And many of them have been on the market for in excess of 20 years now in lower doses, but they did cause a little bit of weight loss. And we have a pretty good idea of what some of the side effects of those drugs were. And they seem to not be that severe. And many of the side effects of the newer classes of drugs show up very early on, the sort of gastroparesis, if that's happening. Sometimes you see a lot of cases of nausea and vomiting and things like that. Many of those things seem to kind of alleviate with careful titration of the drugs dosages up. But I think that the broader context that I'm really interested in is that there's a really interesting and I would say understudied connection between how does the food environment change the fundamental regulation of body weight and appetite. That I think is something that we've seen in the same where we take the same people and we make this very artificial food environment where we give them the same number of calories and they can eat as much or as little as they want, the same sort of macronutrient distribution, same amount of fiber. And we say, eat as much or as little as you want. And in one case, we give them 80% of calories from ultra processed food. In another case, we give them 0% of calories from ultra processed food, all whole foods. And people spontaneously will either overeat or under eat. And spontaneously gain or lose weight. The same people, you just change their food environment and something is changing about the fundamental biology of how they're interacting with that environment. And somehow these drugs are kind of doing something similar. They're basically saying, okay, now in a constant food environment, we're gonna go in and try to change some of the biology of appetite regulation in ways that we're only beginning to understand. But it'll allow some of these people who are most genetically susceptible to these changes in the food environment to now have a fighting chance and be able to kind of maintain a lower body weight. And it seems quite kind of almost miraculously at this point that there might be effects over and above the benefits of weight loss that we've seen with lifestyle intervention in the past. Changes in inflammation, which seem to be operating through the brain itself, that people are kind of experiencing with these kinds of drugs. And again, we're only starting to understand how this works. One of the things that kind of jumped out at me in your book and relates to what you were just talking about, but also back to the biggest loser study is just how complicated obesity is. And a lot of these ideas we have that it is about willpower. I mean, I think you learned in the biggest loser study that these people were like A plus students in willpower. And that still didn't mean that they, it still meant they gained most of the weight back by and large. And same thing here when you're talking about, people living in an environment that certain people are more susceptible to that environment than the other. So it's not some kind of failure of willpower or moral failing that you made these terrible food choices that really, and not to say that people don't have any control. I'm not saying that, but that it's complicated. Do I have that kind of right? Yeah, I think that's right. And I think that one of the, that's definitely a really strong emphasis in our book is this both the science of how the food environment is impacting the fundamental biology of body weight regulation and appetite control, but also the idea that, society didn't experience a mass reduction in willpower in the 1970s and 80s, right? In fact, some people actually did some really interesting studies, I think it was Kelly Brown Ells group who looked at conscientiousness and kind of things that are associated with willpower and self-control, things like studying for tests and scholastic achievement, wearing seat belts, using protection during sex and moderating drug use and things like that. And almost every area, people have gotten better at those kinds of things over time, not worse. And so if it was a dramatic failure of willpower and self-control, then you would have expected the opposite that all of these things would have fallen off, not just with respect to food, but one of the main things that has happened over that period of time is our food environment has shifted dramatically. And so that's one of the things that's different. But yeah, I think you're absolutely right to point out, I'm not saying that people have no self-control over this. Self-control is possibly also genetically determined as well, right? And so, but even then, there are some people, in fact, many of the folks in the biggest loser example, six years later, the average weight loss was 14%, or sorry, 13% average weight loss. If I just told you nothing about what had happened over that seven month crazy competition, but said a group of people with severe obesity was able to maintain over six year period, 13% weight loss, you'd say that's actually not too bad, right? I mean, we often from a lifestyle perspective target a 5% weight loss over prolonged periods of time. So, I think that it's all a matter of perspective and that there is something that people can do to change their lives in a positive way, even given the environmental challenges that we find. It's just that we can't ignore the fact that there's a huge genetic component to it and that the environment plays a really complicated role in interacting with our fundamental biology to make it harder for some people than others. Now, your PhD is in physics, so perhaps you could tell me I'd go back in time and choose parents that are more tolerant towards Doritos. Just what is that marker? Better yet, if you could just choose parents, that would solve the genetic problem, right? That would really solve it. So, if you, I feel, there's been more and more people we've talked to and we see with our own two eyes how complicated and challenging our current food environment is. And it's hard to not sort of feel that we are entrenched and how do we back out of this? Like, I think a lot of people have identified it as a problem. I think if you even asked three years ago if people knew what UPFs were, ultra-processed foods, like 90% of people didn't know, right? There's some of this has become kind of more common knowledge thanks to Instagram or who knows why. But it does feel like we're very entrenched in this food system. And if you had like a magic wand today and you could do a few things to start to get us out of this food system that we're in, or food environment that I think is probably not that helpful to a lot of people and has really promoted a huge growth and obesity in this country and elsewhere, like, where do we start? What do we do? It's a great question. And I think it's interesting because if you'd asked me that question 10 years ago, I probably would have said we need the sort of political, bipartisan leadership that would say that this is a priority, that we need to address diet-related chronic diseases and we need to make changes in both, how we produce food and how available it is. And we need to devote enough resources in the science to actually know what's gonna work and how this system works together and be able to kind of drive our choices based on the best science possible. And back 10 years ago, nutrition research funding from the NIH, for example, which was where I was at the time was pretty anemic and still remains anemic. And there was very little political will or even popular movement or interest in doing these things. In fact, you might remember Michelle Obama's Let's Move campaign, which was trying to kind of address some of those things. And it did not get a lot of traction, right? Nowadays, it's really interesting because we have, at least the grassroots movement of people who are extraordinarily interested and invested in making changes to our foods and tackling diet related chronic diseases. And we had, prior to the last presidential election, bipartisan folks in the Senate, for example, I'm both Republican and Democratic sides that were arguing why this needs to be a priority for the nation. And obviously we have now the administration with RFK Jr. taking the Make America Healthy Again movement. And at least part of that is devoted to at least popularizing the notion that we need to tackle diet related chronic diseases and fix our food system. So that piece, I think, is really interesting because there does seem to be some political will and a bipartisan group of people who are very interested in tackling this problem. What I think is lacking still is the investment in the science and research that's gonna be required in order to do this. And it's gotta be across a wide variety of disciplines, going from agriculture to how do we grow the kinds of food that we need in order to kind of meet our dietary requirements. For example, if everybody was to turn around tomorrow and have the demand for fruits and vegetable consumption in the US that we need, we don't grow it. We don't even import it. We can't supply that amount of fruits and vegetables, but we got an oversupply of corn and wheat and soy. And because those are the kinds of crops that we can grow at scale with very high yields and expensively from an input perspective. Although there's all these externalities for the environment that we have to worry about. And so it's really interesting that we need the group of people in agriculture to figure out how can we grow enough of the really healthy food that we need to eat without destroying the planet in the process. We need better nutrition science to figure out, how is it that we can actually kind of make these changes that are acceptable to people that will allow them to eat a healthy diet in a way that's delicious and inexpensive and convenient and impacts their body in the ways that we suspect it will. Because we can't just again presume we know the answer already, we need to design the kinds of trials to kind of test these various different dietary patterns and see how they perform in humans and different kinds of people. And some people maybe are more receptive to those than others and some patient populations more receptive than others. And so what I think is lacking is the sort of transdisciplinary science kind of going from agriculture to nutrition science and other kind of biosciences and how they interact with GLP-1 drugs, for example, which we now have access to. How do we support those folks who are on those kinds of medications to have the best possible outcomes? And maybe we can even design lifestyle interventions so that they can titrate off some of those doses in a way that's beneficial over time. So I see the political kind of at least the rhetoric around this area in the Make America Healthy Again movement, lots of interest for the first time in many, many, many decades since the dawn of the 20th century with Harvey Wiley and the dawn of the Food and Drug Administration in the 1920s. That same political momentum seems to be there. But what's been lacking is any investment in the science that's gonna get us the answers that we need. Instead, it seems like people are content with just following what seems to them to be common sense. And that's the trap that we've seen people fall into with respect to nutrition science over and over again, just because you think you know the answer and you think that you know what makes common sense doesn't mean that reality works that way. And science is the best path forward that we have to figure out how reality really works. Thank goodness it's Sir Francis Bacon because the scientific method, you know, this homage to high protein dietary from the start. I mean, the bias is already there. Okay, well, you open the door for me perfectly. I have to ask many of our listeners probably had never heard of Dr. Kevin Hall until, you know, in the last six months or so, you had a bit of a kerfuffle with RFK Jr. and HHS and actually left your 20 year position at the NIH if I'm not mistaken on the facts there. And I think part of that has to do with sort of, well, I don't wanna hypothesize, I've read a bunch of articles about it. Why not, you know, tell us what happened there. And obviously it connects to this sort of rhetoric around, and we agree, I mean, we think this interest in, this, you know, interest in health and diet is a positive, but also concerning that sort of what seems to be kind of happening behind the scenes is a lack of investment in the things that might help us and in full transparency, we were part of Michelle Obama's move initiative. Yeah, we had a nonprofit briefly and that was part of Michelle Obama's non-profit, let's move initiative. So, yeah, tell us what happened here. This episode of the Ready State Podcast is brought to you by Element. You know what we're talking about today? Brain fog. Brain fog. We have been on some health calls with corporations and one of the things people will talk about as their New Year's resolution is, I wanna be lucid. Yeah, they wanna combat their brain fog. They're like 4 p.m. slump at work. And here's what I'm gonna say. Number one, you're not drinking enough water. You may not be drinking any water. Maybe I'm just projecting. Yeah, I mean, I'll be honest, on our worst days, we're drinking coffee until noon and then realizing we're behind. No, leaders of coffee. Yeah. But one of the things that I wanna point out, Lisa's laughing because it's true, point out that one of the things that can make a difference is just bumping up your salts. Number, it makes the water more tasty, but I suspect a lot of people who are paying attention may not be getting enough salt. They eat dinner, don't eat again, have breakfast, have a good health break. Have a ton of coffee. And they do not get any salt until maybe noon, maybe afternoon, and they may even train in there. I think if you run this experiment or you drink an element with some water in the morning until noon, your brain fog will be vanished. Well, the other thing too is my guess is that a lot of people are just plain dehydrated and if having an element in your water, makes your water more festive. Hypohydrated. Hypohydrated. If having an element in your water makes it more festive and fun because it is super tasty, that is already also a major win because you will just drink more water. Don't take a word for it. Run this experiment for yourself. And if you go right now, you can order through our link and get a free sample pack of elements, most popular drink mixed flavors. And of course, we love the sparkling element because we wanna put it in my mouth. You can go to drinklmt.com slash trs. Take this challenge, do it for a week, see how we feel. We literally drink it every day. Hey, if you're enjoying the show, make sure you're subscribed wherever you get your podcasts. That way you won't miss any of the new episodes we drop. Plus, it really helps other people find the show. So hit that follow button now and let's get back to it. Yeah, sure. So I think it's important to realize that, you know, at the NIH, before this administration, there still was not much investment in nutrition research. In fact, you know, the metabolic ward unit that I told you about where we keep people for weeks and months at a time and have like completely control over their food environment and measure every morsel of food that they eat, that metabolic ward was actually threatened to be closed by, you know, the previous administration. So it's not that, you know, things were all great back in the day. They just got bad. We were always struggling to kind of do this kind of science. But, and so that's why, you know, in the run up to the election, you know, I was actually pretty excited that this was a bipartisan sort of talking point that, you know, Bernie Sanders and Cory Booker, as well as Bill Cassidy and others in RFK Junior, we're all talking about these topics and the importance of addressing diet related chronic disease and proving nutrition science and research. And I thought, this is great. And, you know, we've had plans for many years of how could we expand on the facilities that we would need so that a study that has taken us, you know, two or three years could be done in two or three months with the same power and actually provide those facilities to nutrition scientists across the nation, not just, you know, folks at the NIH. And so I talked with, I was, you know, planning in the run up to the election with the office of nutrition research at the NIH to say, you know, what can we put together that, you know, whoever wins, if this is a really a priority area, how can we improve human nutrition science to support, you know, the tackling of diet related chronic diseases? So we put something together that would allow this. And, you know, at the same time, I was trying to get, you know, as a federal employee, you cannot kind of directly reach out to politicians, that's one of the rules, you're not allowed to do that, but you can at least, you know, try to get your research on their radar screen and things like that. And so, you know, one of the things that we've been talking quite a bit about is trying to find out what the mechanisms of, by which diets high in ultra process foods are causing some of their harms, right? We've had this association with these cohort studies that I mentioned before, these observational studies that last for years that diets high in ultra process foods are kind of linked or associated with negative health outcomes. What's the mechanism? And our research was actually directly addressing that, trying to figure out how could we kind of reformulate highly ultra process diets so that they don't cause people to overeat, for example. We were having some success with that. And I was trying to get people's attention of saying, you know, if we could do this on a broader scale, we could get answers to these questions. And if we understood the mechanisms, then we could help the food industry, you know, not have foods that were driving these problems. We could help policymakers know which foods to kind of target for their policies and things like that. And if we did more of this research, we'd have much more efficient progress in this topic. And it was very difficult to get the attention of the folks and at the leadership level of the make America healthy again movement. And then we had some parallel research that was going on, again, looking at the brain mechanisms by which ultra process foods might drive excess calorie intake, in particular looking at this neurotransmitter called dopamine, which is part of addictive processes. So many addictive drugs cause a very large increase in dopamine. And we happened to find that ultra process milkshakes, high in fat and sugar, didn't cause the same kind of dopamine response, which was part of this rhetoric that had been ongoing that, you know, ultra process foods are as addictive as crack cocaine or something like that. And we weren't finding that. And so shortly after the new administration came into office, I'm still not having much luck getting the attention of the new folks to talk about our plans. We had this paper coming out, which was basically showing that, you know, ultra process foods might be addictive for some people, but on average, they're not giving the same sort of dopamine response in the brain as drugs. And like cocaine or even cigarettes. And we kind of had some really odd pushback on that. I wasn't allowed to give talks at conferences and meetings on this topic. And I wasn't exactly sure what was going on with that. Maybe that was like a general thing, but then I saw some of my other colleagues were allowed to give talks and I wasn't. So it was kind of weird. And then we had this paper coming out. And we had a press release cause we've been working on this study for like five years. And we had a press release ready to go and that was like kill for no reason. And when a reporter actually wrote to us to ask about, you know, to interview me about this paper, she was denied an interview request. And the Health and Human Services Communications Director called the reporter and said, is this really a story about RFK Junior? Because the results in this paper don't match his views on ultra process foods. And that was pretty chilling because it meant that the political leadership wasn't interested in allowing the public to hear about some of the science that was being generated at the NIH because it didn't mesh with their narrative about how ultra process foods work. And so I tried to get some clarity about, you know, what's really going on here. And eventually they allowed the interview, the written interview. So the reporter asked some questions. I wrote some responses in collaboration with my colleagues. And then what was actually sent back to the reporter was edited and passed off as if I had written it. And it sort of downplayed the study and kind of changed some of the, it was like really bizarre. Crazy. Yeah, it was really nuts. And at that point they were trying to get as many people to leave the federal employment as possible. And they'd set up an early retirement option, which I'd just qualified for. I'd been at the NIH as you mentioned for over 20 years. And they lowered the full retirement age to 50. I was 54 at the time. So I'm like, well, I'm gonna write to RFK Junior and the NIH director and several of the senior staff and say, look, here's what we're experiencing. This is the work that we're doing. We're sort of at the forefront of trying to understand, you know, diet related chronic disease and why people overeat ultra processed foods. We're making all this progress. Here's the, you know, a proposal that I've been working on to kind of expand this kind of nutrition research for folks across the country. But here's what we've experienced kind of the censorship and this misrepresentation of our findings to a reporter at the New York Times. And we're also now experiencing we can't even buy food for our research subjects because they cut the credit card limit of many of the purchasing staff at the NIH to $1. And so we had all of these kind of crazy things that were going on. And our scientific leadership was saying, yeah, things are gonna get really rough. And in some aspects, they continue to be rough and for my colleagues who remained at the NIH. And I said, look, you know, if this is gonna continue this way, I'm probably gonna hate my job. Not gonna be able to communicate our results anymore. I might as well take early retirement and keep health insurance for my family because otherwise, you know, if I quit a year from now, I'm gonna lose my health insurance. But I'd love to sit down and, you know, have a meeting and talk about these things. And I got no response. This was weeks. So I started to wind down my lab. And I heard that people had circulated my email but because a colleague of mine wrote and said, hey, are you really gonna retire? I saw your email.  that's weird, I didn't send it to you. I said, no, no, it was circulated, people read it, but I guess they didn't decide they wanted to respond. And so the date came for the last day to qualify for early retirement, and I basically submitted my paperwork and handed in my badge and basically quit. So the next day, the NIH director wanted to talk to me after there was some media kerfuffle about this. And I went in and chatted with him and told him what had happened and kind of was raising the question of, this was, we're in a state, that was actually the same day that we heard there was gonna be a 40% budget cut request from the president to the NIH budget and that they were gonna restructure several of the institutes. And I said, look, wouldn't it be great to actually build something? Because we see all this destruction going on in the scientific community and the biomedical research community, this proposal that we put together to improve nutrition science, if this really is something that you guys are interested in doing, would not be something worthwhile building. And he said, yeah, I'd like to work on this with you. And he shook my hand and he said, welcome back. And I said, I don't have anything to go back to, my lab is closed, but if you're really seriously interested in working on this, let's figure out a way that we could do it. And so for the next several weeks, I worked with the Office of Nutrition Research Director and the Interim Rural Deputy Director to kind of put this together. And then out of the clear blue sky, that was killed for unknown reasons. So it seemed to me like this administration is very, they're disinterested in the actual science. And my view has become because science can only complicate a narrative. It only introduces uncertainty sometimes, right? And you kind of get, the knowledge progresses forward and you need this knowledge to kind of make the best, changes to your policies or diet or something like that. But if it complicates the narrative, that can be politically problematic. And so my view from my experience, as well as kind of viewing from afar, what's happened with a walling off career scientist from talking with a briefing, the CDC, the former CDC director, for example, wasn't allowed to talk to career scientists because while the science can only complicate the issues. I just worry that despite all this political momentum and this public interest in improving nutrition and diet related chronic disease that we're not investing in the science and we're actually the political aspects and leadership of this movement is actively disinterested in the science. And that's the fear. And maybe I'm wrong, I hope I am. And maybe we're gonna see a big investment in nutrition research and nutrition science. But I haven't seen any numbers yet. And in fact, everything that we've seen, I know you've had Jessica Nurick on your big program in terms of practically, some of the rhetoric is kind of on the mark in diagnosing the problem, but cutting SNAP-Ed and cutting programs at the USDA that delivered fresh produce to schools and other institutional settings. Cutting EPA programs and the research staff that would track environmental toxins and pesticide use and things like that and relaxing regulations on pesticide use and all of the things that seem antithetical to the rhetoric of the Make America Healthy Again movement. There have been a few wins on food dyes that they talk a lot about. And maybe the new dietary guidelines are some positive aspects of those and some negative aspects as well. But practically speaking, I don't think much has really moved forward to really, you know, real practical changes that could make a difference. And so you felt like someone has stepped into that brink. We can't be the first generation where politics have interacted with science in a strange way, Abertaway. You, how long were you unemployed before you jumped right back into the meme? You must have been snapped up right away. And that leads to the question, who do you think is doing excellent nutrition science right now? Because it is complicated. And I think people are really interested in it, finally, because it's costing us so much money. I don't even think we're necessarily interested in the sometimes the health and happiness of humans. We're just realizing that it's gonna cost us a lot to have sick people around. Right, it's gonna cost a lot to have sick people around and we need to do something about it, right? And what we've focused on in the past, and I think there's been, as we discussed earlier with the GLP-1 medications, there has been some successes in the sort of biomedical research paradigm of treating things after the fact, as opposed to prevention, right? And that's what the NIH research budget has been primarily allocated to over many, many decades, which again, I think that you wanna do that kind of research, there's no doubt about it. But at the same time, you also wanna work on prevention and promotion of health. And that has gotten a little bit of the short end of the stick when it comes to funding. And again, the rhetoric that we currently hear from the leadership is that actually, no, now we wanna kind of shift gears a little bit and rebalance our portfolio in a way that's gonna shift more towards prevention and more towards investing in the kind of science that will allow us to prevent diet-related chronic disease. But I haven't seen the research dollars follow that rhetoric necessarily. And I haven't seen any coordinated research programs or plans to do it. And in fact, when I specifically proposed the facilities of the ability to kind of actually conduct that kind of research that was shot down for still unexplained reasons. And I still think that that is a really important path forward that people are serious about. Of course, it's not too late. I mean, we're still in, I guess, we just passed the first year of this administration, right? So it's certainly, or I guess we're right around there, possible for them to change course and actually invest in this kind of science, but I haven't seen it yet. Well, let's hope they do. So before we let you go, there's another little sub area. I would like to talk about, because I feel like you've done so much research and talked about it extensively in your book. And this is this idea that people really can lose weight. So I'll just start by saying that you and I, we all know that the diet culture is so prevalent in our country. And people become so, it becomes a religion. Like it's like a zealotry, right? Like if you are a vegan or a carnivore or whatever diet you choose. And I think, or you featured the guy who lost so much weight just eating potatoes for an entire year, which I thought was fascinating. But it seems like your, correct me if I'm wrong, but it seems like your research has really shown that people can lose weight on a variety of different diets. And I know that you really, there was a big fight between the low carb versus low fat people. Is that true? Like is it, if people are sort of searching for a way to eat or sort of a sort of philosophy to hang onto, is it this idea that it's like, follow the diet that you will do that works for you because they're all gonna work for different reasons? Or how should we think about this? Cause I feel like you extensively researched this and there's really not like one diet to rule them all, if I'm not mistaken. Yeah, yeah, I know that that's right. I mean, we sort of, it's not just us, but many people have done this kind of work. And from these different kinds of study designs, we've been focusing on these shorter term more mechanistic things. But yeah, I mean, in general, it just seems like you can find success stories of people following a wide variety of dietary patterns. Right? I mean, humans are omnivores. We have this natural ability to adapt, at least for short periods of time, to a wide variety of dietary patterns when it comes to macronutrients or food groups. Or we've obviously been able to kind of survive the rise in ultra processed foods, although with some, perhaps some negative consequences over very long periods of time. Rise of machines. Yeah. And so there was actually a guy that did the Twinkie diet, right? So 100% ultra processed food, and he lost a bunch of weight. So I think the point is, is that when your outcome is very narrow, like weight loss, that's one thing. When you kind of broaden your scope of, well, what does make a healthy diet? Like what are the biomarkers that you would need to measure to say that, you know, you're doing okay. It's not just that you've lost some weight. Your insulin sensitivity has improved. Your inflammatory markers have improved. Your lipid parameters have improved. And how personalized does that need to be? And why is it that some people seem to be able to thrive on these kinds of diets, whereas another person needs another kind of diet to thrive? I think we don't understand the answers to those questions yet. That kind of gets to the whole, we have another chapter on precision nutrition, where there's a lot of promises that you would be able to, through various different testing scenarios, be able to predict the right diet for the right person. I think we're a long way away from being able to do that in a really robust way. I think that that's a really promising area of future research. But I think that there's still a lot of hype in that area. And, you know, my co-author actually simultaneously enrolled in three different sort of precision nutrition programs and got broadly the same advice when it came to, yeah, eat more fruits and vegetables and legumes and cut down your saturated fat and your sodium and your sugar intake. But the specific foods that she was prescribed varied widely between these different companies. And they all missed, you know, some of them said her glucose regulation was good, others said it was, you know, challenged. And they all missed, you know, when she went to her doctor and found out for the first time in her life, she had high cholesterol. Some of them had even predicted that her cholesterol pathways were fine. And so it's, we're still a long way away from this being a really robust area of even research, not to mention- It reminds me quickly. I'll tell you a story from early days. Kelly and I were offered like a really early food sensitivity test probably in like 2011 or something. You didn't know food sensitivity wasn't a thing? And I had, we did some tests and then had a call, a consult. And I laughed as the woman was reading off all the food that I was sensitive to, which was like food. And after she said like the 50th thing, I said, so you're telling me like I'm allergic to food. So obviously, you know, that wasn't great. I just wanted to say I learned something today, which is beautiful as we've kind of evolved in our, we had a friend who was trying to, he was about 270 pounds, power lifter, elite total, wanted to go down to 200. So he sucked all this weight down to 200, very dangerous, well controlled. He gets an elite total and then in the same year wants to go up to 308. So he wants to gain 108 pounds in a year. And he really struggled to put on 108 pounds in a year. And food became just not fun for him. And I know just we've been talking about the opposite of this, but his elite coach was like, all right, I'm gonna tell you this, but we're never gonna repeat it. But the secret to putting on weight is Doritos. And it turns out we were always like, well, is the Dorito just, it doesn't work in the body? Like what is it? And it just turns out, I think it was so tasty that you just kept eating Doritos. And you could get the extra calories in cause it's so great. And I finally feel like I have an answer to the mystery, why Doritos? Because you can just overeat on them because they're so tasty. Yeah. In fact, what the two factors that we found out about why ultra processed foods might lead to overeating was one hyper palatable combinations of nutrients. So for Doritos, it would be high in salt and carbs. And then also the fact that they're quite energy dense, they have a lot of calories per gram. They're dried out foods that basically pack a lot of calories per gram of food, as opposed to natural foods that have a lot of fiber and cellulose. Involve a lot of fiber. Involve a lot of chewing. Yeah, exactly. And they can beat them really quickly. That's the other aspect too. So yeah, it's a really interesting area. And that's probably one of the reasons why you put people in a very ultra processed food environment. Those are common properties, right? It works. OK, so one, this I think is my last official question, since we do need to let you go. But one thing that kind of blew my mind from reading your book, Food Intelligence, was you sort of, I guess, debunked this idea that visceral fat is like the worst kind of fat you can have. It's like one of these things that we all know. Like, OK, it's fine if I'm a little bit fat, but as long as it's not visceral fat, it's fine. And we have people measuring their waistlines to see how much visceral fat they have. What do we actually know about visceral fat from a science perspective? This episode of the Ready State Podcast is brought to you by Momentus. No, so cool. Arnold. We're one degree closer to Arnold. If you haven't picked up on the news, Arnold, there's only one Arnold. Yep, there's only one. The Great has now joined the Momentus family, the organization. And why is that, do you think? He has his choice everywhere. Why do you think he's with the Momentus Julia? Yeah, I mean, you have to figure Arnold has taken every supplement out there known to man since the beginning of time. And could be involved with any supplement. Yeah, it could be involved with any. But we know that it is because of the quality of Momentus products and the fact that all of their products are NSF for sport certified, which means they are what they say they are. They contain the ingredients that are on the label. And that the company has the highest level of transparency and focus on quality of ingredients. And literally Arnold could choose any brand. But that's why he chose to work with Momentus. I'm so stoked on this. He is obviously just, I mean, if you were any human being, but just to say that you were a boy growing up in the 70s, 80s, and 90s. Who liked exercise. He may have been Arnold aware. Let's put it that way. And when Conan came out, and I was like, my chesticles are never going to be that big. But I feel like I'm like, oh, Arnold, I work with Arnold. I can just say that now. I work with Arnold. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, we're friends. Yeah, so we think his. The, you know, protein powders. We think his endorsement matters a lot. And are delighted that he's joined us in working with a supplement company that really does have the highest standards of quality and transparency. And that's why when we turn to supplements for our supplement needs, we are really stoked to work with Momentus. Just so we're clear, if it doesn't have NSF on it, it's strophis. Don't take it. Don't do it. Make sure everything you need has NSF certified, and specifically NSF certified for sport. This is lab testing or third party tested. Not good enough people. NSF is the gold standard. Gold enough. Gold enough. It's gold enough for Arnold and for the stars. And it's for you too. If you go to livemomentus.com slash TRS and use code TRS, you can save up to 35% on your first order. Yeah, so I wouldn't say we've debunked it. I think that it has gotten a very bad reputation. So we have a chapter in the book called Ode to Body Fat. And we're specifically talking about the fat tissue called adipose tissue, whose job it is to safely store excess triglycerides. And so for a long time, people have correlated visceral fat, which is the fat that's around your organs. It's still adipose tissue, but it's around your organs as compared to subcutaneous fat, which is the fat that's just below your skin, the adipose tissue there, and have said that, you know what? Visceral fat seems to be correlated with metabolic disease much more closely than subcutaneous fat. In fact, if you kind of separate these two things out in a statistical model, the subcutaneous fat seems to almost be protective, especially if you haven't reached a certain limit. It's not clear that the visceral fat is the bad guy, or if it's just an innocent bystander and marker of what we call ectopic fat. The triglycerides, the fat that's stored actually within the organ. So excess fat, or fat that's stored inside the liver, for example, or a skeletal muscle in people who are not trained. So you can have really well-trained people that have triglycerides that are associated with mitochondria and provide this kind of immediate source of energy. We're not talking about that. We're talking about triglyceride droplets, which are basically excess triglycerides inside skeletal muscle, not associated with mitochondria. And the question is, is there any evidence to suggest that visceral fat per se is the bad guy? And I think the evidence is mixed. And I think the best evidence that might not be the bad guy is there was a systematic review and meta-analysis of studies of people who underwent bariatric surgery, where they either went in while they were doing the surgery and they basically removed a whole bunch of visceral fat at the same time. And some people got that, and some people didn't. And then they could compare the improvements in metabolic health between those who had their visceral fat removed with those who didn't have their visceral fat removed. And basically, it seemed to make no difference when you looked across the different studies. Some studies said there was a positive effect. Some studies said there was no effect. Some studies said there was a negative effect. On average, it seems like it doesn't really matter. And that's kind of interesting, but it also seems to suggest, well, yeah, you have visceral fat for a reason. It's not an aberrant tissue. The aberrancy in the pathophysiology comes when the fat is stored outside adipose tissue, either visceral adipose tissue or subcutaneous adipose tissue stored inside organs like the liver and the muscle and the pancreas. That's the problematic fat. At least that's a hypothesis still. But I think the days of visceral fat being the particular bad guy, and as long as you get rid of that, and there's no evidence, by the way, that you can even target visceral fat with lifestyle change, even exercise. And we rewrote a paper about it. Happy to share that paper. We'll link to it in the show notes. Yeah, but they go in parallel, right? And depending on your initial ratio of visceral to subcutaneous fat, you'll actually have a very predictable change in visceral versus subcutaneous, whether it's bariatric surgery, exercise, diet. They all fall on the same curve. So the only thing that changes it so far that I know of is this class of drugs called diazolidin diones, which are insulin sensitizing drugs. They proliferate subcutaneous adipose tissue, and then the visceral fat basically will reduce in size. But that's the only intervention that I know that preference for. This sounds going back in time and choosing different guess. That's moral of the story. OK, well, Dr. Hall, we ask all of our guests this question. If you can help us add something to our infinite shelf, is there a book or piece of music or TV show that you are watching or consuming and loving that you can share with our audience? Oh my gosh, that's a really interesting question. I'm actually reading Super Agers Right Now by Eric Topol. That's a fun book. It's got some good evidence in there. I haven't finished it yet. Can't give you a full review, but I'm enjoying it so far. I love it. Thank you. We'll add that Super Agers to our list. One, Julie and I work with Stanford in the Lifestyle Medicine Group. And one of the things that is lamented there is that scientists often don't have huge followings. Are you on social media? Can we follow you? Yeah, yeah, sure. I'm on X in Blue Sky. Those are the end linked in, I guess, of the main places where you can find me. And I have a website with all those links, kevinhaulphd.com. Awesome. And just to our listeners, I just finished your book, Food Intelligence over the weekend. And it's just so thought-provoking and really well, I know you wrote it with Julia Beluz. Is that who you pronounce her last name? That's correct. It's just a page-turner. So fun to understand. So fun to understand and thoughtful and reasonable. And I highly recommend it to anyone who wants to learn more. Wonderful. I really appreciate that. Thank you. Thank you so much for spending this time with us. We're going to, I mean, stay tuned. The research is still coming. And when you're ready to blow us up and melt our minds and visceral fat again, we'll have to have you back on. My pleasure. Thanks for having me. Thanks, Dr. Hall. Thank you so much. Hey, Kelly and Julie Ed here. If you're ready to feel strong, move freely, and have a body that's built to last for life, we've got something special for you, the Star Ed System. It's our 12-week strength and lifestyle training program. We designed it so you don't have to guess what works anymore. We blend strength, mobility, and recovery into one smart system that actually sticks. Over 12 weeks, you'll train with us and learn from our expert guests, build strength, lose the stiffness, wake up with more energy, and finally feel in control of your body again. If that sounds like your kind of move, go to the readystate.com slash system to apply. We'd love to help you show up stronger, more capable, and ready for anything life throws at you. Let's make it happen. We'll see you inside.

=== FILE: The Secret to Thriving Outside Your Comfort Zone [r0QiFIm1RSQ].txt ===

 Where am I going to put two weeks of adventure for my child? The point is not for him to go in the woods and be comfortable. We're helping kids discover who they are. It is not just about going out and canoeing or paddling or whatever it is. What we're trying to do is education. Ginger Naylor is the CEO of Outward Bound USA, guiding its national network and educational mission. She previously led the Chesapeake Bay Outward Bound School and has over 20 years of nonprofit leadership. She's focused on expanding access to outdoor and community programs. How have you consciously thought about managing these changes and our awareness of wilderness space? For many of them, it is the first time they have ever seen the horizon over water. More parents are trying to create opportunities for their kids to get away from technology. We're on technology right now. It's important. It's not going anywhere, but I think we've got to rebalance how we interact with it. Ginger, welcome to the Ready State podcast. Hi, Farronze. It's so good to see you. It's so good to chat. I'm excited to be here. We are just so excited to have you. And as you know, Kelly and I consider ourselves at the very root outdoors people. That's a really nice word. I was going to say dirtbags. Dirtbags. Dirtbags. Who've slept in more BLM parking lots than any of us. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We just so you know, we have a lot of people. I don't know what they want to do when they retire, but we actually always want to get back to our roots where we can like be living in a vehicle again. So, you know, plus health insurance. Plus, yeah, we'd like to have health insurance and vehicle living. So that's the dream. So we are just delighted to have you here. And I just like to talk a little bit about your back story and how you got to this amazing role being the first female CEO of Outward Bound. Congratulations. Thank you. And tell me a little, you know, it's pretty historic. And I'd love to know a little bit about your journey leading you that, you know, whatever parts of your journey sort of led you and prepared you to this role. And not only that, but like the symbolism of the role, because I do think in an organization like this, that's been not going for so many years to have the first female CEO in 2022 is also symbolically significant. It definitely is. So I didn't take the traditional adventure route that a lot of people do when they get in this role, right? They find themselves in some sort of an outdoor adventure job or hobby that leads them into work and then leads them up the chain somehow or another. For me, I grew up an outdoor kid. I often joke that I grew up a feral kid and my mom doesn't like that. So I don't say that as much anymore. But I did. I grew up one of those kids that, you know, I'm a Gen Xer and we went outside. First thing in the morning, we drank out of the hose. We had pictures of Kool-Aid out on the picnic table, right? And we had a lot of freedom, which I really loved. And when I moved to a major city and began having children of my own, I really started looking for the community of people where my kids could have that same kind of upbringing. And it's hard. It's challenging. We're fighting devices that my parents didn't have to deal with, right? There's a lot of distractions that parents are dealing with now. And my boys are in their 20s. And so I got them through those critical periods. But when they were little, it was really hard. It was really hard trying to figure out how do I get them outside? How do I keep them active? How do I keep them off the couch and off of the screens? And where do I find a community of people that are doing that? And so through luck, I sort of stumbled into Outward Bound. I was sitting on a board and we did a team building day for our board, which was transformational. You know, we used the outdoors of the classroom. And so as soon as I stepped foot on that place and started looking around and talking to people on the campus, I just knew I was like, these are my people. These are these are the people. This is the community that I've been looking for. We feel that the wilderness or exposure to the outdoors in all of its permutations oftentimes either comes from you have parents who do it or maybe you stumble into a program that through high school or some of the outdoor recreation. If you if you happen to go to university, those clubs are hugely important. But something you hinted at is that oftentimes wilderness or outdoors or wild isn't just easily part of the lexicon of the typical person. They don't even know that it's missing. Let me give you an example. We were like daughter Caroline, who you know, is an hour bound grab. And I were at a school visiting for a waterpull recruiting trip. And the kids, there were maybe 15 or 20 kids around the table, like all college superstars and not a single one had slept in a tent and not a single one had slept outside. I'm not even I'm just talking about in the backyard. And they were just they had to do it as part of a, you know, a built team building experience. And they were really freaked out by the notion just sleeping under the stars. They turned to Caroline and they're like, well, have you ever slept outside? And she's like, well, yeah. And it was very clear that the reason that Caroline had valued these things was that her parents just drug her in and there was a model for it. There's so there's not a model. How do you discover is it just your experience? You know, in this board experience where you're like, oh, this is the missing piece because it's pretty crazy that you go from there to, you know, the queen of one of the most important and valiant organizations. I see that you're lying now. Thank you. Yeah, I mean, I think you hit on it, right? We're as humans, we do what we grew up seeing. You repeat those patterns. You learn your parents are your role models. And if they are not outdoor people, if they're not going and doing that, like as a kid, you're just not going to be familiar with it. And again, as humans, anything unfamiliar needs an introduction. It needs a way into it, right? And so I think we've got a lot of folks and Julia, you and I have talked about this a little bit, but like there's a lot of folks that have been either by function of where they live. They're in a city, right? So they just don't have nearby wilderness outdoors. It doesn't feel safe for some reason or another. It could be the upbringing. I mean, lots of African American communities talk a lot about like the outdoors. It just historically never been a safe place for us. And so venturing out there still carries the weight of everything they heard from their parents all the way along, you know, through childhood, that it's a place to be feared. So there's a lot of work to overcome that. Children are incredibly resilient and by their nature, by design, they love adventure. So the easiest way that I've found, and this is what we do at Outer Bound, right, is this is an adventure. Like you can't lose that sense of excitement and the unknown and exploration and all of those things that make it exciting. So you can balance out the fear and the unknown, but the trick is really giving people entry points to find the outdoors. I have four boys and, you know, I was just thinking about you saying that some of your daughter's classmates had never slept outside like my kids are probably like your kids, right? They have done it since they were tiny. They're outdoors. They're so comfortable being outdoors all the time. And those kids often end up becoming great ambassadors for bringing other kids along and saying, hey, this can actually be really fun. This isn't as scary as you think it is or it's not, you know, big and burly. I mean, half the time it all comes down to gear, right? Yeah, right. Oh my God. So, you know, I would just love to take a pause to actually have you tell our audience what outward bound is, because again, since Kelly and I were guides and grew up camping and hiking and doing all the things in our with our families. And of course, our daughter has attended an outward bound course. We are very familiar with outward bound fans of the organization and understand what the mission is. But if you could really sort of explain it to someone who, you know, maybe has heard of it, but, you know, doesn't really know what it's about and, you know, what the goals are and, you know, anything you can tell us about the organization. Yep. So our bound was founded in the 40s, which I'm not going to give you a big, deep, boring history lesson, but essentially it was founded on the idea that resilience makes better soldiers. So there's a long, amazing story that someone can Google about World War One and, you know, old guys were dying and young guys or young guys were dying and the old guys were surviving in war. And they looked at it and they were like, why is that happening? And it came down to resilience, right? The old guys had been there, done that. They were a little more resilient. They were able to say, yep, if I just hang on, if I have the mental toughness, if I have physical, you know, desire to, I can survive this. And so that led to a program that has been adopted over the last 60 years to try to figure out how do you impact that? How do you actually create resiliency in people? How do you create people that can bounce back when something hard happens that have the, you know, emotional capacity and stretch to be able to do that? The outdoors is a fabulous foil for that. So from the 40s all the way up through the 2000s, the curriculum was refined, studied at Nausium. I mean, there's so much research out there about how you do this. And it became what Outward Bound is today. So that original program was called Outward Bound, but it has evolved tremendously from the 1940s, World War Two era to what we see today. And what that looks like is kids coming to us, their parents are usually signing them up or their school is signing them up. And what the goal is to try to develop the character of who that person is. So we're not about survival skills. We're not about how do you tie the knot or how do you, you know, rig a climb? Those aren't the things we do those things. But the goal is that we're helping kids discover who they are. We discover, helping them discover how much they're actually capable of and that they walk out of our programs, feeling really confident and also feeling like, yeah, I can shrug off the bad grades or the divorce my parents are going through or whatever. And I can find a way to persevere and, you know, achieve what I'm looking to achieve in my life. So we do that through a pretty standard curriculum where we take kids, mostly kids, some adults, but we take kids on wilderness adventures because there is no classroom as good as the wilderness. Like, do you want to make somebody uncomfortable? The wilderness will always do it. Even for the most seasoned of us who have every ounce of gear, all the skills, the wilderness can still rain on you when you weren't ready for it, give you wet socks, whatever it is, give you a challenge that you have to push through. And so that's part of why we choose, we choose the outdoors as a way to teach. As I was reading more about the organization for this interview, I kept seeing this phrase called threshold moments. And it seems, it just seemed to be something I read. So can you talk about what that is? And, you know, is that something that the instructors in these courses are trying to create or do they just happen because as sort of a side effect of the experience? Both has been my experience. So sometimes, so threshold moment is exactly what it sounds like, right? Like it is the point where you have hit the edge of your comfort zone and you're like, how do you move outside of that? Because that's where all the growth, all that learning really happens, right? We want to get them over the threshold and out into that growth area. I think it's interesting because it depends on the group of people. I mean, humans are humans, right? Sometimes you get a group of kids and just getting them out on the trail for two days is going to stretch them to where they're uncomfortable. Or we work with the US Naval Academy, for example, and you have midshipmen. That's an entirely different situation, right? They have a bigger, their threshold is farther than your average eighth grader, is a good way to say it. And I've often heard instructors say, well, we need the third instructor to show up now. And the third instructor is always the rain. The rain. Yeah, like when the third instructor shows up, it's the rain. That's the one that's really going to teach you something. So yeah, depending on what's going on with the group dynamics, our instructors are incredible. They are 100% the heart of this organization and the way that they are able to facilitate groups of people through a learning process that is really about self-discovery and stretching your who you think you are and what you're capable of. It's just amazing. I mean, you all probably have had that same experience. It's just incredible to watch them work and see a group and say, yep, this one needs more. Let's put more miles on. Let's go a little harder. Let's prompt them with a question that will challenge them, whatever it is. I love that. I think one of the things, again, just having been a Boy Scout, I grew up in Europe. We were feral as the greatest sword ever. I had to be home by the sixth or seventh church, Catholic Church Day in Bavaria. And we were wild. We carried all the things we needed in our pack every day because we knew it was going to rain. I think we all had knives because obviously it was Southern Germany and I was probably 10. So that made total sense. Some things haven't changed. One of the things that I love about the experience, and I think anyone listening can hear this, is that, as you said, you don't have to fake the experience. The harsh, it's difficult. You're going to be tired. You're going to have to. Caroline describes a really challenging individual on her trip that she had to bring along and include, and that kid was as important as anyone else. But simultaneously, what I love is that you don't have to be very meta about it. Just come and walk and carry your own pack and cook and clean for everyone. But simultaneously, you are very formal about the reflection drills. Is that, I mean, obviously a very intentional piece, but I have to believe that if we just said, do the experience, we might miss out on being aware of that change. Can you just talk a little bit more about that process and you just hinted at it? Well, so we call that transference, and that is something we train our instructors on, and we're very intentional about, because you could have an experience that has no meaning. And that's not the point. So the meaning making of this hill you just climbed, you just climbed this mountain and you summited, there are all sorts of lessons that a good facilitator can pull out. And so I think of questions like, so that was really hard for you. What do you think made it hard? What could you do differently where it wouldn't be as hard? And so you start to pull them into this reflection and group conversation where they all have these ahas, even when they do team challenges. I always love the like, what could make that easier? And in my head, I'm like, communication, communication, come on, y'all, if you just talk to each other, you know, but then they all say like, oh, wow, if we communicated better and we gave more feedback to each other, we would have been more successful or faster. I mean, I think that is one of the key pieces of what Outward Bound does. It is not just about going out and canoeing or paddling or whatever it is. Those activities, that's recreation, right? What we're trying to do is education and think about how do you help this person learn something from this experience and make meaning out of it? So we've had a lot of guests on our podcast, and I'm sure it's because we really value this as a family and as a couple who've talked about the importance of creating discomfort in your life as a resilience builder. You know, we had Michael Easter, author of the Comfort Crisis on. We've had Joe Desena, the founder of the Spartan Race, and many other guests who have really said that, you know, in this world of air conditioning and cars and technology that it is so easy to just get too comfortable and that we really do need to practice discomfort, which is probably sort of the sort of root of resilience training. You know, is that sort of a value or a lesson that Outward Bound is consciously trying to teach in the education, or do you think that's just a side effect of the kind of programming these kids are doing? No, I mean, that's at the heart of what we're doing. You know, I can remember being the executive director of a school and a mom of a boy came in, he was like, I don't know, six, five and 220 pounds or something. Like this was not a small kid, right? You know, he was a big football player, looking guy, and he came in with her and they sat down and she said, you know, well, my son really, you know, I don't want him to be uncomfortable. I want to buy him some food. I want to buy him extra food. I want to buy him an extra sleeping pad. I want to like make this easier. She was trying to figure out everything she could do to make it easier for him. And I, he was sitting sort of behind her and I looked at him, I said, are these your worries? And he gives them out. And it was mom that was trying to like smooth the way and that's what moms do, right? I do that for my boys too. I catch myself all the time, like making things easier. But I got to have a good conversation with her and say, like, you're missing the point. The point is not for him to go in the woods and be comfortable. We're trying to help him get really cozy with being just uncomfortable, right? He's going to have times where working with a team is going to be hard. And that's just like real life. You're going to get in a job and you're going to have a crappy co worker that's not fun to work with and they're complaining and whining. And you still got to get the job done. So it could be that emotional discomfort where you're just like, I'm out of my element. I don't know what to do and how do I deal with that? How do I sit with it? It could be physical discomfort that you push through, although we try not to, you know, we're not going for that as much. But certainly if you hike 10 miles up a mountain in a day at the end of it, you're going to be exhausted. You're also going to feel like you really accomplished something, which is so good for teenagers. So I mean, the resiliency part of it, the way you develop that is by stretching something. Because once it's stretched, your mind, probably the same thing with muscles. I don't know. But once you stretch it, it just doesn't go back to the same place. So that's what we're trying to do is just expand where you're comfortable, where you're, what you can handle. I think probably the people listen to this are largely GenXers. Yay for us. You know, we came, I mean, if you get into my Instagram, it's like inflatable tents to the wilderness, people building shelters. I mean, like the, that's our latest obsession, by the way, is these inflatable tents and people are adding actual fireplaces to them and then they go camping in the snow. Now that we've said this to you, you're going to start seeing this everywhere. But yeah, that's our latest, our latest obsession. We, I have to believe that, I want to say, sort of peak wilderness awareness has to be sort of the 80s. It's, the wilderness is sexy, it's unknown, it's starting to be marketed. I mean, camel cigarettes is in there, Bacardi's in there, like this lifestyle wilderness piece. Now as you hinted at, we're sort of really competing with modern, modernism, modernity, right, the all of the tech. How has outward bound, because we are realizing of course now with this science, catching up that wilderness, outdoor time, far gazing sunlight, all these things are so crucial. How has you seen this waxing and waning of awareness? And I'll just, I don't mean to make this political, but certainly in this moment now, where some of our wild spaces are being considered to be utilized as resources again, it seems like we have to get people to have these experiences in order to even value those things. Otherwise, it's just, you know, what is the Alaskan wilderness? I, you know, it's not even relevant to me because I have no even entree in except for a movie I saw. So we just talk about does, is outward bound aware of these shifting trends and how have you consciously thought about sort of kind of managing these changes in our awareness of wilderness spaces? So I think there's, there's two parts of that question. One regarding wilderness. In my career, my favorite other nonprofit partners, besides you serving ones, are conservation organizations. And what I always say to them is like, we need each other. I can get kids to love it, and I need them to save it. They need to save it so that we can take kids out on it and so that they will love it, right? Like, we are so symbiotic in our needs. And I've seen it real time. I've seen, I live here in Maryland on the east coast of the US, on the Chesapeake Bay, and outward bound here takes kids sea kayaking. For many of them, it is the first time they have ever seen the horizon over water because they've been living in cities. It's the first time they see a river wake up. If you've ever seen a river wake up in the morning when the birds start singing and the owls come out and the otters are fluttering around, right? Like, it is stunningly beautiful. It feels like a religious experience. And watching youth, watching kids, watching adults have that experience, you can literally see the change start to happen in them, besides that their nervous system dramatically calms down, right? They have this appreciation, and they walk away from those courses saying, this is valuable. This place where nothing is built, nothing exists is really valuable to me as a human. And then they become advocates for the outdoors. And that means for wilderness spaces, that means for nearby wilderness, play parks, all of those things. So it's not an official stance of our bound, but I think if you talk to any outer bounder in our system, we would all say that we feel very close to the conservation effort, because it's so important for what we end up doing. And I just blinked on the second part of that. You know, the second follow up to that question, I think. I'm sorry, I've got it. I should have had a new pad here with me. Yeah, no, no, that was great. I mean, that was great. So one thing before we move on from sort of the nuts and bolts of what outward bound is, one of the hallmarks of I think most outward bound courses, if I'm not mistaken, is something called the solo. I believe you're going to ask about that. Yeah, and I figure everybody does. And I will be honest, I've been familiar with the solo ever since I first learned about outward bound probably in high school. And when as a mom, when I signed my own daughter up for an outward bound course, I decided just not to tell her about the solo because I thought my move, yeah, that it would get in her heads. You know, she's a very experienced outdoors kid. So that part of it, I wasn't, I wasn't worried at all about her, you know, being comfortable sleeping outside or maybe some of the more common concerns for parents who don't, you know, use the outdoors as much. But the solo, I thought might kind of get into her head. And so I thought, why even mention it? And I'm not sure did we mention it to her at all before she went? No, of course not. Yeah, we didn't. So we just sent her off. How could you? I mean, doesn't matter. Knowing that she would be perfectly fine doing it. But tell us about sort of the origin of the solo, what the goals are, why it has continued to be this feature of outward bound courses. I think, I mean, I don't know when it began, but I'm assuming a very long time and why it's so important. Yeah, well, truthfully, I don't even know when it began. I assume it's always been a part of the organization, but I should do some research on that. I, my first solo, so I did a dog sledding expedition and kicked my butt up one side and down the other. I was like your daughter, I had a teammate on and I was a grown woman. So let me preface this by saying I was 35 when I did this, I was not like a kid. And I had a woman that wouldn't stop singing. And I was like, I'm going to murder this woman. I can't take it. We have to make this stop. And our instructors, of course, facilitated me through that and said, well, let's come up with some tools for how you can manage being around people that you find uncomfortable. My solo, I remember the instructor saying to me, you can't be good company to other people if you can't be a good company to yourself. And that is what has stuck with me about the solo. I think there is a lot of, it's another kind of challenge, right? I mean, I, as a nearly 50 year old woman right now, I can get myself afraid in my own house if I'm alone. Like if I start thinking about it long enough. So certainly the idea of being alone in the woods can conjure up the same sort of fear. But it happens at a point in the course where students have had enough experience. And of course, we're there, we're checking on them, we know where everybody is. Like nobody's truly, truly alone, but they have the perception of being alone. By the, by the time they do that in their course, they are ready for it. They're physically ready for it. They're mentally ready for it. The instructor knows they're not, or they are, and if they aren't, the instructor will pull them in closer and make sure that they have the support system they need. But the point is like independence, right? You're going to take all these skills that you've learned, and you're going to spend some time with yourself, and you're going to spend your time, self, spend time with yourself reflecting. Which is not something we do a lot. I mean, how often are you ever just sitting quietly with yourself and thinking about, you know, what's, what's life mean? What am I doing? Where do I want to go? We ask them to journal while they're on solo, to talk to themselves. They write a six month letter to themselves about where they want to be, they might goal set. There's usually some sort of a theme or a prompt that goes along with it. But it can be powerful. And they spend the night by themselves, is what you're saying, is it usually 12 hours, 18 hours? It depends on the length of the course. So if it's a long course, my course was seven or eight days, and so mine was overnight. If you are on a semester long course, you might have a several day solo. If it is a very short course, it might only be a few hours, where you're just spending time alone. So it depends on the length and what you can put in. But I mean, the perfect example for me is I was in the middle of the Minnesota wilderness up in the boundary waters, and the wolves were howling. I made my fire, which I was very proud of. I got my socks off, I got them dry. I mean, I was like, I am doing this, I'm making it happen, you know? And I remember laying down under my tarp, which I had rigged up, so no snow was falling on me, got all cozy. And I laid there with my head lamp on, really debating having this internal mental struggle about, do I turn my head lamp off in the dark and go to sleep? And I had that sort of screw it. If wolves are going to eat me, wolves are going to eat me, it's not going to matter if my head lamp falls. I mean, that's going to be a queen's death. I mean, you have that moment where you just have to be like, I'm doing it, I'm making this choice, and that's it. And I went sleep, woke up the next morning, and then slept in, it was luxurious. So turns out human beings have been sleeping by themselves in the wilderness for a long time. Right? We really are just so greatly disconnected from this. We are, you know, even on this podcast, we're starting to have more and more people figure out ways to, I'm going to just put it out there to trick humans into going out, let me be wearing a ruck, going on a daily adventure, getting in a club. People are talking about just the reset of this. Can you talk about the experience that your students have after they leave? Because I think, you know, ideally you're putting your kid, not just to have an experience to grow into becoming a better version of themselves or to have some experience or build some resilience. We just talk a little bit about what outward bound sees typically with students' post-experience because it is pretty profound. It is profound, and I'll tell you that probably once a week, I get an email from someone who did an outward bound experience at some point in their life, and they say to me, this was the moment. This was the thing that changed the trajectory of my life. And some of them, you know, they didn't need their life changed. They were doing great, as it was, but it gave them the mental clarity to say, I want to chase this goal. I want to do something bigger. I want to give back to my community, whatever it is. I ran into an orthopedic surgeon, strangely, not too long ago in an airport, and he told me that I happened to have on an outward bound logo vest, and he said, oh my gosh, I did my course in like 1982 or whatever. And he said, I ended up becoming a doctor, and he said, I keep my letter to myself. He was 16 at the time. He said, I keep my letter to myself in my bedside table. And I read it all the time. He said, it's just such a powerful thing. And so I constantly talk to him.  alphapyloxal-5-phosphate, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, n naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, n two are mine, two are my husbands, they are all 20 to 23. And so when they were growing up, I am part of that, the generation that experimented on our kids, right? I mean, that's what a lot of people are referring to. We had no research, we didn't know what it was going to do, but we handed them screens and we handed them phones and we did all of those things, right? Jonathan Haight, who's the author of The Anxious Generation, talks about... Amazing. Yeah, it's an amazing book. He talks about our children, our children, meaning mine and yours, right? That generation of kids is the first generation to have a screen-based childhood rather than a play-based childhood, which is so important. When you think about what skills you develop in the play art, you're six years old, you're fussing over a toy, right? You're negotiating relationships with friends. There's all sorts of human interaction, interpersonal skills that you learn just from being physically present with each other. Even if you're not outdoors, just being together, you learn a lot of skills. And there are some critical points in your development that you have to learn those skills, just like speech. If you don't learn it in your normal cycle in that critical period, it's going to be harder for you to learn later on. There's now a lot of research saying, like, if kids don't learn these skills when they're supposed to at three and four and eight and 11 of how to interact with each other, they're going to have a much harder time when they become adults in the workforce, trying to navigate challenge and read, even reading facial expressions, right? And the non-physical cues that people give, folks are just going to have a harder time with it. So, the way that's played out at Outward Bound is what we see right now with kids is a massive mental health epidemic. It is, we serve nearly 40,000 students a year all over the United States, which is, I mean, that's a lot of data, right? We see a lot of kids. We have a pretty good, our fingers on the pulse of what's happening out there, and kids are showing up to us stressed. We have increased rates of suicidal ideation, meaning, in case anybody doesn't know what that means, where a kid will express, I've been thinking about suicide. I've been thinking about this. It's crossed my mind. They're talking about, I've had the idea and I'm toying with it in my head. They have real problems with their social interactions and with their friend groups. And I think a lot of that is related to screens. I think it's a lot to do with not having that interpersonal time learning the skills together and the stress relief that comes with just walking away from the data, just walking outside. Only technology, we're on technology right now. It's important. It's not going anywhere. And it is a tool, but I think we've got to rebalance how we interact with it and decide and be conscious about our choices and how much time we're actually spending. Yeah, it's a big thing that we're all dealing with. And I do really believe the outdoors are a cure. You all are working on something, which I'd love to talk about, but I want to just talk about how this tech has even crept into one of our places. The summer we were on the Rogue River as a family trip. And one of the things that we've always valued is as soon as we're just like 10 minutes off the highway, no one's phone works anymore, we're like, oh, well, it forces everyone. It forces everyone to be like, okay, this is what we're doing now. And everyone loves it. It's definitely funny when we come back into range to hear the device's power back up and the dopamine hits. But one of the things that we ran into was that we were talking to some guides on a professional trip on the same sort of six day wilderness thing. And everyone has satellite now and their phones. So the Groover, which is the outdoor toilet everywhere, they'd set it up and they're second. I was like, did he just say Groover? You don't pee in the Groover, buddy. And one of the things that happened was that there were some bees nearby the Groover that was making someone uncomfortable. And that's where the Groover goes and you're in the wilderness and there are bees sometimes. And this person texted back to the, you know, the governing company HQ and complained about bees and the Groover in real time. And then the rafting company texted the guide and said, hey, what's going on? I'm like, move the Groover. Nobody wants to poop with bees like him. That's true. It's true. But Julien and I at that moment felt like, wow, we have crossed some Rubicon where this piece is no longer completely isolated, that we have to be much more intentional. And I think that sets up, you know, we can't just, you know, the environment is no longer constrained for us. And I do love being able to call in the satellite if I need, you know, a helicopter, someone who can send you a course. But now we're having to be much more conscientious and meta. And I think that sets up what you're talking about with something called the reset. Will you tell us what that is? So the reset, we're really leaning into this. And before I talk about the reset, I will just say our courses are all device free. And I can remember a time 10 years ago, we were debating internally in the organization, like, should we continue to do that? We tell all the kids no sex, no drugs or rock and roll. And that means a lot of things. So the rock and roll is the tech, right? And so that means when a student leaves on their Outward Bound course, they leave their phone behind. They don't bring it with them. We do have a satellite phone out on the courses if there is an emergency, but that's tucked away and the instructors are the ones that have access to it, you know? So I think it's an important decision that we made when we said, no, this is important. It's important to who we are. It's important to the experience. And so it's one of the things that we hear from parents all the time now that it's one of the reasons they chose Outward Bound. Yes, we do amazing things, but we're the one imposing the device free rule, you know, and saying, no, no phones allowed. That's not how we do here. So we're in the middle of launching a big national movement called the Reset. And it's got started from conversations just like this, right? With me talking to some of my board members, talking to donors, talking to folks out there, talking to other parents who are saying, I'm really worried about this. I'm worried about what I'm seeing with my kids. And I think people feel pretty helpless. They feel pretty powerless. They don't know what to do. Parents are really worried and asking all the time, like, how do I put the boundaries in place? What do I do? You know? And it's tricky. It's different for every family. There's not a one size fits all. But I think the reset is the way that we decided to say we can collectively lean into a moment and make a choice to put our phones down and not think about it in terms of what we're giving up, but in terms of what we're getting back. So by setting your devices down and taking a pledge to say, I'm going to take an hour away, and I'm going to go do something for me outside, is a powerful stance to take. It's even more powerful if it's 24 hours. And so we're encouraging people on January 24th to join us, get on the website right now and take the pledge and tell us how much time you're going to step away from your phones. Our bound alone last year got kids off devices for 1.4 million hours, which is a lot of time, right? And huge. And so what we want to know is what could we do if we all collectively counted those hours, counted that time up together? We all pledge how many hours can we reach and what good could we do for our communities or for ourselves if we weren't attached to a screen? We're just a hot minute, not forever. Just a second. Right, right, right. Right, living in reality, well, we of course will link to the reset page, but it's outwardbound.org slash reset if anybody or the, sorry, slash the reset if anybody just wants to type it in while they're listening to this. Question that I know people have, I could look it up on my calendar. Is that a weekday or a weekend? It is a weekday, and I think it's a Wednesday. Yeah. And then is outwardbound partnering with other organizations like schools or, you know, because I mean, I sometimes struggle with, you know, sometimes our holidays as a country because we sort of technically are celebrating something like a historical figure or veterans, but we don't really do anything to support those things. And so I personally think having a national day of a national technology free day would go a long way towards, you know, supporting people's mental health and getting people outdoors. And I don't, I'm not optimistic that's going to happen necessarily, but what are you guys doing? I'm going to spark the idea. I'm going to try to make it happen now. Yeah. What are you doing to try to sort of expand the reach of the reset? Obviously, being on this podcast, one of those things, but, you know, you're working with schools or organizations or corporations or how are you trying to expand the reach of all of the above? All of those things. So there is a support coalition. If you go on the website, you can see that and that's where your business, your organization can sign up as a group and say, Hey, I'm in support of this. I saw this morning. I didn't even know this, but Blue Star Families is now supporting the reset and their whole organization is taking the pledge. So the organizations that we work closely with, we work with a lot of veterans organizations, a lot of schools, a lot of youth serving organizations, they are all taking the pledge and they're joining the coalition to spread the word and say, Hey, we're all going to take a break. And we're going to step off on this one day and, you know, do something for ourselves. So it's been super fun because we're getting momentum and I have folks calling me and saying, Like, how do I do this? What are you doing? My staff told me you're doing this cool thing. And so, yeah, we've got sort of this grassroots effort that's happening. And, you know, it's been fun because when we cooked up this idea, do we think anybody's going to jump on board? And people are. I mean, again, it's something we're all worried about. It just crosses every line. You can think of everybody is thinking about this right now. And I just want to say, as a parent, having sent a, you know, digital child off into a two week hour bound course, I think she was 14 when she did it or was she 15, 14, 15? I mean, honestly, just the time away from the phone is worth the price of admission. I mean, I am a long time outdoor lover. You know, it was involved in outdoor education in my 20s. Like, I get it. I get all the things that are amazing. But, you know, in this particular moment as a parent, just being able to send my kid to an awesome, completely phone free experience was, I mean, worth it times 10. Yeah. Yeah, I know. And we even train our instructors on it now. We tell them just assume everybody's coming with some sort of withdrawal, right? And usually it's tech withdrawal. And so the first few days is like, okay, you're going to be fine. People, I actually talked to somebody the other day that said the first, it was one of our staff that went out on our course. It was her first hour bound expedition. And she said it took three days for her to stop feeling the phantom buzzing in her pocket. And she's like, I didn't even have the phone, but I kept feeling like the alert from my phone that I had a message or a text or something. And you know, we hear from kids all the time that afterwards they're like, oh, I feel free. Like it feels like a weight has been lifted and they don't always want to rush right back into their phones. And you know, I think that's the hope for us and the reset is to just start these conversations, get people talking about it and thinking about ways that like technology is here to stay. We're not getting rid of it, but how do we find balance? No. Yeah. I mean, the reset is such a great idea. And you know, is this something that our band is planning on doing annually? Are you going to sort of, I realize this is the first year you're going to see how it goes. Yeah, you can expand it, but are you going to try to make this a thing? I think we're going to try to make it a thing. I was recently at an Outerbound International Meeting in South Africa and meeting with Outerbound Croatian, Outerbound South Africa and Outerbound Germany and they were all like, how do we do this in our countries? Let's do this, which is super exciting. And I said, well, let us figure this out this year. This will be the first one. And then I'd like to roll it out. And we just keep hearing that from everybody. It's like, yes, let's lean into this. Let's keep this conversation and really start a movement. You're saying that Croatian teenage brains are the same. It's shocking. Okay. So we've got a couple of questions to ask before we let you go for today. But we've had nature researchers and nature app. We've had so many people on this podcast encouraging people to get out into nature. And Kelly and I really value that. Yeah. I mean, our personal motto is have a body built for adventure. Yeah, that's our personal motto. Oh, I love that. For someone who is listening to this and but isn't sure where to begin, what's like, what would be something you could recommend they could do today or look forward to doing this weekend that sort of captures the spirit of outward bound without actually going on in that word back question. My easy answer is always go for a walk. Like I eat my lunch on the stoop of my how the front stoop every day. I take my lunch and I just go sit out there and eat. And there's something about having the sunshine on my face, right? It automatically changes my perspective, changes my state of mind. Like I just feel different when I've been outdoors. And so there I think you can start as small as that. And then I would say just go for a wander. Not even a power walk. Like I am not kidding with you. I love to just wander. And that can be a really great way to just get a little taste of it. And I guarantee once you do that, you're going to want to do it again and again and more and more and more. And there are so many good places to help folks figure out how to get out there. I love it. OK, so we started a new tradition on the Ready State podcast called the Infinite Shelf and you are our second guest getting this question. So give us a book, show, film, music to add to our Infinite Shelf and why. OK, I'm going to give you two because I feel like I have to. And I've been thinking about this. So the anxious generation is the one that I would say you have to read because that's really going to give you some insight into what's happening in the teenage mind, why this is so important, why disconnecting is really important for our kids. So I think Jonathan Haight wrote it. He's got another book coming out. He's actually involved with the reset and supporting us in this. So I would love to give him a plug. Definitely read that book. The other one is one that folks haven't heard of and it is a personal favorite of mine that I go back to all the time and I recommend everybody. It's a book called Trace by Laurette Savoy, who is an African American author, and she traces her family's history through the United States by the land. And it is so beautifully written. She talks about, you know, where they were a hundred years ago in Texas and what that meant, what the land meant to their family. So it's not as much about the family and the people themselves, although it is. But the way she weaves the stories of the places and the land and the rivers and the forests and the trails and the history of the land into her family's history is just stunningly beautiful. I love it. Sold. I'm definitely reading that. Thank you. I love. Thank you for both those recommendations. And yes, I haven't read Trace, but I will. And I also, Kelly, and I share your strong recommendation for reading anxious generation. It's so important. Absolutely. And I just want to, on behalf of.  of a generation of people who had outward-bound-like experiences. My elementary school did this in the seventh grade, and we spent 10 days in the Austrian border being very cold and swimming and having to cook for each other. I'm pretty sure it kept me out of trouble. I doubt 100% it did. It allowed it. I found my friends. I found, because I found my friends, I learned to kayak early. I ended up meeting this one. I can basically trace my entire success as an adult. I'm going to put in quotation marks, a decent person because you're not married to me. But it all starts with sleeping in a tent under the stars. And I'm so grateful for you to continue to carry this idea and this powerful, powerful tool. And thanks for letting everyone know about where they can go and begin to have these experiences for themselves and for their families. Thank you so much. I mean, it is an honor to be able to carry this. I truly feel like this was a calling for me in life. And I am tickle pink that I get to wake up every day and do this. And before we let you go, where can we will obviously link to information about the reset and be sharing that far and wide on all of our platforms. But where can people learn more about Outward Bound to sign up their kid or support the organization's mission or otherwise? www.outwardbound.org. It's easy as fast as way. And we have a brand new, fresh website. So it's nice. Beautiful and easy to navigate. Most important thing. Yeah, most important thing. Ginger, really thankful for you being here today. It's, again, as I said, being in the outdoors is so near and dear to our hearts. And we really think was a foundation of who we are as people. So thank you so much for being here and telling us about your story. You're very welcome. You guys are my people. I mean, this is my community. I love talking to them. Thank you, Ginger. Thanks, guys. Hey, Kelly and Juliet here. If you're ready to feel strong, move freely and build a body that lasts for life, we've got something special for you. The Starat system, our 12-week strength and lifestyle training program. We designed it so you don't have to guess what works anymore. We build strength, mobility, nutrition, and recovery into one smart system that actually sticks. Over 12 weeks, you'll train with us and learn from our expert guests, build strength, lose the stiffness, wake up with more energy, and actually finally feel in control of your body again. If that sounds like your kind of move, go to the readystate.com slash system to learn more and enroll. We'd love to help you show up stronger, more capable, and ready for anything life throws at you. Let's make it happen. We'll see you inside.

=== FILE: What Should You Really Track？ The Truth About Wearables, Bloodwork & Health Data [23AlHMcQS34].txt ===

 subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected be tracking because if they can look at SAO2 and blood pressure, we can expand that and just say, hey, this is normal for everyone. Yeah. I think you're putting such an important and fine point on where these two worlds should and need to overlap is what is the data that we should be collecting that I love that you said it's observable, measurable, and repeatable, right? And it's not just kind of like a one-off or a weird claim, cortisol, spikes, or right, which is kind of like the marketing buzz terms that everybody's saying these days. And so when I first got to restore, one of the first things that I did is I looked at a lot of our intake forms and they were asking really good questions of our clients that were coming in. There was a health history forum. There were questions around, you know, lifestyle and diet and everything. And I said, well, where did you get these information? Or where did you get these questions from? And to their lovely, like amazing credit, all the nurses that I was working with was like, oh, well, we just made them up. And I was like, okay, cool, because A, you were first thinking about like, we need to actually capture this information on our clients because it's really important for them to be able to track themselves over time. But we can actually make this a little bit more sophisticated by bringing in some validated tools that are and have been shown to be observable, measurable and repeatable. And we know that they can then compare to the other science that's in the literature right now because they've been used by scientists and actually shown to measure what we think we're measuring. So I think that is one of the first things that we can do in the wellness space is start to integrate tools that actually make sense and have been tested to actually capture the information that people are trying to capture. And I will argue in a way that's actually comparable in different systems. So for example, if you think about the way that we are all tracking ourselves day to day with these wearables, if you were to wear an aura, a whoop and a Garmin, and you were to track your sleep, they all get pretty good and close within, you know, 20 minutes or so of how many minutes of sleep that you get in a night. But if you were to actually compare the sleep zones that they are measuring, none of them are measuring those zones correctly or repeatedly. So you can't compare your aura to your whoop and you can't compare your whoop to your Garmin. They're all measuring something totally different. And so if you were to look, for example, at your recovery score in the morning, which is what so many people are using, your whoop might tell you, hey, it's good to go. You're great today. You got all, you know, 90 minutes of deep sleep and your aura is like flashing red, like go take a nap. You're in the danger zone because it's measured that you've only gotten 40 minutes of deep sleep that night, right? And so this is something that I think is super important that you're getting at, Kelly, is we need to find a common diagnostic suite so that we understand, like, is this actually working? Is it working in the real world? And is it truly observable, measurable and repeatable so that we can see our trajectories over time? So that's something that I'm working on in every aspect of my life right now is I have a diagnostic set of tools that I have created and we're working on creating this big data set at Restore. And every single time I consult and talk with these other companies, I'm like, can we standardize the way that we are asking questions so that I can go out and say, oh, you're using an aura or you're using a whoop. Oh, I can see, like, yes, this is actually accurate information and you can trust that information as well so that you can track your changes over time. But that's not the way that the world is in the wellness space right now. What you just said just blew my mind and I'm like, yes, you know, that a true model and if we're trying to model human function, it has to be a you have to explain current phenomenon, you have to be able to predict future phenomenon. And this is it. You have to be able to communicate that information across platforms. Otherwise, it's not a model. What it sounds like is we don't have a unified model for the body because we're so diverse. You'll appreciate that I've had all of those devices and which one did you try to make you feel the best times I wear them at the same time. And and but then I will always like cast away the one that is giving me the worst scores and conclude that like that one is wrong. I mean, this is how like, you know, think of me as like your average user. And I'm like, well, my aura ring has been telling me I'm not doing well lately, but my garment has been saying I'm crushing it. So like, I'm not going to wear my or my aura. And then if my garment starts going downhill, I'm like, I better put my aura on tonight because it doesn't things don't look good for me. Who are you? Garment. I mean, you know, like this is never said this out loud. Yeah, I do that. I you know, I'm like, which one is going to be better for me and make me feel better about myself, which is totally insane, right? That's not data and it's not anything. So OK, so can I just tap in really quickly about like kind of like the alternative version of the health care, because I think it's really worth comparing these two worlds is when we think about the diagnostics that are on the health care suite, if you will, you know, let's look at blood, for example. There's a really standard panel of blood that you might get. It's, you know, your A1c, it's your fasting glucose, your triglycerides, your cholesterol markers, maybe some inflammatory markers. And here's where things get kind of problematic. I think on this side is you have a range of what's normal and what tends to happen in the health care interpretation of these diagnostics is as long as you're in the normal range, you're good. What they're also not doing for the most part, there are some physicians that are doing better at this is tracking change over time. I'll give you a really good example. So let's say you're 25 years old and you go and get your blood work done and your A1c, which is a measure of your glucose metabolism, is somewhere around 5.1, which is really good. It's very normal. And then you're 35 and you go to the doctor and now it's 5.3. Still normal. But still trending in the wrong direction. You go in your 45 and it's 5.6. You are borderline now for insulin resistance and eventually trending toward type two diabetes, but you're still in the green. And it's probably likely that you saw a different doctor at 25 to 35 to 45. And so that trend never gets caught. And now you go at 55 and your A1c is at 6. And oh, hey, now you've got a diagnosis when it probably could have been caught at age 35. And so this is a problem of using really traditional diagnostics is they're great. And they're great for cutting and creating thresholds for a diagnosis of a disease. But oftentimes what we don't see is this trend over time, which I think the wellness industry is getting better at, even if their tools are not yet refined enough to really capture. And let me give one more example. Juliet may or may not have had a traumatic birth and received 12 blood trends. Blood bags. Just call it a blood bag. But I remember distinctly where the physician's like, well, you're not that anemic. And you were at the very bottom number of the reference range. Yeah. Or like, and I was like, that has nothing to do with the fact that you're an athlete, you're a superstar. Like you had no ferritin. You had matricry was like, you know, that of someone who doesn't have blood.

=== FILE: When Nutrition Science Clashed With RFK Jr.’s Food Narrative — Dr. Kevin Hall [s5fhrUPucnc].txt ===

 it was very difficult to get the attention of the folks at the leadership level of the Make America Healthy Again movement. And then we had some parallel research that was going on, again, looking at the brain mechanisms by which ultra-processed foods might drive excess calorie intake, in particular, looking at this neurotransmitter called dopamine, which is part of addictive processes. And the addictive drugs cause a very large increase in dopamine. And we happened to find that ultra-processed milkshakes, high in fat and sugar, didn't cause the same kind of dopamine response, which was part of this rhetoric that had been ongoing that ultra-processed foods are as addictive as crack cocaine or something like that, and we weren't finding that. And so shortly after the new administration came into office, and I'm still not having much luck getting the attention of the new folks to talk about our plans, we had this paper coming out, which was basically showing that ultra-processed foods might be addictive for some people, but on average, they're not giving the same sort of dopamine response in the brain as drugs, like cocaine or even cigarettes. And we kind of had some really odd pushback on that. I wasn't allowed to give talks at conferences and meetings on this topic, and I wasn't exactly sure what was going on with that. Maybe that was like a general thing, but then I saw some of my other colleagues were allowed to give talks and I wasn't. So it was kind of weird. And then we had this paper coming out, and we had a press release because we've been working on this study for like five years. And we had a press release ready to go, and that was like kill for no reason. And when a reporter actually wrote to us to interview me about this paper, she was denied an interview request. And the Health and Human Services Communications Director called the reporter and said, is this really a story about RFK Jr. because the results in this paper don't match his views on ultra-processed foods. And that was pretty chilling because it meant that the political leadership wasn't interested in allowing the public to hear about some of the science that was being generated at the NIH because it didn't mesh with their narrative about how ultra-processed foods work. And so I tried to get some clarity about what's really going on here. And eventually they allowed the interview, the written interview. So the reporter asked some questions. I wrote some responses in collaboration with my colleagues. And what was actually sent back to the reporter was edited and passed off as if I had written it. And it sort of downplayed the study and kind of changed some of the repris. It was like really bizarre. Crazy. Yeah, it was really nuts. And at that point, they were trying to get as many people to leave the federal employment as possible. And they'd set up an early retirement option, which I'd just qualified for. I'd been at the NIH, as you mentioned, for over 20 years. And they lowered the full retirement age to 50. I was 54 at the time. So I'm like, well, I'm going to write to RFK Jr. and the NIH director and several of the senior staff and say, look, here's what we're experiencing. This is the work that we're doing. We're sort of at the forefront of trying to understand diet-related chronic disease and why people overeat ultra-processed foods. We're making all this progress. Here's a proposal that I've been working on to kind of expand this kind of nutrition research for folks across the country. But here's what we've experienced, kind of the censorship and this misrepresentation of our findings to a reporter at the New York Times. And we're also now experiencing we can't even buy food for our research subjects because they cut the credit card limit of many of the purchasing staff at the NIH to $1. And so we had all of these kind of crazy things that were going on. And our scientific leadership was saying, yeah, things are going to get really rough. And in some aspects, they continue to be rough for my colleagues who remained at the NIH. And I said, look, if this is going to continue this way, I'm probably going to hate my job. I'm not going to be able to communicate our results anymore. I might as well take early retirement and keep health insurance for my family because otherwise, if I quit a year from now, I'm going to lose my health insurance. But I'd love to sit down and have a meeting and talk about these things. And I got no response. This was weeks. And so I started to wind down my lab. And I heard that people had circulated my email because a colleague of mine wrote and said, hey, are you really going to retire? I saw your email. I'm like, that's weird. I didn't send it to you. I said, no, no. It was circulated. People read it, but I guess they didn't decide they wanted to respond. So the date came for the last day to qualify for early retirement. And I basically submitted my paperwork and handed in my badge and basically quit. So the next day, the NIH director wanted to talk to me after there was some media kerfuffle about this. And I went in and chatted with him and told him what had happened and was raising the question of, we're in a state that was actually the same day that we heard there was going to be a 40% budget cut request from the president to the NIH budget. And that they were going to restructure several of the institutes. And I said, look, wouldn't it be great to actually build something? Because we see all this destruction going on in the scientific community and the biomedical research community. This proposal that we put together to improve nutrition science, if this really is something that you guys are interested in doing, would not be something worthwhile building. And he said, yeah, I'd like to work on this with you. And he shook my hand and he said, welcome back. And I said, I don't have anything to go back to. My lab is closed. But if you're really seriously interested in working on this, let's figure out a way that we could do it. And so for the next several weeks, I worked with the Office of Nutrition Research director and the Interim Rural Deputy Director to kind of put this together. And then out of the clear blue sky, that was killed for unknown reasons. So it seemed to me like this administration is very, they're disinterested in the actual science. And my view has become because science can only complicate a narrative. It only introduces uncertainty sometimes, right? And you kind of get, the knowledge progresses forward and you need this knowledge to kind of make the best changes to your policies or diet or something like that. But if it complicates the narrative, that can be politically problematic. And so my view from my experience as well as kind of viewing from afar what's happened with a walling off career scientist from talking with a briefing, the CDC, the former CDC director, for example, wasn't allowed to talk to career scientists because while the science can only complicate the issues. I just worry that despite all this political momentum and this public interest in improving nutrition and diet related chronic disease that we're not investing in the science and we're actually, the political aspects and leadership of this movement is actively disinterested in the science. Thank you.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:58.383037Z ===
