Hey, welcome back to Mobility Wad. We're talking about the conversation we're always having with our athletes and our coaches that who you are is who you are. You can't hide who you are. And practice doesn't make perfect. Practice makes permanent. One of the things we notice, for example, is that when athletes develop a certain strategy on kind of throwaway movements or metabolic like conditioning movements, they tend to carry those movements into pattern uh when it gets serious or heavy. So, for example, when athletes are overextended and their push-ups, we tend to see them overextend overhead, right? So, Diane is our Olympic lifting maven here at San Francisco CrossFit. And recently, you've decided that there's something you don't like and that affects Olympic. What is that? Something I don't like that affects me. Oh, double unders, right? Double unders, right? That's what the C we're talking about today. So, Dian had this brilliant idea, brilliant, that we should look at all these movements as skill transfer exercises, right? And then, uh, so here's the deal. Show us the the the li the the jumping movement that you don't like. Tell us why you don't like it. All right. So, often times what we'll see is when I'm when I'm watching people do double unders, right? Their motor pattern is often pulling the heel towards the butt to be able to create that space to uh perform the double. Wait a minute. You mean it's this like this awesome jump where I'm suddenly I'm jumping rope and then I'm like this thing where I suddenly have I have a seizure. Exactly. Okay. So, but but I did a double. Isn't that good enough? No, because we're performing hundreds upon hundreds then thousands and then you hit 10,000 and suddenly it's your default. So, if I if I if I practice this, what do you think? What What are you saying happens? Right. I don't need to watch you weightlift. I know probably when you're pulling that bar off the floor and you are jumping into your receiving position, chances are you're going to pull that heel up. Check. Ah, so weight begets way. That's freaky. what I practice is what I end up doing, right? So, what happens? Uh the thing, what about that other like awesome cuz one of the problems you're always coaching people is opening the hip all the way. And I see like people are broken. They're stuck here. And we talked about this before, but what's one pattern we see all the time that leads me to not be able to extend my hips fully, right? Right. Their hip flexors, their anterior hip is tight. Antior hip is tight. But also, if I'm practicing the pike double under, which is the thing I hate the most, and we talked about this on Billy Watt. I'm all of a sudden jumping and you're like double under you like donkey kick. What is it? What's the dolphin kick at it? Yeah. I don't I don't think I could do that. So, the issue is that if you're saying that if I'm a weightlifter, I'm using weightlifting, I should be thinking about jumping, right? We want to be able to hit that nice clean triple extension. What's that look like? Well, come on, D. You got to do it on camera or it doesn't count. Doesn't count. All right, guys. Here we go. Look. Butt is tight. Straight up and down. Opens the hip. Sets the shoulders back. In fact, pause. Pause a second. Could you put yourself in a better extension? Better extension. Shoulder extension. So, shoulders are set in the back of the socket, which is exactly the high hang. And if you just flipped your hands over, that's basically the high hang position, isn't it? It's in the same position again. Hips butt is squeezed. Hip is at full extension, shoulders back, and then just release the So, what you're really asking me to do is practice hitting this full position instead of one or zero. Can I perform the movement or not? Correct. The mind of the foo foo bar coming coming soon to a blog near you. Fu barbell. Thanks, D. See you guys tomorrow.