Hey, welcome back. Mobility Project. A few things on my mind tonight. First and foremost, happy 4th of July. This mobility wad is dedicated to all my brothers and sisters doing sketchy jobs in sketchy places. You guys know who you are. We're talking about the uh supple leopards out there. Uh love you guys. All right, out of the way. Uh recent post on a good website, great thinker about all things fitness and nutrition related. It's kind of talking about the role of stretching. And one of the things I want to be clear about is that when we usually do the mobility one, we talk about kind of tissue recovery, we're thinking about mobility as a tool to improve position only. And we pretty much dep prioritize stretching or prioritize stretching behind joint mobility, tissue stiffness, um you know, some of the other issues, motor control for example, and we usually kind of put the contract relax later. Um, it's important to note that of course good warm-up and we should probably do an ultimate piece about dynamic warm-up in the next week. We will um really is the way we warm up all our athletes. We spend very little time doing dynamic stretching u contract relax stretching or kind of ending static stretching before we work out. Usually we save that stuff to our kind of afterwards if we're finding an athletes having you know tissue restriction. But it's important to understand that if you cannot get into a good position what is your plan for getting there? Because what the research also says is that dynamic mobility might be good for warm-up and prep, but it does not change position over a long time. So if you're having some kind of tissue restriction, you're having a joint restriction, which is why we use the bands distract the joint, not stretch out necessarily the musculature. And by organizing the body, we've got to put ourselves in better position, we got to make sure we have a plan. Here's the test for example. So we're going to try to do as in our kind of finishing up our thinking about uh soft tissue stuff is that I want you guys to do a test retest. Here, here's a simple athletes mobility. This is kind of on a base exam is that if I put my leg back in the corner, by the way, the reason we're choosing this today is I recently cut have heard that in the UK this is known as the suicide chair, which I love it. Some of our special friends in the scary places uh who have been waterboarded have said this is like water boarding, which makes me love this even more. So, look, if I get into the super couch, just the couch, I don't need band stretching right now. My leg is in flexion. So, uh, my hip is not on the into full extension, even at zero yet. I should have enough range. If I keep my butt pressed, arm straight just tall. I should be able to press my hip into full extension. So, you see that I'm coming to neutral, keeping the butt squeezed, I should be able to press all the way down into extension. So, I should be able to keep my belly tight without totally extending my back. And I should have enough hip range, enough anterior tissue range to be able to get into full extension. That's one of those kind of basic baselines that I'm like, dude, if you can't get in that position, what is your plan to get in that position? So, I want you to see is the relationship sometimes between muscle stiffness ergo. I've been trashing my quads running the last few days. Lots of sandbag lifting. I'm feeling smoke. So, tonight, set the clock. Whatever tool you want to use. We got two pieces we're going to go after tonight. I want to go really slow and we're going to use this kind of raw thing model where we go really slow and build a pressure wave of tissue. I want you to start lateral quads distally and I want you to just right down by the knee. We're just going to roll from the kind of hamstring all the way over very slowly. So the idea here is that you can really sneak into some big diffused pressures. I got my my quad roller here. Love this thing. Really really really slowly. Find a spot. I'm going to just give it enough time to sink in. This is qualitative. So, I'm going to maybe set the clock 10 minutes aside. This can be done with a rolling pin. This can be done with a wine bottle. This can be done with a beer can full of ice cold B minus. My Hawaiian brothers and sisters, I see you out there. The idea is I need to find something and go really slowly. Just let that tissue yield. And all of a sudden, oh, I'm through that restriction. I'm just building a pressure wave. The tissue will tell me how fast to go. Don't go any faster than that. All of a sudden, that's gone. That restriction is gone. I got more pressure. I'm rolling over and it may take me very slow amount of time to get all the way across. So, I'm just going to set the clock on that until I can just basically roll out a segment. This is literally how fast I can go. If you're going fast than that, you're not catching. Then after this, this whatever. I want you to retest and see how much easier it is, how much that soft tissue restriction change. Bam. That position. Look it. Man, that made it easier for me. I'm a lot less tight. I want you to drive that relationship between position and soft tissue work. Test, retest with your squat after it. Man, that's so much better. Time under tension is what matters, right? You've got to be thinking, man, if you are stiff, dynamic warm-up movement may not do it enough for you. You may have to recover your tissue. Second piece, playing botchi ball with the family in the backyard. This thing's big and massive. I want you to go ahead and high butt. And you'll notice that what's great about I have a little bit of hip flexion here, which is most athletic experience. Very little actual athletic experience happens with deep deep squatting. And so most of it's happening in slight running kind of slight flexion. I'm going to start right up by my coxix kind of higher my coxix right on my sacrum. And I'm just going to go laterally and try to unpeel my glutes from the high part of the the the hip bones there. Working nicely sideways. Now the tendency again is to go really fast. You're going to miss all the nuances. So, I want you to go really slow, maybe bigger than your lacrosse ball, and just take your time rolling across there. Let that tissue use in front of you. Okay? As in knee before, that was a Superman reference. Okay? So, just hang out. Go really slow and just again, when you find a tricky spot, especially in this lateral hip, you're kind of starting to come into your other glutes. You're going to just be like, "What is that?" That's your bits. Okay? So, just when you hit a spot, you can certainly add that that motion back in. you do the active tactic stretch, but I really want you to spend some time just doing this kind of raw fin model. This this slow tissue creep like a f like a rolling pin or kind of building a little pressure wave like a steamroller. Okay, so hanging out across again test retest and be like oh my lord turns out I was just sticky. Oftentimes our seminars will just blow someone's quads open just by shaking them. And then it's that kind of stuffed down stuff that causes the free nerve endings to be entrapped. It causes all that pain signaling. If you're not actively recovering your tissues with the slideability, you're having a problem. If you're not looking at your joint range, you're having a problem. Don't be fooled. Warm up is really important to prep you for exercise. Can you get into the position? That's what we're talking about. Don't run around all broken. Happy 4th of July.