Welcome back mobility project. Today we're going to take on one little piece that I think is a little bit misunderstood. And specifically I'm talking about how we go when we're doing the muscle up or any dynamic shoulder load that we need to land or receive in an organized position. And people just this could extrapolate to any of the movements where suddenly I'm pulling and jumping and landing. I need to be at a good tight organized high torque position. It becomes a little bit more nebulous when we start talking about the muscle. And let me just give you an example. If I'm pulling, right, turning, right? You look sexy. Pulling in. Yeah. I'm loading. Loading toe. Toes pointing for extra points. Throw my body up right now. Right. Yes. Where if I'm not receiving in an ex rotated stance position with rings going forward is kind of a rough guideline, then pretty much I guarantee that my shoulders are not going to be an ideal position. Is that right? Correct. So when we see people missing or landing on their muscle-ups or doing dips in this position, we think immediately, hey, we're missing internal rotation of the arm. Shoulder comes forward. And this is the the piece that I want to show you. I weigh about 225. So it's about 100 kilos. If I flip this 100 kilos over, get ready to see this one. Make sure you're in an extra rotated position. If I flip this over, think about the load impulse on on the on the bar, right? So I flip it over. Watch what happens. Bam. That's me receiving and doing a muscle up in the air. My shoulders are not organized and I translate forward. That's the mechanism for dynamic load. We have to expose our athletes to speed. We have to expose them to power right under a speed condition. So we can see, but we need to be in good position. So what I want to do is just sort of show you a couple things. Watch Carl's receiving position. He's not going to press up in the dip because that's irrelevant. We're using the muscle up as a transfer exercise. for him to suddenly load his shoulders in extension. Look see where he is. We He's working on what we call the laziest muscle up in the world. How little wh bam every time shoulders in extension hand is really in neutral. And the good guideline is that his head is maintained a pretty neutral position and his hands are forward. If he's in this position, look what what can happen. You can easily pop up. Go and do your little kick and he presses out. He then because he receives in that neutral position, come back down into the foil. He's here. He has a bridge to his next move, which is what we're thinking about as we exit that tunnel. Boom. That tunnel is finishing. I better be organized because I come in and now he's got his bridge to his next move. That's the new start. And it's easy. These are clean, clean motions. And this is full range of motion. If you're having a hard time snapping out, it definitely be motor control. You could just be weak. don't know how to do it. But, uh, something I want to show you, and this is what Carl was talking about, like people are like, "How do I get into a good position on the ring?" Should we lower them down? Sure, let's do that. I'm kind of short. I think what Kellyy's saying is that what we're trying to talk about is how do we a diagnose what the problem is when you're going through movement? And B, how do we address the movement before we even do it? So, before we even do uh some dips, I'm actually winded. I just did three muscle-ups. I'm winded. Is that okay? Okay, that's okay. Check. I'm not I'm not winded. So, so two things that has to happen. One is how do we prep the movement? The second thing is how do we go about doing the movement