Welcome back mobility wad. Tonight we're going to talk about some of the implications of loss of position. And you know you can make a general statement that basically you need to have full range of motion in your joints to be a normal human being. The problem is you're set up for adaptation. You're set up to survive. So even if you're missing some shoulder internal rotation, you can still grab the grab the baby and run away from the mastadon. Take the meat, you know, and hide it from the uh from the saber-tooth tiger. The problem is that you pay a compromise and we pay a compromise in position. If I'm missing internal rotation, for example, I tend to uh be poor and weaken my external rotation ability. But the al other things that happen is that because you're a complex system of systems, what ends up happening is you end up making tissue compromises that you may not kind of be aware of. And let me show you what I'm talking about. So here we have an athlete who is actually CrossFit athlete, San Francisco CrossFit athlete number one. His wife was zero. But poor Mac Daddy was our was our landlord. And this is my way to exact my revenge. Millions years ago, eight years ago, we started training together. But Mac bilaterally has some elbow pain that he's uh he's recently been fighting with. And one of the things we noticed is that from thoracic spine is very very stiff on him. And one of the reasons we we go after thoracic positioning is not just to improve uh positioning and front rack, but all of your nervous system is tied in your your thoracic spine is the home of your sympathetic chain ganglia. And what ends up happening is all of the slack for your upper limbs comes from that that thoracic region. So if you're because your nervous system is basically a fixed length and the tunnel is not a fixed length, you have to be able to feed slack to these systems. some of the positions we Olympic lift in or weightlift in are positions of high neural tension. And if you're tied down in any of those segments, then what we see is that that the system goes under enormous tensions. Flipping the wrist over like I'm supposed to does put my shoulder into an optimal position, but also is a a neural tension, high position of high neural tension. So, if I'm screwed down and tacked down in my my back, then I can't feed enough slack to that nervous system. It's certainly not going to pull out of my brain stem. And subsequently we have a system under kind of under neural duress have neurodynamic problems. Now the issue is that what ends up happening then if I take a really really stiff system and then do some dynamic pulling. So one of the things we notice on MacDaddy is that if I anchor his shoulder to the back of the socket he on his other side was missing a great deal of his internal rotation. He's he's about here on this side. Remember we want to see about a fist from the ground. And the reason we need to see a fist from the ground is that if I internally rotate him now, suddenly his shoulder has come pretty far forward up in the socket. I've been hammering him on this side for the last 10 minutes or so. But when I anchored him here, you can see that he starts to really get stiff. Now, MacDaddy played college water polo. It's one of the reasons he's missing this internal rotation. Now, this is the end of his range, and this is actually an improvement in what we've seen, but it's really stiff. And when I internally rotate him, now his shoulder comes forward. And this is what's happening when he's pulling. And twofold things happen. One is that his shoulder translates forward. We know he loses position. We know he challenges these anterior structures. But notice the tissue hinge in his neck. And I've seen him a lot Olympic lift and when he's tired and shoulder comes forward, we end up putting a lot of stress at the 67 level. We end up creating a bad hinge right in the middle of the neck. Furthermore, and this is the real kind of piece I want you to be aware of tonight, is that as that shoulder translates forward, I basically have this nervous tissue, this this cervical plexus, this brachio plexus, the the nerves that come out of the neck, and I've suddenly required that system to become an even higher tension. I need need the length requirements to increase because I've just added a vector load right in the middle. I have a piano wire that's already under tension. We're loading the system here. And then as that shoulder comes forward, boom, big, big stress right in the front. And by the way, the hook grip is also a position of high neural tension, especially as he pulls in here. So we end up with this problem. We end up with another high neural tension problem here. And as that shoulder comes forward, we put a bad mechanic in the neck and we've translated and loaded the nervous system again. So not only do we need good position, good mechanics just so that we can express our strength because Mac Daddy is very, very strong. The problem is that if he's making these kind of unwittingly movement compromises and gosh forbid piece of his nervous system is tacked down too, we're going to see a problem. Homework for him, improve his internal rotation, mobilize his thoracic spine. More of everything, right? If you're that Russian coach sitting at the chair, more of everything. That's his coaching cue. That's our coaching cue to Matt. You've got to have everything if you're going to be a weightlifting sprinter gym a leopard. Get on that. I don't know if you guys ever seen this coaching queue before, but this is our cue and correction for athletes that know better. We should do better. We'll see you tomorrow. Next time of the saber two tiger. That's right.