living legend. He was the face of the Olympics. I was swimming against Michael Phelps. 13,998 people cheering for Michael Phelps and my parents were cheering for me. A lot of things had to go right for my 2012 experience to happen. One of them was James Magnus going so fast that the world was ready to give him the gold medal. The race was insanely close and I end up beating James by 1/100th of a second. Lane seven is Fred Hayden. Too close to call right now. The turtle with a bow for the US by 1/100th of a second. Adrian did it. An amazing complete shock. I'm so grateful for having so many like supportive people around me allow me to go there. And I loved the grind. Like waking up at 5:15 and going to practice was like not an issue. I was excited to go see the people there, put in the work. Then you get a cancer diagnosis. Was it worth it? You have three daughters. Would you let them follow this Olympic dream? Oh my gosh, man. That that's such a loaded question. And this episode of the Ready State podcast is brought to you by Layered Superfood. I am so stoked to talk about layered. So, first of all, Lar and Gabby are friends of ours. And so we were in the kitchen with all the weird baggy powders. Yeah. When was first testing this out and butter, I ate some weird stuff. Yeah. And one of the things that I think is amazing is that you can take that cup of coffee, you can add some essential great high quality fats, fuel, and some minerals. And you can make that cup of coffee better. It gets people off of half and half super gnarly sugar. Like it's a great way to boost your coffee. And if you haven't heard of them, Lar Hamilton is a legendary big wave surfer and his wife, our friend Gabby Reese, is a legend in her own right and a health and fitness leader, volleyball player. Um, and what's cool is they have developed these amazing products built around clean, functional, real food ingredients. Yeah, it's also taste really good. Like we really look forward to adding our layered superfood creamer to our coffee in the morning. Like Yeah. I either drink like I don't drink cappuccinos. I drink black coffee or so if I want to fuel specifically, I'll use this. Do you remember that it's almost summertime? And do you remember the layered superfood icy that we made? Oh, yeah. We're going to start making that immediately. Yeah. So, just some espresso shots plus the layered superfood creamer with some blend. And I swear at 3:00, it's a little late, 12:00 or pre-workout, it is the best thing. It is so It's such a tasty summer little pickme up. It's so good. Yeah. When I travel, I take his portable latte with me. It's all mixed in. It It kills me to drink crap coffee on the road, so I don't I just get hot water and I mix this on the river. We also take it on outdoor adventures. It's so good. And you know, one of the other products that we're huge fans of are their daily greens. Look, we are always pro get your fruits and vegetables on board, 800 grams as often as you can. But, you know, sometimes we're busy, our life is crazy, we're traveling, and daily greens are this convenient, nutrient-dense blend of greens, fruits, adaptogens. It's good for immunity, energy, digestion. These are so tasty. It's a liquid vitamin made with foods, which I think is so great. Yeah, it's so good. Um, obviously, they've been making good coffee. Lar's obsessed with coffee and and if you're one of our friends, you have the Dongi virus, which means you learn from Lar that Dongi is the machine, then you learn from us, and that's the Dongi virus. Look everyone, I cannot recommend. Go to layered superfood and check it out. You'll find something that is good for you from protein bars to their essential uh coffee, mushroom coffee, daily greens. Enhance your coffee. Go to layerupfood.com/trs and use code TRS20 for 20% off and free shipping. Have your life upgraded and changed today. This episode is also brought to you by the World As You'll Know It podcast, and it's all about the forces shaping the future. This season focuses on something we care a lot about around here, aging. And not just aging, but how science is now trying to cure it. Listen to this. Human beings are living longer than ever. Thanks to advances like vaccines, antibiotics, and clean water, we've added more than 30 years to the average lifespan in just over a century. That's more than we added in the previous 10,000 years. And the progress keeps coming. We've seen big drops in mortality rates from major killers like heart disease and cancer. Now researchers are asking, "What if we could go beyond treating disease and actually slow or even reverse the aging process?" In this season of The World as You'll Know It, host and science journalist Carl Zimmer talks with some of the top minds in longevity research about the future of aging might look like. Will breakthroughs add even more years to our lives? Can older brains be rewired to function like younger ones? And which of today's trending biohacks actually work? It's a fascinating and super relevant listen, especially if you care about health span, not just lifespan. The world as you'll know it. The future of aging is available now wherever you get your podcast. Nathan, welcome to the Ready State podcast. Thanks for having me. uh we are going to get into it all but you know I think here in Marin you're a neighbor um in full disclosure our families are even conjoined our our daughter has has worked with you um you are uh what what's the right word living legend here in Mar living legend like you're a you're an undercover superhero you're like who's that tallan guy in the neighborhood and you're like oh he he was the face of the Olympics and uh we are really thrilled to talk about some of your recent escapades and also I feel like now that you're running this incredible surf this school the swim program top 100 that we're going to get some perspective on what's it like to be at the top of the ladder and look backwards and say oh how do I develop another generation of kids what would I change oh my gosh yeah well I'm developing my perspective every day in real time in real time as we speak. Yes. and as a and as a a parent of young kids too, it's there's no place to hide. You're getting it from all angles. So, what we want to do first, I think, is um will you tell just give us a highlight of what you think the peak of your athletic career was. So, just to frame this for everyone a little bit because I know it feels it feels like pedestrian for you and work for you, but for everyone else, I don't think they understand sort of what the apex of your swim experience was. Will you just give that to us? Like maybe are you asking like what a like a day in the life kind of thing or just just sort of like what what you felt like at the end of your career, what what did you achieve? What did you accomplish? Oh man. If you had to give us if you were a bragging you were your like old Jewish grandma bragging about yourself right now, who what would you say? Oh man. Um so the things that I'm most proud of or were my consistency. Um, and it's really interesting as I am developing this perspective like through all the things that you had actually just mentioned like it's a youth program or the learn to swim program or or being a father like when I was in it I was very one-dimensional. I didn't recognize that I was onedimensional but like it was just the incentive structure was such that I just needed to figure out how to swim fast and then I sort of would try different things and then whichever one made me swim the fastest I would like continue down that path and develop that and develop that and develop that. Um, so my consistency was something I'm very proud of. Took a lot of mental, emotional energy to like to be there to be able to like perform day in day out in practice, therefore being able to perform at the end of the year and do it year-over-year. Um, oh gosh, I I think I made the national team like 13 years, maybe 14. I'm I'm not totally sure. Um, 13 for 13 years or when you were 13? Oh, no. Four 13 years. Yeah. I was I was I wasn't that fast when I was when I was a little one. Um and yeah, it was it was an interesting career journey for me because it was it just like 2008 started as a as a young at the Olympics and just experiencing what there was to experience watching Michael do his thing, watching Natalie Coglin do her thing. I was there with Darra Torres, like seeing all these incredible legends that I grew up watching and then taking that, figuring out what it is that like I could take from them, trying it, and then adding it to my tool box. That was Darra's last year, right? Yeah. When she swam the 50 she got that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um, okay. So, let's let's go back in time a little bit to just hear a little bit about your early swimming career. Like, what drew you into swimming? What did you like about it? Were you always like did you have a choice or did it become a choice? A unicorn. Um tell us a little bit about the your early swim life. So early early swim life. No, there was no choice. It was a water safety thing. Um I was always going to do lessons. I was always going to get in. It was a cold pool as many of many of us remember like oh that was so cold. Um and then it was a thing that my brother and sister did. Sister is 8 and a half years older. Brother was six years older. So by the time that like I was, you know, five or six, they it was it was their sport already. Like they had kind of eliminated the other swim family. We were a swim family. I was at the pool a lot and it was something that I was always going to do. Um so then I I joined. I was always a little timid to join because it's a bunch of people I don't know in there. I was on the younger end of the group. So, you know, I was just maybe going to hang out with my mom while we waited for practice. But then I saw my best friend from first grade in there and I was like, let's go. Uh let's let's jump in. That's a really important piece. I just want to double click on that for a second because there just already, you know, you sort of our family has decided your family has decided that like we're swimming and we don't have enough resources to divide other sports and your your brother and sister are good swimmers. Yeah. Right. So you're there's this huge expectation interestingly enough that a lot of times the best athlete, fastest athlete is the third or fourth born, right? You get to watch, you get to see, but also interesting that you were a cautious risk taker and it wasn't until you wanted to play with a friend because I think that gets lost sometimes that it really is about fellowship, friendship, going with homies. 100% 100%. And I I think that like that is an aspect of sport that I developed like later because I I was lucky. I had coaches that were so good at fostering a love for the sport, making it fun. We did things now that an insurance company wouldn't cover in terms of general liability policies. You know, we were playing water baseball. We were like doing sharks and minnows and all those fun things. And it was great. Um and then when the time came to get it more like more serious, how old were you then? Um, I would say it was so there was another there, funny enough, there was another kind of story when I was in sixth or seventh grade. I was at like the local championship meet and I was alone and it was just me from the team and I I just did not like the experience. I wanted to go home. I was still like, you know, I was I'd have to look up the results, but I was at least getting top eight, probably winning the age group championships, whatever. But like the entire time I wasn't having fun and it was because my friends had moved to different sports and I my parents were smart enough to realize I needed to be in a group of kids who like I could be friends with and have friends at these meets and and enjoy it cuz that was like such a big aspect of of my youth sports experience. And um even like looking at my wedding photo, the only people that like it was family members or people I swam with that were my my wedding party, right? And and they're just the absolute best of friends. And um I think someone recently was asking me about like you know how you get through this mindset or like like and and the way they were talking about it just like kind of had this air of like exhaustion about them because they were grinding it out in their own life and like I I grinded it out but I was with my best friends so like the grindiness didn't feel like so much of a grind because I was like, "Dude, this is going to suck." And they're like, "Yeah, this is going to suck. Let's go." Right. And Right. But you were doing it together. And so at that point when you went to this meet alone and had this sort of not that positive experience even though you're winning and doing well. Did your parents like move you into a different club so that you could be with swimmers who are like more of your is that is that how they manage that? Like put you in a club of swimmers of your caliber so that when you went on to the next level, you weren't alone? add the horror of seeing a young talented superstar who's like this not really into this. I mean the scrambling around of oh my god we're going to sorry this is like a 10-part question but did you andor your parents or coaches know that like there was a there there in terms of your swimming ability at this point? Like were you aware? I mean, and or or if you're winning some sixth grade races, are you kind of like whatever, I'm in sixth grade. Like what when did that I really need to have a sit down with my parents to ask him these questions to be fair. Um and and I haven't you because there's nine grandchildren running around when we're at family gatherings. It's absolutely insane. We're like playing minute to win it games and smashing our faces in like you know pie tins of whipped cream and things and you know doing all that fun stuff. But it it is those are questions that are so great to to ask them. I I need to actually do it. Um I will say that I I do think uh because I my I had an older brother and sister who were like national level swimmers. Um they were good. My sister got recruited, went D1. It wasn't for her. Decided to go like back to a small school in Washington NIA and and did phenomenal. Good for her. Yes. And it all actually is kind of a big circle because it's because she had fun and had friends there. Um and then my brother went division one and uh like I think people kind of saw my brother. He's he's 66. He's got a huge frame, very strong. He's got size 17 ft. So they kind of knew that I had some some growing to do. I was just a little bean pole. And um I was kind of AI wasn't like a late bloomer. I wasn't one of those guys who shot up like 4 in my sophomore year in college or anything, but it wasn't really until senior senior year or freshman year in in college that I grew to my full height. Oh, wow. I remember growing in in college. We all had growing pains. Oh, like you remember that that the like your femurss would just start aching and you're like, "What's going on? I'm I'm in college." Yeah. You know, I shouldn't be growing anymore. And I need a ton of sleep. Yeah, I would like it would be like 8:30 and I'd be I would be at dinner at in the dining hall in the comments and be like I can't physically keep my eyes open. I need to go right now. So, to piggyback on what Juliet said, um you know, you're the third goround with your parents. Yeah. Do you think that they had learned some lessons? And that's my first question. And the second question is did they have an athletic experience prior to having superstar children? They didn't. No. No. Really? My parents weren't big athletes. I They like our com my competitiveness comes from somewhere. My parents don't display it overtly, but I'm sure it's deep in there somewhere in their brains. Um, but yes, they definitely learned from the the older two. And I I do think that's that's why and I mean they put a lot of work into it to finding I think they really did understand that the the culture and the fit is so important. Um and like a culture of excellence that has to come from a coach and we had that for for some time even in my small town of Breton. Um unfortunately for us he decided to to move on and that's when I had to start looking somewhere else to a different place. Um, we tried we tried that team where I was the only one that coach was saying and doing all the right things too. Like I still remember some technique advice he gave me and and you know he cared at at that young of an age to for that young of an age of a swimmer to invest himself into me. But um it it was eventually commuting from Breton to Tacoma which was a big thing at the time. I mean, it was a full hour um of a commute in very early in this like swim craze. Like for you to commute for an hour is a big deal. Seventh grade. Seventh grade. So, they were committing to a to a long a long hall of that. Um I did I was lucky cuz I did have um I had some people I could carpool with the first couple years. Uh but yeah, it was man like like looking back on that I'm like, "Holy crap." Like did you did you Well, now that you have kids, you're like, "Oh, okay. Would I drive my kid to Santa Rosa every night to swim or whatever? You can kind of look at the logistics. That's exactly that. Santa Rosa and and like going through the through the Narrows kind of thing because there was a bridge and if there was traffic it could take forever. Yeah. Did you feel like at that point like I is sport emerging into a vehicle to college and a vehicle to the Olympics? Are you early enough to sort of and savvy enough to see, hey, I think there might be a professional career here or are your parents protecting you and we're like, let's make sure you're just having fun and swimming. I was because it's easy to lose your mind early with easy to lose your mind early. That's that's a that's a great point. There was never any pressure from my parents about that. There was never any talk about that, although I'm sure the coaches maybe spoke to them about it. Um, that's great. I I I value that a lot. I don't think my parents my parents were my they were there at every meet, but they didn't know what my best times were. Like the the best times are on like the time that you're entered on is in in the heat sheet, but it's not always your actual best time. And uh you know, after a race, they be like, "Great job. You you dropped a ton of time. That was amazing." And I was like, "That wasn't my real best time." And like I I it didn't hurt my feelings at the time. I was kind of happy about it. They just kind of my parents really I think like went there and enjoyed the company of the other parents and um Yeah. Yeah. Man, I I have a lot of introspection about about this because there's like when I think back to the kind of different like I was in a perfect situation for myself because I was so competitive like really I was I do think I was probably one of the easiest but also a slightly difficult in different ways uh athlete to coach because you just had to put me in a situation where I I was able to compete and I would ram my head against the wall until I found a way to win. Um, and if that meant going to I mean, we were doing two 10,000 meter practices uh a day in uh in the summers living with my friends. Two 10,000 meter practices. Yeah, that's a lot of volume, everybody. It's a lot of swimming. It's a lot of swimming. 2 and 1/2 hours in the morning, 2 and 1 half hours at night. Occasionally, we'd throw some extra in the middle. I mean, my coach was like an open water guy. Like, he had attempted a 70 mile swim before. And just so we're clear, you swam 20k. And what was your fastest event? 53. Okay. Just checking. Just check. Just want to be super clear here. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We were we were building the engine and and it was it was Yeah, man. I mean, it was just having a culture where hard work and grit was a big piece of it and and really like to take your words like the the vehicle to take me where I wanted to go. Um, and I saw it in other athletes that were older than me. And I laugh because I recently looked up um my first nationals experience just to kind of give you a little bit more of a picture of who I was as a kid. And this is in like high school. Okay. Yeah. When I was like 14, I rode my my friend Ryan Verlotti. Uh I rode his talent on a relay to the nationals. Uh our splits were like he went like a 152 going for his Olympic trial cut and then everyone well went like 159s to uh to go to the national cut and we we got there. It was great. It was in Maryland. I got to watch Michael Phelps at a at a national meet. I got to watch other I mean like American Records get broken. It was really cool. Inspiring. Very inspiring. Um, I brought a uh I had to have a talking to by one of the older athletes who was amazing, such an incredible role model, such a hard worker, kind, polite, even sat an idiot 14-year-old down and like used kindness and empathy in her explanation of telling me why I shouldn't be staying up until 10 p.m. playing with a toy boat in uh in my my hotel room bathtub and making so much noise because, you know, she was going for cuts at the meet and trying to impress college coaches. Like I I I feel bad about that cuz and I I I have been meaning to and I after this I will I will send her a uh a a a message on Instagram or or something apologizing for that again. But you know, I just I was I had a great time. It was awesome. um in in my my experience through through swimming. So, you mentioned that you're doing these long drives with your parents to and from practice, at least until maybe you got your own license or whatever. I don't know if your parent would still drove. Okay. Yeah. It's too far to drive cuz you could sleep. Yeah. So, um this is kind of a thing that gets talked about a lot amongst athletes who've been very successful um or not. And, uh and college coaches have talked about it. It's come up on Instagram quite a bit recently, the car ride experience for kids. And a lot of kids report that they get in the car and it's like this really negative experience for them. Their parents are, you know, asking them why they didn't go faster, asking them too many questions about, you know, practice, coaching them when they have no business coaching their kids. And and that the car ride ultimately becomes this thing that these youth athletes really dread. Um, and on the flip side, we've heard from a lot of athletes who've been very successful, like Steph Curry and many other athletes, where their parents would just like not say anything and not talk about the sport at all. Like, where did your parents land because you obviously spent a ton of time in the car with them. Where did your parents land on this spectrum? It was It was the latter. It was We did We definitely didn't talk about swimming. Do you think it helped that your parents weren't swimmers? Yeah. Yeah, I do. And I I think it helped that they didn't, you know, I I can see why in some worlds you feel like there's an obligation to engage in the sport if it wasn't your own to create a connection. Um, but there's a lot of different ways to connect. And I think reading maybe a book on on just overall connection um would be more efficacious to create that connection with your with your young person in your car uh versus the sport. Um and yeah, it was that. And I actually remember my dad would just kind of my dad was is just one of those people. Well, he was an engineer by trade and then he moved into real estate and um it was just fun kind of asking him questions about how to do things in the world and he would generally just kind of like using his little engineering brain like kind of break it down into its component parts and be like well I wouldn't know this information so I'd have to go to this person I'd have to ask them for that information okay now we have this piece we have this piece he just kind of break it down and for me I just kind of learn and listen to him talking about that stuff and I thought that was I see some parallels that like how you work to get better, you know, as a sort of like, you know, just you solve this one technical problem, the next thing this is how I go fast. Totally. Totally. I I do think maybe maybe that did kind of make its way into my into my subconscious of like breaking trying to break it down into its like different components and and working on every one of those individual things. So, I'd love to move on to your college experience because you swam at Cal Go Bears. Go Bears. Um, how did what was the recruiting process like for you? Why did you choose Cal? I mean, apart from the fact that it is one of the greatest college swim programs out there, but I know it sounds like you and your parents really cared actually a lot about like finding the right fit. Um, and that just because Cal has produced, you know, maybe the most Olympic swimmers or whatever. My my guess is that may have been part of the decision, but there must have been more. Um, not Texas, not Tennessee, not Indiana. I was just in the Indiana, you know, nuditorium and, you know, there's some legends on the wall in there. Legends. So, what was that process like for you? Why did you choose Cal? And then, and then what was swimming at Cal like compared to being a high school competitive swimmer? What's the difference? Like night and day. Oh boy. Yeah. Night and day. So the recruiting process um we were we started we were in this I'll I'll label it as kind of this horrible like generation of um and I don't know if maybe if this was ubiquitous or if it was maybe just my particular group or Washington state or something but like in a way that like effort was kind of like it wasn't cool to be a nerd back then in in the mid200s. It was like I like it was cool to like not put in effort but still be good at something. Um, but like I think I had my best friend um to this day like didn't subscribe to that and like allowed himself to be a swim nerd and like then I allowed myself to be a swim nerd and um and then we started becoming like swim fans and then we started following college swimming even though like it wasn't you know it wasn't televised there wasn't like YouTubetubes of of this or anything we were just following the the results and being big fans and And through that, we started, you know, buying the I I did have a Longhorn hat that I wore around for a little while. Um, but I also went to Pack 10's to watch my brother who swam at um who who swam at University of Washington. I that's when I saw people from Stanford, people from Cal, people from USC. Um, and I start there was it was something about the Cal script that I liked. I liked that they had they had sprinters. Um, and then the recruiting process that then was like totally different. I mean, it was We had to wait till July 1st of our senior the summer between junior and senior year and then like you would get a phone call and I literally had like a Nokia brick phone. Uh remember getting a uh a voicemail from the coach at Cal and I was like yes like sweet they're interested. Um and then I looked at Cal Auburn bless their little hearts for for spotting some talent some nent talent. So, I was looking at Cal, Auburn, Texas, uh, and University of Arizona. They were all like top top five programs, um, at the time. Um, and I went on recruit trips to all of them. And, you know, one of the guys at Texas, um, just took me to the side and I really appreciated this from a guy that like was recruiting me to Texas. He was just he just said, "Hey, listen, man. You're like you're looking at some great schools. you're looking at, you know, some pretty decent academic schools, too. Like, I would take a look around you when whenever you go someplace and and understand that like where you fit in, where you feel most comfortable, and where you see yourself like who you see yourself becoming is should be a big factor in this decision. Um, and come like my recruit trip to Cal, I was just this like this was it, you know, like it was this best. This was an amazing combination of athletics, academics, um, the success in the pool, and then also I grew up in the Seattle area and then coming to the Bay Area is just like I I I remember going to places like Arizona and and Auburn and Texas and being like, "This feels weird." Like this the air tastes different. like it's it was all humid. It was it was it felt like it was not home. It felt like it was a vacation. And uh when I when I came to Cal, it felt like home. And I just want to shout out to all the cat Cal athletes like Juliet uh who turns out they do a full-time sport at a very high level and they go to Cal and there's no extra bonus help because you're an athlete. Like when you go to some other schools will say, you know, you you have a light load. you you're graduating but you're not going to Cal and uh I just it is definitely a different choice and sometimes I see the athletes I work with regularly who are like struggle bus school busting their butts and they're like man it's so hard I'm like you know you chose to come to Cal you know like you could have gone to another place you know they're like would not go anywhere else I yes you you have to embrace that suck it's real it is real and it is real and you're you're in a community of other people who feel the same way work real hard and work real hard. Yeah, it's awesome. Yeah. I don't know about you, but when I I was in at Cal in the early 90s, so like 10 years before you, but there were no NC2A limits on training time. Did you have limits? That's so funny you're saying this. We're having we're having these discussions with the uh with the youth program right now. Um yes, there were 20our limit. Okay. Yeah, we didn't have that. And so I always laugh because I'm like, you know, we just had two a days like all year. It was like year round and and um I I mean we never counted the hours because it wasn't a thing, but I was just wondering if you guys actually if that had been implemented by the time you got there. It was implemented and it was loosely followed. That's that's my guess. That was what I was wondering. Um yeah. Yeah. It's it's very strictly followed these days. Yeah, it is. One of the one of the things that I you know it's fun. I I'm on Cal campus all the time and I see your face on the wall a lot and um one of the things that I know still persists is this need for high volume that just that there's always sort of a scarcity mindset across that we're not training hard enough, we're not working hard enough, we're never fit enough. My understanding is that and there's a rumor that you really like to feel fresh and springy and powerful and that was a hallmark of your swimming. Is that true? Yeah. How did you manage that conversation of I need to feel springy and powerful and fresh to compete and play well with the demands potentially maybe not needing to swim 10,000 meters twice a day. Did you have that conversation? Because I think one of the things that I really love about that story is that I have an athlete says, "This is what I need to do to win." and you're winning and you're you're putting your money where your mouth is, but you're also maybe having to craft or create your little bit of your own experience because you're like, if I'm not springy and fresh, I don't swim well. Is that right? I appreciate your willingness to give me that credit. But I have to deflect that onto my coaches for being the excellent coaches that they are and were to recognizing that in me and recognizing what happens to my body language and recognizing what happens to my swimming, what my stroke looks like. Like I can I bet you could even I bet there would be a direct correlation of like my words per minute when I'm talking to my friends uh with like how tired I am like just beat down physiologically. And they and don't get me wrong, you're still there's still tons of volume in there. There was a lot of volume. Yes, there was. there was um and I think that they they saw that and they saw what would happen when they would give me some more of the quality and they saw like my engagement piece from from that quality too just because it was again it was fun and and I just I I felt like I was getting better so I'd really like I'd really focus on it. Um and I kind of think that that's how that's how that came to be. The other thing I do wonder about like because my experience is it's only my own. I've only experienced my my career through my own body. I do think there was something about my physiology that did let me go to um go to a place that I could perform when I was pretty tired and then I would fall off the cliff pretty hardcore. Yeah. Sure. And and then once once you fall off that cliff a couple times and your coach kind of realizes what your limits are, they're pretty protective of it because it takes quite a while to get back from it. Yeah. And that's uh you know, it's it's difficult. You know, I think one of the conversations we have across sport, and I'm talking about high level professional sport, premier rugby, premier football, all the things that I NFL that I'm currently kind of have my hands in. Being able to understand an athletes unique physiology, we have to get some amount of work done and yet how do I individualize this and what are my KPIs for each athlete? Totally. We have a lot more data now, but we're still it's very much the dark ages. What would you say to your college self? Like if you could go back and and just change a few things. I mean, let's just say that you had some decent success with what worked for you. Certainly, you guys worked it out. you had brilliant coaching and a good athlete, but do you feel like there are some knowing what you know now and a little bit of the the advantage of hindsight, you're like, "Oh, I wish I could have that back." Like you when I was a rower at Cal, my diet was god awful. I look back and think like I could have been so much better. I was also rowing at Cal during like the fat-free diet craze. So, we were like eating red vines. You had mocha and a bagel. We were eating a lot of bagels and like it just I look back and I think, "Oh my god, we were fine and we could have been so much better." But I don't know if if it's diet or sleep or anything you look back on now where you're like, "Oh my god, I was obviously you were obviously so successful, but what do you look back on now and you think, "Oh my god, we were in the dark ages. Could you faster?" Yeah. Could you have been better? Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. I think I think mine would have been um from a psychological perspective, I could have probably did not have a performance psychologist when you were there. True. This is that's a hard question to answer. Okay. So, because we have four now and we did not always have we might have had one. I think there was someone with that job title maybe. Okay. Yeah. I think that says a lot right there though. There. Um I probably I mean we were limited to how much we could be social, but I would say I probably was a little too social. um occa on occasion. Um the diet part I was pretty good about. What I will say is a guy like Ryan Murphy took it to the next level with how good he was and how prepared he was. I mean the guy had his like his green smoothie packed ready to go on ice for the moments that he was done with practice. I would wait until I got home. So I I took an extra 30 40 minutes to do that. But like man, Ryan Ryan's really on point with that. The other thing is I think um it's interesting. We're now literally seeing Tade Paga drink. He's straddling the bike and someone hands he hasn't even finished yet and he's pulling the thing out of his ear and he's starting to drink. Love it. That's how close we're trying to get some of this nutrition in so we don't we don't make these mistakes. Totally. And then I I think for me, one of the things I learned later on in my career is just how to kind of switch it off. go from sympathetic to parasympathetic. Um if I could have learned that a little earlier, um I think I would have had a lot a lot more success. What would you have done differently? How what like tell me more about that because that's really insightful. I I think just like either like so one of the things that we missed um one of the one of the reasons I personally believe that like California suffered in terms of like its Olympic performance for 2021 is because we missed like the shower debrief after practice. And I think that's like a way to let practice go. Like you're you're done. That's it. It's over. What's done is done. On to the next thing. Move on to the next bit. Whereas it was like, "Okay, you guys are done. Hop out, change, get out of here as quickly as you can." Like there's no like there was no actual just like deep breaths and like reliving it slightly, saying, "Next time I'll do this. Okay, I'm walking out of here and I'm I'm done." Um, and I think I got more purposeful about that, especially at the at the end of my career, just like focusing on my breath and breathing and and letting my heart rate come down and and relaxing and and getting into that state. Um, the other thing I think that like and swimming is fun right now because people are still going faster and just going faster. It's amazing. Awesome. It's bonkers. Why Why do you think that is? It It can't just be a suit. What is it? We're seeing We're seeing right now in cycling there's a revolution happening because they're eating carbohydrate. Oh. We're one or two We're seeing a little few kilos heavier, but they're eating over 100 grams of carbohydrate an hour. Wow. and they have to eat in order to go that fast. And to go faster, you have to eat more. And we're seeing that the rate limiter right now is how many how can you fuel this thing? I heard about that. That's awesome. Yeah. And it's interesting that that has been the single breakthrough, right? You know, in all the tech swimming, I think it I personally think it's belief. Uh, I think that I believed I needed to go certain times and be certain like amount of certain be fast enough to set an American record or go whatever time to win and then just like letting my body kind of solve that problem. I shouldn't say letting my body, I I put all of myself into solving that problem, but there because I believed it was only going that faster. I believe that humans were only capable of being that fast. It was kind of like rate limiting in some ways. And now it's so much faster. And I I do I I don't know like looking back. Yeah. If I was 17, 18, like in high school, I think I would be like, I need I I need to be this fast to be at a top level. I need to be this fast to get recruited to a top level. So then I would hold myself accountable and look my coach in the eye and and say, "Hey, was that like are are we on track?" And they could we could say yes or no. And my times would obviously have to be faster now in practice for them to look at me in the eye and say yes. I love this question. I have a lot of friends who won world championships or gold medalists and they're like I'm so glad that I don't have to compete in today's era. Not only because athletes are just so fast. Yeah. And I'm not saying that you weren't the fastest, but they're so fast. And number two, social media is a like we have we have uh Olympic bobsutter who's the best in the world. She's like, I was able to just go to the track and compete and do my thing and I didn't have to post and I didn't have to, you know, yes, maybe these athletes make a little bit more money now or a lot more money, but there's they're under scrutiny and they have to be a personality. Do you feel like that is a factor that we have to talk about? Oh, definitely a factor you have to talk about. definitely a factor you have to talk about and maybe even equip these athletes to manage but then also take advantage of. That was a that would have been I would have been really out of my comfort zone if I had to do that or felt like I had to do that um in my college career. And I would actually guess that my coaches would have advised me not to. Yeah. um just so I could focus on what I was doing in the in the pool. Um but yeah, that is definitely it's definitely a tool for for some of these athletes to use. Um and I'm glad that they are able to use it. So I'd love to turn a little bit to talk about your Olympics career because we'd be remiss to not really talk about the specifics here. Yeah. But um you know maybe you could just tell us a little bit about your first experience like how did you make a team? Yeah. What was it? A time was it an event? Uh what events did you make? How old were you? What did all that look like? And how did that change over the course of four Olympics I think? Yeah. Uh do three three. Uh just three Olympics. My bad. The that's that's a long story. Yeah. Cuz you were young. So I mean it's I was young. So, I chose to take the 2007208 uh year off of school, take the Olympic waiver, go down to Florida, train with my coach. He was the cow coach that recruited me there. Um, and he went down to Florida to train Gary Hall Jr. um and the race club down there. And that was an awesome awesome experience. Yeah. You don't We have some kids turning pro right now playing waterpool and they're like, "You don't have to go to school. You can just do a sport." This is amazing. Yes, exactly. And I got to I got to live that life as a 18 19 yearear-old who wasn't sure if I was ever going to make it to that level. And had you already done one year as a freshman at Cal like just setting it up. Okay. So you've done one year so it's your technically like your sophomore year. Exactly. Exactly. And then um so back then too there was a um the the it's called World Aquatics now, but it was called FINA the the governing body of of aquatics. And they had a world championships in like April or May or something of the Olympic year, which was just like bad idea. Yes. Bad idea. And I No, two two major peaks within like three months. It's sense. It just It made no sense. So I went to the World Championship Trial short course and I got beat by some guys you you might recognize. One of them was Michael Phelps. The other guy was Jason Leak. Okay. Guy named Garrett Garrett Webergale beat me too. um as they were all preparing for the Olympics and I was like, "Okay, sweet. That was cool." Getting beat by them. I still got to get a lot faster. Uh but Garrett Webergale, Jason Leisac, and Michael Phelps. None of them wanted to go to World Shore Championships because like it was way too close to uh to Olympic trials. So I my coach asked me, "Hey, you're invited to this. Would you like to go?" And I I said yes because for me it was an awesome experience. Um, it was the first time I had ever earned the American flag cap with my name on it. It's the first time I was flying international on USA Swimming's dime like doing all these experience for 18, 19year-old kid from Breton. From Breton, that's right. Yeah. And uh my family's from Seattle and Redmond, so I know where Breton is. Yeah. It's just a little town across the water. And um and it was a great experience and I ended up winning uh winning world championship shortc course out of lane 8 and wow. Yeah. Explain to everyone what lane is. What is I'm sorry what is short course is that exact great question. Thank you for asking that. So Olympics is in swam in A-50 meter course. So the Olympic races that you see on uh on TV are swam in A-50 meter length pool and the hierarchy of meets uh in terms of importance for a swimmer Olympics number one by far. Number two is long course world championships number three four five are a variety of of different meets European championships panacific championships etc. They're all long course though. Way down there, you know, sixth, seventh, eighth, whatever it might be is short course world championships, but it shares the name. And when you walk around as a 19-year-old, you feel like you're hot stuff because you are a short course world champion. And no one can take that away from you, right? You swam in high school. High school is all 25 meters, right? High school is all 25 yards. This is 25 meters. So, it it's so it's similar, but it's and it's so subtle the difference, but it's crazy how much different you have to approach those races. the last two, three meters sneaks up on you real quick if you swim a 25 meter race, like a 25 yard race. Um, so yeah, and and so I was walking into the 2008 Olympic trials thinking I was really like hot stuff and my coach saw that again. I mean, I I am so like fascinated by the psychological aspect of coaching now because before I I really thought this is the thing, isn't it? It's such a thing. It's such a thing. And my coaches were so good at it and they never brought it up in the forefront, but like now that I'm looking back on it, I'm like, "Shut them out real quick." Who are you? Yeah. Uh Dave Duran and Mike Bottom. Yeah. And and even high school coach Jay Benner, both all fantastic. um they like they knew how to squeeze every last drop out of the the metaphorical orange, right? And and and make me feel good about it. I mean, I'm just just so blessed to have such great coaches. And they um yeah, he comes up to me and he's like, "Nathan, like the heat cheats up. Do you know who you're next to?" And he's like, "Michael Phelps." And I'm like, "Oh my god, Michael Phelps." And this is at the 2008 Olympic trials. Michael's only swimming prelims. Long story short, like he he got me all hyped up to try to beat Michael Phelps. I get crushed by Michael Phelps. He like I'm literally eating his bubbles by the end of that race. And that I take a beating on the chin for that one. So I like I go from being hot shot to uh like world champion to getting crushed by Michael Phelps and then and then semi-finals comes along. So we go prelim semis and then semi and then finals. There's three races at the Olympic trials to make the Olympics. Um semi-finals comes along. And I'm next to one of my other heroes, a guy named Neil Walker, who had made the Olympics before. He was an amazing national team athlete. If I just beat Neil Walker at semi-finals, like I will get into finals for sure. And we dive in and we swim our race. I do end up touching him out, but we look up on the scoreboard right away. And first through eighth scrolls by and my name isn't there. And then 9th through 16th scrolls by and my name's right there at the top at ninth. I'm like, and I remember this like thinking about this actually like kind of I can feel the emotions too. Like we look at each other and we're like, "Oh, dang it. We didn't make fun. We didn't make it." Like that's that's it, you know? Like we s sure we are qualified to swim the 53 or our other races, but the 100 we knew was our best shot. So like the good by the way, what was that time? Do you remember that time? It was like a 488 or 489. Yeah. And um the like a good athlete, I got my protein in me, I got my carbs in me, and I was warming down even though the 50 free was uh like 3, four, five days away. And my coach comes to me and he's like, "Nathan, like Ryan Lochi uh who had also beat me. He's scratching out and I'm like, "Yes, sweet. I'm in." I thought I made top eight at the time. And then he looks at me, he's like, "When do you want to do it?" I'm like, "What are you talking about?" And I had not actually gotten ninth. I tied for ninth. So I actually had to swim a swim off like in just to put this into context, this is Olympic trials. So in the prelimins of Olympic trials, I was swimming against Michael Phelps. There's obviously very exciting. There's like 14,000 people cheering for you. Um not me. 14,000 people. You can you can ride those. There was 13,998 people cheering for Michael Phelps and my parents were cheering for me. Um, and then at uh at semi-finals, obviously it was a semi-final swim, so there was fireworks, there was like a waterfall with lasers on it. It was very exciting coming from, you know, fairly stale swimming pools, you know. Right. Right. Right. With like some parents watching, right? That's really exciting. And then and then the swim off which happened at nine o'clock at night and had you know my parents watching and his parents watching and like 30 officials who like really just wanted to go home because they had donated like 14 hours of their time. Just the two of you. Just the two of us. Yeah. God. Swimming off to get into that top eight spot uh for the Olympic trials final. And uh swim the race. I end up getting my hand on the wall, beating him by a tiny bit. It was less than a tenth. So, it's a really like oftentimes that's like you can't see that with the human eye always. And then the next day comes and um we swim finals. And I just want to say that you've also swam an entire additional race now. Yeah. Compared to all these people that you know like it happens in rowing, right? In rowing you can they have this repage thing where you if you don't make it, you have a chance to make it, but it just means you've rode an entire other race. So, you put in this whole other and I want to point out that totally something that you did, you're eating, you're preparing, even though you may not make it. We talk about this all the time with our athletes because I'm like, we can go to overtime. We might have to go double overtime and you don't know what the next piece is and you have to prepare for it and you can't just ghost that that window. I think that's so so interesting that you did not sink yourself on that detail. Yeah. This episode of the Ready State podcast is brought to you by Momentous. You know what we're going to talk about? A celebration of flavors. Oh my gosh. We look, you've heard me drone on and on about protein. It's important. I bump up my total protein grams with it. And especially around exercise because sometimes I don't want to eat like a meal afterwards. I've I've carbed up. I've done my thing. But just smashing 40 grams of protein is so easy. I am hard on protein. Yeah. I literally if you cannot put warm water in a shaker with protein and slug that then that protein does not make the cut. Yeah, that's one of the reasons why we like Momentous so much. It's just ultimately so tasty and so drinkable. And now they've come out with this amazing array of limited edition flavors. And let's just say that variety is the key to consistency because if you're getting bored with your traditional chocolate and vanilla protein powder, get ready. Yeah. I think uh it speaks to my like Gen X add like I'm going to go ahead and just I need to be entertained a little bit. The other thing is these flavors are made with actual ingredients. They're not like horrifically artificially flavored. And I have to tell you, strawberry protein has changed my life. You've heard that before. Chocolate fudge, mint, spice, chai. I know. It's pretty. All four of these flavors are so tasty, so good. Made with all the same amazing quality momentous ingredients. NSF, we're going to hammering that forever. Which means that what's in there is actually in there. NSF for sport means that you're not going to test a positive for sketchiness by drinking a protein shake, which actually happens. And let's be real, some of these supplements, including protein, are not always cheap. And you want to make sure that what the label says it is, it is. Grass-fed whey protein isolate is the highest form. It's so tasty, so easy to digest, and I just I've talked about this in the past, but they add a digestive enzyme. So for already, it's pretty digestible. We have a lot of athletes in the university who don't even touch whey because they're so worried about it. have no problem with our way. But then you add in this digestive enzyme zero belly weirdness. Yeah. Make sure to get your hands on some of these limited edition flavors before it's gone. Okay. So, check this out. We've changed this a little bit, but if you go to livemus.com/trs, you can use code TRS for 35% off your first subscription. Put the strawberry protein on subscription. You will not be sad. 35% off. This episode of the Ready State podcast is brought to you by Element. And oh man, do we have a big announcement today. You know that I'm a little obsessive. Just a little bit. Sometimes if I'm all in on something, I'm all in. And I have to tell you, Element just dropped lemonade. Lemonade salt. And uh I what did Lisa call it? She's like, "Oh, it's it's country time." Like I drink it and I'm like, "There's no way this is legal. There's no way this is good for me. There's no way that this just so tasty. I have found like I will never drink anything that's not lemonade flavored element ever again. Like I will be fuly purely element lemonade from now on. Well, I mean I wish you could have seen when this box arrived at our house because we were gifted a box and and you came literally running into the house and you were like, "Look at this." And I've been begging for this flavor. Yeah, we've been begging for this flavor for a long time. We didn't even know it was coming. It just arrived at our front door and we are delighted and it is so good. I uh am going to put it in a gigantic black iced tea and I'm about to just be I'm about to rule the world. Like I'm going to have a gigantic You're about to be extra hydrated. Oh my gosh, I am so excited. Look, uh one of the things that I struggle with is drinking enough water. And when it is tasty, I drink more water. I feel like that is science. True fact, right? Yeah, forget all of the electrolytes. I was sweating hard this morning. I finished my training and I was like, you know what I need to do right now? Lemonade. Lemonade. It is so good. We're so excited. Check it out. Uh I hope it's not one of those just temporary things. No, my guess is it's not. If you want to find out how amazing Lemonade Element is, you can go order through our link and get a free sample pack with Elements flavors. And of course, you want a party in your mouth, try drink the sparkling element. Yes, it's so good, too. Um, our link is drinkelement.com/trs. And, uh, once you're there, do yourself a favor. And I haven't even hot lemonade yet, but I'm going to hot lemonade, too. Oh, it's going to be amazing. It's awesome. Absolutely. So, this is like the night before and then the next day you have the finals. Just I just need to understand the timing from like an athletic recovery. Exactly. Next next day we had the finals and um I mean with at that point I we talked I have a little sit down with my coach like we've gone 488 489 490 or 491 I can't remember the the tense on that one. Uh for those three swims um and for those three swims I mean I had put what I felt like was 100% effort into it. You know I was racing Michael Phelps. I was trying to beat Michael Phelps. I was racing for a final spot in the Olympic trials. I'm going to give 100% effort. I was racing for that final spot again. I'm going to give 100% effort. Um, and the next night we we worked together and we kind of work on my my stroke and basically it was just kind of working on a little bit of length and strength in that first bit. Still making technical changes and thinking about tiny tiniest bit I would say you know when when uh when people ask me about it. Yes. Yes. Certainly. But it really is just like qwords in my brain because one of the things that we try to say is hey athletes don't need the rah rah that when it's really big moment we just try to make the moment as small as we can. This cue this idea this feel this is the thing to focus on. So he gave me something tangible to work on. It was just length and strength that first 50 come back the same way you came back. I dropped a half second went a 484 and got fourth. Yeah. Whoa. Yeah. Wow. Got fourth. Yeah. So, you got into it like not making it. You have to do the swim off and then you get fourth and fourth was enough to qualify. Exactly. Exactly. Was fourth the last position to qualify? Sixth ended up uh top six. Top six qualified. Um fourth automatically qualified me. It there's like all sorts of rules about roster limits and how they go in like a roundroin circle like to take the next people. But yes, it was um You're going to the Olympics. We're going to the Olympics. Incredible. And what tell us what that I mean like you touch, you look up, you realize like what's that? I mean, can you recreate that experience? You drop a half second. A half second. I I I actually I look back on little inflection points in my career and little like moments that maybe like altered the trajectory of it. And that was definitely one of them. And the reason is be because I just did three swims that I thought were 100% of my effort. And the fourth one dropped a half a second. The brain, right? You had Think about those those swims. Exactly. How far when you dropped a half second, how far was that a personal best? Yeah. Yeah. By that half second. By a half second. So you swim a personal best at trials. This is why we think the brain is the limiting factor. 100%. Yes. I I subscribe to that just like over and over and over. Um Yeah. and and that so yes that that at that point I was AI was a shy kid still a little bit and like I think it was funny because like I think I I gave like just the slightest of fist pumps and my coaches were like yeah showing some emotion. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I was like yeah like I I couldn't even help it. Techn technical question. How many more events do you have at this meet? Oh um at that point I I had the 50 which I'm I wish I could remember exactly. The event order keeps changing. It it was probably 3 or 4 days later for prelims of the 50. Do you carry massive confidence into that 50 or did you spend your you spend your spend and now you're like this I you know because oftentimes we see that kids peak and that was it or or they're like I am untouchable right now and I'm riding this wave. That's a great question. I felt like I had an awesome opportunity to go a best time like to see what I can do. There's no pressure anymore. You're going to the Olympics. Exactly. No pressure anymore. We're going to the Olympics. I you know there was there is a world where maybe I made the Olympics in 2008 and the 50, but like the 100 was always what I was my main event, my focus. And like the 50 was going to come with a little bit more growth. You need to grow up. Yeah. Exactly. A child still. Yeah. Yeah. Um, so yeah, it was it was and it was it was it was very freeing moment and definitely a lot of athletes talk about this, but like in your Olympics um for the most part the most stressful race is that first Olympic trials final to make the Olympics. Um, now your whole career is on the line right now basically. Exactly. Funding national team, everything. Everything. And you've just taken a year off from college. Yeah. Yeah. No, no pressure, but you better get this done. Yeah. Um, so talking a little bit about this sort of the mental piece of it, which I think we all agree, especially now that we're older, is is it? It's like the thing. Um, what did you employ any specific strategies to sort of deal with that? Like were you visualizer? Did you self-t talk? You know, you see a lot of the are you just a sociopath? Yeah. I mean, you know, did you have any specific strategies that you were using that were effective for you to sort of deal with those moments of immense pressure? And I'm just set this up because I had the pleasure of watching Julia. I met Juliet at a world championship in a week long many events and I got to see J Star deal with pressure, show up, click on. So, it's one of the things that I loved about her was like she was so competent in handling this big stress. Yeah. So, I did develop my own little routine. Um, and that is one of the things that I think I maybe if I if I could go back, I would play with I would just use some time to get to know myself better and and get because I found what worked. Do that in 19 or 20. It is hard. It is hard to do that. Yeah. Youth is wasted on the youth. Um and and I found what worked for me and it was it was really just like um you could it was just this overall state of being that like just indicated readiness on so many different levels. Um and and when I when I got out of it, it was just finding a way to bring myself back to the present. And you know, for me it was just like looking at shapes and describing them and telling myself what color they were. And then and then like I was I was one of those people who would visualize, but like my my like I I'm going to have to defer to you all on this, but I could feel the race like happening more so than like hear the water or like see see the race happening from a third person view or even see it from a first person view. I would kind of feel what a really good first 50 that was very fast but using minimal energy would feel like and then feel like what it feels like to experience you know fatigue in the second 50 but in a in a good way where you don't just totally shut down. Um and I I could just I would bring myself to that that place and I kind of I don't remember where it was. Oh, well, NCAAS is probably one of the most emotionally taxing places ever. So, you have to like use it sparingly, right? It's like it's like salt. Too much of it is just like too much and it just absolutely would exhaust me. Um, so Olympic trials because we had so much time in between like I could recover uh spend time away from the pool or go do whatever. People don't realize how intense NCAA's are and and how absolutely grueling it is because at this point it's three and a half days and you're just you're just on all the entire time. So recently just saw Usain Bolt talking about in college we're seeing a lot of college sprinters do too many events and peak too often and have too many races. Oh, interesting. And he says the he thought that a lot of the best athletes didn't do that. They reserved that. Do you feel like, and this is, you know, an out there question, is are we swimming, are best swimmers in NCAA swimming too much? Are we asking too much of athletes? Could we be fresher? Because it's really interesting. It's unique. I mean, the amount of events that a swimmer is expected to swim is a lot. I I Or is it just not the same level of intensity as a 100 meter final because this the loading is different on the body? I wish I had answers for that. I think every individual is going to be different. Um I was able to get up for the races. I enjoyed it. It's what you enjoyed. You like it gave me Oh, I loved it. Loved I still love it. I love competing. Um, it it gave me energy to be able to like invest into it, like trial it, see if it works, see if it didn't, and then kind of reformulate and just do it. It's it's it's it is fun. It's just it's just like solving riddles, an experiment. We make hypothesis, we test our hypothesis constantly, over and over. We definitely see that kids who are successful and I say kids because everyone's a kid to me now. Um they like to compete and they might not enjoy the process beforehand but in the moment they really enjoy they love it. You know even our world champion friends are like at the starting line they're like I feel sick. Why am I here? This anxious but then gun goes off and they're like it's off. So I that's a maybe a question I have for for you all as like coaches and the experience that you have because I think I I think there's a level of like that's my natural tendency but there I think today's world coaches have figured out how to get people who aren't naturally like that and get them to perform at a highest level. They just have to like approach it from different angles. Is that correct? have like do you find the same thing or Well, I think it's I think what I'll say is that I think it's complicated that a lot of the reasons that people compete are complicated now. There's a lot of pressure. There's a lot of expectation parents. So, I'm not sure that always that young athletes are there for the right reasons. They're there now and they have to do it, but I'm not sure that they would choose this austere life because it's an extraordinary austere life. But oh my gosh, you know, they don't really like to train. Like Juliet and I love to train. We think training is like the simplest, easiest, so fun, it's suffering, but whatever. We're training and we're there with our friends. We just always thought and we see that a lot of some of the athletes we interact with just don't enjoy that pro the process totally of the whole experience. Totally. I I think that's that's spot on. So many like for now I mean there's just particular situations where I don't know if it's the right way to say it but I want what I want to say is you can't want it more than your kids. That's right. You know but like oh like and a lot of times I know the response will be but they do and it's like do they? Yeah it is. Exactly. It's it's like it's really that's I think you just said it. It's tough. It's it is it is a weird it's a weird thing. But the one of the things I noticed um that was an interesting part of my journey. Shoot, was it 2012 or 2013? It was Tom Shields as a freshman. We were at our winter invite and I am somebody who operates kind of down here on the readiness scale and I, you know, to find my find my peak, I need to get excited. Um, and I just, as any 22-year-old would assume that everyone was like me and I was asking Tom like, "Hey, Tom, what's like what are you listening to in your in your headphones?" And he was like, "Jack Johnson." I was like, I it just blew my mind completely. Completely. And then he goes and he goes to some extraordinary time and does amazing. And I'm like, dude, what is going on? Tom could be so much better if he just listened to like a vichi or like some rap or something, right? But like as I got shout out to my daughter who listens to little Enya. That's perfect. Perfect. And it's it's like it that was such an interesting thing for me to discover that just other athletes operate at a different space and need to bring themselves down to get into that performance zone. Um yeah, I thought that was I thought that was so cool to to to see and for him as a freshman to realize that for himself. Yeah, that's really cool. So, as a Olympics lover and spectator and we always watch the swimming, one of the most fun things to watch as a swimming spectator and and nonswmers is the relay. Yeah. And you have been lucky enough to swim on quite a few relays and been very successful in the USA obviously has many like we tend to be very successful in relays. um tell us what it's like to be a swimmer because you know we all as you know Kelly and I have been watching all of them forever and um it's so exciting but what's it like to be and we finally got to go to our first inerson Olympics in terms of all the events you swim like is that one the most fun like what's the relay like? It is really interesting and I'll kind of go back. People ask me all the time, uh, what's your, you know, favorite Olympic medal? And I'm like, it's like asking like, what's your favorite kid? Uh, every one of them kid that's fun is is a is a different story. And for example, the 4x100 freestyle relay is a tone setter because it's at the very beginning of the meet and it's this machismo. Yes. Like you got the biggest, strongest guys in there in the ready room, right? Like from a spectator perspective, it's just like all lats. Like all you see, it's just like a lot of lats. Lot of lot of lats, a lot lats and pecs. In the in the ready room, they like different people will like do I mean the the psychological component is real. Like I think Team USA is pretty, you know, relaxed and chill. Like other teams will like pretend like they don't speak English and not talk to you and not make eye contact. Other people will quite literally like like beat on themselves till their chest is like purple and they'll they'll like bark. They do this thing. And then there was a while where people were doing like a lot of like deep uh or like um like deep breathing techniques cuz like there were some spear fishermen in the in the crowd. So like they were doing really really like dramatic breathing. And it's like that is a crazy place to be because you're stuck in a room that's this size with everybody. And um yeah, it is uh it's a crazy room. Yes. Gladiators like and the lights are on and there's it's it's really only made for like individuals, right? Because but the relay has eight lanes and it has four people in each lane. So it's like everyone's packed in. It's starting to get really hot in there. Um, it's great. It's gnarly. I have never heard this before. We only see, you know, you guys come out, you know, you're announced and you come out the door and we see a we see as spectators, we see a lot of that, you know, the flexing and the pumping and we see a lot of that stuff, but like you're in this packed in this room. Like what a wild experience. Oh, it is absolutely crazy. It is absolutely crazy. And and it is like the, you know, again, the 4x100 freestyle is like it's a lot of like it's very testosterone driven. And um yes, so that is this the tone setter and if we can get it done there like it really does get some momentum going. It really like the team is so stoked when you're met about that they say that the way we get like is it unspoken or people are like we like they know that this is makes a difference. Depends on who the leader is of the team at the time. Um and and maybe what the team needs. if we need a little pickme up, it's like it's it's kind of it's talked about. Um, and yeah, so that that and you can you can vibe off that, man. You can totally vibe off that when people come back, that positive energy, that just like cool, relaxed energy, that readiness, and it just like it spreads like contagion. But, and you don't have to do it by yourself, right? You don't have to do it by yourself. Unfortunately, the other side of that can happen, too, right? I haven't done it. I haven't had it happen at the Olympics, but it has happened at a world championships before where the 4x1 didn't go the way we wanted it to. And it was it was tough. Like you gota you got to find a hero. Katy Leiddki, shout out. Thanks Katie. You can always count on her to have a amazing performance, but then then as the team you got to kind of harness that energy and and bring that in and then try to try to let that grow. um 4x100 medley relay is at the very end and usually by then you kind of know how like the the stories have mostly been written. Everybody has swam the individual races. In theory you can just write down what every swimmer has gone from the individual perspective and then you really have a good idea who's going to win. Who's going to win, right? Walking into the 2012 um 4x100 freestyle 4x100 medley relay, I won the 100 free. Matt Grevers won the 100 backstroke. Michael won the 100 breaststroke. Brendan got third in the 100 breaststroke. Like we just had to have safe starts and we were going to have a really fun time. But on the other side of that, like in 2016, it wasn't so so clear. Adam Pey was really, you know, he was able to really put some time um away in that 100 breaststroke on us and so we were a little bit more nervous. Uh Katie is one of the swimmers I follow still. Yeah. Yeah. Totally. I think he's dating like Gordon Ramsay's daughter or something. Okay, so um we have to move on from the Olympics I think at some point, but I've got one more question. I think 2012 was your first individual medal and I love how you've said each one of these medals like is a story. There has to be a story there. What was that like? Tell us a little bit about that. So that story um do you think people Let me just interrupt. Do you think people back home know the difference between a gold medal in a relay or a gold medal in an individual or you just you have a gold medal? Uh that's a good question. Um I don't know. I don't know. There is there people have a romanticized idea of what the Olympics is and what the experience is. They have no idea like what the Olympic experience is for the typical athlete. They just see this shiny moment and then you come home and then you're like you have to you can be you can you can be an Olympic gold medalist. I So actually in 2008 uh I watched the So I didn't go fast enough in prelims to be on finals. So I watched that finals happen from like the nosebleleeds of the Beijing water cube. like we were so high that you could look across the the pool and you could see like smog and um yeah I I watched Jason Leisak run down to Lane Bernard um touch him out by the tiniest of bits and then they got to stand up on the podium, hands on their hearts and belt out the national anthem and someone from the OC got to put a medal around their neck and they were Olympic gold medalists and I received mine at a poorly attended a team meeting in a vacuum sealed bag, but I was an Olympic medalist, too. And that was one of those moments for me that I was like, man, this is cool, but I want to be on that podium. Um, and then 2012 comes along and a lot of a lot of things had to go right for 2012, for my 2012 experience to happen. And one of them was James Magnus going so fast in March of 2012 that the world just would was ready to give him the the gold medal. He went a 471. Um Wow. Yeah. Yeah. And that is I mean I remember walking in to uh and this is another one of those awesome mo moments that I was fortunate to have great coaches. I walked into morning practice that morning Dave Duran drinking his coffee. Uh, I was like, "Hey, you see Olympic or Aussie trials uh last night?" He's like, "Yeah." "Do you see how fast James went?" "Yeah, like what what should we do?" He's like, "Get in and warm up." Just like doing the work. God, the the it's just literally everything about the way that interaction happened, not just the words, body language, inflection, like just everything, even probably the practice was just like so perfect to get me out of this like, oh, oh no, like James has gone so fast. How am I going to drop a a full second in my 100 freestyle to like, oh, that's right. This guy's got a plan. I trust this guy. Like, we're going to get we're going to do this. What a relationship and trust. I just love that trust piece. It was amazing. It was amazing. I was so blessed. Um yeah, and then and then um another quick short story. Sorry, there's so much that goes into this, but 2012 Olympics uh Olympic trials happens. I make the team in my first individual race. We're at a um we're at a uh press conference and American uh press is so kind. Congratulations. What does this mean for you? What does this mean for your coach? What does this mean for your family? This is the like lifetime of hard work. Wow, we're so excited for you to represent Team USA. And then, okay, last question. Uh, the moderator says, and then hands the mic to a person in the very back row. I remember seeing it and goes, "Oi, mate, James Magton is full second faster than you. How How you going to make that up?" I go, "I'm so excited to be part of Team USA. Thank you, everybody." ready and I like just stand up and get out of there. But like for me like I had one question that was that was it. James had that for from March until August of 201 exactly of 2012. Everywhere he went and the Aussie press is absolutely brutal. And I was so fortunate swimmers. They love swimmers. So, I just had really just like you could just be behind the scenes and do your work. I was able to do my thing. And that's really gracious of you to recognize now in retrospect the amount of pressure. Oh my gosh. That he had and you know what did he swim in the Olympics? Do you remember? Yeah. What was the actual race like? Well, so the race uh the race was insanely close. Uh I think we had like we dove in. I do think I was out a tiny bit faster than him, but I think I was out like second or third in the heat. Brent Hayden and Caesar both went out faster than me. Uh we turn. He makes his move. Um we both pass Brent and Caesar and he's ahead of me until about uh 80 or 85 meters and then I go I take my last breath. I do my straight arm. Um and I end up beating James by 1/100th of a second. And what was the time? Uh it was 40 I think I was 4752 and I think it was 4753. Oh my god. Now, was that your personal best? That was that was the best of all time for me. Best of all time for that PR lifelong PR Olympic final. A good moment to That's pretty amazing. I don't I don't even know how you land that plane. Like if you're like, we're going to just set up this moment and we'll just have to do these steps. That's a miracle. It happens. Miracle. Do Do you remember that feeling of like, I've got this. I'm just going to look. Do you remember the not really know till you like looked up at the board? There there was there was a lot leading up to that too because I had gone headto-head with him um at the beginning of the 4x100 freestyle relay and I touched him out by a tiny little bit. Um and we had gone 47 highs and then in semi-finals he dropped a 47 mid and I went a 47 high again. So he was in lane four, I was in lane five and he had a faster time, a faster seed than me. Um, and it was just a like walking into that one, I it was so free. Like it was like, hey, I feel good. I'm in a good place physiologically. Like I have had all like I was a big bodywork guy. I needed art. I needed needles. I needed chiropractic. Everything like give me it. Make my shoulders feel good. Thank you, Dar Torres. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. And um it was I was feeling good and I wanted to see what I could what I could do. Um how fun. Yeah, it was it really was it really was a great obviously with hindsight as a bias. It was a everything went everything went right for for that Olympics for me. That's incredible. And then you did get to have that moment where you were on the podium medal and what was that like? I mean, that was so surreal and I knew the moment would would like slip through your fingers and just go way faster than you ever want that moment to go. But I remember looking again just kind of looking to my left, looking to my right, spotting people in the crowd that, you know, meant a lot to me. Um, I was also able to give my mom the flowers. Uh, I think so. Yeah, it was it was it was really that meant a lot to me too cuz they just found her let her come down to the first row and was able to do that. Um yeah, and just kind tried to soak that moment in as as much as we could and then ride it again. It's like yeah, we just like that was one of those Olympics that one and 2016 honestly so many things went right for us that it was just like okay you get back to the team room sweet I got mine who's next and uh the next people were just like ready to go. It was so cool. Do you come out of that Olympics fired up to train? Do you come out or do you come out and you're like, I got to do it again for another cycle or are you Does that feed enough that you're like, okay, okay, this is worth it. I know I have a plan. I can make this happen. I was at a point in my life that I was fired up. I like I think Dave had it is a long stretch. It is a long stretch. Four years is a long time. It's a long stretch. And you know, there was like the built-in there was the built-in uh break, but it's like only one or two weeks, but uh I I still got in. I didn't I wasn't training. I was just getting into to need a touch. Yeah, exactly. Uh but I No, I was I was ready to go. I mean, at that point, it was just on to 2013 World Championships. Like here, that's what we're we're here. That's what we're training for. Let me ask you this. You have three daughters or going to have three daughters. Yes. Would you let them be follow this Olympic dream? Oh my gosh. Because we we ask we do not have we have a lot of professional athletes. We ask this question. Would you like it's too His kids are so little. Would you want this for your kids? Man, that is that is such a loaded question and I I feel so blessed to experience what I experienced 100%. If they could have my experience like Yes. Yes. Hands down. Hands down. you think of your experience? It's I I don't know if I'm um I I don't know if I should say this. Going into that world, into that singular focus world is almost like Harry Potter and like playing with dark magic. It's like so powerful in terms of getting your body to do these extraordinary amazing things that nobody thinks or thought is possible. But there is a price to pay. And like I am so I get emotional thinking about it. Um I'm so grateful for having so many like supportive people around me to like allow me to go there. but then like come out of it because like not everybody comes out of it. Not everyone comes out and it's like it's a lot. Yeah. Um we see we have a lot of Olympic friends and a lot of professional athlete friends when they retire we have not set them up to reintegrate in society whether you're a combat athlete or you know war fighter, you know, you like the reintegration is now I'm a mortal. How do I do that? It's so hard. It's so hard and you have to be so purposeful and like you think like everything you did in your in your career like oh I can I can like solve all these things but like it's like it was adaptive for your career but it's just like not always adaptive for real life. Yeah. And like one of the things I even think about like is like in swimming like when you experience like a like a threat or and some sort of like response that like activates that parasympa sympathetic response like it just that's energy. Sweet. I have energy now and now I'm going to go like exert it to the extent that I can and take advantage of it. But like in the real world it's like I'm experiencing this like sympathetic response. Now how do I activate like my thinking part of my brain? So like I spent 15 years like shutting that part off and being like fight or flight let's go perform lift that like be the you know mother whose child is like in danger and lifting that car kind of thing and and and harness that. But now it's like switching that around and being like no turn that off. Yeah. Figure out how to activate your thinking part of your brain. And it's a fun challenge but like superhero. I mean you are Mr. Incredible. Now working at the insurance company. Exactly. I I want to go there there's a there's a lot of things that we're going to go, but I I want to just point out that you run a swim incredible swim program locally. Um how radical an experience do you think the kids have knowing how protective you are? I mean, I just feel like parents don't understand that the the experience you and your partner create there who also is a savage swimmer. You guys have created a world that is Harry Potter for these for the athletes who come young kids are swimming getting better and I have to believe that part of that Olympic experience is that you're you understand how much culture matters and how much coaching matters and how much community matters because that's that's ultimately the thing not the outcome. I I think you really have to like define your purpose like just be able to come come back to it over and over and over again. And it's just easy to get lost in that when like performance becomes this this part of it. And like our core so we have two different like aspects of of our business. And one is like the learn to swim program. The other is like the youth sports like the USA swimming portion. And USA swimming portion is like our core values are team growth and fun. We didn't mention the Olympics there, right? We didn't mention performance, team growth, fun, and winning, right? We didn't like we didn't say, "Hey, you're like a a failure if you don't get a spot on a on a D1 team, right?" But like it's hard because people still feel that way because they're getting it from all these external sources. And it's like when I look around at the people who got the most from their careers, it it wasn't it wasn't the awards. It was like the people that knew that the community aspect is is so huge, the connection and like the ability to believe in yourself, to go do things that you don't think you're capable of and then to like improve and improve and improve and improve and improve and then all of a sudden one day look back and be like, "Holy sh like I never thought that that was would have been possible. What else? What other aspects of my life can I can I do that?" We don't do a good job of connecting the dots. You know, Juliet, I've mentioned this before on the podcast, but Juliet has gone to universities and spoken to the women athletes there about being entrepreneurs or taking the next step. And a lot of the women don't realize all of the skills that they're practicing and all of the teamwork and all of the effort and all the delayed gratification. And Jill, it's like you are actually the greatest in the greatest position to go and be a professional person and utilize all these skills we've been practicing, but we're just not meta enough. We don't call it out enough. Do you think that that's true? 100%. We'll connect the dots for our athletes. 100%. And I mean athletes, I mean like high school athlete, middle school athletes. Totally. At any level at any level. I totally I absolutely believe in that. And I like I look back and in my own little world when I was talking about being so one like one-dimensional, I like I want to think that I would listen to somebody giving me this advice or these directions, but I'm not I'm not totally sure I would. Um maybe it had had would have had to come from the coach and be part of the culture. I think it would have to be part of the culture and just be pointed pointed out. I mean just so many like I was so objective as a as as a younger athlete, but like the the idea of like vibes or energy like you know what I'm talking about. Like I know what I'm talking about. I feel it. Would I have when I was younger? Would I have like understood it? I think maybe if someone was pointing it out and it would be it would be a long slow road to that, but like hey, did you did you feel how the energy changed when that person shut someone else down and and you know didn't respond in a in a positive way to something that they said, right? It would take it takes a lot and it's a lot to ask of these coaches and good coaches aren't paid enough. Nope. That's right. Yeah, it's a lot to ask. You're asking them to do all of them to do like PhD level stuff here. It's too much. So, we have a ton of questions about your startup, which by the way, I love that you call it a startup. Um, because everyone thinks it's just for tech companies, but it's not. Um, but I can't let this podcast go by, um, without at least bringing up that you were diagnosed with cancer in 2019. Um, which I have to imagine having been a received a cancer diagnosis myself. Um, but also, you know, here you've decided to retire from swimming. Um, you know, you're Mr. Incredible, as Kelly said. Um, already the transition out of professional sport is difficult for anybody. Um, and then on top of that, you kind of get like cut down um, physically with a cancer diagnosis. Can you tell us a little bit about what that was like? And um, I know you've gone on to continue to compete in many ways since then and still do today. Um, but what was that experience like for you and how did it change your perspective on all things? Oh man. Yeah, that was that when you talk about in inflection points like up to that point I was so incredibly singularly focused on swimming, swimming fast, winning medals like for myself, for my family, for team USA. And it was easy and it was enjoyable. Like it was awesome. Like you talk about loving the grind. Like, man, I loved the grind. Like, waking up at 5:15 and going to practice was like not an issue. I was excited to go see the people there, put in the work, get it done. Oh, it's good to hear. And like when you do receive a cancer diagnosis and and and and one of the things that people would always tell me were like, "Wow, the sacrifices you made are so incredible." sacrifices you made are so incredible and in my mind I was like what sacrifices right like this is worth I'm living my best life I'm living my best life Friday night like happy hours like I'm glad I don't have an excuse to go to those things like I don't want to feel like crap on Saturday morning right um and then you get a cancer diagnosis and fortunately it was early fortunately it's a treatable cancer um and the thoughts of like truly the thoughts of was it worth it pop up into your head like because you have this you have this like plan the plan right yeah right right why even try no um you have you do have a plan and my plan was to swim through 2020 um reassess whether we were going to continue to compete but I wanted to start a family with my life um and be present and like the way that I had figured out how to train and compete isn't super conducive for that. I mean, I was spending a lot of time on the road competing or spending a lot of time on the road at training camps and um yeah, so that like your entire existence is is called into question. And if you I I think everybody experiences this at some point, but it's most people don't experience it at 30 like did I live my life the way I wanted to? And like I don't have a good answer for you because it depends on how long I could live, right? And I didn't I didn't internalize that at the at again at 30 years old. And now I mean I I have to spend a lot of time unwinding that in my own brain. Um as we talk about like having kids, having a family, um being being a parent and having a startup like because it is it's easy and natural for my mind to immerse myself completely in one thing or the other and not find balance. Um, so yeah, the the cancer diagnosis, it was a gift and a curse certainly as it was so treatable. I'm I'm doing well now. Um, I have no ongoing uh evidence of disease, which is great. And um, yeah, it it forces you to really put some perspective into things and think about uncomfortable questions that you just really aren't normally forced to think about at that age. There's a there's a lot of intersectionality in that moment of the end of your career. What are we doing with my family? How do I like is this sustainable with my relationships to be a swimming maniac? Yes. Do you think yes or no? And I know it's loaded. Were you better prepared for to manage this trauma and head-on disease because you were an athlete or were you worse prepared? 100%. 100% better prepared. 100%. Not just physically, but do you feel like you just cuz you know I I watched Juliet uh you know manage this and I was just like oh look at the training kick in like we're going to solve this problem. We're going to solve this problem. This isn't my identity. You know I have support network because that's what's required. I just saw her handle this with such grace and determination and grit. Totally. It it is that. It was that it was breaking it down to its component parts. managing what you can manage, making the best decisions based off of the information that you have, and then being okay with that. So many people want to have that conversation about, you know, your treatment and then outcome and like only if if only if only I knew. If only I knew. It's like given current technology, we we don't know. So you got to forgive yourself if you made a if you made a a treatment decision that wasn't the right one, right? And for so for for testicular cancer, it's like you you get rid of the tumor. So they remove your testicle completely. Uh they test it, they give you the pathology, and then based off of that, there's a range of outcomes, right? And you can choose to either do active surveillance, you do adgivant chemo, or you do like a surgical option. And each of those has a probabilistic outcome based off of, you know, where you're at in your your KPIs and in terms of how far the what your scans are showing and whether there was LVI, lymphovvascular invasion. Um, and you just you have to make that choice and you have to go with it. Swimming prepared me for that like over and over and over, right? You cannot control what your what your opponents are doing in in their lanes, right? the whole stay in your lane thing, like that's that's swimming. Um, and being able to make that decision, go forward with it, and manage if it wasn't the correct decision after time is like what it prepared me for. Yeah. And for me, you know, one of the best lessons from sport is control what you can control. And that has so many applications in life, in business, and cancer diagnosis is control what you control. I don't think people have experienced a lot of failure like you know one also yes oh my gosh the number of times you lost got beat had a terrible practice went slower try a hypothesis like it's repeated exposure to gnarly failure over and over and controlled small petite death right so that you're you're comfortable with the fact that you know that you are going to have to make a decision and you will come through it because you've always come through it I mean I think you watching Julia who is a catastrophizer, you know, and uh but also like you are very resilient because you know bad happens and then you're like and then we'll we will persist. I am so grateful you brought that up. The failure thing is so real. It's so real again in social media makes it even crazier because all you see is people's successes. Yeah. All you see is oh success, success, success. You don't. Some people are good at it. Like maybe bringing it up one out of every 50 posts like, "Hey, I woke up not feeling great today and it was hard." It's like, "Right." Well, that happens more than one out of 50 days. Like for most people at least. True fact. So, let's go back to your startup. Okay. Um, and I I just emphasize I love that you call it a startup because I think everybody thinks a startup can only be like a technology company or something, but you know, you're running a swim program, a learn to swim program and like a legitimate swim club. Um, and I guess what has surprised you about being an entrepreneur and running a startup? Um, and and doing that in the pandemic. Yeah. And you started in the pandemic, too. Yeah. Oh my gosh. Yeah. Seriously. Um, man, what has surprised me, I I do think one of the things that happens in an athletes career is you end up developing that halo effect probably to a fault. It's just like I am good at swimming. I have figured this out. I can figure other things out too. um when in reality that is likely a reality. But like why why not ask someone else for help? Like there are so many amazing people um whether it be in the athlete network and the Cal network and just like what whatever network that you have in your life um that are willing to help and have probably solved the same problem that you have like been racking your brain over and over and over and over about and um like I don't know in swimming like or in athletics like you're kind of taught to be just this like resilient person like we wear we wear our mirrored goggles so people can't see our pupils like it's kind of this intimidation thing and it's like it doesn't have to be like that and I don't know if I could take that I don't know if I could take that lesson that I learned now and bring it back into my swimming I don't know if it would it would work but um that was definitely that's definitely part of it um and the startup thing is so real I mean it's just like you go literally from like pooper scooper I mean I I like there's accidents and then I clean them, right? To like, oh my gosh, I have to like we're having like it's our insurance renewals. We got to deal with this and then there's like the next thing and the next thing and the next thing and then like wasn't it simple to be an athlete? Oh my gosh. The simplest life ever. So simple. And then to get yourself out of that grind is adding on an entire another job because the job of running the swim team swim learn to swim program is a job in itself and then creating the systems and the feedback mechanisms to train other people to do it the way that you want it done is an entire extra job and takes a lot of thought. So um it has been it is I'm so grateful for it. I mean, again, like coming out of an athletic career, you need something like I'm just going to be like a a hamster in a cage without a wheel without something to work on. Um, and and the swim thing has been helpful just from like an emotional like health perspective. And what are you seeing in the youth athletes you're working with today that is different from when you were a youth athlete? Or is it different? or is it different? Or is it the same sets of problems just a different era? Or are there unique current sets of problems you're seeing in the in the athletes today? I think that they're um boomer parents versus Gen X parents, right? I I think that that's definitely a factor. I think that's definitely a factor. I do think that Washington um Washington had a certain level of grit, Washington State growing up. Like you went to Tacoma, bro. I I grew up in Breton and I went to Tacoma. There there's there's some grit to be had between those two cities. That is for sure. Um but like resilience in terms of like grit and emotion. Like it's it was rainy. I think I think we went 45 days without seeing the sun my senior year. Like literally without seeing a blue sky. Sorry, not the sun, the blue sky. It was gray that many days out of the year. Um Sorry, that many days straight. Uh the it would get dark at like 4:45 p.m. Like and now I'm like I mean I think I'm just a wimp honestly now, but if I don't see the sun for a while, I'm like I'm sad. I need a blue light. Someone someone help. Um but coaches had maybe more tools at their perspective. Some would abuse them. So rules have been put into place to take that those abusive tools away. But you know with all things there's there's consequences with that and um if you could talk to all parents right now of young athletes and obviously we're the same. We have our our children are the chosen ones. Mhm. What would you say to parents right now knowing you've got this perspective, you are in youth athletic development like what this is your moment to grab a microphone and say parents I need you to do this. So the way that I do it is is this and and that like what it when parents ask like what their role is. My my simple simplified explanation is that like their passion is a flame and your job is to do whatever needs to happen in that moment to let that flame grow. And if it's like fanning the f flame just a little bit, you need to do that. If it's putting a log on the flame and then like knowing that it's going to grow, you need to do that. But like in different moments, it it will likely be different things. I'm just going to add a tiny bit of complexity onto that because my brain shuts off when I like watch Parker even take a swim lesson. What is crazy? I helped develop this curriculum. I trained the instructor on how to teach and I watch these people teach every single day and still I'm like but what's what's happening? Like why why is why is she not doing like I literally have to step back and be like I have answers to all of these questions but like I hit this little panic mode as I'm watching my own daughter go through it. So let me give you let me give you some advice as a father. Sit on the other side of the pool away from the other parents. I like that. That's what Kelly does. I like that a lot. Just that way I can be inside my own insanity. Yeah. And uh I can shut up and I I don't get sucked into drama and I can just be I can cheer for everyone. Yeah. And it's real hard. It It is so hard. I I think I think giving yourself a break as a parent and knowing that no one is perfect and you're likely going to make a mistake and it's going to be okay. Yeah. Is probably the best advice. But the the definitely treating that passion as a flame and knowing that you the wrong situations can snuff it out. So I think you've heard this data um but and know that something like 70% of kids are dropping out of youth sports by like age 13. Mhm. Um, and I'm sure this weighs heavily on you because you're running a youth sports program, but what do you think not just you and your program, but parents and all of us involved in this sort of youth sports situation can do to help encourage kids to stay in sports for longer. And I think, you know, there's a a variety of reasons why kids drop out. Um, and swimming is unusual because you can swim your whole life. Yeah. But how do we keep kids I mean keep kids in swimming or whatever sport it is longer and and I think the reason we all know it's important is that you know we know if kids learn how to move and love movement when they're young then that will lead to them you know having being healthier and loving to move and keeping moving as adults. I mean for for no other reason than just that. What are your thoughts on all that? O I I think you really have to again identify the purpose of sports in this young person's life and know that it's likely not going to be making a living. like it's going to be learning these amazing lessons that sports have has to offer or you know being involved in this community that they otherwise wouldn't be able to be involved in or um developing social skills outside of classrooms where they're forced to sit for 60 hours like right I I think that that and and then trying to give positive feedback to those aspects whether it be even to the coach um to the administrators of the of the team would be nice. Yeah. Um and and then to uh little attitude of gratitude everybody to the kids to the kids just being like man that was so cool how you handled that situation like I know that was really hard to you know shake their hand when they when they won but or you know make eye contact with them when they when they won and you know it was a silly mistake and you felt bad about it but like th that is what sports is about. Um, and and knowing that and having that kind of be your uh that kind of be your grounding for for what this is, it's I mean, oh my gosh, there's so many factors that's like that makes it that makes it hard. And where we are where we live, too. Like we live here because it's awesome. The weather's nice all the time. Like I don't know. Are you saying that I need to take my children to a dark place? I don't know. I don't. But certainly allow coaches to take them for that ride a little bit. I mean, you have to know what overtraining is to be able to prevent it, right? Like, let let the let the coaches do their job and let the kids learn those lessons. Yeah. Be a better ally to coaches for sure. Yeah. And one of the things we're really interested in in writing a book about it is trying to help parents navigate this whole youth sports universe. Um because we are we're pro coach. Like we come from a coaching world and we see that there's so much pressure put on youth coaches to be all things. Oh my god. um when really I think what we can expect is for our youth coaches to be good at coaching their sport and that the other aspects of the youth sport experience need to come from elsewhere. Okay. Um you know or or it's it's a group collective thing, you know, like our youth our youth coaches can't be expected to be the best swim coaches, nutrition coaches, mental health coaches, strength and conditioning coaches, right? We can't expect that. And so how do we create that, you know, scaffolding for youth athletes without expecting all of it to come from the youth sports coach. And our hypothesis is that sports is one of the last frameworks we teach people how to be humans, right? How to interact, how to be teammate, how to work hard, how to sleep, how to how to prepare yourself for a big moment over and over and over again. I mean, you get to compete potentially two or three times a week. Yeah. You know. Yeah. And I think in the increas like it's like the the world is going down these two paths. One is like AI, AI, AI, AI, AI. And the other one is like humans interaction, knowing how to be social. And like that's definitely that's one of the things that is in my mind a lot when I think about when I think about my own kids and how to give them those experiences and and teach them how to just navigate the world from a social perspective because it's I mean connection is every again you talking to a guy gets diagnosed with cancer at 30 and you think about the the connections you had the people that supported you a million times more often than you think about the metals in your closet. Yeah, that's right. Um, but then yeah, I I love that. I love that thinking about like letting coaches be coaches and then have other people help that those other aspects. And I think like the education piece piece to coaches in how to because generally speaking, coaches are like such great people, right? And a lot of times they're kind of like people pleasers where like when they have this meeting in front of the and good on the coaches that choose to do this and communicate. They have a town hall meeting and people are what about nutrition? What about this? What about this? I see this team doing this on their Instagram. And it it is again they they're like oh I should be providing this service. So like giving the coaches the ability and like tools how to say like that's not my that's not my role at the at this time like but we can you know find a way to get that for for the for the team. Yeah. I think that's really important. It's a lot. Okay. So a couple of local swimmers asked me to ask you a couple questions which I can't I can't end this without asking you. Um what advice would you give to high school swimmers hoping to swim in college? Oh man. Um, choose better parents. I I think um I think that it it would be important for a swimmer to put themselves in a college coach's shoes or do their best to put themselves in a college coach's shoes when they ask someone this question. And I I say that because I can give you the answer, but it only helps if you believe it. And um like times and grades and and test scores are obviously the three most important parts of of this equation like by by far. Um and you should be trying your hardest to have, you know, top-notch, you know, scores in in each of those. But the intangibles can make a big difference, too. Um and like how you present yourself, those social skills, that team, that leadership aspect. Um, people would always say like talking about the ready room, it's like races weren't won in the ready room, but they were lost in the ready room. I would argue that um, spots on college teams aren't won when there's conversations with their coaches about character, but they can be lost when there are conversations I love that about a athletes character. Um, so be a good human. be a good human. Care about your teammates. Um ask ask them and and and if you don't know how to do that, that's okay. Know that you can. This is a a skill like anything else that is developable. But starting by genuinely caring how they're doing and asking how that set went or how they are doing outside of the pool is a great place to start. I love that. Love that. I love that. Oh, okay. So, one last question. I know you're still competing yourself in different ways. What are you doing? What like what are you training for right now? I'm literally just bank. So, okay. Uh I went to San Diego for niece's um birthday and came back and after a plane flight and a long week of eating too much junk food, I was 245 pounds, which is an all-time high. Uh, so right now I'm uh And you're 66. I'm 66. So I'm working on I'm working on losing that weight a little bit. Um, it's an interesting challenge because like I have fat Nathan Adrian mortal. Yeah. When I swim, I I I only have so much willpower. And when I swim like and just like deplete my glycogen, I I don't have the willpower to say no to food. It's just like that inner innate drive is too powerful. So I have to like find different ways to like make this happen and it's fun. Um also my the third girl is due in June. So I'm banking as much banking as much sleep and exercise as I can right now because I know that it's just going to take a backseat for a little while. So I don't have anything that I'm like I'm necessarily training for or competing. Um, but just trying to to prepare myself for the first 6 months of of baby number three and then hopefully get back into it. We have a lot of friends who former superstars, top of the game in their sports, Olympic medalists have a hard time enjoying exercise because they always have this this is my time, this is my split. Are you able to swim and enjoy that or do you have to just se just separate that piece of your brain? Swimming is I have to separate it. Swimming is swimming the same way I swam before. I cannot enjoy it. I can't swim. Like if I'm like, "How far can I go today?" Like, I'll never I I can't. How fast can I go in A-50? Like I can't. But like all the different different components like playing with a different stroke, working on like a low stroke count. The other thing was learning on like my my like body control. Like the the one of the biggest aspects in swimming today is um these these swimmers who are able to like put themselves in these incredible positions throughout their spine with power. And I don't have that. Like I was taught to just like lock my spine and then like do my dolphin kick from my hips down. And like trying to learn that is a challenge. like just look I look like a weirdo at the gym, but I'm just like sitting there on a TRX looking in the mirror being like, "Okay, move that part." And I'm like, like I can't do it. It's so hard. It takes so much concentration. But like just learning coordination. Um just so I could try to feel maybe what it feels like a little bit to do what some of those guys are doing is uh is a lot of fun. That's fun. Yeah. It's just a way to keep it interesting and sort of take yourself out of like the time mindset, right? You can still swim and focus on something completely different. Totally. I love it. I love it. All right. So, uh, besides the birth of your third daughter, anything else you're looking forward to? That's a big one. That is a big one. Um, yeah, just life, I think. I mean, you're coming into swim season. Yeah. Right. You've got, you know, another nugget of I think that's exactly it. The first one was like, oh my gosh, this is all new. This is insane. We need to show So many people can relate. We need to show her these little cards that are black and white because it's going to help develop her blah blah blah. Yeah. By the third one, you're just like, "Okay, we just need to keep her alive. Keep keep her alive." Like go out and do stuff and have fun with a like again like have her feel that fun hearing as much laughter from the other two as she can in her first couple weeks of life before she can laugh and then make her enjoy it too. And I think like I don't know, we we are like we're just getting settled and getting slightly better at just all of it as as we go. And um it just is like it it feels like a good a good place to be. I love it. Thank you so much for being here today. So fun to have you. You guys are amazing. Thank you for all that you do.