I know the way you Hey, welcome back to Mobility Project having some dinner with some friends and uh we're sitting in the kitchen cuz all good parties end up in the kitchen. It's a little bit dark. Feels like a special moment. And uh you know, JD Kafaro, family, sister, you know, friends, and um all of a sudden in the middle of the party, what you really think is you're thinking is what? My fascial mobilization. I'm tight. I could be working on my hamstrings. And what you think is you could spark the disco pain ball. You can elevate it to the next level and take your pain. In fact, all the sparkles here is the collective pain of San Francisco CrossFit. We've collected into this magic ball. So, what I want to show you is that you know kids toys from all around the It's true, right? Tell me you're not the coolest kid on the planet with this thing. So, here's what we're going to got going on tonight. We've got our Olympic rower here in town. I've set up a chair here and here's your homework. I want you to spend a good chunk of time and we're going to work on ungluing two pieces. One is this kind of this lateral hamstring and then second is medial hamstrings that comes into the butt. So go ahead sit on that would you sparkle. It's disco ball. Everyone saw what was that movie Xanadoo. There's a Xanadoo reference in here that just happened. So first thing first is that Aaron's going to put that high up in the insertion of the hamstring right into the butt. Belly tight sitting tall and then she's going to pump that leg straight and then uh she can hold this. that became too painful and become makes it less painful. And the key is unglue this. One of our friends sent us a video today of uh the miracles of ungluing tissues and the kind of associated range changes. The key is that there's never one system that makes it kind of the whole thing. Is it joint capsule? Is this muscle tension? Is this sliding surface dysfunction? The idea here, my wife's giving me the eyes. I got to stop talking. The idea here is that, you know, this is one component. Don't stop thinking in systems. So, she's going to spend two minutes on this and then she's gonna go ahead and choke up a little bit down into the kind of the belly of the muscle and then really kind of right where the split is in that hamstring and then you find that spot and then go ahead and hit there. Is that different there? And if I was a super friend, what would I do if I was a super friend? I could always just lean over, right? And then uh apply some more pressure. And what we're interested in is that tack and stretch is that she's moving that tack tissue past that anchor spot. Is it stop sparkling? Is it still sparkling? No, it stops. It stops. But once the sparkling stops, that's when it starts to absorb the paint again. So that's homework today is that I want you to just just work on gluing this leg and that leg. You got to get five minutes a leg and try to get as many pumps as you can. Look, Aaron's just making little circles here. That's in form freestyle. We'll see you guys tomorrow. That go.