Hey, welcome back to Mobility Project. I am the edge. Here we go. Here's what's going on tonight. Um, imagine that we see an athlete who has wrist problems going overhead specifically. We've talked about wrist problems in the front rack and we can certainly understand that rarely is it just the issue of the wrist. I mean, this opens up a can of worms. Man, if you sit at a desk all day long, crank your hands into a bad position where your shoulders internally rotated, your wrist has to compensate. In fact, we see this scale model everywhere that if I don't have a good externally rotated shoulder, if I get myself in a good shabbasa, which is externally rotated shoulder position, organized, wound up capsule, and flip my hands over, that's the the good typing position, and then I could externally rotate my hand for the mouse. Or I could do the bench style where I literally break the bar, spread the bar, pull my shoulders back, bring my elbows down and type from that position, too. It's the same. It's a western approach as an eastern approach. But if the hand isn't in in a deviated position in any way, it's a real stress on the wrist and stress on the tissues. So the same thing happens when the arm is overhead and I pulled out my my old kayak paddle today because one of the things that happened to me as a younger paddler is that um we used to paddle with a big offset. One of the things that happens is if you didn't lift the elbow up high enough, you ended up leaving the elbow down low and you end up cranking through the wrist and breaking the wrist in a bad position. And this causes a lot of wrist dysfunction in a lot of athletes. What's the cue to externally rotate and bring the arm up high? Well, the same thing is true when we start thinking about the mechanics of the wrist. Certainly, if I have tight wrist, tight elbow, and you can think about the extensors kind of attaching the lateral part of the elbow, the flexors attaching on the kind of medial part of the elbow. But if uh you know in this situation when I'm really talking about wrist extension, do I have full range of motion in the wrist? Yes. No. Is that a problem? Well, let's let's work on that. But understanding that the whole external rotation of the shoulder, if I kind of reduce this down to a classical gymnastics like piece where I eliminate the variables and just look at the shoulder, I've got to be able to control the shoulder in order to open up the wrist and put myself in a good position. If that shoulder is broken or I'm overhead and I'm missing range of motion, I'm going to try to end up cheating that hand back probably into rotating that closes this wrist off and causes a whole bunch of problems. You can do this test with yourself where you can do the bird dog, belly tight, nice and stable. You can press up. You should be able to lift straight up without any problems. What you'll see is that you'll likely internally rotate and the hand will end up breaking a little bit. You can challenge that up a little bit more, get super stable. And then you should be able to lift straight up without seeing any of this crazy hand stuff. The hand should be nice and straight and kind of neutral and be able to reach straight up. And this is that model for going up overhead if you're going to take that thing down. So if I'm having this problem, we want to make sure that if I'm going to coach an open hand that I can bring that shoulder all the way through to protect the hand or I need to be able to keep a much more neutral wrist when I'm overhead. So as we solve this problem, it's really about going upstream to the external rotation of the shoulder. So, starting with just some soft tissue work, man, take your peanut at work while you're doing nothing else or get on the bus, put that thing in that soft tissue and tack and stretch right up at the those insertions. And you'll probably find that as those bones cross over, as that radius crosses over and makes an X, you'll find is that those tissues get short and ropey in here. And you can just tack and stretch your way right up that area. Find a nice spot, make some circles. Oh, it's nasty in there. You can think about your arm as like a puppet and all the controls for the wrist are up here. The little retinacculum band keeps it tight. But if we're going to control, I rarely see a wrist problem that doesn't also go with the control problem here. So, what are we talking about? Let's work on wrist mobility first. My favorite one for the for the lifter. I wind up. Now, the band is pulling back. And this could be the same model for the ankle. I block and I block the hand and I can just lock over. I'm getting a little stretch without impinging on the hand joint. I anchor down, press the hand flat, big thumb or thumb and big toe. Same same analogy here. And then the other thing I'm going to do is going to externally rotate the shoulder and try to get that joint to fold as I rotate. And I just work on that position. And you'll see that you'll get a much more effective mechanic and the wrist clears out of the way. The radius doesn't bunch up on the wrist. Then we've got to do some good oldfashioned external rotation of the shoulder. And the best way to accomplish this is to put myself into the position of emphasis, which is overhead. Line that bad boy up, but work on distraction. And now this is a nice uh kind of um uh piece that makes the wrist feel better. We distract the joint, get some space back in there. I get this loaded wrist position, turn the hand over, work on that external rotation first, and then pull myself in through. And so now I can distract that loaded wrist. I can hang out and just work on kind of consummating all the way around. Finally, take your peanut, smash your thoracic spine to make sure that we don't have some kind of neurodynamic problem. Is it coming from the neck? Is it the nerves running through the tunnels? Let's open up. Let's free up that sympathetic chain ganglia in the thoracic spine so that we have enough neural slack to end up going overhead and we don't just put ourselves in a neural tensioner. That's how we think about wrist pain. See if you can't open that stuff up. Your wrists need to be supple, baby. This is the edge signing out. We'll see you tomorrow.