Welcome back to Mobility Wad. Happy Labor Day. Uh lost my voice a little bit. Uh working this weekend. Special shout out to all the uh guys and gals with great coaches who attended the mobility seminar this weekend in Las Vegas. Thank you very much. You guys are amazing. Um today we're going to kind of talk about prepping for a little bit overhead squatting. Clearly we can do that distraction band, but another piece that sort tends to get short is really just looking at this flexion of the arm, not the kind of whole rigid system. So, one of the things we're going to do today is just kind of bias this piece. Really kind of remember it's about a movement, not a muscle. In this case, we're going to just talk about kind of the overall arm flexion, but we can catch some of that long head of the triceps in there. Maybe some subscap, maybe some of the serrus anterior. So, it looks like this. I'm going to grab this band. I'm going to hook my hand through the band. And then I'm trying to do thumb up. This going to be could be the door handle. It could be shut the door about kind of hip height. I'm gonna wind up into this flexion arm position. So, I'm really kind of stressing this stuff. I'm not going to worry about the arm up here. And then I'm gonna lean forward and start to pull on that business. Really trying to think turn the hand facing the s the facing up. Keep the rib cage in and down nice and tight. Reinforce this position. And then kind of camp out in the corner here. And just see how long you can kind of just settle in there. distraction and kind of force it while the band really allows me to relax and really kind of tap into this long head of the triceps and then kind of bias this flexion position. If you look, if I just do that shortly, there's a big difference in kind of terms of being able to affect a much more upright position. That's uh allows me just a little bit more option and it gives me some more breathing room to bring the arm up and overhead. Second piece, I'm going to end up starting in a kind of high kneeling position. What I'm going to do, I'll do this side so you can see it. What I'm going to do for starters is just block my foot. Let the foot come out to the side. And I'm just going to camp around in here. You're going to feel kind of an acute kind of working of this side part of the hip capsule here. This is where we're really going to open. And that would what that allows me to kind of overhead squat and be able to kind of get my knee out of the way, my upright torso. So, block the foot. Kind of camp out in here back and forth. Spend a couple minutes grinding in here. Open this up. Then we're going to go belly button over the middle of the foot here. And then you're going to start to press in. So load the butt back. Then go ahead and press the belly button down. And let's do some contract. Relax here for about two minutes. So we did that little scouring back and forth in this position. Just open it up. I'm going to wind up more to the middle. Get tight. Press. Release. Go a little bit further. Then we'll take a kind of look at that overhead positioning. And you're going to find that hip stays open. It's going to be a little bit less bindy here. All right, we'll see you tomorrow.