All right, we're back at the MWAD and and you're a little confused right now because you don't know where you are. Is this like some kind of UFO thing? Well, this is Brian McKenzie and this is how he's managed to rig his outdoor trampoline. It's difficult to see, but I want you to know that Flash Pass is for night bouncing. So, uh this is part of the dreamland, uh the evil lab. And I'm we're going to we're going to take the idea of the evil lab a little bit further, but come on in. We're going to show you some kind of cool stuff tonight. So down visiting us Brian McKenzie. Uh you might might you might know him from such things as running. And um what I want to show you tonight is uh one of the things that Brian has in his gym and this is called the uh speedboard by Woodway. This is a uh they've actually renamed it the curve. It's it's named the curve. Check. And what what's amazing about this is actually a treadmill that doesn't have a motor. And it turns out that the motor is you as you try to run uphill on this thing. So, what's cool about this, get my focus in there, is that uh besides the kind of highly technical foot striking that it has to happen in the right way, you basically have a machine that will tell you whether or not you are breaking at the hip or not. And so it's one of the best devices I've ever seen to see a closed hip fault or when people are kind of leaning forward or collapsing and don't know what kind of midline stable is. You're going to jump on there, Brian, again. Yes, sir. Okay. So, he's pulling pulling up the ball for the dog. So, look, one of the things we have just jog easy. He's straight up and down. And then in order to make this thing go, he's got to tilt forward. And that tilting is what sets him up. Okay, now watch this. If he leans forward at all, go slow down. Whoa. He breaks immediately and goes out the back. And that's a lot of the running positions we see. And the further he spins out the back, the the the worsted position he's in. Now, watch this. Can you overextend for me? Classically, you'll notice that if Brian overextends that, he immediately can't turn the foot over as fast and he doesn't end up in a good position. So, let's get tight and neutral and then he tilts the whole thing forward and now he can actually uh generate some force. Okay, hop off. That machine is amazing. And uh if you are in a bad position, it'll just show you because you a can't go anywhere or two uh you can't generate any force and if you break and lose that integrated falling position, then uh you know, you're toast. And so we've been working on the three-minute hollow rock. We have someone from um from Steve's Club who maybe has has taken it. So we're going to we're verifying those results right now for the three-minute haul. Brian's out of breath because he's a crappy endurance athlete. It turns out he just did like one uh I don't know 500 meter sprint and he smoked. So here's what we're going to do tonight. We're going to talk about um calories nine calories check. It's all about calories burned. So tonight we're going to talk about kind of common CrossFit problems and one of the uh one of the or runner problems and one of the things I hear all the time from my runners is that my soaz is tight. We hear the same thing from our professional dancers at SF Ballet. And I'm going to hand this over to Bri. You got this for a second? Yeah. Let's get the light on there. Okay, we got the light off. Okay, so I'm going hand this over to Bri. And what ends up happening is when we see athletes who are spending time in an extended position running in an extended position, if they can't anchor that down and create a stable neutral trunk and continue to fall forward and one of the things we do is try to shorten that leverage and now I'm an upright position. I don't have to exert any energy. Uh because being in a tight position or falling is expensive and so I break and then as that leg extends I'm just in an overextended position that so as gets tight. So we keep talking about this hollow position. And it's the same hollow position we see squatting. It's the same hollow position that the ballet dancers are talking about. Same spinal position. Even though they're tucking under, it's the same position I squat in. Right? So, let's kind of get to the root and I want to I want to show you what we're going to do tonight. First things first is we're going to talk about I want you to smash your soaz again. So, that time has come up, but you need to take the evil ball find lateral to your belly button and I want you to kind of cook that soaz on the floor. So, remember it's sep. It's not carry. And so I'm just going to roll back and forth and I want to just kind of sandwich those things. Now remember, if your soaz is tight, there's something going on with your mechanics. And that should be pathonic or alarm for I'm overextended. But I want to show you a nice little variation on the thing because sometimes I have a hard time because my large chesticles for getting into that position. So look, ball, stomach, weight over the ball. Oh, and I can drive that thing straight into my guts and uh and suffer a slow client death. So, all I've done is taking that ball where I think my soaz is and I'm just going to rub back and forth with a little bit of weight. If you're a man, I mean, this is only what 16K, it's plenty. And, uh, you know, don't black out because you'll wake up and you'll still be kind of mobilizing your sass, right? Angel. Angel, that was for you, Angel. So, uh, okay. So, that's homework number one. But, as we go kind of start to solve this problem, we usually see is that tight hips go with that. And so it's tight hips, broken soaz and tight calf. And usually this squella goes with it. So when I'm when I'm solving an overextension problem, tight back problem with my athletes, I first thing I do is look downstream at the hip. Do I have enough room to open up? Second thing is, do I have enough room in the calf? So we're going to hit the problem area, which is the soass because that keeps pulling me into extension. I open up the hip and then uh we go ahead and hit the calf. So we're going to come to the calf in a second. So I want to show you something genius that Brian has done. We go ahead and hit the calf stretches piece part of this piece. So, soaz, let's go ahead and wind up your calves on the wall or ball or something. Here we go. Perfect. Here, let's go ahead and get plenty of time in on the calf. Doing this tonight. Anytime I'm with Brian, he makes me run. It's part of the thing that I do. I suck at running and so I'm always working on that those positions. So, let's go ahead. And then, uh, we got to open up the hip. And I'm going to grab Brian again here real quick. And I want to have Brian lay on his stomach. The other night I had uh testing with Juliet and uh remember that we just went ahead and pulled that knee to chest, right? I said I'd tie this in and or or he heel to butt and I should be able to easily get that heel to touch Brian's butt. And you'll notice that he's way way way far away. And it's not that he isn't conscious of this, but the compromise he makes by being a runner is that he's going to get short in those anterior tissues. So, this is one of the things that as a runner, I can instantaneously work with my athletes of, hey, let's make sure that you're uh got enough room here. And this is one of the patterns you're going to see with runners. Runners tend to be short in the hip. You'll notice that Brian keeps overextending his back a little bit. So, as I pump his his heel to his butt, he actually starts to feel that in his low back. And what you've done is ah made the connection between, hey, tight anterior hip structures, right? Tight anterior hip starts to pull him into extension. So, he's overcurving his back and then because he overcurves his back, his soass gets tight and uh it makes the whole thing worse. Okay, so let's go ahead and get Brian into a good hip stretch. So, what do you love for stretching the front of the hip, Brian? What do you do? Couch stretch. Come on in. Let's go. Cuz this is going to set us up for uh Oh, you're in the McKenzie layer now. This is going to set us up for some kind of deep dark hell. Okay, so we're going to throw Brian up and and this is what I want to do. I want to show you Brian's goat. So, I put Brian in the corner for the couch stretch. Okay. Drops knee into the corner. He's going to start with his foot down. Right. Go and start with your foot down, Bri. Cuz the other leg down. There you go. Now load that thing up. And now he gets a good load all the way to the corners. And then he's going to bring that first leg up into a high kneel. Right. And I want you to see that the compromise that Brian makes right off the bat is that his knee flies out to the side. Right? So what we have here is always thinking, you know, it's not that Brian's not aware of this, but that the running puts him into a position where habitually he's going to get tight. So, we have him push his heel over or his butt over a little bit to the side, keeping that knee in line, and then have him Let's go ahead and cultivate a couple minutes. I'm really interested in driving that hip into the ground. So, this is the place where Brian's really got to make his money trying to open up the hip. Chances are his distal quads are okay. And if he went ahead and went straight back all the way up to the wall, we'd see that he can compensate a little bit, right? The foot. The foot. But, uh, he's still he's still working hard. Oh, he's falling over. So remember, our goal is we can take really good athletes and find out where their problems are to make them more efficient, right? Brian doesn't have back pain. He doesn't have knee pain. Things are working out, but we're always finding out ways to get go faster. Okay, so we've got to spend some time on the couch stretch. Let's get on the Soaz and uh we're going to stretch the calves. Now, I want to give you guys a special treat. I'm going to hand this back over to Brian. Now, this is uh this is deeply tickles me. This is sort of disturbing and uh I I don't want you guys to be afraid of what you're seeing here. So, this is a uh a rigid um fuego. Um it's a uh kind of what a what would you call this? Saw. Saw kind of saw. Brian took the dullest uh knife blade that he could. He wrapped a little piece of wood around it, taped the whole thing, took a lacrosse ball, melted, stuck the whole thing, and taped it all together. You guys got that? It's pretty simple. And then he uh he shoves it in this thing. This the locks in. So just twist and lock. Yeah. You twist it. Check. Now look. Make sure it's on. It's on. Look. Don't do anything perverted with this. Okay. But look, you think you have dealt with your trigger point. You have no idea what this is all about. So look, Kelly Starret and Nemesis is this rectus forous. This is what we're talking about. When we talk about obsession, we mean obsession. Brian saw this, thought about this. He's like, "I can do a better job." Look at this. Oh god. You can't even hear yourself vomit. That is horrible. Look, I'm not recommending that you do this. No, I'm not even Yes, you should. I'm not even saying that it's legal in California or Alabama, but I'm definitely saying that this is an idea that's worth worth its weight. And look, we're talking about ungluing those tissues in the deal, right? You could smash this in that delicate bit right here. Bam. Right. That poster there. Oh god. I don't know how much of this is good for you honestly, but uh 20 or 30 seconds is not going to hurt you. And if you bleed out somewhere, I mean, don't hit your karate. Don't mobilize your eyes, but uh dude, I mean, you might just shear your heart off and it's worth it. All right, so we'll Oh, it unplugged. Thank god I pulled it off. Look, obsess over this stuff because performance is always there to be had. Barbells for boobs. I'm asking you to go on and donate. Be great. We'll see you guys tomorrow.