Hey, welcome back to Mobility Project. I want to talk about something that's been on my mind. Typically, we look at positions, problem positions, uh, breakdown mechanics. And how do how do we know how do we know there's a problem? I'll tell you. Come on over here. We typically rely on cues that we call pathonmonic cues. Pathonnemonic queuing means that I wait until I have a pathology that serves as a pneumonic that there's a problem. So for example, if you have a little bright little bite and you end up with a little bright ring around that bite, that's a a pathumic cue that you have Lyme disease. So physician sees that, they're like, "Ah, you have Lyme disease." Well, one of our pathonneic cues for strength and conditioning. Well, here's the problem is that typically the athlete works along and sports medicine's pretty much based on this. All of our kind of current concepts are based on let's wait. Oh, an athlete has a problem and let's see what let's see what's going on. So, how do we know we have a problem? Well, we typically see swelling in the joint. Oh, something's swollen. I must be doing something wrong. Or or the most obvious one, pain. Ah, my knee hurts. Gosh, is there something wrong with my squat? you get suddenly get squat itis. Further on, we see decreased range of motion, decreased force production, um, and my favorite, of course, which is numbness, tingling. So, you know, what ends up happening a lot of times is an athletes going going, "Oh, my fell asleep. Something's happened or I went overhead and and I got tingly. Is that a problem?" What we need to do is to develop an entirely different model of thinking about movement that doesn't rely on these cues because the problem is that the human being is set up for adaptation. If you've ever been in a fight, you can take some pretty hard hits without feeling any pain. Well, the same thing is true with exercise. Most athletes have suppressed a lot of that pain information, pain signaling. They don't get those cues that something's wrong until much later after the fact. I mean, say you're you're out like a young leopard and you're out hunting, you know, and you go and you bring back the mastadon thing and your friend's like, "Dude, you got scratched." You're not even like you're like, "I I got scratched. I don't even feel that." You know, I could scratch Diane Fu while she's weightlifting. She wouldn't feel anything until afterwards after she put the bar down. That's the point. So, if I'm relying on these positions or these these uh these symptoms tell me about my position, that's a real problem. Instead, we want to rely on understanding what is the good position. And this is why we spend so much time talking about getting the knee out into a better position. Making sure that the ankle isn't collapsed. Making sure that the athlete isn't overextended or in one of these open circuit faults or flexed in a bad position or the shoulder coming forward. What we need to do is shift our paradigm away from this pathmonic model and into understanding what it is we're seeing. Because if we're using pain, no pain as a as a cue that something's going on, we're going to be well into the disease or pathology process. This is why things like knee pain, uh torn achilles, if it's not pathological, if you know, you don't have, you know, a tick bite or a kidney infection or if it's not catastrophic where someone rolled into your knee and destroyed it, then chances are it's a preventable disease. And the key is you cannot rely on these cues to tell you're in a bad position. You have to know what's a good position. How do we know better positions? Because we test and retest. We get you out of those pathonic bad positions, the the using the kind of movement cues, knee in, we put you into a better position and you generate more force. So we let the thing that we're trying to change be the metric. And uh hopefully we don't see these things again. See you guys tomorrow.