Hey, welcome back to Mobility Project, the most famous mobility parking lot in the world. Uh, I'm interesting here guest today. We've got Pam Looper, who used to be well known as my landlord. More importantly to you is that she was San Francisco CrossFitter number zero. I gave Pam Rabdo like 10 times in the backyard. Uh, she fell down the stairs on the first time coming down to work with us. Anyway, here's Pam all these years later. Uh, one of our best superstar athletes. We're going to do some some partner stretching today and I've got a few tweaks for you. So, here's here's partner stretch number one. Maybe you just got Pam is used to being tortured publicly by me cuz you know before you have to practice. So, here's what we're going to do. Instead of our normal yesterday, we went ahead and kind of did a contract relax ourselves. I want to show you guys the setup as a good partner contract relax is that I'm going to pin her leg down with my leg. I'm not over. That's creepy. I take the tension all the way up here. I lean into the shoulder and then I apply the tensioner at the leg. Remember, this is our deadlift. We load and then tension. That's what it looks like when I'm loading and then retensioning from the body. So, try to see those relationships. So, that would be our normal setup. I pin the leg. I trap in load tension. I take her up to eight out of 10. I can protect my face from her clawing hands if I need to quickly. Right. You'll notice that this is a little bit too personal. Don't be personal with your landlord, right? Former landlord. So, take a look at this. But how to get kind of improve this positioning. If I put the strap in her hip crease here and then step into it. Don't worry, my wife is filming. She's part party of this whole thing as I strap myself to my former landlord. Right now, look, I've just hooked this on my legs. I'm going to put that in the crease. Now, as I lean back, I start to get that distraction in the hip. And then I can even trap the leg over and then really wind that hip up and then do my same partner hit. Does that feel any different? So now I've got a much more effective vector pulling across the femur. Get a better distraction in the joint. Improve that roll slide and glide. One of the reasons we want to do that and focus on that is that if I'm not if I'm just stretching physiologic range when I'm pfing, I'm not necessarily capturing or changing how the joint articulates with itself. What I want to do is improve roll, slide, and glide so I don't just kind of muck up the joint. So, we we're trying to do is make sure that that joint is rolling and it's not just taking up all the neural tissues or all the capsule tissues with it. So, it's real cuts. That's homework number one. Try that with a partner. if you strap yourself to a uh a stranger level, right? Okay. Over number two, I've been thinking about trying to get some distraction and a better kind of hip mobility piece. TFL tensor fascelada anterior hip we've been working on. Go ahead and roll onto your side, Tammy, and put your hand back here. Now, watch this. What's going to happen is Pam's going to bring her knee to her chest. This protects her in flexion. I am going to pull this leg back and I'm going to turn out away from her. What's going to happen is I'm going to put her leg up on my leg. Line this up. And what I'm going to do then is just be able to lean back, pull that leg in. She can hold this knee or not. And then I'm going to apply the leverage up. You feel that? Yeah, it feels good. And it's that lateral part of the leg. It's really difficult area to stretch. What we're really stretching is a deduction. How do we mobilize all those tissues that limit that adduction? There's Carl Pi, pocket gymnast. Can you do a little pocket gymnast dance for us? Give me your freeze, Carl. There it is. Okay, we're back. Yeah, there are super super famous uh dancers here all the time. So, wind up and then she can contract. Relax here. Big breath. Draw your knee into my leg and release. The main thing is that she doesn't feel this in her back and I just keep winding up taking the slack. If something feels weird and tingly, stop. Okay, so that's homework number two. Homework number three today. Back to internal rotation partner stretch. So go ahead and lay on your back on this side. That's fine. Reach your butt up. Hands behind your back. Anchor those shoulders. Remove your groin from her face area. Do you see how easy that is? Create some nice distance. And then load on down. Contract. Relax. She's going to kind of just resist into her own back. Tight. Tight. Tight. Release. Get in the habit of developing stretching partners. It's good stuff. You should be able to do this on your own, but it's also fun to mobilize with someone else. And we'll see you guys tomorrow.