We're going to solve a problem right on the spot. Angel and Juliet have just completed a a hellish bar complex. Uh feeling tight in the heel cords and Angel was feeling like he was going to cramp on the bottom of his feet, which gives us a great segue to talk about uh management of those heel cords effectively. Another another little piece that we haven't talked about yet and uh show you what we're going to do with the bottom of the feet and the ball. So, here we go. We're going to pan away to uh Juliet and Angel. And one of the things that uh sometimes it helps is if you can get a friend to refund you, it really makes a difference. And so what Juliet's doing is literally anchoring Angel's uh heel down on top of the foam roller. And then she's just rolling around it, kind of building a little pressure wave of uh of awesomeness right here in the front. That's his uh his power, his calf, his soas, all the soft tissues in there. And she just finds another section. It looks kind of systematically goes out like a typewriter. Rolls across. She's got some good pressure here. Angel is not making a uh happy face, but he should be because uh he's going to get better. So remember, always have a safe word. agreed on before you begin this. Juliet loves to to uh torture people this way and uh it's really horrible. But remember, we're trying to pancake the fibers back and forth. Okay. So, uh if you can get a partner to do this a little bit, you know, make sure both partners experience it so that you don't reef on someone and then uh get retribution enacted on you because uh it's it's pretty gnarly. So, uh this is really nice way to really unglue those heel cords. A lot of people complain that they can't get enough pressure themselves back and forth. It's just not the same as uh as having someone kind of pancake your fiber. So, uh a little uh little partner heel cord uh management there. And then the second piece is Angel, show us the bottom of your feet. Um if you look at the bottom of his foot, when we talk about planter fascia, it's basically big sheet of connective tissue from the kind of from the metatarsal heads all the way back to calccanous. And that stuff gets really really tight and ropey. And then you'll notice that Angel kind of has this overdeveloped uh Asian foot from wearing slippers for a long time. And then uh you know because he's got a little bit of a flat foot and his nvicular has dropped a little bit you know it challenges his foot to be uh in a better position sometimes because he's not kind of doesn't have the structure to support the arch because some of those kind of uh ligaments have stretched out a little bit in this position which means under load sometimes he gets a little bit extra hard kind of muscle pain. And so it's pretty simple. until he takes the ball. And if he's feeling that stuff, you know, immediately we want to try to kind of reproduce uh those fibers to get sliding, slipping them past one another, he can find a spot, uh, you know, work around. This is so intuitive, but people don't take the bottom of their feet very seriously. We kind of work on them all the time, but uh, you know, it's not until they kind of flare up and get pissed that we have a problem with it. So, he's just loading up his foot, and he can just spend, you know, there are like five layers of muscle tissue, I don't know, four layers in the foot. I can't remember them all. um doesn't really matter. What's really important is that uh we get those things supple and sliding and definitely after kind of a crampy episode. And you'll notice that Angel just pulled his toe back and he's flexing his toes back and forth, working on those flexors. And uh this is an important business. So, you know, spend a minute or two. If you are prone to having any pulling in your feet, anything that feels uh like a little bit nervy, then definitely do that. Sometimes with all the pose running, that bottom of the foot gets a little bit stiff and it's worth uh worth going in there and uh attacking that stuff. And this is an easy thing to do even while you're sitting at your desk. All right, so now we've got uh we're going to go ahead and go to the wad and Angel's going to go ahead and do his hip distraction. Uh we're going to go ahead and do this kind of capsular piece here. We're not You can add the distraction band if you want if that really helped. Remember what he's done is he's wound himself up into external rotation. And this is really biasing the hip capsule. Of course, we're catching everything here, but he's going to shove that butt out to the side. And imagine sticking the femur out the hip capsule here. And then uh there's not one place that's going to be tight for him. And so right now he's a little bit kind of hip crease below the knee. So that would be that position where he's been doing a lot of cleaning and receiving. I think he just cleaned 290. Clean jerk 290 today. So um you know he's a little bit tight through here. And then he can push him up into relative extension. So the hip kind of comes over and he comes come towards the barbell angel. Come up that way. Good. No, without moving your knee. Just open up your hip a little bit and then push over to the side again. So he doesn't have to load so much and come forward this way. And now he's greater than 90. Now push that butt out to the side towards me. I am. And you can see he's found his his uh piece. So you know the key is to kind of work on uh the ranges and the band uh kind of bands in the tissue yourself and only you will know to feel that. Your physical therapist or uh you know someone else is trained to feel those things but you can be kind of your own best guide in there. So that's homework number one. Okay. Let's try to get two or three minutes on there. Can't hit those hip capsules enough. And then homer number two is Angel's going to take himself into a big lunge. He's prepping up the toe in the back and he's going to come forward. And then from this position, he's uh kind of got a two for one. He's just going to hang out. He's letting the knee fall out. And it really feels like it drills him in this kind of part of the high high hip here. He lets the foot drop out. He can push further back if he wants and load the hamstring a little bit more. And simultaneously, that's going to just reef on the front of his hip. And so we kind of get this nice two for one business here where we can just open up both. So we just hit a capsular mobe. Now we're going to hit the kind of the top the TFL and uh all the rest of the lateral compartment and then uh some of this anterior stuff. All right. How's that feel, Angel? I'm tight. Feels good though. Feels good. Love it. All right. We'll see you guys tomorrow.