 Subject I would love to tackle is painful s***s, what that means for women and what that means for relationships. If you're in perimenopause, some of the things that you may start noticing are dryness during intercourse. You may have to feel like you are using lubricant or there's just dryness or itchiness, feeling a pressure or heaviness in the vagina. Dr. Sarah Reardon, Dr. Sarah Reardon, Dr. Sarah Reardon, also known as the vagina whisperer, is the power of social media to educate women about their health. She is out with her first book, Floored, a women's guide to pelvic floor health at every age and stage. Word-certified pelvic floor physical therapist. She is the founder and the chief vagina officer of the vagina whisperer, an online pelvic floor workout program for women of every age and stage. What would be an ideal postpartum care situation? You know, I think there's always like a level of like, I'll take this, but the dream would be this. What is wrong with society that women have children and then we're like, good luck. Why is it that we have to sort of wait till there's a problem or react? That is the way that our medical system works and it's really unfortunate and ineffective. This episode is sponsored by Laird Superfood. One of the things I'm on a mission to do is to get adults to eat breakfast again. Yeah, and one of the reasons that we're really excited about people eating breakfast is we need to eat enough and in most cases more protein. And if you skip an entire meal, you're behind already. Like by the time you get to lunch, you can't catch up. Could not agree more. The other thing that we're seeing is that sometimes people just aren't breakfast people. I have a daughter who's not a breakfast person. I'm sitting next to not a breakfast person. I am not a breakfast person. And you have trained yourself to get some micronutrients and some macronutrients, specifically protein in the morning. And I really appreciate it about you. Yeah, but one of the ways that I get a few calories on as well as 12 grams of protein is with Laird Superfood protein creamer. What's great about this is that it's the classic mushroom blends, like all these super functional mushrooms, plus all of the micronutrients and great healthy fats from the creamer, then they've added a little protein. And what's nice about it is, and I think you know this, is a lot of proteins don't mix well with other things. No, not at all. But this is not the case. This makes a super smooth and creamy, yummy, tasty cup of coffee with protein. It is a vegan plant-based protein. And it's so tasty. Yeah, it's equivalent of two eggs. And so what I think is like, you're like, hey, I'm in a hurry. I'm going to have this nutrient dense coffee. And I'm beginning to have my bases covered. And I think that's how I really like to think about it. Yeah, I mean, before I train, I leave the house with, you know, a little bit of coffee, which keeps me alive. Some general calories. It's my pre-workout of coffee. Some adaptogens and some protein on board. Yeah, you can't beat it. And I think if you're traveling, you and I travel, we always seek out the coffee. Now we have a, like, we often don't eat breakfast when we travel. We just like kind of go on to the day. We just hope. So this is an easy way to meet your needs. A nutrient dense cup, all we're doing is adding in enough protein to just maintain your muscle mass. I think this is a great, great solution for those of you who don't like breakfast. Which I'm one of those people. Yeah, yes you are. To learn more, go to lairdsuperfood.com slash trs and use code TRS20 for 20% off and free shipping. This segment is powered by our friends at the World as You'll Know It. Their latest season, the future of aging, dives straight into the holy grail of medicine, slowing or even reversing aging. They bring in leading voices from biology, neuroscience and medicine to ask whether we can reprogram cells, reboot immune systems and extend health span, not just lifespan. Imagine 20 extra years of trail runs, back squats and grand kid piggybacks because researchers cracked the code on cellular damage. Sound sci-fi, but these guests are running the experiments right now. Episodes unpack everything from molecular tweaks to brain plasticity drills. Plus a sober look at which miracle supplements don't deliver. For anyone chasing longevity through smart training like our ReadyState tribe, this podcast is essential listening. Search the world as you'll know it. The future of aging. Hit follow and stay ahead of the curve. Let's get into today's show. Dr. Reardon, welcome to the ReadyState podcast. Thanks so much for having me. So we are here today to talk about your amazing new book called Florida. It's a women's guide to pelvic floor health at every age. And I'm just going to kick it off because I loved the subtitle of the introduction. And that is the current state of down there care. So what is the current state of down there care? So unfortunately it is in a poor state because I feel like we're not really talking about a lot of the pelvic floor issues that women are experiencing. And just to clarify, all genders can experience pelvic floor issues. All genders have a pelvic floor. I focus this book solely on women's health and pelvic health issues because that's where I have the majority of my experience in my 18 years of practicing. And also because women are more vulnerable to pelvic floor issues because they go through experiences like pregnancy and postpartum and menopause. But more women experience urinary leakage than osteoporosis, high blood pressure and diabetes, yet they're less likely to get treatment for pelvic floor issues. And I think we really need to start having these conversations so that women and medical providers are aware that this type of care, pelvic floor therapy is available and very successful in treating these issues so that women aren't suffering silently. We're in this really amazing time where bright physios, bright instructors are moving what was traditionally held in offices behind walls. You're saying, you know, we describe it as there's a lot of very highly skilled work, but then there's a lot of information and a lot of practice that we're going to call unskilled. And when I mean unskilled, I don't mean that it's not technical, that it's not sophisticated, but that it can be done by a person. And one of the things that I love about this book and I love about your approach is that it's so much organized and centric around shifting low side of control back to the person. It's not saying, here's a book about clinical diagnosis, here are the questions you need to act your practitioners, but here's what you can do to have some agency and to change your own experience around this sort of very hidden process that frankly no one talks about and is all too prevalent. Right. And you know, I mean, that's an amazing way to say it. And I'm like, come on tour with me because that's a perfect song. But you know, I think one of the, this is a silent epidemic. I mean, you know, the statistics are very clear. One in three women will experience a public tour issue at some point in her lifetime. 50% of women over the age of 65 leak urine. We spend billions of dollars on pelvic floor dysfunction and we're often treating the symptoms instead of getting to the root cause of the problem. And I think as physical therapists, we're really trained to kind of look to always take a step back. You know, we're not just slapping on cold packs and hot packs and medications. We're like, what led to this dysfunction? And I think that in the realm of pelvic health, when you're not incorporating a pelvic floor physical therapist or occupational therapist, we're missing the lens of what's causing this. So we're just women are continuing to have these problems. They're affecting their quality of life, their work life, their ability to mother to have intimate relationships to exercise. And we've kind of been told to just deal with them like, oh, you have a vagina and you've had babies, you're getting older. Oh, no, no, here's another undergarment that you can wear. Here is special exercise clothing. Right. I mean, it's now we make underwear with pads in them. Like, how about that? Like, look at all the innovation we're doing for you. And it's really like, really, this is the only option that we have when it's actually not the only option. So you have this phrase you use called common, but not normal to talk about pelvic floor issues. And so I just, I'm wondering if you can sort of, and I'm sure people listening to this, you know, many of my friends have experienced a lot of these issues, but like, what are the, what would you say are the top common, but not normal pelvic floor health issues you see? I want to jump in just because Juliet and I, Juliet's married to a physio. And for a hundred thousand years, I've been like, that's not normal. She's like, I'm normal. It's just not typical. And so I really appreciate this language, common, but not normal, because it is important to say, hey, what should we expect out of our bodies? What is, what is baseline function? And I think it's important to define that. Yeah. And at different stages of our life, you know, Correct. Do, right, because we, we have a pelvic floor throughout our whole life and probably a different experience, but like, exactly at what point do we know we have a problem versus, you know, there's got to be some normal changes to our pelvic floor. So talk us through this whole common, but not normal idea. You know, and I think one of the challenges with people not even knowing the difference between common and normal is that we don't even talk about this part of our body. Most women don't even know it exists. Young women don't know what exists. So when there's a problem with it, they can't attribute it to like, oh, that's a pelvic floor problem. Is it common or normal? They're like, we don't even know it's there. And so I think a lot of it goes back to just the lack of awareness we're taught about the pelvic floor from a very young age. And that's really why I start the book like with menstruation. And particularly for people who have, you know, daughters or young children, it's that if we can start talking about what's normal when we're young with the normal way to pee, the normal way to poop, what's normal for periods, pain is not normal. Being able to insert menstrual products comfortably is normal. Pain, free gynecological exams, normal. But when we don't even know what's normal and what's not, we can't even, you know, kind of start to discriminate. Well, oh, is this a problem? And then where do I go seek help? And then as we start getting sexually active, when we maybe go through pregnancy or childbirth, a lot of the common but not normal symptoms start to arise like urinary leakage or discomfort with intercourse or cesarean scar pain or prolapse or even what we call like a mummy tummy like weak abs for due to a diastasis recti. And a lot of this is like, oh, you're, you've had babies or you're getting older, this is normal. But again, it's not normal. Normal means that we can function without pathology or symptoms or disease. But, you know, we're kind of just taught as women to deal with them and figure out how to, you know, work around the dysfunction versus actually treat it. And so a lot of this, I think, is to a lack of awareness and education. And then also, once we do have the courage to discuss the pelvic floor issues, say with a medical provider, it's kind of dismissed as, oh, that's normal when in fact it's not. Yeah, you know, in the pre-roll, I just talked about how I'm seeing a little bit of a shift in my daughter's conversations about their body functions and how comfortable they are discussing their periods and, you know, and just that they're like, yeah, this is like a man or just as just human beings being human beings. And they've really begun to normalize that. Oftentimes, we, because we went to gym for so long, initiated a lot and we had a pelvic floor therapist on staff for a long time. And we initiated a lot of conversations around, we'll call it pelvic floor dysfunction, when it was related to performance. And we found that that was an easy way in for a lot of people to initiate a conversation because we said, hey, we noticed that you're peeing and you're snatching or double unduring, you know, and hey, what's going on there? How long has it been going on? And just being curious about that, we used to, I mean, we did keep a towel on the platforms because it was so common to just wipe up the pee during a session. And eventually, you know, we'd say, hey, you know, we have solutions and we'd love to talk to you about this. And people were like, you know, it's I'm not ready or, but then it was such a embarrassing, embarrassing, and it was a way in finally for people to begin to say, hey, and then also we had, and then there were so many follow along conversations about this. So, you know, you really bring up this point that as practitioners as as coaches, and especially as someone who works with 50% of the population, this needs to be on your radar. Yeah, it needs to be in your radar, and it needs to be not normalized. I think the conversations need to be normalized, like ask about them, encourage support, recommend therapy, but not the problem. You can't normalize the problem because although you feel like, oh, well, this woman knows she's peeing her pants. Again, it's embarrassing. But what you're leading to is perpetual dysfunction that will only get worse, like these symptoms don't get better. If anything, they get worse. You're continuing to kind of push your body past what your tissues can tolerate, they can support, what your pelvic floor can handle. And again, as your hormones change, as you go through pregnancy and postpartum, like that only gets worse if it goes untreated. And so, I kind of unfortunately feel like it's a little bit of a disservice when we kind of, you know, shrug off these issues as quote unquote normal because no offense. But I'm like, if a man was walking around doing this, like would we just be like, oh, it's totally fine. He's just paying his pants. Like just for liner it. No, that is a solid no. Yeah, just wear a pad, just wipe it up with a towel. It's no big deal. And I think that we would put more research dollars behind figuring this out and getting treatment. And you know, ultimately what you want from an athlete or what you're trying to optimize is performance. But many, many women leave the sport or leave exercise because of pelvic floor problems. So it's something that I think that we want to be attuned to and really kind of encourage early diagnosis, treatment, proactive and preventative tips to help manage them and stay in their sport. So I'd love to talk a lot. I have a thousand questions about the specifics here at all ages. But I would love to go back a little bit because you know, you have grown a big following on social media. And you are known as the vagina whisperer, which is like the greatest title of all time. And if I'm not mistaken, and if you could tell this story, I think you started by wearing a vulva costume. And that was sort of the beginning of you. You know, I know you've been practicing pelvic floor therapy, but you I think realize that you know, you could have a certain amount of impact in your own clinic, but that you could amplify that impact on social media. So tell us a little bit about that backstory and you know, what you've really learned by putting out this content publicly. Sure. And I think, you know, when we start down these paths, there's no goal of like, I'm going to build this platform and get this many followers. It's really that we're so passionate about what we do. And we feel like everyone needs to know the benefit of that type of therapy. And for me, that was pelvic floor health. As I mentioned, I've been practicing as a pelvic floor therapist for 18 years. It's all I've done. Before this, you and I, you know, we were all chatting about orthopedics. I was like, that's, you know, not my jam. It's been a minute. But it's, you know, I've only done this type of therapy. And I am really passionate about helping people and particularly women better understand their bodies and to help them get relief from again, symptoms they thought were common, but they're not normal. After I had been practicing for about 10 years, I had went through my first pregnancy, I did a lot of childbirth preparation in pelvic floor therapy. And I had a really incredible birth and a really great postpartum recovery physically. The rest of it was kind of bananas. But physically, I was like, Oh my gosh, this is possible. I've been helping women for a decade thinking that we were just all doomed to have pelvic floor problems when that wasn't the case for me. And I felt like, again, everyone needs to know this information. Why is it just the people who were seeing me in Dallas, where I was working at the time, or who had the opportunity to get referred to therapy were privy to this. So I started an Instagram account for much for my girlfriends, my friends at the time who were also getting pregnant and giving birth. And I was giving them tips and tools about perineal massage and the best belly braces for pregnancy and how to modify planks. And then it was just organic growth from there. And this was back in 2016 or 2017, where Instagram wasn't this huge educational platform. It was literally just photos we can snap. I think my first photo on there is like of a bunch of lube, you know, wasn't anything like earth shattering. But the growth of my account really is a testament to how much women and medical professionals want this information about pelvic floor care, but they're not getting it from, you know, health education from medical providers. And then the Volvo costume popped up when I reached 10,000 followers, I think after having the accounts for a year. And that used to be like a big deal because you could finally like share a link in your story. And I still wear that Volvo costume like very regularly on the account. So it's just, it's really been an incredible journey as a PT. I don't think I ever imagined myself being here. But to see the awareness of pelvic health grow and help so many people is just amazing. And I'm just really grateful that I'm doing this work and love what I do so much. Let me take a step back for everyone. I think probably everyone here knows a woman. Everyone has maybe even you even have girl children or a mother. It's chances are. But define pelvic floor for us. Like what when, when is it like, you know, we are, we've seen a revolution come and go around talking about diaphragm and breathing, dynamics. And I'm like, that's cool. That's 50% of your, you know, container. But define pelvic floor for us and sort of demystify it because when, when, when the late person says, rotator cuff, I'm like, what does that mean to you? And they're like, well, this is some stuff in my shoulder that rotates the cuff. And so when you hear pelvic floor, you're like, it's a floor in my pelvis. What do you mean? Cause I have my own working definition because I talk about this ad nauseam and have, hopefully share some funny stories of working with men just so that this can be a wonderful way to talk about, you know, pelvic floor health with all genders. But when we're talking pelvic floor, what do you mean? Give us some anatomy. Help us understand what's in bounds and out of bounds. So your definition is not often is the floor of your pelvis. And it's 50% of the container because the diaphragm's at the top and your pelvic floor muscles are at the bottom. But if you imagine there was ring of bones, the bony pelvis, it has an opening at the top and an opening at the bottom. So at the very bottom of that opening, you have a basket of muscles that sits like a hammock and it attaches to the pubic bone in the front, the tailbone in the back and kind of slings side to side to the ischial tuberosity of your sit bones. And that basket of muscles, again, it's in all genders, supports your pelvic organs. So in the female body, your uterus, your ovaries, your bladder, your tull urine, your bowels, which hold stool all rest inside of that hammock. In male bodies, it's the prostate, the bladder and the bowels. These muscles also have openings. So in a female body, it has three openings. One where the urine exits, one for the anal opening or poop exits, and then the vaginal opening for vaginal birth, menstruation, and vaginal intercourse. And the male body has two openings, one for the urethra for urine, one for the anal opening. The reason that women are more susceptible to pelvic core issues, although all genders again, and particularly males can have issues as well, is because we have that third opening. That it's what we call the urogenital diaphragm, that opening in the muscles is like an area of weakness, an area like a path of least resistance. So there's more pressure. We go through monthly menstrual cycles that where hormones change and it affects those muscles. We go through pregnancy and birth where those muscles get stretched out. Often they can even have a tear and then during menopause, the hormones in our bodies, the lower estrogen testosterone levels kind of weaken and thin those muscles. So women are more susceptible to issues, but again, these muscles are working all throughout the day. They're holding in urine in store. They're relaxing for bathroom trips. They have to relax for menstruation and intercourse. They're supporting our core and they co-contract with your transverse abdominal muscles. So they're super important. Yet again, most people don't even know that we have them, even physios. So it's pretty wild that we kind of jump from like the ribs to the knees and we don't think about the pelvic core muscles and their function and when we address body. So I'd love to hit a few of the things that I hear about a lot from my friends in my own life, you know, working with people. And we've touched on it a little bit, but the sort of peeing yourself leakage issue has been a big one. Obviously, we owned a gym, as Kelly mentioned. You know, I'm a mom. My friends are most of my friends are moms. This is an ongoing conversation. So I'm assuming your point of view is this is common, but not normal. And, you know, A, what are some things that women who are suffering from this can do on their own? And then how should they know when they actually need to go to a practitioner? And are you asking about bladder incontinence or incontinence? Are you talking about any pelvic floor pain, sexual pain? I'm just I'm talking about like actual bladder issues like leakage, like, you know, your jumping rope, you sneeze. You know, that's the most common thing that I hear about and know about amongst my peers and people that we work with. So I would agree with you. I would think urinary incontinence, as you mentioned, Kelly, is probably the most common type of pelvic floor issue that people experience. And again, they don't even realize that their pelvic floor muscles are a contributing factor or maybe the factor that are causing that leakage. And when that happens is that your bladder has some urine in it. Your bladder is never completely empty. It always has a little bit of residual volume. And anytime you cough, sneeze, or jump, there's pressure down on that bladder. And when your muscle can't close that sphincter well enough to hold the urine in, you get a leak. It can often happen with the urgency to urinate or kind of a full bladder walking to the bathroom as well, which is called urgent incontinence. So what you there's two things you need to do is one, you need to learn the proper way to pee and poop. And I say this because we're never taught it, right? Like so even as young kids, this is the one like when you're kind of training your kids or, you know, teach them the proper way to go. For females, I would encourage you to sit down so that you're not hovering over a toilet. So your standard should be sitting down. If it's like a super gross toilet that's fine to hover or squat over it. The second is when you sit down lean forward to kind of put you in more of a squatting position, which relaxes your pelvic for the best. And last is to just to not push when you pee. And I call this power peeing. I think as women and moms, we're always like wanting to be so efficient and move on to the next task. But when you pee, you need to chill because your bladder is a muscle that pushes the urine out for you. So just sit, chill and breathe. And the reason that's important is because you could be weakening your pelvic floor muscles every time you pee if you're straining or pushing. And you pee six to eight times your day, and you're weakening your muscles every time. So I'm like, you could do kegels to the cow, come home. But if you're not changing some of those things in your daily habits, it's not going to help you. Oftentimes with leakage, you can have weakness where you'd want to do some strengthening exercises of the pelvic floor. But many women also have tension. And you need to relax the pelvic core tension first with breathing and yoga and pastoral changes before you strengthen. So it's really important to discriminate which pathway you need to walk down to treat the incontinence. And then also look at things you might be drinking that irritate it like coffee or wine or bubbly waters. Those can also be bladder irritants. So some lifestyle changes, some exercise stuff. But you know, again, these are really just like if somebody came to you with rotator cuff issues, you would not just like, oh, just go do like a bunch of bicep curls or rows, right? You would look at how they're moving, change their posture, you know, change their mechanics, you would kind of look at all of those things. And, you know, if they have tight muscles released that first, and then maybe go into strengthening the same thing applied to the pelvic floor. Can I ask a quick question? Oh, yeah, go ahead. So after I had my own kids, I definitely had some like very light leakage issues, which resolved themselves. And one of my theories on it, because I didn't do anything specific other than continuing to do a serious strengthening conditioning program. And so my assumption was that I was just by doing a generalized strengthening conditioning program, that that was why I, you know, that problem resolved for me without seeking any kind of professional help. Is that true? I mean, is that possibly true? Obviously, you can't diagnose my specific situation. But, you know, for like, let's say women who are postpartum, and at a safe point where they can exercise, obviously, is strength training something that can help resolve these issues? If you rebuild the pelvic floor and core strength first, like before you at six weeks postpartum, your pelvic floor is functioning at 50% of the strength and endurance that was pre-pregnancy. You say that like it's a bad thing. We got to get back under the deadlifts. Let's go. Right, exactly. But I'm saying that's when we get the clearance to go back to the gym, right? If you're trying to resume your normal strengthening and like your deadlifts or whatever it is that you're doing at your previous weight, you're loading your pelvic floor before you've rebuilt that strength and endurance. And every time you load your body, load your spine, it's pressure on the pelvic floor. So I really encourage doing some really focused deep core and pelvic core strengthening. And for you, it was likely that you know this. You know the mechanics of engage the T, the transverse abdominals, kind of exhale with exertion. You know those mechanics, but most people don't. And so I think that you can absolutely build strength by doing those things if you've got the right mechanics while you're doing it. I think a lot of trainers and instructors don't know how to do that properly and aren't really focused on that kind of postpartum rehabilitation state to rebuild their cores and pelvic floors before increasing a lot of load or intensity. And that's a key point. So I mean, I will say that I'm 42 years old, I'm perimenopausal, and I started playing tennis at the age of 40. So at 40, I was like, I'm going to pick up a new sport. Yeah. So I'm like, and it's incredible. I love it. But about a year ago, I was playing tennis and I made a quick side step and I was like, Oh, my gosh, I think I just peed. And I was like, I'm the vagina whisper. I can't pee my pants. And the whole game, rest of the match, I was worried are my pink leggings wet? Can you see it? I mean, I lost the match. Your mind doesn't go off of it. It is so consuming and embarrassing. And I said, I'm perimenopausal, my hormones are changing. I'm doing a new activity in sport. I have to train my pelvic floor just like I would train my rotator cuff for tennis. You have to train these muscles just like you would anything else to perform and function. And I started doing pelvic floor strengthening, but working it into my strength training routines. And are these and are better? Is this kind of pelvic floor strengthening people can do on their own? Do they need to do it with a qualified coach or a pelvic floor therapist? I imagine you talk about this in the book. But yeah, what can people do on their own versus what do they need? And also, is there a level of severity? Like, is there a level of severity where you're like, okay, skip all this at home stuff and go, you know, do not stop, do not pass, go directly to a therapist? Let me jump in as a man here. And what I want to say is it's okay to get help at any time. Well, no, of course, of course. But I think a lot of, but you, it doesn't have to be, I just want to be clear for everyone. It doesn't have to be severe to go seek a person. You don't have to suffer in sounds. But to your point, I just want to want to be clear about that. Yeah, but I think, you know, sort of what's the the temperature, right? You know, if you have a little bit of light leakage and you're, you can relearn how to pee and, you know, do some strength training and think you it's going to resolve or I would say this, no amount of leakage is normal. Today's episode is brought to you by element. Let's start with the elephant in the room. I don't drink enough water. You never have recently. I was like, you know, I'm feeling kind of achy and I was like, I may want to drink any water. Yeah, you literally had one day where you drank enough water and you said, Hey, Juliet, I had no idea I could feel this good as a human. And I said, what did you do differently? And you go, I drank water today. And that leads me to why  I love lemonade element. A, I have a hard time just drinking enough water. I'm actually staring, I've started drinking from a straw cup. Because that increased your water exactly. Right, it's easier, but when I put lemonade element in my, it's not a problem. Yeah, this needs to become everybody's new summer love affair is lemonade element. It is bananas, not only do I drink more, but I actually wait for it, feel better. This morning, brutal, brutal bike intervals, pouring sweat. And you know what I thought to myself? I don't need any salt. I'm a 230 pound man. So did you just have coffee instead? No, I crushed some element and it is such a game changer. One of the things that we have forgotten because we all sort of moved away from sugary beverage, recovery drinks, is that we need to put the electrolytes back in the system. If you are working, we do, we work alongside world elite athletes. They take their salt intake so seriously. And as people have trained really hard and as their diets have gotten kind of, like they're cooking whole foods and things, they don't salt anything. And it is a huge opportunity to feel better, go faster and come into cold water. Most importantly, this thing is like the perfect mix of sweet and tart and also has this nostalgic flavor of the powdered lemonade drinks that were full sugar that we all used to drink in the 70s and 80s out of a plastic container. I even brewed some, I just took some hot black tea, right? Just brewed it for a few minutes, dumped a bunch of ice in it, dumped my element in it, boom, salty Palmer. And I'm telling you, this is, I'm gonna, they're gonna cut me in half. I'm gonna be two thirds lemonade salt. That's the game. Look, right now, if you order through our link, you can get a free sample pack of elements most popular drink flavors. And if you want to party in your mouth, try sparkling. Go to drinklmnt.com slash trs. And what do we do, Jay? We drink it every day, literally. This episode of the Ready State podcast is brought to you by Momentus. And today, we're gonna talk about one of our favorite subjects, which is pug. More importantly, let's be more scientific, intracestion pug. What is pug? So passion fruit, orange guava, everyone knows what that is. Especially if you're a teenager, it's like hip, the flavor combo is like very hip with teenagers. So imagine, let's put pug for the side for a second. We're in the middle of a revolution of carbohydrate fueling exercise, especially high intensity exercise. Our elite cyclists, 100 to 120 grams of carbohydrate an hour, even in our collegiate athletics, my Uber friends, geniuses are saying, hey, try to get 60 grams of carbs an hour if you're in a high aerobic sport. Well, the other thing is, think about youth sports. We have so many kids, including our own kids, who are practicing upwards of two hours, two to three hours, depending on the sport, especially by high school. Very tolerable carbohydrate. We figured out the carbohydrate mix. Momentus has a carbohydrate mix that is gold standard for easy on the digestive system. And what we're seeing is being able to fuel the session. I think we all, look, if you're going to one hour spin class, it's not worth talking about, like whatever, you can do whatever you want. We'll do better if you drink carbohydrate. But for those intense efforts, for longer sustained efforts. And this flavor is so good. Look, I've been on the fuel for a long time. Sometimes I'll come in fasted. We're working out first in the morning, and I won't eat anything. I'll just start drinking right away. Well, this is so good. And bonus, it's carbohydrates plus electrolytes. So it sort of checks all the intercession needs that the athlete has. Whatever nerd, it tastes so good. It's pock. No cap. It's definitely not mid. That I did it. Look, if you want to learn more, go to livemomentus.com slash TRS and use code TRS and save up to 35% of checkout. No amount of leakage is normal. And it varies for everyone. So for me, a little leak with tennis is like a huge deal. And I'm like, let's go. I'm spending the next year strength training, pulling in my pelvic floor, building muscle in my body to combat this. For somebody else, they may be like, oh, it's not that big of a deal. So we kind of know it's variable per person to what their tolerance level is, what their activity levels are. I'm a pretty active person. I'm like, no way. Diapers are not my destiny. I'm on this, right? So I think it's a little bit of tolerance, but no amount of leakage is normal. I think that pain, leakage, discomfort, these are, this is information from our body that either our mechanics aren't right, from things that are functioning well. And whether we choose to take action or not, I think it's always up to us. So that's one thing I would say. The other thing is there's absolutely things you can do at home, but I think, well, actually I think one of the beautiful things about healthcare and medicine and fitness is we have options. You can go do in-person training. You can go to in-person therapy. You can do telehealth. You can do digital platforms, or you can read a book. You know, I think a lot of what happens in pelvic floor therapy can feel really mystical and overwhelming. So what I get you in this book is a starting point. And if you do the things in this book and you start the exercises and the training, I think it's a great start, but I say many times, if your symptoms don't get better or they get worse, then I want you to seek in-person help. Because this isn't meant to replace it. It's meant to complement it. I love that. Let me ask just a blunt question. What is wrong with society that women have children? And then we're like, good luck. Because I'll speak to my own experience. Juliet has had a couple of babies. We are like literally here's your baby, good luck. I hope you just make it home in the baby carrier. I hope you can feed your child. Seems I look around, there are a lot of kids, there are a lot of people. It means that this has happened a lot. Why isn't this part of postpartum care? Why is it that we have to sort of wait till there's a problem before we react? Why isn't this just normal? That is the way that our medical system works. And it's really unfortunate and effective. And it's one of the reasons that I'm so vocal about pelvic floor health care is because if we were able to intervene sooner, I think that we would prevent a lot of the issue instead of to your point waiting until a problem arises. Or it's like, how bad does the problem need to be? Do you need to be soaking your pants in the grocery store aisle? Do you need to be having to change jobs because you can't sit or stand all day? I mean, I think that, and to be super frank, I don't think that we have the infrastructure in this country to appropriately support women, particularly after giving birth. There's no paid medical leave. There's no healthcare coverage. There's no childcare coverage. You get one postpartum visit that's scheduled for five minutes to an OBGYN that's completely overwhelmed. And 40% of women don't attend their postpartum check-ins with their medical provider. And I wanna be clear, you don't have to have a baby to have, not get any care or anyone else. I just wanna be clear, but that ends up being a really obvious entry point for a lot of people. Hey, since we're here and you've just had this child, you pushed a child out through your belly or through your vagina, now is a chance to talk about all of this musculature. Yeah, I mean. And connect the tissue. I will say for my part, and I realize you have a pelvic floor your whole life and a different journey with your pelvic floor. But I mean, it at least became a conversation amongst me and my friends after having children, right? Because you have a friend who has a prolapse and you have painful sex and leakage. And so it does start to become a topic of conversation. So just to follow along Kelly's question, what would be an ideal postpartum care situation? I have some ideas, but I would love to hear, what should we be shooting for for women in postpartum? You know, I think there's always like levels like, I'll take this, but the dream would be this. So in the dream world, I mean, we would treat birth, like we would any other surgical procedure in the orthopedic world. When you get a hip replacement, you get therapy day one, right? Then you get home health care, and then you can progress to outpatient treatment. You're blowing my mind right now. It's the same thing, right? Like you get more care for a knee replacement or an ACL tear than you do for a cesarean section. And yet you don't even have a baby to care for and feed. And so I would say in the dream world, we had acute care therapy and the postpartum, the mom and baby for where they teach you literally, how do you get out of bed? How do you use the bathroom? Start mobilizing and walking, scar care. I mean, body mechanics, lifting. I mean, the things that we teach people, just like we do in any other acute care setting. And then once you return home, you can either do virtual care and or home health. And then at your six week, it should be three week postpartum visit. Our medical system hasn't caught up to what the recommendation is, but at your six week postpartum in-person visit with a gynecologist or midwife, you also see a pelvic floor therapist. And that's what we do at our clinic here in New Orleans. If somebody goes and sees their OBGYN at their six week visit, I mean, we see them the next day. Because I'm like, once you get clearance, like I wanna do an intravaginal assessment. I wanna look at your cesarean scar, perineal tear. I wanna look at your diastasis. I mean, before you like go back to exercise and sets, like let's see where you are and what you need to work on before you try to jump back into your normal activity. And then we do ongoing care until they are returned to normal function. You mean the episiotomy where we cut through your pelvic floor? Muscles. Correct. So that we shouldn't just be casual about that? Oh my gosh. I mean, and think about, these are cut muscles that close the urethra. They close the anal opening. They are the entry point for sex and menstruation. And there's no care. Like if you have a scar, like we mobilize scars. We put silicone in them, but we're not doing that for perineal tears, which is also where scar tissue can form. So there's just, it's like this, for lack of better terminology, this black box. So that just goes like forgotten. We don't wanna talk about it. And then Julie at your point, they become these kind of hush-hush conversations that we maybe have with girlfriends or dinner table conversations or private in the bathroom. But then what? Like it should be normal to get care. Just like we, you know, get, if you said my shoulder hurt, they go, oh, go to physical therapy. I know a really good one. Like this should be no different. That just makes so much sense to me that it's like actually kind of shocking. That's amazing. So the next subject I would love to tackle, which is one of the other ones that's come up a lot in different conversations over the years, is painful sex. And not just what that's about, but what that means for women and what that means for relationships. And what a huge deal it actually can be, not just from the pain perspective, but like from an emotional perspective. So I don't even know where to begin with this painful sex piece. But this is part of this conversation around pelvic floor, your general health. Yeah, and also just to tack on to that, you know, I'm obviously in the perimenopause, menopause demographic, that's what content has served to me. But, you know, in addition to having many women, I know have pelvic floor problems, which arose after having kids or for whatever reason. And then you add on to that, the other things that are happening with perimenopause and menopause, you know, loss of libido, dryness. I mean, you name it, it's like this perfect storm for women. And I think there's probably a lot that we can do, a lot of support women can get. But again, this is a topic that is literally just like, discussed quietly at our book club and not really publicly. So I don't even know where my question is. At least discussed quietly. I think there's like 50 questions in there, but if you could just talk about this subject generally, it's such a big deal. You got it. But it is, you know, I think, and you know, women are having babies later in life. So more women are having babies in their 40s than their teens. So you're literally going from postpartum into perimenopause in one blurry season. And you can't even figure out like, where am I right now? What happens during perimenopause, which is the kind of five to 10 years before you hit menopause. Menopause is when you haven't had a period for 12 full months and you're considered menopausal after that. Perimenopause is this runway before them where your hormones are kind of fluctuating and changing. It feels like you set a storm. You know, it's really this hormonal storm where you can't quite figure out what's going on. But I really see perimenopause as this kind of yellow light that's flashing, like, hey, something's coming. It's like a little dangerous line. And you're like, you have an opportunity to kind of prepare for it, or you just head right into the storm with no preparation. If you're in perimenopause, some of the things that you may start noticing are more frequently peeing. It could be like waking at night to pee when you didn't used to, or feeling like you have to pee several times if we're going to bed, more frequent leaks. So it could be like, oh, I used to be able to run or cough and sneeze and not leak, and now I do. Dryness during intercourse, you may have to feel like you are using lubricant or there's just dryness or itchiness kind of throughout the month. Heavier menstrual cycles, feeling a pressure, heaviness in the vagina. Kind of those are some of the more local pelvic floor symptoms. And a lot of that is due to lower estrogen levels. So estrogen starts to decline gradually when we're in perimenopause and then kind of like just plummets completely after menopause. Astrogen is a hormone that kind of plumps up and lubricates your pelvic floor and your vagina. Your vaginal walls are part of your pelvic floor. So when we have healthy estrogen, you have more lubrication, you have more lubrication with the rousal, you have thicker and more toned pelvic floor muscles and vaginal wall muscles. You could have stronger orgasms because orgasms are actually pelvic floor muscle contractions. So, that's kind of what we see. And when we don't have estrogen, we start having more leaks, more dryness, painful sex, things like that. And also low libido. Astrogen also helps produce collagen, which is a protein in our tissues that offers support. So when we have less collagen, we're more likely to have weakness in the muscles and lack of support, which puts you more susceptible to pelvic organ prolapse. And this is a lot when I hear women, they're in the shower and they're like, I feel like I'm washing, but something's coming out of my vagina. Or I feel like I can't empty my bladder completely or my balls completely. And it's scary when these things happen, you're like, who wants something coming out of their vagina, right? It feels pretty terrifying, but a lot of it is just due to a lack of support. So I think one thing is educating women on, how do you manage this? Exercise, proactively strengthening, using a vaginal moisturizer, which I'm a big fan of, but it's like we moisturize our face, use a specific serum or lotion for the vulva and vagina, using a great lubricant during intercourse to decrease pain. And then using topical estrogen, just very locally on the area or DHEA, locally on the area to help pump up and rejuvenate those tissues to minimize the risk of those urinary and sexual symptoms. And I am a breast cancer survivor, and I think there is started to be pretty clear research showing that vaginal estrogen is actually fine for women post breast cancer. So I'm just shouting it out to there that I think there's this subset of women who think it's like never an option for them, at least locally. And I think research keeps piling on that it is an option and could be a great option and could solve some of these problems for women. So I'm just throwing that out there. And I wanna circle around again, because I wanna remind everyone that you're a physical therapist. It means you're a movement specialist. And one of the words you threw out early on in this conversation was posture. And I think when people think posture, they think, oh, you're slouching in your back, you're forehead and neck. But when you and I mean posture, we typically, physios agree that we're talking about the organization of the body. And one of the things that I think helps from when I describe posture for people is like, there are shapes you can get into where you're less effective, where muscular chard doesn't recruit as well, where you appear weak, but you're what we call in our house, positionally inhibited. You're just, things don't work very well. And we were teaching in Australia, was that, I don't know, 2010 maybe? It was a long time ago. A long time ago, I was much younger, had hair. And at the end of my course, a woman came up and said, hey, I'm a pelvic floor therapist. And I can't believe how much you talked about organizing the trunk, the pelvis and relationship to the spine, and the function of the hips as it related to the system functioning. She's like, this was a whole course in pelvic floor health. And I wanna remind people that sometimes when we chase better function, it's not just we're playing need to play defense here, but by getting ourselves organized. We say, hey, can you stand up and squeeze your butt, for example? And what we see is as soon as you squeeze your butt, you tend to see a pelvis rotate posterior a little bit. And in those positions, your pelvic floor works a little bit more effectively. When you can rotate your hips, and you have hip extension, turns out that the hip rotators, you have six of them, nudge right up against the pelvic floor in a weird way how they're connected to this region, that we see global changes. We just had a, in our one or two course, we just had a coach say, hey, I worked on breathing, I worked on sequencing, and the restored some rotation. And this person had a much better, had much better bladder control. And I just wanna make sure that everyone doesn't hear this and say, oh, this isn't me, but that there's a continuum of looking at how the body functions. That isn't just hormonal, that isn't, there's a lot of things that you can do that are in service of the functionality of the body. Do you think I'm in the right place here? Cause certainly- I think you're completely right. This is how I talk about it with men a lot. Yeah. And I think it's so helpful for you to put it back in the body. Like it feels like, oh, the pelvis, we can just skip over it. But I mean, I'm talking, if you have a caesarean scar restriction, it's 30%, over 30% of women are having C-sections now to give birth, that it's gonna change your posture in your trunk, that's gonna change your shoulder mobility, that's gonna change your rib cage mobility in your breathing. Postpartum, you've got a wider rib, intercross the angle, that's gonna affect how you engage. If you can't get a neutral pelvis, that's gonna inhibit how you can contract your pelvic floor muscles and your TA. I mean, if you've got overactive obturators, that's a pelvic floor muscle that can cause painful sex. I mean, 36 muscles attached to the pelvis. I mean, you can't just look at the levator, and I am the obturator and be like, oh, it's just these. I mean, your piriformis does, you know, all of these. And so I think that we, as crucial as it is for pelvic floor therapists to put the pelvis back in the body and zoom out, I do think that other therapists have to be aware of how to also zoom in. Because we kind of skip over this part of our body. We maybe look at the hip rotation or knee angles. And, you know, but we're like not really addressing the abdominal wall, the adductors, the glutes. I mean, the hip rotators, it's like, and to be honest, like I think that there's this obsession with PT's like bring it back to the spine. And I'm like, it's not the spine. When you have pudendal nerve pain or vulvodynia or it's not your spine. Like you need to kind of get closer to the areas you're afraid of assessing or refer out for those because you're missing a huge portion of the body that again, like you mentioned, is connected to every breath you take. And I think it's really, it's interesting because I gave a lecture recently at our local university. And unfortunately there was maybe a group of five or six guys in the background or back left, you know, and they're kind of, you know, like laughing and not paying attention. And I'm like, you guys are missing out because again, as you mentioned, like 50% of your clayslater are gonna be females. You're gonna have female athletes, you're gonna have pregnant women, you're gonna have men who could have pelvic floor dysfunction, breathing problems. I mean, you have to be aware of this and it's a real disservice if you don't take the time to get comfortable even just asking the questions and figuring out either who to refer to or get comfortable with doing some of the external stuff yourself because you're missing huge pieces of the puzzle for your clients. If you, let me just say this to all the potential male therapists out there, if you can help a woman have less painful sex, less peeing, less fear, you're a god. I mean, not really like this, this is one of the things that helps, like it's so on top of people's minds because it really does cast a pallor over all of their daily function. And it's, it really is remarkable. I think I've been saying sphincter to belly button for a thousand years, right? And not always that I need you to brace, I need you to relax sometimes. There's a lot of coaching involved here. But one of the things that I feel is especially after trauma and I'll say trauma of birth, I don't mean to categorize it that way, but let's say that you had a tearing or an apesiatomy or a cesarean, a lot of that proprioception, a lot of that self-awareness is shut down and I'm fearful of touching, I'm fearful of engaging with these parts of our body. We have been having people roll their bellies on a ball for a hundred years, a squishy ball, and we go after the endopelvic fascia, we talk about the abdomen. Is it worthwhile for people to get a, like I've seen something on the internet and I have no affiliation with them called the Goochball? Have you seen this? Yeah, I do, I had somebody recommended to me. And basically it's a soft ball, a squishy ball that allows people to get some pressure into their pelvic floor, you sit on it, it could be done with a towel, that's how we've always taught it. But it seems like sometimes the first step is just, hey, let's see if we can get your brain to reconnect with this part of your body. Is that a reasonable kind of first step for people even? Yeah, I mean, I think a lot of this again, we're not taught about this part of our body, we are disconnected from it and then once trauma happens with whether it be sexual trauma, birth trauma, it could be cancer treatments, anything, that there's like almost an avoidance of it. It could be discomfort within reports, you kind of distance yourself. People won't even touch the scars on their knees, right? Right, right. And then we're asking people to touch it on their bellies, and there's so much kind of emotion. It's not unusual for us to work on someone's cesarean scar and do massage and sensitivity work and their tears are screaming down their face. And it's not because it's painful, but because we're holding so much. Like we've never unpacked these experiences. And so whatever the method is that can help people start to connect, and sometimes having an object or a layer between the hand and the body can be helpful. Even when we have people who can't touch their scars or they're not ready to, I'll have them take a towel and just like wipe over it after a shower, or place their hands over their pants and their scars underneath it and just do some diaphragmatic breathing into their hand. I think we need to meet people where they are versus thinking that there's only one way to treat them and whatever the tools or devices that can help start bridging those gaps, I think that that's really helpful. And we see this a lot with painful stats. It's like, oh, let's relax your pelvic floor and desensitize the muscles. And we have these tools we use called vaginal dilators. And they look like tampons of different sizes. And then you work up to the size that's the same size as your partner or whatever you want to insert into the vagina. But that's a huge challenge to go from using a vaginal dilator to having sexual activity with your partner, right? So we have to kind of give people a pathway to start connecting to taking those steps. It's like a trail of breadcrumbs to get them to meet their goals. And so I think we have to be creative as therapists. What can we offer them to help get them more comfortable? So I think that those are great ideas. I don't think there's any device that's like a one size fits all, gonna solve your problems. But I think it's good to have a toolbox of tools to help you start connecting. So we've talked about urinary incontinence, painful sex. I think you briefly mentioned prolapse. What are we missing in this common but not normal? Because I think if we do nothing more on this podcast then make sure every woman who listens to it knows that whatever it is they're experiencing might be common but not normal. And then the secondary question is, how do women then talk to their doctors or their healthcare practitioners about these issues, assuming that in many cases, they're going to be told this is normal. How do they have those conversations? So like what are we missing in the common but not normal so that people know that they know what's going on and then how do they have these conversations with their medical people? So I think the last thing we didn't mention is pooping, which is my all time favorite topic. That people don't realize that issues with bowel movements are also related to their pelvic floor. So constipation can be due to non-relaxing pelvic floor muscles or incoordinated pelvic floor muscles that can cause incomplete bowel emptying, straining with bowel movements that can contribute to prolapse, hemorrhoids, fissures, fecal staining. One of the most popular blog posts on my website is Skid Marks, why you have fecal staining in your underwear. And it's a really common issue but it can be due to weak anal sphincter muscles, overactive anal sphincter muscles. So if you're having any bowel movement issues or pooping issues which are actually quite common, your pelvic floor also needs to be assessed because it's likely a contributing factor. And even if it's due to something like colitis or Crohn's or IBS or whatever the diagnosis, your pelvic floor starts to kind of be a piece of the puzzle that needs to be addressed. So I think that that's one thing that I would encourage people in the book. I mean, there's a chapter called the scoop on poop. And it talks about like how you need to be properly pooping. If you have constipation, it could push on your bladder. A full ball could push on your bladder and cause more urinary urgency and overactive bladder and leakage. And so just thinking about how all these systems work together I think is really important. To enter the second part of your question about, I get the question often of, what should I do if I go to my doctor? And my doctor says, don't worry about this or that's normal or just use more lube or just relax. And I say, well, you should find a different doctor. Like I was like, I know the answer to this. Yeah. Act of physician. You're being gaslit. And I think there's enough doctors out there where you can find another one, because ultimately even as a PT, if I don't have the answer for you, I'm gonna say let me find someone who does. Right? Like if you come to me and you don't have a pelvic floor issue or you're not benefiting from the care that I'm providing, I'm gonna say, okay, let me look into this, talk to my colleagues, find out who the right person to refer you on to next. I don't say like, well, I can't find anything wrong. So just come back in six months if it's still there. That's just not the way that we handle patients. And I wanna say 100% yes on finding a different physician, but also I wanna remind everyone that your physician may have had 30 minutes of education here. And that I went to physio school and I'm pretty sure I had some lectures around it. Maybe it was three days, maybe it was four days. Of course we talked about the body a lot, but this is not necessarily an area of specialty that is hammered because there's so much to cover. So I just wanna, it's a crime of omission and we are experiencing the crime of omission that we're not adequately educating physicians and providers about resources even for, hey, you're gonna run into people who have pelvic floors, like 100% of the people you're with, and you need to know what to do next. Yeah, I mean, I don't even think most people realize that there is a subspecialty of physical therapy that is pelvic floor, right? So I mean, it's educating people up to that point. Like maybe the person, maybe your first call actually isn't to your primary care physician or your OBGYN. Maybe your first call or your first Google search or whatever you're gonna do is to try to find a qualified, board certified pelvic floor therapist in your area. Can we just clip that out and put it on the APTA national site, I mean, yes, 100%. I wanna just suggest that if you have a physician that you love, talk to them about who they love, right? Because that's actually the physician's office is not the place to address this, believe it or not. Maybe aspects of it, maybe getting a prescription for vaginal estrogen, but you need much more than six to eight minutes to untangle and begin a process of owning your own body. It's complicated and you're gonna have to go see a pro. It's easy. Right, and so that's what I would say is in every state in the United States, you can access or get an evaluation with a pelvic floor physical therapist without a referral from the provider. You're, I'm from a medical provider, so your insurance may require it, but.  by, you know, Practice Act, you don't have to have a referral, but I would say like, go to Google, ask your friend, ask your medical provider, do you have someone that you would refer to, can you ask your partners? A lot of it is unfortunately like omission from education that medical providers aren't understanding of the role that therapy can play, but I don't buy that anymore, because there's enough chatter out there that you need to educate yourself, you need to have a therapist, a pelvic floor PT in your back pocket if you're treating people with vaginas, hands down. So just like I have an OBGYN that I would refer people to. That's right. You have to do that, and I just encourage patients, as you all do, like you have to be the advocate for your body, and that will never change, no matter how great your doctor is. You have to be the driver, not the passenger, and if somebody doesn't refer you or believe in it, don't let that be the end of your story. You will have to continue to push and kind of find the resources, which again are much more readily available now than they used to be, but you will have to continue to drive, and I encourage you to keep doing that. So tell us, I don't know if it's a top three or top five, but are there, and this is for women regardless of whether you're having a pelvic floor issue. We can always talk about improving function too. Yeah, for, are there like daily non-negotiables or daily habits and practices that you recommend that all women do. I'm sure there would be a whole separate conversation for what men should be doing, but let's just keep this to women, like what are the daily non-negotiable things for pelvic floor? And we could add in some things that maybe you should avoid or could avoid. I don't know if there are that three things, five things, but let's go. And I, this is the final chapter of the book, or like the 10 things Sarah does for her pelvic floor. So I'll give a handful of them. So first, you don't push when you pee. Sit, chill, breathe, don't push. Second, use a squatty potty underneath your feet when you're pooping. That puts you in a more relaxed position for your pelvic floor, a little stool under your feet, and it's gonna help you minimize straining so you don't weaken your pelvic floor. I exhale with exertion. I don't unveil salvo when I'm lifting, when I'm lifting weights, when I'm exerting effort, when I'm pushing furniture, you have to exhale when you're exerting effort to minimize the pressure down on your pelvic floor. I don't push into pain or leakage. If I leak doing something, if I have pain with something, I don't push into it. Like that might mean pain with sex, that might mean leakage with double-enders. It's information from my body that my tissues can't support what I'm asking them to do, and it's not gonna get better if I just keep pushing into it. So I think that that's information to take in and make adjustments. I use a great lube. I recommend everyone do it. It doesn't mean that you are not a rouse. It means that you have some dryness or some sensitivity and it can not just decrease friction, but also increase pleasure. So those are kind of my top five. And then I use, being perimenopausal, this is also important for women who are postpartum and breastfeeding to use a moisturizing balm on the vulva because you have dryness when you have low estrogen, and that happens when you're breastfeeding, but also perimenopausal and menopausal. And then I strength train my pelvic floor, and that doesn't look like me doing kegels in the carpal lane. That means me pulling in my pelvic floor when I'm lifting weights, when I'm doing squats and lunges, and functioning, like picking up my kid, lifting a stroller, like teaching these muscles to turn on when I need them. And I just made that part of my daily habit, also my workout routine. I love it. Well, I think with that, for those of you watching on video, congratulations on your book. I think this is your first book, so congratulations. Thank you. And I think this is so useful and so valuable. I know people can buy this book wherever they get their books. That's right. And where can people find you elsewhere on the internet and on social media, TikTok, you name it. I know you're all over the place. So where can people find more, learn more, and follow your awesome advice and journey? So I am on Instagram as theVeginaWhisper. So it's the.Vegina.Whisper. And again, as you mentioned, I'll likely be on there in a Volva suit at some point. I'm on TikTok as the VagWhisper, because TikTok doesn't like the word vagina. And my book, Floored, a Woman's by the Public Four House at every age of stage is available and you can find it at all major bookstores. And if you're looking for a public court therapist, you can Google, you can look on some web sites called by the APTA or pelvicrehab.com. But I just really want to let people know that this, these issues are totally treatable. It's never too late to get care. It's also never too early to start. And I just really hope that Floored helps women better understand their bodies and care for it across the lifespan because we deserve to be able to, you know, have really great sex and exercise and not leak and do all the things we want to do to have a fulfilling life. And I just, I want that for everyone. Here, here. Here, here, that is amazing. Thank you so much. People don't realize that I am kind of closeted to the pelvic floor nerd. And I talk about this a lot. I think we do realize that now. I know, I hope you understand that, you know, that this is such a continuum. And if you're, if you're with a woman, know a woman, work with the young people, this is required reading and understanding about the fundamental and elemental physiology of the human being. Thank you so much for this wonderful book. Thank you so much for being with us today. Thanks for having me.