 on behalfa-perimen,этому-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before-before- cognition things like forgetting people's names or brain fog or, you know, however they experience it. And I think, you know, on the one hand, you could just say, okay, that's perimenopause, menopause, and sort of put that on a shelf there. And it probably is in many cases. But is there like a way for women in this age range to differentiate like, okay, yeah, there are totally normal, weird brain things that happen around perimenopause and menopause that are like, okay, just accept this is your life now and you're fine and you aren't on a, you know, sloping, terrible path to dementia by the time you're 55 versus, you know, something that would be like, red flag. Yeah. I think this is super important. I'm honestly so glad that people are talking about it now. Like, historically, in the neurosciences in particular, we have been the worst at just like ignoring females and like, all the all the data comes from men. And I mean, this is like, rat studies in the lab through to like studies in humans. And like, finally, the tide is turning. And so I say that because there's a lot still to learn, but there's a lot of like, research being done, which I think is fantastic. And people people are talking about it, which is great. What I think is worth just starting out with is that every woman who lives long enough will go through menopause, only 20% of women will get Alzheimer's disease, right? So it is not, it is not the thing that kind of determines the final risk, but it is the time of life when risk diverges and risk starts to increase in women relative to men. So there is absolutely something that goes on in that period during the menopausal transition that kind of drives an increase in risk. I think everything that I've seen from the literature suggests that menopause, kind of like APOE4, like we were talking about earlier, it's, it's a time that other risk factors are multiplied. So there are studies that show that if you have metabolic disease entering into perimenopause and menopause, those individuals are the ones who see more significant changes during the transition. Um, we also know that, uh, physical activity, diet quality, um, they can both, um, alter cognitive changes during perimenopause as well as other symptoms of, of menopause like vasomotor symptoms. And it's actually the frequency of vasomotor symptoms and like the severity of vasomotor symptoms. So like, you know, hot flushes, night sweats, that kind of stuff that are, seem to be the strongest predictors of cognitive changes during that, during that time. Um, so some of it is, is driven by hormone changes, right? Cause that's what sort of sets the whole system going, but it seems to be a lot related to vasomotor symptoms outside of hormones. And there are lots of lifestyle factors that, that, that play a role there. Um, one thing that, um, we haven't talked about yet much, but it's, it's nutrient status. So it's very common for women who experience cognitive changes during perimenopause to have low iron status. And so actually more of it is related to iron rather than, rather than hormones. So this is like the perfect time to like, get, get the tests, figure out nutrient status, figure out metabolic health, like get on top of that. Uh, because that seems to be a big, um, that seems to be a big determinant. Um, and so the final piece, just cause you mentioned it, and we can go into more into any of those bits, um, as you'd like. Um, but there, there is a part, there is a part of this, um, which is reversible. So, um, there are some studies that show that changes, cognitive changes during perimenopause then revert back to their previous state or close enough, um, afterwards. So some of it is, is, uh, is temporary. Um, but then, um, the, the, the, the other, the other part is that long-term afterwards, you also tend to see overall improvements in wellbeing, um, wisdom, all these other things. So it is, it's sort of like a, a temporary transitionary period rather than some like, like permanent decline. Yes. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. So interesting. That's so helpful. And do you think on, this is, again, another side quest question, but on the vasomotor symptoms, and we haven't talked about sleep or nutrients or whatever, but do you think that is actually the fact of having them or the fact that nobody can sleep because they wake up 9,000 times. And if you wake up 9,000 times and have crap sleep, like no wonder your cognition isn't awesome. Yes. Shout out to. So, so the answer is yes, yes to both. Um, and I'm sure that's, that's part of it. So, um, one, so, uh, insomnia or, or sleep issues with menopause is one reason to be prescribed menopausal hormone therapy. Um, and there are now, you know, whether MHT on its own significantly improves cognitive function or prevents dementia is right now, very controversial, right? The, the data suggests on its own, it doesn't, but it will be very clear that if you, if, if taking MHT improves quality of life, sexual function, mood, sleep, vasomotor symptoms, all of those things are going to have an impact on the brain. So, the, the benefits are likely to be indirect, but it will absolutely be there. So, if it's helping manage symptoms that are affecting quality of life, that are preventing you or from doing these other things that we know are really important for brain health, then it's absolutely something that, that is, you know, should be sort of like top of, top of consideration. Yeah, that makes complete sense to me. Okay. We know. You have to ask about wisdom. What? They're like aging brain. We're if we go back to that. We're not, we're not coming back. We're going back. Okay. Okay. Okay. There's so much to talk about. There's so much to talk about. Um, one of the things that we want people to recognize, and I'll say that this is tricky. Juliet and I sometimes get home and like, we don't want to talk anymore. We don't want to work anymore. I don't look at other email. We don't, we just, we flop down on the couch, right? We're just like, I'm, I'm done. Right. But there has to be some aspect of not just like, I'm, I'm like, you know, 1984, I'm the horse dragging, you know, animal farm, sorry, wrong reference. It is 1984, but dragging a different horse. Um, I need to still train my brain. And you say that we should train the functions we want to keep. What are, I love that things that we should be thinking about. And this year I, I vowed to like pick up my guitar again and work on that. I want to work on learning French, even though I speak German and it's ruined me. Um, you know, I'm learning a new skill with a friend. I'm doing some woodworking and I'm trying to just, you know, do some things. And I don't know if that's because my brain is like, bro, you know, turns out Netflix and chill is not enough. And, and four by four is not enough. It's pretty nice though. But how do you train these functions and what functions are you talking about? We should be working on to keep. We should be working on to keep.