on behalf of all pmenopause and menopause women out there and as a subtext like we're all pissed um and Gen X and we're mad because we feel like we got screwed somehow um by medicine and so uh just you know setting it up that way um but I will say that I have a lot of women you know I'm 52 and so you know my social group is women who are 52 and you know we are kind of freaked because lots of women in this age group are starting to you know feel weird cognition things like forgetting people's names or brain fog or you know however they experience it and I think um you know on the one hand you could just say okay that's per menopause menopause and sort of put that on a shelf there um and it probably is in many cases but is there like a way for women um in this age range to differentiate like okay yeah there are totally normal weird brain things that happen around permenopause and menopause that are like okay just accept this is your life now and you're fine and you aren't on a, you know, sloping terrible path to dementia by the time you're 55. Um, versus, you know, something that would be like red flag. >> Yeah. Um, I think this is super important. I'm I'm I'm honestly so glad that people are talking about it now. Like historically in the neurosciences in particular, we have been the worst at just like ignoring females and like all the all the data comes from men. And I'm I mean this is like rat studies in the lab through to like studies in humans and like finally the tide is turning and so I say that because there's a lot still to learn course but there's a lot of like research being done which I think is fantastic and people people are talking about it which is great. >> Um what I think is worth just starting out with is that every woman who lives long enough will go through menopause. Only 20% of women will get Alzheimer's disease. Right? So it is not um it is not the thing that kind of determines the final risk but it is the time of life when risk diverges and risk starts to increase in women relative to men. So there is absolutely something that goes on in that period during the menopausal transition that that kind of drives an increase in risk. I think um everything that I've seen from the literature suggests that menopause kind of like apoE4 fall like we were talking about earlier it's it's a time that other risk factors are multiplied. So um there are studies that show that if you have metabolic disease entering into permenopause and menopause those individuals are the ones who see more significant changes during the transition. Um we also know that uh physical activity, diet quality um they can both um alter cognitive changes during par menopause as well as other symptoms of of menopause like vasa vasom motor symptoms and it's actually the frequency of vasa motor symptoms and like the severity of vasom motor symptoms. So like you know hot flushes, night sweats, that kind of stuff that are seem to be the strongest predictors of cognitive changes during that during that time. Um so some of it is is driven by hormone changes right because that's what sort of sets the whole system going but it seems to be a lot related to vasa motor symptoms outside of hormones and there are lots of lifestyle factors that that that play a role there. Um one thing that um we haven't talked about yet much but is is nutrient status. So it's very common for women who experience cognitive changes during permenopause to have low iron status. And so actually more of it is related to iron rather than rather than hormones. So this is like the perfect time to like get get the tests, figure out nutrient status, figure out metabolic health, like get on top of that because that seems to be a big um that seems to be a big determinant. Um and sort of the final piece just because you mentioned it and we can go into like more into any of those bits um as you'd like. Um but there there is a part there is a part of this um which is reversible. So um there are some studies that show that changes cognitive changes during parmenopause then revert back to their previous state or close enough um afterwards. So some of it is is uh temp is temporary. Um but then um the the the other the other part is that long-term afterwards you also tend to see overall improvements in well-being um wisdom all these other things. So it is it's sort of like a a temporary transitionary period rather than some like permanent decline. >> Yes. Yeah. Exactly. >> Yeah. So interesting. That's so helpful. And do you think on this is again another side quest question but on the vasom motor symptoms and we haven't talked about sleep or nutrients or whatever but do you think that is actually the fact of having them or the fact that nobody can sleep because they wake up 9,000 times and if you wake up 9,000 times and have crap sleep like no wonder your cognition isn't awesome. >> Yes. Shout out to [laughter] >> So the answer is like yes yes to both. Um and I'm sure that's that's part of it. So um one so uh insomnia or or sleep issues with menopause is one reason to be prescribed menopausal hormone therapy. Um and there are now you know whether MHT on its own significantly improves cognitive function or prevents dementia is right now very controversial. >> Right? >> The the data suggests on its own it doesn't. But it will be very clear that if you if if taking MHT improves quality of life, sexual function, mood, sleep, vasom motor symptoms, all of those things are going to have an impact on the brain. So the the benefits are likely to be indirect, but will absolutely be there. So if it's helping manage symptoms that are affecting quality of life that are preventing you or from doing these other things that we know are really important for brain health then it's absolutely something that that is you should be sort of like top of top of consideration. >> Yeah, that makes complete sense to me. >> Okay, we know >> you have to ask about wisdom. >> What >> the like aging brain if we go back to >> No, we're not coming back. We're okay. >> We talk about there's so much to talk about. Um, one of the things that we want people to recognize, and I I'll say that this is tricky. Juliet and I sometimes get home and like we don't want to talk anymore. We don't want to work anymore. I don't look at another email. We don't we just we flop down on the couch, right? We're just like I'm I'm done, right? But there has to be some aspect of not just like I'm I'm like, you know, 1984, I'm the horse dragon, you know, animal farm. Sorry, wrong reference. Drag. It is 1984, but dragging a different horse. Um, I need to still train my brain. And you say that we should train the functions we want to keep. >> What are I love that >> things that we should be thinking about? And this year I I vowed to like pick up my guitar again and work on that. I want to work on learning French even though I speak German and it's ruined me. Um, you know, I'm learning a new skill with a friend. I'm doing some woodworking and I'm trying to just, you know, do some things. And I don't know if that's because my brain is like, bro, you know, turns out Netflix and chill is not enough and and 4x4 is not enough. It's pretty nice, though. But how do you train these functions?