Hey, welcome back to Mobility Wad. My wife just told me I jumped the shark for the first time. We're back. And we're back. What we want to talk about today is that uh something has come up on the main page and uh it rhymes with Fran. Uh Fran is one of those couplets that uh you know really get to test yourself. It's good news because uh you get to find out kind of where you are and what's going on. It's bad news because uh it's Fran. It's like going to the dentist but uh for time. So here's the deal. when uh what I want to do today is kind of give you a programming idea about uh how I would critically think about working on Fran. Clearly, you're going to be doing some kind of dynamic warm-up. Check. But on the other hand, I may need to kind of bias my movement prep to include some stretching or some mobilization that's going to make that movement better. So, here's what I'm thinking. You know, you've got pull-up bar and you've got a, you know, 95 pounds on the rack. So, if we look at those two things, I'm going to give you kind of two ideas. The way I would approach this kind of based on the demands of the movements. So, I'm going to hand the phone over to my wife and we're going to talk about this. First, in the front rack position, you know, the thruster is a real compromised movement and I'm either going to have to front squat and then end up trying to keep the the arm high, reverse into some kind of overhead position, or front squat, jump into this overhead position. or I'm going to end up keeping the elbow down, which is what usually happens. So, I get a little bit of a compromise kind of in that position. And watch that. Watch the best guys and girls do that. They're either going to be, you know, kind of a high rack or they're going to be elbowed down. Either way, it's going to require a lot of thoracic extension. And if you don't have good extension with your abs on, are able to kind of get on the other side of the curve of with that barbell into a supported position. As you come back down in that high quick load, we're going to end up with a little bit curve and you're going to get pulled forward on your toes and you're going to blow out a lot of energy into your quads and into having to support a load from a bad position. So, we're looking at one of the advantages of doing Fran is teaching our athletes to be overhead in a good position and then simultaneously recovering into a solid position to support load. And that's one of the beauties of this movement is that can I get here and then do I end up in a terrible shoulder loaded position or a thoracic loaded position. And what I want to do is make sure that I have enough thoracic extension that when that bar comes down and I load simultaneously that I've can load my hamstrings, knees out, but I can keep the torso up and biased in a good position. So, one of the things I would absolutely do besides kind of prepping for overhead, you know, maybe with a band, working on pull-ups is bias my thoracic extension a little bit, which is being able to extend through the lumbar or excuse me, through the thoracic spine. So, check this. Every gym should have a foam roller. You can again, you can start by just grabbing yourself, hit the ribs, get the corners in there, you know, making sure I'm just stiff. Especially if you're coming from a desk job, man, you are stiff and tired being bent over. If you're a new mother, this could be you. We want to make sure that you are over and open. So, grab your hands and then bias those positions. Notice I'm going to keep my rib cage down and try to extend over the top that we call this the keg drill, but I can go to the base of my ribs and just find some big excursion, hang out, take some big breaths there. Give this a chance to work. Look for the corners. And what we want to do is practice kind of moving that arm position into a little bit of thoracic extension in that rack. Boom. I can set and support. Couple some friends from New Zealand sent me their version of hell. It's two I think these are um field hockey balls in Scotland. I think they'd be called hurling balls, but uh these things are massive. These are like John Wellbourne's pink balls, which uh they're size of John Wellborn's pink balls. So, I mean for John Wellbourne is what I'm saying. But uh either way, we're in this position hammering and I can do that same thing segment at a time, but just working on those positions. So I would spend definitely spend some time open up that. The second thing I want him to do is because this movement is so biased towards a front squat loaded movement. It's difficult to get a ton of hamstring involved. It's basically a front squat. I want to make sure that my hips are really opening in the front. So besides spending some time and opening, I really I'm going to do this today. I'm going to throw a new drill at you. We're going to take a wide squat stance. You're going to press to the corner of the squat stance. You'll notice that I'm going to try to avoid having this kind of VGUS knee where the knee is in. I'm going to press the knee back. I'm going to go to an active hip and really kind of hammering actively in this corner. Then I'm going to shin my shin goes vertical. I'm going to skip across the limits of my hip capsule and settle back down onto the other side. Settle in. Press the shin to vertical. I don't want you leaving your knees forward and come across. That's how you destroy your meniscus. Tear your posterior horn of that meniscus. So we foot is forward. I shift back. Grinding at the limits. Oh, it's terrible. Come back and down again. Shin vertical. Shift back. Shift back. Shift back. And what you're going to find is that we're going to open up this kind of medial kind of part of the capsule. That's going to make it easier. In the past, we've worked on kind of the outside or the the adductors, working on those. We've hit this part of the capsule. Today, the exaggeration is to kind of shift back and forth. This looks a little bit like pigs on ice skates that we do. We take a little step. We take a little mini step across and grind through the hip capsule. But what your mission today is spend two or three or four minutes working on thoracic extension. And then I want you to try one of these two drills. hanging out here in the corner. Press, grinding across, back and down, opening at the limits of those hip capsules. We often find the athletes don't actually spend much time in the bottom positions of their movements. So, as you're warming up for this, you may actually just do some squats. You may do some thrusters, but you actually haven't spent any quality time looking at the limiters in that bottom position. If you examine that bottom position a little bit and really look at where your hips are tight, it will pay dividends as you arrive in that bottom position. You'll have movement options. You won't get pulled into a bad position. And if you're in a good position with torso upright, belly tight, pow, you're going to PR on Fran today. Post your PR on Fran to comments. See you then.