Welcome back to Mobility Project. We're going to take on two ideas today. The first is I got an email from a friend saying, "Hey man, sometimes in the bottom of that pull-up, as I'm connecting, connecting, connecting, I feel a little clunk in the shoulder." And that clon can be pathonic, which is a fancy way of saying, "Hey, when I hear that clunk, this is what I should think of is that I've lost my connection through the shoulder. I've internally rotated a little bit, and the shoulder becomes loose in this fully internally rotated kind of overhead position. So, the tightest position for that joint in order to wind up that capsule and take all the slack out. Remember, if we put a a ball into the into this the capsule here, if I just stretch it, I don't get what I need. If I add a little rotation, it gets tight. Well, that's the same thing that happens with your ball and socket joint in the shoulder. So, if I'm not connecting into external rotation overhead, what often times happens is that the last moment, looking good, looking good, internally rotate. Oh, there's my elbow problem because I've just put a kink in the middle of a hinge joint. and try to flex that hinge joint. There's my elbow problem and then I get a clon here. So to think about that, I've got to make sure that my athletes in a better position. Neutral here, working on overhead. I would prescribe a couple things. One is working on external rotation overhead. So in this position, I'm working on that external rotation, making sure that I can get my arm back. I'm releasing everything in this position. This would be one, hanging out in this position. Two would be good oldfashioned overhead stretch. So go ahead and add this for a couple minutes. Some ideas here. Load that thing up. Hit the external rotation first because that's the priority. Then back yourself down. And you're going to find that that's really, really tight. We need you to be able to connect through that last range of motion. So really exaggerate and then load it up. Take up the tension. Exaggerate. You can do your contract under peak external rotation tension. Then release and come through further. contract, release, come through further, but really keep exaggerating, turning that hand over so that we can stay connected to the bar. And that means I've got to be able to externally rotate. Certainly double the cross ball in the thoracic spine would help if I that's the limiting factor. Some ideas about eliminating that clunk. Second piece today is opening up the hip of the band. So, if I have to do high rep feet to bar, for example, one of the things I want to do is make sure that I have good full flexion and certainly doing the capsule stretch will improve that. But here's a couple other ideas. Take a look at this. I can take the band, put it right in the hip crease here, and my yoga brothers and sisters out here are going to recognize these things, but I'm really getting it belly tight, and I can practice loading and folding forward. And I'm just going to floss in and out. Hit it with my knee and I can just touch that extension. Come out. Touch that extension. Come out. I have the benefit of being loaded here. Gets that hip into the right place. The band is drawing that hip capsule back in the socket. I can touch. Keep my quads on to support the joint. Relax. Quads on. Support the joint. Belly is tight. And I can just go a little bit further. A little bit further as that hip capsule opens. And that's gonna make a big difference to the capacity to be able to get my leg up overhead. Here's my end range. Here's my end range. So, if I don't have to fight as much to get my legs up, I get a much better, easier hinge. And you can see the difference. I can get this leg completely locked out. This leg I can't. And that's just because I opened up that capsule range. And you can see the difference in the side from just doing that for a second is significant. That means it's much easier to fold forward. I have less resistance. I have to pull my trunk less forward. A second idea. Let's go ahead and open up that hip a little bit into classic kind of pigeon pose. Winding up. So, I want you to block your ankle and hand. And the difference is I want you to get the band on that thing. And then I want you to go exploring. So, anchor the the hand on the foot. Go ahead and turn and try to wind up that butt as far as you can. Belly button to knee. Hang out as low as you can. Contract. Relax. Belly tight. Keep hunting and exploring. If there's no tension here, back is flat and you're loading and go ahead and hunt for where you're going to be tight. Couple minutes. So, couple ideas improving those that clunk, getting better hip crease folding for improved legs, feet to bar. We'll see you guys tomorrow.