Juliet and one of our other teammates gets attacked by a hippo. The boat literally comes up out of the water and flops over, but they fall out. So, I just see this canoe come up out of the water and flip over and there's no heads. Sue is a world class whitewater athlete. She's actually a legend. You leave the military. You actually do use the GI Bill to go to college. You also then return to your serious paddling career and ultimately become US national champion. tell us a little bit about what it is like to become an unexpected parent at 56 years old. When I was 52 years old, I got a call and he called up with this 20-some year old woman to tell me that they were going to be parents. Really went into the cracker when the birth mom decided she was going to leave her relationship. What did you learn about, you know, raising a child, especially a child that spent the first part of their life in a neglected situation? Well, you know, this episode of the Ready State podcast is brought to you by Lared Superfood. Do you We're rolling into summer. We We're We have some river trips planned. What happens every afternoon on the river trip? So, we pull into whatever camp we are wherever. And whenever invariably it is a thousand degrees, like we're pulling up, we're somewhere in the west in a usually a desert environment. We're pulling up onto a white sand beach. It's 3:00 in the afternoon. It's nuclear hot. And Kelly decides he's going to make coffee. Always. Always. That it's like 3:00. I fire up and have this cup of coffee and it changes my life. And for almost a decade now, lay coffee has been that has been my You pull up on the beach of a river trip, 3:00 in the afternoon, and you fire up a cup of coffee. I will say you don't normally drink coffee after about noon, but you make an exception on these river trips and seem to be able to sleep. Okay. Layer has always had good tasting coffee and you should try the base coffee, but they've got a mushroom coffee shade grown organic combined with some functional mushrooms. I'll tell you what. Yeah. Like chaga, lion's mane, cortis. I've known a long time. Have we had a chaga pot on our always we've had chaga pot. It's a lot easier to just add the lion's mane in. Add the Cortiseps, get the chaga with the coffee. It is fantastic. It doesn't change the flavor of the garlic. It's fantastic. And also, if you just feel like you can't manage a a 3pm coffee, but you sort of want to have this lovely experience, which is part of the joy of drinking coffee, drink some chaga, drink some mushroom coffee. You Yeah, you definitely can do that. Um, look, I think we can look at our coffee ritual as a way of getting more micronutrients, better whole foods, higher quality fats. Quit putting coffee made in your coffee. True fact. And all of their products are built around clean, functional, real food ingredients. Whole Foods. They're made of whole foods. This stuff is awesome and it tastes so good. Whole bunch of things. You're into greens in the morning, do it. Check out Lar Superfood. into just trying a little added little really good coffee. We're also getting into the summer time where you can blend up a little uh Yeah, we call it a layered slurpee. Yeah. Coffee shop plus a little uh creamer and a little blender. It's so good. Layered slurpee. If you want to learn more, go to layersupfood.com/trs and use code trs 20 for 20% off and free shipping. Heads upate listeners. Today's episode is brought to you by the world as you'll know it and their new season, the future of aging. Longevity has exploded into a multi-billion dollar industry that attracts both huers and Nobel laureates. This season sorts the science from the sales pitch. You'll hear how mortality from heart disease and cancer has already dropped double digits and what breakthrough therapies are next. They tackle big questions. Can an older brain be rewired to think like it's 25? Do any of those headline grabbing biohacks hold up under real scrutiny? Are we reaching a natural lifespan ceiling, or is there room to push it? If you love evidence-based talk about living longer and better, hit the world as you'll know it in your player of choice. Listen, learn, and keep those BS detectors sharp. Now, on with our episode. Sue Norman, welcome to the Ready State podcast. So great to see you both. So I feel that you should set this up, Kelly. Okay, so a couple things. One is that Sue is a worldclass whitewater athlete. She's actually a legend. Legend, champion, white, small paddler. She even taught kayaking where I grew up as a child. Yeah. I mean, the connections there are still blow my mind. I mean, she's obviously like the Cheerio magnetism where the two Cheerios are floating, the last two Cheerios in the bowl of milk. We're going to stick together eventually. That's basically our relationship. I became Sue Norman aware though when we started racing all of this crazy white water and I think I really started hanging out with you a little bit at Gore Canyon. That was when I sort of was chatting you up and I was like, man, this these women are real fast down this class 5. But my most singular awareness of Sue Norman, and you'll see that Juliet and I refer to as Sue Norman as one word, not even though she's Sue, she's Sue Norman, she's always been, is that we're in Chile at the World Championships, and you and she have just taken I want to call it an odyssey of thousands of little puddle jumpers. You've taken like fairies. It's just, oh my god, it has been an epic. They're weighing you. You're not sure you're going to get over the mountains. You guys get there, you've been traveling for 4 days, literally. You walk down and you're stirring your nest cafe. We're about to go run the river, this class 5 river, just to scout it a little bit. And uh you didn't say a word. And I was like, well, that Juliet girl's kind of stuck up, but Sue, you just chatted us right up. And I was like, well, at least I have Sue Norman to hang out with. Well, I was very sleepd deprived. And that is uh the story of how I got dragged along on this incredible relationship between you and Juliet. And so I think it would be great, Sue, Norman, if you could tell the audience here today how you and I met before we go back in time to talk a little bit about your story. How do you feel about that? Yeah, that sounds great. Well, yeah, I remember that very vividly. So, I was on a US women's whitewater rafting team uh that had been around for a while, but for our uh next event, we needed two more paddlers to join the core four that we had that I'd been with from the beginning. And what we found out when we started um interviewing, which is pretty different in rafting than other jobs, and we started uh calling up and asking people and paddling with uh various women in the rafting world. And what we found right away that there were women that knew how to um guide rivers and had good class five whitewater skills guiding rivers. We found women who were in pretty good shape or very good shape from other sports but didn't know how to paddle. And it was extremely difficult to find two other people to join our team that both had the athletic temperament and background to be strong and also be able to handle the multitude of challenges that comes with racing class 5 whitewater with your heart rate at 190 for over a half hour. Right. And that's that's when our beautiful relationship began. Sue Norman. Yes. And day one when we all paddled with you, it was unanimous. It's like it was just like, "Oh boy, we found one." And then soon after we found And let me just jump in and say when you say core four, you are four extraordinary women, legends, hall of fame, world champions, Amelia Hehearts of of Whitewater Paddling, where you're the first women to run First Descents. You're the first woman to be invited on these international rafting thing. You So this core four, we were let's say we're a little more rag tag than you. Maybe we didn't have the bonafiday that you all did, but I remember we were like we were some bros who had some talent and we coming up against this juggernaut like our our reflection in the women's side. It was sort of halves and have nots. You all were were like you you were fancy pants. did have the hs and then there was us. Yeah. So, I mean, if it's not already obvious to our listeners, Sue Norman was my longtime US national whitewater teammate. Um, we paddled together for 5 years and longer. And then you even went back and won another match. Yeah, we went back as M's athletes. Um, but, uh, not to have our timeline be too insane, Sue. Um, but before we start talking about your background, could you just give a quick recap of who else was in the core four with us, like a highlight of who was in this boat? Um, because I will tell you that when I showed up, which I remember those tryyouts very clearly and did not I had no idea um that I was a a shoein. Um, and I re revered all of you and understood very clearly um, who you were, what impact you'd all had on the Whitewater world, and I was just like, I'm just excited to be here at this try out. This is nearly 30 years ago. Yeah. So, who were all of you guys? Well, first I have to say Kelly Califhatic, who was um a renowned international whitewater guide, stunt double for Merryill Streep in the River Wild, just uh was all over the place for a long time and was one of the first friends I made when I moved out to California to work as a kayak instructor along with our close friend Julie Mer who also worked all over the United States, mostly uh raft guiding, doing first descents on on various rivers in California, and now has a very successful um whitewater rescue business teaching wilderness first aid and swiftwater rescue. And then she's a Hall of Famer. She's a whitewater hall of famer. And yeah, a Hall of Famer. Yeah. she's just because she's done so much in both um her paddling as well as developing um safety curriculum for the sport and teaching it. And then the lastly was Beth Rippens who I actually met through kayaking and she did a lot of very extreme kayaking, probably the first woman to do a number of things in that arena, but also was an very competent uh international whitewater guide. And those three women were kind of it during the day. They were the ones that were out there with um other men doing building uh international rafting throughout the world. Yeah, they were legends. So, I there's a lot I want to talk about today in terms of our whitewater antics um in those days. And you know, just for context, we're talking about like the '9s and early as is when we were doing our paddling together. But I would like to go way back in time and I mentioned this in the pre-roll and and uh I'm going to try to formulate a question out of this, but in reading your new book Risk, which is a memoir about your life that we're going to talk about extensively today, uh one of the things that surprised me in being your friend for over 25, I think almost 30 years at this point is that I did know you had a difficult childhood. Um I knew that your mom had MS. I knew that your parents had separated so that your grandparents could take care of your mom. Um, I knew you'd grown up in the Midwest. Uh, but it wasn't until I read your book, your memoir, that I realized, um, how difficult it was. Um, because in addition to what was going on with your mom, it, you know, you and your brother, twin brother, seem very vulnerable. Um, that you were sort of financially on the precipice living with your dad, that you moved a ton. Um, and that generally speaking, it wasn't a childhood marked by stability or security in any notable way. So, um, I'm not even sure where my question is here, but before we get into all things whitewater paddling and your memoir and becoming a mom at age 50, um, tell us a little, you know, set the stage a little bit about like where Sue Norman came from and how you ended up in a whitewire kayak. Yeah. Yeah. Well, my my dad started whitewater canoeing. Um, he actually took my mom on their first canoe trip when she was 6 months pregnant up in the Great Lakes. And then he quickly, they lived in Kansas City and they decided to he there was a new paddling club called the Ozark Wilderness Waterway Society that he joined and started doing canoe trips in the Ozarks. And this is 1960, not, you know, they were at the forefront. And my mom wrote him a letter one weekend while he was gone and basically said, "That's it. No more playing the great white explorer. Either we all go or nobody goes." So that's how I started canoeing with my twin brother and my mom and my dad at age two and a half with this amazing canoe club in the Ozarks. and they were very involved in the wild and scenic act for rivers because they were part of that club during that momentous time. And we would have grown up uh as a normal happy paddling family uh for you know my whole childhood I'm sure except my mom got this devastating illness and she started getting symptoms when I was five. A lot of people live with MS for many years and can stay pretty ambulatory, but she had a very acute form of it which put her in a wheelchair by the time I was by the time she was eight and by the time I was 10, she was pretty much bedridden. And so she had to go live with my grandparents because my dad didn't have the resources or the capacity to put her in a home or have skilled nursing. there was a better arrangement she could have and he really struggled you know it threw him offkilter and that's the thing about you know we talk about needing health care for all that's exactly why because normal average well functioning families can be flattened in an instant when something like this happens and so my dad struggled financially um for the my entire childhood because he was a comedy writer and cartoonist and as you can imagine his mental capacity for doing his work was impaired. So as you said before uh kids that grow up without stability you know I had no sense of security or stability. I my dad was great. I loved him, but I was always hyper aware of how tenuous his situation was and that we were all just hanging on by a thread. But fortunately, he found that continuing on with whitewater paddling was one of the um anchors that he used for both himself and for us to deal with our life that in our kind of crappy urban homes and crappy urban neighborhoods, we would escape and go first canoeing. And then when we moved out to California, there was a growing population of whitewater paddlers that was happening there and he got sucked in and then pulled me and my brother into that experience when we were about 13. And uh maybe you've never asked this question or wondered, but if your mom had been diagnosed with MS today, would her experience and outcome be different or is it is it just that she she was unlucky enough to get an you know a really aggressive form and you know the trajectory would be different or is is the has the universe changed in terms of MS treatment now? Not that I'm aware of. There's some holistic stuff that they know kind of helps with as with a lot of other neurological conditions, but there's no cure. Yeah. So, this Whitewater thing was a true escape for you all. I mean, you know, not only to escape the reality of your mom's illness, but your very difficult living situations, moving a lot, but you know, the the white water paddling was the throughline of your childhood. Um, and even to the point where, um, you described, and maybe you can talk a little bit about this, uh, about how you maybe didn't fit in as well in school in many ways. um and that you were able however to find real community in the whitewater world. So tell us a little bit like what was that like? And I just want to point out that several of your teammates I know Beth Rippens would credit learning to kayak in high school as saving her life. Yeah. Julie grew up the daughter of a experienced Grand Canyon guide and adventurer and that was her through I started Kaik when I was 12 and I'm so grateful that I found this way to scare the crap out of myself with my best friends and like almost self soothe with that adrenaline and and serotonin. Yeah. Well, the community started out with a community of adults. My dad was really good about I mean he wanted to he didn't wasn't a solo guy. like we joined clubs wherever we went. So we were with the Ventura Canoe Club in in California and we started kayaking and then and then there was a guy named Tom Johnson who was the first Olympic coach in Whitewater that was had a lot going on up in Kernville. So we would drive there up on on the weekends and be around this group of people and my brother and I got a lot of attention because there weren't a lot of kids. So, we were definitely given a lot of attention and encouragement and we always felt safe with that group and I and it felt, you know, I felt special. But it was more than that. It was the camping on the river where I didn't have to be aware of the environment that I lived in regularly. You know, in a campground, everybody's equal, you know, and you're in this beautiful environment. Um the river itself is just this powerful entity you know it's it's the beauty of it. It's the dynamicness of it. It's giving you challenge you know that you have to face but it also feels nurturing at the same time. It's really a very complex uh mix of things that a doing a river sport provides for you. But and then when we moved to um Ohio because as you said we moved a lot right away my dad found the Khalis Canoe Club and that's when I really started forming my first kind of fast friendships with other daughters of the whitewater revolution who were getting dragged into this you know along in this sport of whitewater kayaking with their dads. not with our moms and they had healthy, you know, moms at home, but they had no interest. But our dads were taking us out and I had two other uh girls my age that were part of the Kilawers Canoe Club that became very good friends. And and I've seen this, you know, I experienced it and I see this over and over. That's when a sport really clicks for a young person is when you find peers to do that with that you enjoy and feel supported by. Brian Stansel. Brian Sansel. So, when did you know was it in high school? When did you know that you uh because by this point, correct me if I'm wrong, um you had really started focusing on whitewater paddling and maybe even done a little bit of actual whitewater slalom? And when did you realize you had some chops at this Sue Norman? like that maybe you were good at it and there was something to it. Yeah. Well, the other Yeah. The thing that was really fortunate about the Keers Canoe Club and being in that part of the world at that time is there was a very large and active club network throughout the East and sadly that doesn't really exist today. No. Um, but back then every club put on a one at least one citizen slom race a year and it was fun. It wasn't for serious stuff. It was a way it was a recreational thing that people did like a fun run. You know, they do a fun slom and there was kids from other states that would come to that. And so again, there was that appeal of doing this thing that had um this sport that had other kids my age that I wanted to be a part of. And and there happened to be a few other girls. There weren't there was only a few other women that were ahead of us that were paddling. And so all of us young girls that were coming in and there was probably about six or eight of us got a lot of attention from those three women that came ahead of us as well as from other uh adults. And I don't ever remember too often being discouraged because I just was another warm body that was there and they wanted to encourage us. But I think it started it definitely started changing for me when I started figuring out how to work out because up until I was almost an athletic kid, but I've been very spindly, you know, I was small, I was skinny, and I got put on a weight program with a uh from a couple of guys with another friend of mine, and we started um building muscle. And what I felt right away was how much that changed my ability in kayaking. Instead of being a piece of flatsom that was getting pushed down the river, I was able to take control of my boat and actually do things with it. So I could match skills with strength. And just for everyone, when we say slum, white slum, we mean there, like you see in the Olympics, gates hanging over the river. The first Olympic song was in and you're describing sort of mid70s, late7s. Is this when we're sort of talking right now? Yes. The uh it was we moved to Ohio. This was the early 70s. Right. Right. During this time when I was doing this citizen racing was when a US paddler was the first time they had the Olympics and a US paddler named Jamie Mikuan won a bronze medal in whitewater C1 and that just energized the whole this whole recreational slalom thing that existed. All of a sudden it was like we want to be an Olympian like Jamie and win medals. I remember so growing up in Europe where you ended up we'll talk about how you got there but I remember my first slom races were local kayak club slalom races that you know the the little paddling club there would put on something on the Loyok and we would paddle and race and that was just it was and everyone was there all comers like beginners advanced kids very very serious slumpers in fact I would say that there was a broken paddle that came down some like wood schllegel that floated down the river and I waited out and grabbed this broken paddle and I still have it at home. This like I'm sure that's in my parents basement. Yeah. This old schlaggle that I got when I was like, you know, 13 years old. It's still like this toemic object in my life. Okay. So, your your high school, you have joined this club, and you you know, you're starting to realize you have some chops at whitewater paddling, but I really want you to tell the story about your dad sitting you and your brother down when you're 18 and sort of telling you what you should do next. And the reason that this made me smile as I was reading it is the contrast between that and like what I do and most of my friends do with their kid their kids in terms of like next steps. You know, we're you know helping our kids you know seriously in every way with tutors and athletics and you know the amount of like support and scaffolding we can give. We then go on college tours. We talk about this for a year. They have counselors and tutors. It's a whole thing, right? I mean, it's just this huge, you know, this huge parent child scaffolding that's created to sort of like move most of our kids on to college or whatever, you know, trade school or whatever next thing they're going to be doing. Um, it wasn't really like that for you and your brother and it it was such a contrast when I read it. I thought you should tell the story. Yeah. Yeah. So, it's right about I mean, it was the beginning of our senior year. He sat us down at the kitchen table and said, "Here's the deal. You know, I'm um my job is going to be done when you turn 18, and I'm going to have to take a break. You know, he he couldn't stay in the job that he was in anymore. He, you know, he uh mentally he needed a break. So, his plan was to go live out of his car for a while um and just give himself a sbatical and that we needed to have a plan for what we were going to do when we graduated from high school. And he gave us three options. One was to bum around with him in his car and do whatever he was going to do. And you don't mean sprinter van. No. Or no. Old Yankee Ford station wagon that smelled like cigars and dogs. And um and then the second option was to, you know, get a job and put ourselves through college, but he had no money at all to provide us any assistance. And the third was to join the military. And so I chose the military. And he encouraged that. He said, "I think this is your best option." And you know, that was it was scary. But I am so grateful that my dad had that talk with me and had the foresight and understood, you know, our situation and my situation because it's really was a key, you know, it it changed the trajectory of my life in a way that was only positive and I really don't know what other path I could have taken. Tell us more about that. Well, I I mean it was like I said it was scary and it wasn't something you know it wasn't preferred path and I actually got an offer from because I did do a lot of training that last year and I really started really coming into my own own and slalom paddling that whole summer before I went to the army and one of the women that was coaching me invited me to said you know if you want to come live with me and my parents and go to community college in New Jersey you know and train you could do that. And I was tempted for a second, but I could see that that I wouldn't be able to set myself up for the rest of my life with that plan. You know, paddling was not uh competitive paddling. You weren't going to make a living as a competitive athlete. You had someone once described as standing in a cold shower ripping up $20 bills. Yeah. Yeah. So anyway, I went into the army and um you know, it kind of fit right away actually because when I found out, you know, I was a even though I was a good paddler, I was still a very average athlete, you know, on my high school basketball, which is now I think, you know, that was a total joke, but again, they took what any warm body back then and track. But when I went into the army, I was like the uh super athlete of our company, not just my platoon, because the majority of women that got recruited in the women's army corps had zero athletic background. So I I didn't, you know, it was just this uh you know, and I I when I talk to kids today, like I never talk to any kid that thinks they want to go into the military that I run into. Maybe that's because I live in a fun mountain town. But um for me, it was a combination of feeling very safe. I was going to have someone tell me what to do. I didn't have to make decisions for myself. They provided me a bunk. They provided me food. They gave me a job. And I was going to be safe for three years. And I could handle it. I could handle the challenges physically and mentally. I felt successful. It was Yeah. I mean it, you know, it seems like it was actually just what you needed after so many years of not feeling safe and um, you know, generally not secure. Um, so before we go on in time anyway um because we've this will become so relevant as we get into talking about I mean this is all stuff in your your memoir of course, but as we get into talking about you becoming a mother in your 50s. Um, up until this point, you going to the military, you are, you know, basically doing this unusual and difficult childhood in partnership with your twin brother. Um, and you guys were kind of a unit and I think I'm sure like many twins had a very close relationship. Um, and in fact when you enlisted in the military he did as well as and that's my understanding. But um it was when you left for the army and he decided to go a different way that your relationship I think that was the first time it really changed. And this will become very relevant um for later parts of this conversation. But you know what was it like uh growing up with a twin and then um you know tell us a little bit about how you sort of went your separate ways at 18. Yeah. In a big way. Yeah. Well, we were extremely close growing up especially because we moved around so much. So, we were each other's only friend for much of our childhood, but he was always very different from me and um uh just had different interests, had he wasn't into sports, you know, um he was he liked board games. We just had really different strengths and interests. And when we both were given this uh talk by our dad about, you know, make a plan. And like I said, you know, like you said, he joined the military, too. But while I was spending that summer going to kayak racing camps, he got recruited by a religious cult and a pretty extreme one. And so he uh backed out of his enlistment and did that for a couple of years. And it really that was um kind of the where whereas what I did set me up I think for an upward trajectory for the rest of them my life. What he did did the exact opposite. This episode of the Ready State podcast is brought to you by Momentous. We believe in the stack. Probably need to add some protein to your diet because you're a busy working person. True fact. And you're getting older. You got to take an omega. Yep. We love that. And creatine. Yep. Right. Super non-negotiable. I mean, can I put everyone on vitamin D because I think you need some, but um that creatine is a big deal. And what we're starting to see is that people are taking creatine. Yeah. They I mean, you cannot be on the internet and even have the slightest interest in health and not see creatine. It's having a moment. It start creatine is hot right now. It's hot. That's right. And what we want everyone to remember a couple things. Well, number one is that it needs to be creatine monohydrate. Yeah, we learned from creatine expert Dr. Darren Kandow on our podcast that there's literally no need to take creatine with anything else in it. And if if companies are selling you creatine plus whatever, it's just a marketing gimmick. Like just creatine monohydrate is what you need to take. Now, I'm going to say something controversial. The creatine you're currently taking from Amazon is trash. Why? It's not NSF certified. Yeah. That which means that it is tested for purity. It is tested for uh what it actually has that the contents of the creatine bottle are actually full of creatine only creatine. Well, and like all other Momentous products, it's made with the highest quality ingredients. And you know what it says on the outside is actually in the bag. And if anyone ever pushes back and and Momentous uses creure which is the the studied one right there creatine is the highest quality creatine there is. And people are like it's still creatine monohydrate. I'm like is that NSF certified? Talk to the hand cuz if it's not literally you cannot trust the wild west of Amazon anymore. That ship has sailed. 80% of supplements don't contain their active ingredient. I think you just if you if you can't afford or deal with a really high quality supplement, there's probably a few exceptions. You just need to work on getting what you need from food. More steak. More steak. Get on the stack. Get on the protein. Get on the good quality omega. Get on the creatine. And let those chips ride for like a decade or so. And you're going to see you and I just had Dexas. You got to do this. This is all about bone health, muscle health, brain health, and maybe a little bit of power. Maybe a little bit of power. Everyone needs an NSF. If you want to learn more, go to livemomentous.com/trs and use code TRS and save up to 35% at checkout. This episode of the Ready State podcast is brought to you by Element. You know what is happening in the world? Let's hear it. We're seeing a revolution in whole food nutrition, especially among athletes. People who are breathing hard, working hard, they're getting their grams, they're getting their protein in. And guess what is missing from the diet? And I can't believe I have to say this. salt. Well, and a lot of these people um are really focused on trying to pull out as many of the ultrarocessed foods they can in their diet, which is great. We're fans of that. Um and often the reason that ultrarocessed foods are so palatable is they're loaded with salt. And so to the extent anyone's over over consuming salt, which is hard, and you're going to explain that, it's because they're eating a ton of ultrarocessed foods. But when people clean up their diet, they're not getting enough salt in many cases. Look, your brain is hardwired to need salt. Like if you want to see how bad you feel, don't eat any salt for a few days. You're going to be like, I feel so uncrispy, right? The idea of like feeling crispy. It's like, you know, you drink that uh that crisp soda water kind of thing, a sparkling element is very crispy. But what we're finding is that you can chase salt up to when something becomes starts to be too salty. But before that, your your body handles that. You're a master of handling salt. It is so important to your system. And one of the best ways that we know to add a little bit of extra salt into our diet. So fun. And it's not just about adding salt, it's about adding joy and lemonade and hydration um is in the form of lemonade salt, which is a limited edition flavor. Hopefully not limited edition, but you've got to check it out. Georgia came home from college today and she was like, "Lemonade element." And you know what we said? We were like, "Put it down, you little tramp." Yeah. You get one a day. You get one element a day. That's how we have to deal with it in our house. I literally I'm like, I love you. This stuff is so good, but you cannot have my lemon element. So good. Right now, if you order through our link, you can get a free sample pack featuring eight element flavors. And of course, if you want a party in your mouth, try the sparkling. Go to drinklement.com/trs. We literally drink it every day. So, this will now bring us to um this crazy thing that you have in common with Kelly, which is spending time kayaking in the Bavarian hamlet of Garmish Parton Kirkin in southern Germany. I moved there in ' 81. And this is bonkers. Um because you actually your job in the military, you were a military police by training. Um, but at least for part of the years you were in the military, your job was actually teaching kayaking. Um, which always makes me laugh. And I could be really good in the military. Yeah. It always makes me laugh and I think, how did you score, you know, a job in the military teaching whitewater kayaking to other members of the military? Yeah. I had a fairy paddling godmother. It's the only way I can explain it because the way I even found out about it is I was uh working in an office for a short while um updating regulations and stumbled across across a regulation that referred to the Armed Forces Recreation Center. And after World War II, the US military took over a few choice places in Germany and created these recreation centers to provide um um activities for the troops to do in their off time. And they taught golf and tennis and skiing and rock climbing and whitewater kayaking. And I couldn't believe it really because it was 1977 I think at this point and kayaking was still just super young sport in the US but Germany is where kayaking was invented. So it was not a a new sport there. So I found out about this program and I I send in an application you know and I didn't expect to get um anywhere with that because my commander had to approve the VA the application. And when I submitted to him to do that, he said, "I'm not going to do that. We're always too short of military police um personnel. I can't do that." And I almost didn't send it in, but I decided to do it anyway because I thought it would set me up for the better for the next year to at least for them to know that I was out there. And what ended up happening is that application got floated up to the commander of the U E European forces in Germany. and he wrote a letter to my commander saying this girl is going to be transferred down to Garmish Partnner Kirkin to teach kayaking because the guy who's doing it now is getting shipped out and we have to shut down the program if we can't send this girl because we did a worldwide search in the US military and there's no one else in the military that knows how to kayak. So I was yeah it was one of the most unbeliev unbelievable you know I didn't feel like I did much to make that happen. So again I can only attribute it to the fairy paddling godmother. I'm just being inundated with like throwback memories and experiences. Yeah. I mean just so everybody knows Kelly uh moved I mean this was like 1977. You started there. So you were there between like basically the late '7s and then you show up uh in the same town coincidentally in what like 1985 81. Yeah. But I'm not kayaking for another chunk of time. Well, you were like six. But those what's interesting is that my mother had moved to Germany. She was a single working parent. Uh she just finished her PhD. We just we have some friends in that big expatriate community there and we're just going to be there. The daughter becomes really good under Reagan and we end up my mom realizes, hey, we can have a high quality of life here and all of our friends are AFRC, these armed fortune armed forces recreation center guides and she's dating mountain guides and kayaking and being a guide was the highest calling for me because all the cool kids in our like in our living room were all kayak instructors, river guides, ski guides, mountain guides. Yeah. I worship I worshiped at the feet of Sudor and I bet there were photos of you paddling up on the on I mean it really is amazing. I I think about just how early that was in the kind of kayaking evolution. Just plastic boats are just starting to happen, you know, and really what an amazing amazing time. Yeah. Um okay, so you uh I'm just going to set it up because we've got to keep moving here. Um you leave the military. you actually do use the GI Bill to go to college. Um, exactly like you're the prime example of why that is awesome. Um, but you also then return to your serious paddling career and ultimately become US national champion. What year was that? And do I have that right in terms of timeline? Yeah, that was 1982. Norman was national champion. I just want to point out right now we're talking to a person who is literally like the first woman on Mars. That's what your kayaking and racing experience is being a national champion. Right now, if you fast forward and went and just searched Jessica Fox and you went and watched this Australian woman paddle, she is the greatest slalom athlete in the history of the world and so sophisticated and doing V2 max training and lactic training and I it's incredible where this sport has evolved and within our lifetime. It's really I just want to point out you know your lineage is so so important to us and this this experience but you were basically in the the speed of of innovation and technique and it's really remarkable even the fact that you were strength training in paddling that is a revolution. Yeah. So I really have to skip ahead otherwise this is going to be a three-hour podcast Norman. Um, but I'll just go ahead and say that um, you know, again talking about that different trajectory between you and your brother. I mean, you you go to college on the GI Bill, you end up going to graduate school at UC Davis, um, and then landing a pretty choice job um, working for the US Forest Service, which you did until you retired. Um, and created an amazing life in um, South Lake Tahoe, California. Um, and then at some point and and within that, you continue to stay very connected to the whitewater world, but at some point, uh, as we talked about at the beginning of this, you all decide you want to, you know, try your turn again at this Whitewater racing. Um, which is where I come into the picture, and we're talking about, I think, like, you know, mid '9s. Um, and you know, you are, I believe, 12 or 13 years older than me. Um, so I joined the team when I was like 23 years old and I think you were almost 40. Um, so at that point you've established yourself, you own a home, you have a regular job at the US Forest Service. Like what were you thinking in your right mind um to put together a team and go uh race on the biggest white water on earth on the Zambi River? I want everyone to know these these races aren't like you would not do these rivers for fun. No. Like we'd be too scared. Like just if you're listening to everyone, think of the some of the think of the biggest white water you've ever seen. Think now think a little bigger. Yeah. So, um you know, it it sort of tracks a little bit for me because I was just coming off my division one college rowing career. I was a guide. I was sort of working presently as a class 4 river guide. Um, you know, so it was sort of a natural extension of what I was doing. Um, it wasn't you got out. Yeah. It wasn't really a natural extension of what you were doing other than that, you know, you obviously have this lifelong history of whitewater paddling, but like what what were you thinking, Sue, Norman? Well, I I got pulled into it. I it wasn't I mean it was a choice but I was it was Kelly and Julie my longtime friends because I my rafting experience to this day is I would say minimal you know as far as me going out and leading a group of people on a a trip like those guys did. But I had the the competition background and the um the competition experience that had to be adapted to rafting because raft racing they did down river races, they did sprint races, they did slalom races and um Julie and Kelly were very aware of how of my kayaking ability and they wanted me to be to bring that experience into the raft. And you know, I'd seen the videos of the Zambzi River, you know, or the Pquari or the Orange River Venton was the first big race we, you know, the big white class 5 race we did. And I had seen video footage of of Kelly because she was part of the um the first team of commercial guides to go there and scout that out for commercial commercial boating. And you know, I had a lot of read, you know, I was like, I don't know if I can do that, you guys. I mean, I you can't Eskimo roll a raft. I don't think I could, you know, and Kelly told me something that I never forgot and kind of changed it. She said, "Well, you don't have to. You just have to hang on to the raft and I'll make sure you have something to hang on to." So, I decided to go and give it a shot. I I just want to just interrupt for a second because I've paddled the Zambzi and it is so big and so chaotic and I just wanted Will you tell everyone just real quick just peek in what kind of swimmer you are? Terrible to this day. Terrible. Because I learned how to you know when I was a small uh smaller kid kayaking I always got scooped up by the club when I swam. So I didn't have to swim. I come out of my kayak and I grab someone's um grab the back of their boat and they'd pull me in. And you and you're wearing a PFD and I'm wearing PFD. And then I learned how to es roll, you know, and so it's like, okay, if I flip, I'm going to roll, you know. So I I really had not um experienced swimming a lot in my paddling career. And when I did, every time I did, when I did, I always thought I was drowning. Even if it was class three, I thought I was drowning because I was so uncomfortable in it. But yeah, I was I just need to like put a pin in that because you know Sue Sue Norman is a five-time national champion, three-time world champion. Multiple champion in two different events, two different exact sports and self-described not a strong swimmer. And I have seen you swim. It's true. You're not a strong swimmer. And it's really the reason I'm I don't want to bring it up just to try to poke fun, but it's so extraordinary that you went ahead and had this experience and could put yourself into these positions and just the faith that you're going to it's going to work out and that you're going to and I don't think it was ever even I don't think I learned that about your swimming capacity until like decades after I'd seen you race and shred and you know it's really and even I even I think I plucked you out of the food of the food once you know probably you definitely did. It's so funny, too, because the amount of gigantic, like unbelievably gigantic class 5 rapids you and I have swam together is a lot of them. Yeah. Um, and a story that I'll tell, uh, we go down to the Zambzi, um, and we are there weeks in advance, so we're just running it day after day after day. And, um, we kept swimming at least once on all of our runs. Um, and that's bad, by the way. It's bad. It's bad. Um and and you know, we just couldn't have a day where we didn't flip and swim at least once. And I don't mean no one on this boat casually flips it like falls in. That's not what's happening. No. No. No. And catastrophic end over end and just like reminder, we're going down with literally the greatest whitewater humans out there. There are crocs in there, too. Just one. Yeah, there's crocodiles in there. And you know, whatever. So um so there is a god of the river Zambzi called Inyamani and everybody in Victoria Falls who's doing anything on the river is wearing an inyamany necklace and so we have day after day I made a stop and get in before we paddle down. So we are getting just housed every single day uh by this river and we're like we're definitely not going to thrive. We are going to do terribly in this race. And we go to the little local outdoor market and we all buy an inyamin yummy and put it on necklace. And then we never flipped again after that. Do you remember that, Sue Norman? Yeah. Yeah. There's not even a question in that. I just am telling that story. I I want to also set this up because this is part of the Juliet lore. Whenever we're in a group of people and you have to tell a funny story about yourself, they're like, "Tell something funny about your I'm like, I like ice cream." And then Juliet says, "I was attacked by a hippo." Um, you were on that trip when Juliet was attacked by a hippo. Can you just give us a one minute reader digest outside the can? I've heard Juliet kind of talk about what it's like to take a stroke and look down inside a hippo's mouth and be launched into the air and then swim through the water. What's it like to see your friend attacked by a hippo? This is true story, everyone. Yeah, it's terrible. And I have to say it's one of my hardest uh chapters I had to eject from the book because I loved that so much. My editor said, "You know, you have way too much whitewater stuff. We got to talk about the parenting stuff." But it was Yeah, it was, you know, Juliet and and one of our other teammates gets attacked by a hippo. Sorry. In a hippo alley. The boat literally comes up out of the water and flops over, but they fall out this other side from where I can see. So, I just see this canoe come up out of the water and flip over and there's no heads. But, we all know what happened. There's a hippo under there. And we did not see heads for quite a while. So, I'm paddling like a maniac towards their canoe to rescue them from this hippo. And in the meantime, my uh teammate Julie is paddling away from them as far as she can because she remembered the hippo safety talk. Never go towards the uh attacked canoe because the hippo's going to attack you next. But fortunately, so we just actually held steady, not moving anywhere in the in the river while you guys came finally came flying out from the end of the canoe towards shore. And I've never seen anyone swim like that before since. It was like that was my best swimming I've ever done. Oh my god. Your your up whole upper bodies were out of the water and your arms were just churning and you were just motoring to shore like rockets. But fortunately, there were only Cape Buffalo on the bank, right? Yeah, it was fine. It was fine. Totally fine. There were just other things. I think that's a really nice segue. you, your instinct is to paddle for danger, to paddle to rescue your friend, to paddle towards doing the right thing even at the this the sort of the cost to yourself. We've known you a long time and we were very surprised when you decided that you were going to become a mother at age 50. Can you tell us a little bit about because this is such an extraordinary sort of full circle moment of you paddling towards uncertainty and just to set this up a little bit um because we had to kind of gloss over like 20 years of your life just in the interest of keeping things moving. You know, you had specifically chosen not to be a mother. um you I'm sure had had many opportunities where you could have made that a thing and you decided that that wasn't going to be your life and instead you were you know busy working this great job at the US Forest Service and traveling around the world and adventuring and you had a really strong set of friends who also did not have children um and you know that's sort of what you thought your life would look like going forward so um what happened here yeah as you said I did not choose to be a mother it's never a path I would have chosen. I would have uh lived a totally content life if that had never happened. It was nothing I ever considered for myself. And uh frankly, my brother didn't choose to have a child. They just were careless. But when I was 52 years old, I got a call while I was on a in Hawaii at an outrigger canoe training camp and he called up with this 20-some year old woman to tell me that they were going to be parents. And uh yeah, it was I knew right away this was a terrible thing that was happening and but I faked it. It's like, "Oh, great." You know, and you know, long story short, in all in in their defense, you were going to be the greatest auntie of all time. Like the sportiest, rattest, hardcore auntie a person could ever. They lived in Cleveland. I lived in California. You know, it was, you know, and I didn't actually really believe it was my brother's child. You know, I actually had to pay for the paternity test, but then it's like it came back positive. So, I started going to Cleveland, you know, uh, when Seth was about a year and a half, I started doing regular visits to kind of see what I could do to help out help out. And it just got worse and worse and worse. every visit I went and then things really went uh into the crapper when the birth mom who was taking care of Seth decided she was going to leave her relationship and um couch surf for a while and ended up getting arrested. And it just got to the point where I realized I'd been uh ftting about this young boy who I have to say when even though I never wanted to be a mom, when I first met Seth and I held him in my lap, I had this uh religious experience where it was this recognition and this love that mothers describe, you know, when they're handed their baby. And I couldn't understand it and my really but it, you know, it happened and my stepmother said, "I think it's because he looks so much like your brother. It was like you were meeting him again, you know, across the crib." And it's like, well, maybe that was it. But whatever. I was emotionally invested and um by the time Seth was four I things had disintegrated to the point where I realized this has to change or he his life is really going to you know he's going to end up in foster care. There was no doubt and I moved him my brother and him out to California. And how old was Seth? Pardon? How old was Seth then? He was four and I was 56. Yeah. So, so just to set this up, in all those years you were busy um on your upward trajectory. Your brother continued to struggle in life, I think, um without going into great detail. Um but they both move out to California. Um and at this point, I think you think that you're just creating proximity and hopefully, right, going to create a bit of scaffolding of support for your brother, but that he's going to be the primary parent. I mean, am I right on that? You're thinking that like this is what's going to happen by Yeah, it was never realistic, but I would only way I did this was by totally embracing denial and avoidance. So, I just like I'm going to move you out, you know, and I'll help set you up in a house. You'll parent Seth and I'll be the active auntie. There was nothing ever realistic about that. I just created this story in my head that I could accept enough to do that. But there was no there was no way that was ever going to work. And it took me another year to realize that realize that. And what happened during that year? Um and or was there a final straw? What made you finally realize like this is not a go and I'm going to need to become a full-time parent? Yeah. Well, I actually, you know, because I moved Seth out first and then David was supposed to wrap up things at his h home in Cleveland and come out and he didn't come out for several months and uh you know, my brother his his his problem is alcoholism, you know, 30 years hardcore going on 40 now and tied to depression. Um, and I didn't understand any of that. You know, we our lives just hadn't been connected enough for me to understand that he had that level of a drinking problem and mental health issues. And when he came here, it, you know, we started going to therapists, I got a crash course in all of that. And I through working with two different therapists, one that I was seeing with my brother and another one that I was seeing with Seth, I got a really quick uh understanding that the only chance Seth had was for me to become his parent and provide the safety and security he needed. And he needed to have a relationship with his dad, of course, because they loved each other very much. But I had to be the one to set the boundaries. And so the Sudorman army, I'm starting to see some strong parallels, right? Tell us uh tell us a little bit about what it is like to become an unexpected parent at 56 years old, especially as someone who consciously chose not to have children. What What was the impact? What was it like? How did it change your life? And I want to just double click on something. You are this book is about risk, right? this sort of the did this feel like risk or does it just oftenimes my friends who do risky things don't perceive it as risky in retrospect you're like whoa that was a big risk or we took a big chance or there were a lot of unknowns but it just seems like you step into the next thing we have to go down the river we have to do the race we have to you know you you it seems to me that there was a lot of internal awareness and dialogue and setup but you just committed to this thing is does Does it feel? Yeah, but I I No. Yeah, I felt like I was jumping off a cliff without a parachute. So, it felt like the riskiest thing I'd ever done, you know, and you know, unlike paddling, I took risks with a very strong uh skill set. And this risk I took. You weren't a strong swimmer then either, girl. I know. Well, the SW Yeah, but swimming isn't the most important thing to know how to do it as a paddler. But I had nothing, you know. So when I jumped into this, I I didn't I felt like I had no skills and I and I felt like I was jumping off a cliff and I struggled. It was really hard and I was also going through menopause. So I was dealing with all those hormonal changes that affects your moods and your sleep. And I couldn't separate out the causes of all the things that made me feel like I was losing my mind and I couldn't think straight. But that's where I was for probably two years. I was just barely surviving and functioning as a and one of things together. One of the things you talked about that was so impactful and um and you know I I don't think you feel mad at anybody but it really changed your friendships because up till that point your primary friend group was other childless people who like to do adventures. Um, and those folks didn't necessarily want to spend their weekend with a 5-year-old. Um, but tell us a little bit about that and sort of how your friendship life changed. Yeah, it completely changed. I completely lost a whole community that I was very tied to. And like you said, I I'm not angry because I understand it. I would have been that person, you know, right? You know, uh, as well. And what was frustrating though was that I couldn't recreate a new group because of my age is is what it felt like. And also because of Seth's um some of the challenges he had. It was difficult for us to join a mommy group with kids his age, you know, because of some of the challenges he had and then the fact that I was 20, 25 years older than Yeah. You needed a paddling club, not a mommy grouper. Right. Right. Yeah. Yeah. And talk a little bit about sort of Seth's uh how Seth was doing. Um because I know that it was difficult and I think I saw Seth at around the holiday break and he's like 6'2 and it's a giant person. I'm like, "Wow, Sue Norman has like the most handsome, studly son ever." Yeah. Well, it hasn't always been like that. Um Yeah. So, I mean, he was uh and and you know, I guess this is where um maybe this sort of ties into some of the themes in your book, Risk, which we've alluded to a lot, but haven't talked to. Um but I obviously this has been an insane journey for you becoming a mom at 56 and having it literally upend your life in every way. um you know what did you learn about um you know raising a child uh especially a child that um spent the first part of their life in you know in a neglected situation I think is the word I would use one that even echoed some of your experience of uncertainty. Yeah. Yes. Yeah. Well, you know what I learned is one is I had to take care of myself. That I couldn't be a good parent if I wasn't doing what I needed to feel uh like I could get up in the morning and make decisions and and be happy in my life. You know, no one no child is going to grow up well if their parent is unhappy. And so very quickly I was, you know, tried to find and I'm very fortunate. I live in Lake Tahoe. I, you know, can't stress that enough that I live in this beautiful environment where I could take my kid out, you know, at four, five, six years old and drag him in a sled, carry him on my back, put him in a boat, and we go out and do stuff in the woods. It would calm me. It would calm him. You know, the outdoors is this beautiful natural playground for kids. I mean, one of my favorite chapters in the book is about our trip on the Rogue River when I went with my raft team with Juliet and Beth and Julie and your kids. And that was the first moment I felt peace when I after I had brought Seth to California. That was the first time I realized really what I needed to do in order to to survive this was to make sure that we stayed in this river community in an outdoor community and we had that strong connection and you know it's still the foundation for me for my grounding. I'm not going to say that it's necessarily Seth's. He enjoys it, but his grounding is actually creative arts. His grounding is theater and music, which is great, actually, because he can pursue that without any competition with me. Well, and let's just be like teenagers. I mean, I can't get my kids to kayak. I mean, let's be honest. Like, they they'll do every other thing but whitewater kayak because dad likes to whitewater kayak. Yeah. I'm telling you, Georgia. Yeah. But what we do that he enjoys is river trips, you know. So, we do multi-rade day river trips. We have property down in the foothills where we can take his friends rafting. We do stuff that works for him. I don't ever I've never tried to drag him no onto my path in paddling. But I do think it is part of his his package, you know, of hopefully when he is an adult that he'll have de, you know, have that connection along with his his music stuff. So, have you thought about or sort of acknowledged um I mean it's so obvious that when you were put into this very difficult situation um you sort of reverted to what you knew which is and even your own childhood which is like the shining light of your own childhood was spending time in the outdoors and that you sort of had this setup and capability and ability to take Seth out into the wilderness with you. I mean, I have to think that you feel like that was like your savior in some ways in raising a challenging child. Yes, absolutely. And he was just easier to manage, you know, I it's always been I mean to this day, frankly, you know, and he's turning into a a a wonderful young man in many ways, but it is always so much easier for us um in our interaction. We're closer. Um, it just a lot of beautiful things happen when we're out doing adventures in the outdoors and I don't have to fight with the electronics when we're at home. You know, the distractions, the the the things that kids get um sucked into that really pull them away from their parents and life really, you know. So, I think we would be remiss if we didn't talk about your awesome partner, Lisa. Um, because, you know, we have touched a little bit about on how challenging it was for you to um have to basically recreate your entire community um from scratch in sort of a difficult circumstance because of your age and sort of being thrown into being a parent. Um but your partner Lisa was also um effectively thrown into being a parent and she definitely did not sign up for that and also didn't have that kinship connection. Yeah. So talk to us a little bit about that and um yeah what that was like. First of all, we're just giving her some snaps right here. Shout out to Lisa um because I know she's been you know basically with you every step of the way in this parenting journey. Yeah. Yeah. And again, I I couldn't have done it without her. And you know, to two things. One, you know, well, she Yeah, I couldn't have done it without her. And when I I had to do it on my own the first two years because I was still working. Um, and we have two separate houses even though we're married. And we've always had this relationship where we, you know, come to each other's houses and but we live our our lives and because we got together on different sides of the lake, I'll say, right? Different sides of the lake. Yeah. So, it's an easy commute. Yeah. And they're both pretty nice places to be. But, um, when I retired, I did give her an ultimatum. I said, I can't do this on my own. I can't uh continue our relationship unless I can move in with you because I can't I don't have the bandwidth for this distance relationship and I need help. And the way we decided to approach that is we decided we'd try it for a year and we both went into that knowing like so that I think that was really important was we both needed the escape route and to talk very honestly about it because and I told her I said if you decide not to do this I'm not going to be angry. I'm just telling you you know where I'm at and I totally get it if you don't want to do this. But she stood up and said, "Okay, you can move in." It was, you know, so I lived over in her house in Truckucky for 5 years. I don't think she would say that was easy. You know, it was hard. A lot that was a lot of the time when we really had to deal with a lot of the behavior issues that Seth dealt with. Again, though, what I I was very clear about what I needed from her, and it wasn't she didn't have to be A-50-50 parent. She had to be able to step in maybe 20% of the time, but that 20% of the time was absolutely critical. That's what enabled me to do the other 80%. And I want to say, and I'm just generalizing here, but it would have been a lot easier if you'd had a daughter. Young feral boys are feral and not necessarily on the same wavelength as you two like wilderness photographer superstar and now though it it is amazing to have this you know quasi adult man. You know I feel like you either you know one of our friends Marco um said you know as a human you either eat your all your all at once or a little bit at a time. And I really feel like you guys ate a lot of it right up front. Yeah. And having a having this boy. And I don't what I guess what I'm trying to say is I don't know if I was like Juliet's like, "Hey, we're going to adopt a son." I'd be like, "Woo!" I don't know. Yeah. It's a lot. A little boy is a lot. Yeah. Well, and a big boy is a lot, too. I mean, I you know, cuz we we don't get into conflict nearly as much. I mean, it was daily, multi-day when he was younger, and now it's a lot less frequent. But when we get mad at each other now, I've got a 6'2 uh deepvoiced man being mad at me, you know. Yeah. So, we've really had to deal with that. You know, I've had to have talks with him. It's like, when you get angry at me now, I don't feel safe, you know? We got to figure out how to do this differently. even though he's having, you know, a teenage tantrum and I'm really not unsafe, but it the energy is definitely, you know, and how tall are you, Sue? I'm 54. And oh, I actually I just found out I shrunk. I'm 5'3 and 3/4. You're still 5'4. You'll always be 54. I shrunk, too, Sue. It's okay. I I just want to say uh I there's so many parallels in your story. I don't know if you and I have even really talked about it. you know, my I had an estrange father, you know, battled alcoholism, one of five, you know, children of alcoholics and uh you know, there are five generations of alcoholics and I did not even want to have boys because I was like, there's no way I'm, you know, I think I told you I was like, don't worry, we're having girls. Yeah. Yeah. Break the cycle. We're breaking the cycle. So you know the relationship of a having this difficult relationship with my father who was absent most of the time and then managing his you know being a son of an alcoholic parent and then finding the river. It really just like it anchored me outdoors and gave me you know a compass that through college beyond college the things I started the my first jobs my partner I just that you know a river runs through it is really the truest truest piece of all time. It really resonates with me, this book and it and we both have a life saved by the river. Amen. Life saved by the river. So, um, two questions here, Sue. Uh, first of all, I think we've we've touched on it a little bit, but why did you name this book Risk? And then you describe this I I sort of mentioned it as a memoir, but you actually describe it as a parenting book. Um, and there are so many lessons to be learned for all parents in this book. Um but what are you know what are one of two you know if why is it called risk and talk about what are parents going to be able to take away from this either there's lots to be inspired by um in your story uh but what are sort of the core lessons you hope you hope parents take away here well you know I was playing around with this phrase of good risk and bad risk right you know when I started writing this and it became really clear to me that you know when I was writing about the parenting I was writing about dealing with at risk, a childhood trauma, bad risk. And then when I was writing about whitewater, I was talking about chosen risk, you know, and that when you're doing a a outdoor adventure sport, you're consciously doing something that is involving risk, you know, it it's part of the package and you're actually drawn to the chemicals that are released uh from that, the endorphins and the adrenaline and and you get a positive benefit from that. You learn how to face challenges. You learn how to build resiliency through this managed risk. Uh when you're parenting a a child who had early years at at risk and you yourself grew up in that situation, you have all kinds of I had all kinds of baggage to deal with. I still do that I didn't realize I even had until I was trying to parent a kid. I didn't realize I had a problem with anger until I was trying to parent a kid, you know, and he definitely has issues with anger. It's just one of those things that comes out. And the difference between the bad risk is that your stress that you experience as a child going through that kind of thing is systemic and it creates these cortisol poisoning. you're getting toxic poisoning from your stress experience that in in affects your brain development and your emotional development. So what I'm trying to describe in the book is, you know, me learning about all that. I didn't know any of this stuff about myself until I started experiencing this and trying to manage it in Seth and realizing what baggage I had and what he um how he was affected by his first four years and how I used this lifetime of choosing risk uh through my sport to develop the resiliency and the tools to manage this situation. And it isn't just going out in uh and getting in the outdoors. It's the lessons I learned with patience, learning, you know, developing skills. If you're going to take on a challenge, no matter what it is, you've got to find the tools. You got to find the teachers. You got to keep your body healthy. I mean, your book, Built to Move, was right at the right time because, you know, I'm an older parent trying to keep a a feisty young boy active, engaged, and outdoors. I can't grow old yet, you know, so I have to keep fit and I have to keep resilient so I can keep getting him out there and doing this stuff for both myself and for him. So, um, how is Seth doing now? How are you doing now? What's the current state of the state? Well, it's good, but we're still we're still, you know, it's not we're not done. This is going to be a lifelong journey for him. Oh, bless your heart. You thought as a parent you were just going to be like 18, I'm retiring. That model shipped out in theatical Sue Norman. Yeah. But I think, you know, as far as still learning and growing how to, you know, because as you know, he because now he's got teenage hormones. So, I'm constantly trying to figure out if what I'm dealing with is normal teenage hormone stuff or is this still, you know, right, trauma and then, you know, finally kind of reach point where it doesn't really matter. I just got to deal with whatever the situation is in the appropriate way and deescalate and get to some positive place. But we're doing, you know, he's a freshman in high school. He's loving it. We have this incredible theater program which he has dove all the way into and he's for the first time and I a lot of teachers told me this, he never really had a friend group through school all the way through elementary school and middle school. Now he has a friend group. And not only does he have a friend group, but I've been around these boys. He's got a great friend group. They're smart. They're kind. You know, they're the kind of kids you want your kids hanging out with. You're saying at age 14, you found a paddle club? No. Well, he found his own. That's what I'm saying. Love it. Dragons, though. So, but that must be such a relief to you as a parent because I know uh being a parent myself, when your kid is, and you know, it's obviously, you know, I don't mean to mix apples and oranges here, but when your kid is struggling with anything socially, you know, you carry that, especially as a mom, I think. And um it's really difficult. And so it must be like, you know, a great relief to you to know that he has a friend group and that he's found his people. Well, and then I and I just see he's, you know, he's so passionate about what he's interested in. And I've read this over and over again. You know, it doesn't as long as they're not, you know, passionate about something unhealthy. But, you know, he's passionate about really cool things that I really enjoy supporting him in. I love going to his theater performances and, you know, listening to his music and listening to him sing. You know, it's makes me happy. So, two more questions to Norman. Um, you have lived a lifetime of adventure. Um, some really big ones. Many of them I was lucky enough to be with on you and Kelly as well. Um, what is risk look like to you now? Um, I'm risk avoidant now largely. I'm calling force shite. I don't know what you're talking about. It wasn't that long ago we just were rafting some class 5 river in Argentina. So what does that mean that you feel like your risk avoid now? What does that mean? Tell us more. Tell us your your tolerance is much higher than the average kid. So what what how has that changing you? Yeah, mostly what it is because I'm because I'm a scientist and so what I am doing all the time is assessing okay now you're 67 years old. I'm just going to say it right here on the screen. What level of risk should you be taking? So everything I So I still backcountry ski, you know, we did this pretty adventurous canoe trip in Canada where we got in over our head last summer, you know. Um, I just am very I I will always take risk, but I'm just uh I'm uh constantly assessing where I'm at and realizing, you know, I'm pretty fit for a 67 year old, but I'm not the same person I was when I was 50. I still felt like a badass at 50. I don't really feel like a badass anymore, but I'm going to go right up to my limit, you know? Well, I think I would just I would just like to say that I think you and Kelly and I share that and I think it's one of the ways in which you and I really related early on in our paddling days is, you know, I mostly feel comfortable taking risk when I feel competent. Um, and you know, in a measured way. You know, I've never just been a like jump over the cliff kind of person. And Kelly actually isn't either. Um, we both have a sort of measured interest. Yeah. were calculated risk takers and I think you've always been like that. So you're just it's a different calculus now. Calculation might be a little bit. Yeah. I mean especially when you're 18. But I just want to say I just texted my C2 partner Shane who of course you know um there was a slalom course in Europe that was flooding and it was class 5 but the gates were just dangling in this class 5 section of town. And Shane, this was a response back from Shane. So glad we retired cuz he didn't have the urge to go paddle that. And I can relate to that, you know, we're both we're, you know. Okay, so one last inner city class parting question. Sue Norman, if you could go back to one river trip, one campsite, one moment of calm in the chaos, what would that be and who would be there? Well, I'm going to go right to where the scene in my book, you know, because I've actually been reading this scene. Uh, I've started doing book readings for the book and where I go now and and you know there's so many places I could go but it was on our uh Rogue River trip that I did with you all when Seth was five and you know the Rogue is an m amazing magical river to do a family river trip on and we had really good weather and the second night of the trip we were somewhere where we didn't have bugs and it wasn't going to rain and I decided not put up the tent. And I write a scene about what that was like for Seth because that was his first river trip. It was his first time camping and it was his first time you know sleeping out under the stars and he was just so um you know he was scared but the fact that I could make that feel safe for him was that's when I realized I could I could do this. You know we got into our sleeping bags. We talked about you know I showed him the stars for a while. I read him him bedtime story, you know, and he went to sleep and he's super comfortable in the outdoors, you know, he always has been because of me continually doing that with him. And that's to me that just describes the whole thing about why rivers are so magical, you know, to provide those kinds of experiences where you can get away from the complexity of the modern world which can make you feel very unstable and ungrounded and overly distracted and overly stimulated. But on the river, you can find these uh many magical moments of just peace and connection. And I just will say he wasn't he wasn't wrong to feel a little uncertain because there were just big bears on the river. But it's totally fine. You were there and uh we were there. But I I remember that beach very well. Well, Sue, Norman, I know I speak for Kelly and I that of course we have and I always have the the most admiration for for you as a human, um you as an athlete. Um but that admiration was multiplied by thousands when you made the decision to become a parent and take Seth on and totally upend your life. So, and I'm grateful you paddled towards the hippo attack. Thank you very much. Yes, I see a pattern in your life. Thanks for trying to save me, Sue Norman. Thanks for trying to save me. Thank you so much for being here. Um, your book is amazing, inspirational. I highly recommend it to anyone. Um, even if you're not an outdoors person or a paddler, um, there's so many lessons to be learned. It's so inspirational. Um, you get a little insight into this crazy world of whitewater that Kelly and I have been talking about on this podcast forever. Um, and so go go go pick up a copy. Thank you, Sue. Thank Thank you so much you guys.